[{"Title":"A fitting end for the crew of the NCC-1701-A.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"61 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The journey that began on the small screen in 1967 comes to its end on the big screen in 1991, after three TV seasons, six films, and the creation of a cultural phenomenon unrivaled in the history of television. The crew of the original series had met with mixed results on the big screen, producing the excellent The Wrath of Khan, but also the inexcusably bad The Final Frontier; the other four ranged from passable to good. After the financial failure of Star Trek V, Paramount brought back Star Trek II director Nicholas Meyer, and commissioned from him the final voyage of the original cast. As Star Trek so often does, the events depicted mirror the glasnost of the late 1980s, as the collapse of the Soviet Union eased global tensions and heralded the beginning of a new era. In the Trek universe, the possibility of rapproachment between the Federation and the Klingon Empire raises the hackles of hardliners on both sides, and Kirk and co. must prevent the weak peace from being destroyed. The original cast is in fine form, all of them giving their all to make the (potentially) final appearances of their characters memorable. Despite William Shatner's reputation as a ham actor, he delivers a great performance here; his final log entry is one of Trek's finest moments. As the villain of the piece, we get General Chang (Christopher Plummer), a Klingon out to insure no peace in our time. Plummer is superb, chewing scenery and spewing Shakespeare with a wonderfully loathsome presence. I would rank Chang below Khan and the Borg Queen, but far above all the other Trek villains. There are some tacky anachronisms typical of Meyer's style, and the usual amount of discontinuities and canon issues; but that's inevitable, and I can accept it if it leads to a good story. Trek VI is a good story. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Classic Space Opera","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The final Star Trek film to feature the original cast is an enormous improvement after the awful fifth film, and might just be the best in the series. Much of it is probably thanks to the return of director Nicholas Meyer, who is responsible also for the classic Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan (while film III through V were directed by cast members). Meyer's very professional directing shows in every scene on ST-VI, and the old cast - William Shatner (Kirk), Leonard Nimoy (Spock), DeForest Kelly (McCoy), James Doohan (Scotty) and the rest - give here what is without doubt their finest performance. Mind - Shatner and Nimoy are by now 60 years old, while Kelly and Doohan are well into their 70s. But there isn't a trace of the pathetic silliness that characterized the fifth movie; Meyer knows what to do with these aging actors that wouldn't make them look like idiots. What we see in Star Trek VI is a much more mature approach, and the crew members have to face, more than an outside enemy, their own aging, and their fear of change. That fear is a key element here, and it's an issue that is well handled and is always relevant.While the old cast members are doing splendidly here, the movie introduces some fantastic new characters. First and foremost, the experienced Shakespearean actor Christopher Plummer makes a fascinating villain in the conservative and suspicious Klingon General Chang, endlessly throwing out Shakespeare quotes on every turn. ('You haven't truly enjoyed Shakespeare until you've read it in the original Klingon') Also, Kim Cattrall, who achieved much success lately in the acclaimed 'Sex And The City'), plays the Vulcan Lt. Valeris and gives a great performance. Finally, David Warner gives a brief but memorable performance as the visionary Chancellor Gorkon. The real stars here, though, are Shatner and Kelly, whose attempt to save the Chancellor's life, as well as their trial for assassination before a Klingon court (CAMEO Michael Dorn, who plays Worf in the Next Generation, plays Kirk and McCoy's attorney here - Colonel Worf. An ancestor, probably) make for some of the best scenes ever seen on Star Trek. The directing and camera work are splendid, and the script has just the right amount of self humor, which was dreadfully lacking from the fifth movie (e.g. Spock 'If I were human I believe my response would be go to hell. ...If I were human.' All in all, a remarkable sign off for the original crew of the Enterprise and one of the best sci-fi movies of all time. "},{"Title":"The best of the bunch with the original cast. A great send-off!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"61 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You don't have to be Einstein to figure out the Klingon Empire represented the Soviet Union in the original series and films so it's fitting Kirk's old foes should re-appear and give the crew it's final adventure at a time when similar questions raised in the film faced the old Soviet Empire.This is the best of the film series for several reasons. The timeliness of the film's release with real-world events. (Funny how Col. West had a contingency plan for terrorism along the Federation's border. Made me wish we had one prior to 9-11) The issue of how people can be frightened of drastic change (what a very Clinton-esque message) mirroring Kirk and crew's emotional baggage helps propel the plot forward and makes it believable.A great tense score and tight editing (sorry, no overlong speeches and theorizing) combined with terrific performances from Christopher Plummer and the best yet from the original ensemble kept me glued to my seat the whole time. Additional characters are actually relevant, unlike Saavik, the Marcuses, et al., and although I should have seen it coming I was surprised how far-reaching the conspiracy to kill Gorkon actually was, even including a Vulcan! Fun cameos from Michael Dorn, Christian Slater and Iman lighten the mood. Her presence finally makes McCoy quip to Kirk What is it with you, anyway? which is something that should have been said years ago. Must be the girdle. The Klingon attack scene at the end is great unrelenting action and was better than Khan's attack on the Enterprise in Part II (see my comments on that film to get an idea).The Undiscovered Country is essentially a mystery in space with political overtones and it's great fun watching Spock and Valeris unravel the mystery piece by piece. Valeris (Kim Cattrall)is given more to do than Saavik ever was.  The only nit-picking comments I have is just why couldn't the assassins just throw the boots out the window? If an explosion in space wasn't monitored until the shockwave hit the Excelsior, how would the Enterprise find the boots? Would the NCC-1701 just shift gears into reverse?A lot has been made about the clock errors. To me, it's not terribly important since it's just background and your attention should not be there anyway. It was a bad idea to include such a prop though.The only wasted role belongs to Scotty but he had his moment of greatness in The Voyage Home during the transparent aluminum scenes. He also delivers the corniest line of the film during dinner with the Klingons Maybe we are looking at something of that future here! Well, duh!Everything that made Star Trek great is in this film action, great one-liners from McCoy and Chekhov, the peace message, the Klingons, Spock's logic skills, literary quotes and celebrity cameos makes The Undiscovered Country a worthy send-off to perhaps the most celebrated ensemble cast in entertainment history. Even if you're not a Trek-fan, you would enjoy this picture and is well worth the rental/purchase. "},{"Title":"Excellent. Utterly compelling.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"41 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a taut political thriller that rivals Dune for impact, if not for complexity. The issues explored here are both timely and universal. Somehow, this mixes the Star Trek mythos with commentary on the Cold War, race relations and military down-sizing. It is indescribable how cool this movie is. "},{"Title":"Classic!!!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that STVI is the greatest Trek film ever.  The reason I think it is better then STFC is because First Contact was on such a large scale; save all of humanity from oblivion.  Well, that's nice and all, but STVI was a part of Trek history.  Peace with the Klingons, who would have guessed it. Peace with the Russians, who would have guessed it.  Which brings me to my next point, it parallaled current world situations (which is why I bring up the USSR).  It's a brilliant movie that will last the test of time. "},{"Title":"Underrated Movie, not understood by trekkies and non-trekkies alike","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"41 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek Movies are far more miss than hit, with only 3 excellent, 1 good and the rest rubbish (although NEMESIS may be slightly above rubbish level). Anyway, this movie was meant to contrast 60s style leadership and ethics with those of the 80s.  Borrowing from the modern leadership styles and political correctness portrayed in the Next Generation series, The Undiscovered Country explores (in typical Hollywood sci-fi fashion) how our present day society has progressed toward multiculturalism.  It explores how committed, loyal patriots can be burdened with their old prejudices after the world/universe has changed around them.  The personal struggles of Kirk and the Chancellor's daughter, and even the violently opposed logical conclusions of two Vulcans in the same circumstances (but with differing priorities) are all clearly missed by most viewers.  Of course, as with James Bond movies, Jim Kirk and his crew must save the day (and also nicely throw in some minor Star Trek future history trivia with the Khitomer massacre etc).  An excellent story line, excellent themes, carefully produced and directed, this is a science fiction classic on par with Alien, Blade Runner and, yes, much better than any of the Star Wars movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the theatre years ago when I saw this film I thought gosh this is really different for a Star Trek film. It had so much suspense and conspiracy, and so much mystery that this was one of the best films in the collection. The acting is great, the action and the effect are superb, and the music is very good! I recommend this to all Star Trek and sci-fi film fans! "},{"Title":"Not Bad.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now this was a movie. The best case scenario for the orginial crew to leave the movie scene, making peace with the Klingons and Sulu finally becoming a Captain. Everything was great in this movie. It had humor, adventure, mystery and just about anything else you could possibly want. The best behind #2. "},{"Title":"Hard To Say Goodbye.....","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is the final film with the entire original cast. This is also the best of the series because we see the Enterprise crew, past their prime, save the universe one more time.As the film opens, we are witness to an ecological disaster. As the starship Excelsior, now under the command of Capt. Sulu (George Takei)is on a survey, they witness the aftermath of the explosion of the Klingon moon called Praxis. Even though Sulu is ready to offer assistance, The Klingons want no help from them.Later, the Enterprise crew is called into a top secret meeting and is apprised of the situation,which is dire (Think Chernoble). Because of the devastation (Which will destroy their ozone within 50 years), the Klingons offer to extend an olive branch with the Federation. In other words, The Klingons and The Federation want a peace treaty.Considering that the Klingon Empire and the Federation have been at each others throats for ages, this doesn't sit well with the parties involved, especially Captain Kirk (William Shatner), who wants nothing to do with the process considering that it was the Klingons who had killed his son (See Star Trek III The Search For Spock). In fact, when Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy), who has been working with the Klingons for the treaty, tells them that they are dying, Kirk viciously says Let them die! Ouch. However, he has to follow orders.Soon the crew of the Enterprise meets with Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner), his officer General Chang (Christopher Plummer) and his daughter Azetbur (Rosanna DeSoto). During a dinner in which pretty much everyone is intoxicated with Romulan Ale, there is some negativity among both sides, clearly indicating that the road to peace is going to be a bumpy one.And it is.Later, the Klingon ship is fired upon, seemingly by The Enterprise, and the Chancellor is assassinated, despite the attempts of Kirk and McCoy (DeForest Kelley) to save him. Both Kirk and McCoy are arrested and put on trial. Found guilty, both are sentenced to the ice planet known as Rura Penthe. How bad is it? Judging from Uhura's (Nichelle Nichols) and Scotty's(James Doohan)reaction, it would have been better for Kirk and McCoy to have been executed on the spot.Spock knows that a conspiracy is present. And so, while he is trying to find out the facts, Kirk and McCoy try to stay alive on the penal planet.With time running out before the peace conference starts, the crew of the Enterprise must not also save Kirk and McCoy, but to race to the site of the conference to stop another assassination from taking place, which will destroy any chance of peace. This proves even more difficult when they discover that there is a Klingon Bird of Prey that can fire when cloaked. And that those involved in the conspiracy work on both sides of the coin.What is interesting about the film is that it mirrors the general feelings between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union. Once considered enemies, each side works together for peace, even if both sides are skeptical. We also see the flaws of the crew of the Enterprise everyone is prejudiced. Chekov (Walter Koenig), during dinner, mentions unalienable human rights, and is chastised by Azetbur for his racist comments. Even Mr. Spock is prejudiced he's so blinded by the accomplishments of his Vulcan protégé Valeris (Kim Catrall), that he doesn't see how much of a threat she is (He admits this to Kirk later on) until it is almost too late.It is nice to see the crew back in action one last time, and you can't help but get a bit misty eyed (Gene Roddenberry, the creator of Star Trek died before it's release, and this film is dedicated to him). A nice way to end the series, but it's hard to say goodbye. "},{"Title":"Pride & Prejudice","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last hurrah for the entire original crew sans Sulu, who now has command of the Excelsior featured in #2 and #3 (disregarding Kirk's goodbye in Star Trek Generations), has Kirk and the gang playing diplomatic missionary of peace hosts to Klingon David Warner. Kirk does not like this because he honestly and openly admits he doesn't like Klingons and probably never will. After the dinner reception, however, the Klingon ship is attacked and Klingon David Warner killed. Kirk and McCoy try to help Warner in his hour of death but after Warner expires they are arrested and sentenced to life on a frozen wasteland of a planet. While they fight to stay alive, Spock and company try to figure out what's going on and the whole thing leads to a conspiracy on both sides of the Klingon/Federation dispute.After the box office woes of #5, the old crew gets a touching farewell in this politically charged science fictional drama that bears more than a few resemblances to the end of the Cold War. Superb special effects, a fun performance by Christopher Plummer as a sadistic Klingon and a fun cameo by Michael Dorn as Kirk & McCoy's Klingon lawyer. Dark and eerie in spots, uplifting in its finale.   "}{"Title":"Not exactly Shakespeare but still top quality","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The final Trek for the original crew of the Enterprise restores the talent behind the camera including Star Trek II's Nicholas Meyer as director and thus intelligence and high production values are back on screen after the stagnant Star Trek V. The Undiscovered Country is a generous cut of the franchise's sweet meat though it doesn't hold the same place in my affections as Trek's II, III and IV. The story is the series at it's best - a deft allegory of the fall of Soviet Communism with the old cast having to question their old assumptions about those 'Klingon bastards' who are now suing for peace with their Federation foes. The ensuing political double crosses, assassinations and space battles are far meatier and more interesting than anything in the previous film and this is all counterbalanced by something approaching poignancy given that the movie represents a final fling for our quasi-geriatric heroes. The direction and visual effects are top notch with Meyer getting the best out of the classic cast including a surprisingly descent turn from Shatner who rediscovers a bit of the old magic as a Kirk trying to reconcile his hatred of the enemy and his personal resentment against the practicalities of the peace initiative. Its really his movie, though Spock and McCoy have some good moments and Christopher Plummer's General Chang provides prime cut villainy with just a glint in his eye (literally just the one eye) and a stroke of his Klingon moustache. His propensity to quote Shakespeare is a bit of a hoary old cliché for your would-be enemy but it works nicely as a hallmark of a man who has invested in the culture of his adversaries in an attempt to best them intellectually. As a military man with an less than honourable agenda he's a far more convincing villain than any megalomaniac hell bent on world domination, partially because writers Meyer, Nimoy and Flinn understand that the real world grounding of the story invests it with a edge and a credibility that might otherwise be wanting. There are a few false notes - The Enterprise rescue of Kirk and McCoy has always felt a bit too clean and easy for my liking and the purple Klingon blood is just inaccurate for continuity purposes but I'll put my hands up to pedantry on that one. The major faux pas though is the final 'sign off' from the crew in which their signatures are 'written' across the screen. Its not the idea that's wrong its the fact we're looking at the actor's signatures and not those of the characters. It feels like a bit of mis-step because it betrays a misunderstanding of the fact that it's the characters that made the series fly not an interest in William Shatner, Deforrest Kelly and so on. From the moment I first saw it it never felt right to me but still, there you go. Gene Rodenberry just got to see this before he died and a good job too because I think he'd have been satisfied that his original crew had gone out on a something of a high note. He'd also never see the 4 movies that followed with the Next Generation cast and for that alone he may have got out at just the right time. "},{"Title":"Very good movie, a perfect sign off for the original Star Trek cast","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has it all, it has drama, action, special effects you name it. It also has a nice resolving conclusion to the Kirk era of Star Trek, the possibility of peace among Klingons and Humans.On the technical side the directing is beautifully and masterfully done by Nicholas Meyer. Well edited movie. The director took careful consideration to keep you in suspense, for example, hiding the villain in the background of the light, things like that.  The special effects, though not remarkable, as in The Wrath of Khan's in-your-face effects, the effects in this movie generally are good, the battle sequences in this movie are just as good as The Wrath of Khan one.Again a nice motif is the scripts placement of Shakespeare quotes into the villain, just like Khan in Star Trek II.  Speaking of the villain, Chang, here you see excellent acting thanks to the actor Christopher Plummer.There are a lot of in-line jokes, which adds to that atmosphere of closeness between the characters.  Sulu's transfer to a new ship, the Excelsior is sought here.  The set construction and pieces are great.  The new enterprise bridge looks more military like.  The presidential office (may note it is a redone Ten Forward from St, the next generation), the peace talk location, etc.The end of the movie has a sad feeling towards it, a teary farewell to the crew of the Enterprise, and a clear passing of the torch to the new crew.A great movie that you must see,Rating 9/10  "},{"Title":"once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSThus it came to pass, twenty five years after the original series began, and twelve years after the first movie, the original crew of the USS Enterprise decided to retire. Before going however, they created history and they battled the all too human fear of change, all in a film which is not only brilliant to watch, but is a superb send off to this wonderful crew.Since Star Trek The Motion Picture (1979), the klingons, the most famous enemy of all, were always shown to be rather a pathetic lot. With their only appearance in the first film being five minutes, they didn't get off to the best of starts. In the third encounter, The Search for Spock (1984), they were given slightly more menace but were still relatively inept. Finally in Star Trek V The Final Frontier (1989) the main Klingons were an old alcoholic mess who needed to be shouted at by Spock to do anything, and a pathetic ship Captain who seemed almost childlike and eventually had to apologise to Kirk. Therefore, for a long time, the Klingon Empire always seemed to be hard done by and put upon. In the first ten minutes of Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country, this process appears to be repeating itself again. With the Klingon moon of Cronos being half destroyed, Captain Sulu's USS Excelsior encounters the shock-wave when they discover this awful accident. Skipping forward and on Earth the Federation's leaders are informed that the Klingon Empire is now facing doom. As a result, Captain Kirk's Enterprise is sent to meet with Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner in yet another different role) and to begin discussions of Peace. It isn't long however before things go wrong and Captain Kirk is forced to battle the wonderfully evil General Chang (Christopher Plummer).The beauty of this sixth film is that it puts considerable thought into all the real aspects required to make a decent Star Trek movie. With the crew beginning to feel their age, they perform brilliantly in their final adventure. At the same time, the supporting cast (including Plummer, Warner, Kim Cattrell and Brock Peters) is well thought out and constructed. Out of this supporting cast comes the absolutely superb General Chang, played by Christopher Plummer. When considering all of this series of films, arguably the three finest attempts are The Wrath Of Khan, The Undiscovered Country and First Contact. With the three charismatic, appealing bad guys in the form of Khan, Chang and the Borg Queen, these films appeal because they have an evenly matched battle. Whether it's Captain Kirk or Captain Picard, both Shatner and Stewart perform better in their roles when they are given an enemy to sink their teeth into. None is more true of General Chang in this film. Chang represents an almost Klingon alternative of Kirk. Both are Warriors with strong knowledge of Earth's past (Chang quoting Shakespeare perhaps once too often), and for the majority of the time, they both are terrified of change. The key to Kirk's success in this film is not the eventual destruction of Chang, but that Kirk is willing to set aside his prejudices and accept the Klingon offer of peace. The bartering between the two is superb and the film is considerably better for it.Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is probably more what people would classify as a typical adventure. Whilst the forth film was funny, it never felt like it belonged in the series, and it was then followed by the awful fifth film which was just in general bad. Therefore it feels like this final voyage of the original crew has saved face really. This film feels like it has learnt to respect the genre. Constructing a brilliant plot, Nimoy, Konner and Rosenthal, have given the characters wide enough space for them to develop, whilst simultaneously sticking to what makes Star Trek so great. There are battles, there's drama, there's emotion and there is mystery. With these however, the crew are able to banter between themselves, with Dr McCoy (the late, great DeForest Kelley) getting some of the best lines once again.Ultimately, there is only one flaw with Star Trek VI and that is that it reminds us that this is the end. Whilst Patrick Stewart and the crew of the Enterprise NCC 1701-D would pick up the reigns from this moment on, the series would never be as good as it was with Captain Kirk in command. Star Trek VI tells us that never again will we see this crew together on board the Enterprise. This film is a brilliant film and a suitable way of saying farewell to this group of people, but this is in itself, rather upsetting. "},{"Title":"Political spade drama entertains","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Undiscovered Country is just that...the Klingons are on the verge of annihilation from their own greed and warmongering and it's up to Kirk and his crew to save them. Boy, are they in trouble.This movie is absolutely one of the best. It has every element which makes a good movie into a successful movie, and all the classic Star Trek elements.Intrigue and suspense abound in this installment of the line. Jim Kirk is back with his suave, devil-may-care attitude and his loyal crew just can't get any better than this. It has action, suspense, intrigue, excellent space battles, excellent hand-to-hand battles, and much more.I'm not going to spoil any part of this movie. It is far too good for me to do that to it. A most excellent movie! This is a definite must-see for all Star Trek fans!! It gets a 10/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Which STVI Movie Did U Watch?","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess I watched a different STVI movie than some of the reviewers. The one I watched had the original crew become stupid to the point they have to have a rookie tell them how to sabotage the message from Star Fleet. They had to look up Klingon words in books and attempt to say them without the use of the computer for help! The Klingon's are so stupid that they don't catch the transmitter on Kirks back. They didn't know firing a phaser would set off an alarm (how many years in Star Fleet?) They didn't know the suspected crew man's species so the shoe doesn't fit!I too was sucked in at first, but after seeing the movie again and the way the movie cast the original crew (Sulu the exception) as being so stupid (I guess that is why they were never promoted) IMHO, I think this is the worst Star Trek movie ever made. I know there are more things the movie did to cheapen the original crew, but this is all I can think of right now. It's a shame that this movie didn't show them as they should have been seen, being the hero's behind Kirk. After seeing this film I'm amazed that Kirk ever saved anything with such bumbling idiots for a crew! "},{"Title":"The most overrated of the *Trek* movies","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ironically, Nicholas Meyer also directed the best of the *Trek* movies, and the only one which I think works as a real movie (as opposed to a device for vacuuming dollars out of Trekkies' wallets), *The Wrath of Khan*. I guess he just got lucky with that one. Nevertheless, bringing him back to rescue the series from the clutches of the Shatnermonster was clearly a good decision. Everyone seems to have been so relieved that they are willing to ignore this movie's many and massive flaws.The core problem here is that the smug self-righteousness which was always the most obnoxious thing about *Star Trek* serves as the very basis of the film, and is handled in an even more ham-handed manner than it usually is. (Funny how no one ever behaves like a racist jerk until a Point needs to be made, and then suddenly Starfleet's full of 'em!) But that is exacerbated by a constant stream of little idiocies and absurdities Chekov asks if he should raise shields when the *Enterprise* meets the ship they were expecting to meet. So, complete idiots can become officers on the Federation flagship, then? The idea of Klingons and humans dining together is treated as a shocking and unprecedented thing, even though the end of the previous movie, they were shown partying together (though it is understandable why everyone wanted to forget that the execrable *ST5* existed).Spock just happens to have a sticky-backed homing device which he can place on Kirk's shirt when he needs one, even though there is no reason at the time for him to be carrying one around.This marvel of 23rd-century miniaturization is an inch long and half an inch wide and remains clearly visible on the shoulder of Kirk's uniform throughout the entire process of his arrest and trial, but the Klingons never notice it.Neither the *Enterprise*'s crew, nor even the computer, can easily tell from the trajectory of a torpedo whether it came from *Enterprise*'s launchers or a point under her keel? And the neutron surge which could only have come from another ship didn't alert anyone to the presence of another ship until after Kirk and McCoy had been sentenced? I think I see how Chekov kept getting promoted.Apparently, gravity boots are not standard equipment on Starfleet vessels with artificial gravity, since only the killers will have them. Gee, you'd think having a few pairs around would be kind of useful, just in case.Valeris demonstrates the *Enterprise*'s alarm system by actually firing a phaser at a pot of food in the galley, instead of just explaining it.The guy she's explaining it to is Chekov. That's right, the brand-new helm officer is explaining ship operations to an officer who has served on this ship and its predecessor for a quarter-century. Worse, she says, As you know before explaining it. So what was that idiotic demonstration in aid of, exactly? Why not just say, The alarms would have gone off? The pot disappears, while the food inside it remains, even though no *Star Trek* phaser has ever worked that way before or since. Apparently Meyer thought this would be cool.Uhura comes to investigate the alarm at the head of the security team. That's right, the communications officer! And no, she doesn't bother calling on the comm system to find out what happened, she actually runs down to check it out in person, because...uh, because they needed an excuse to get Nichelle Nichols into the scene, I guess. Then Scotty runs in for the same reason. Apparently only the main guys care about stuff like that and don't have jobs to do.Even though the comm officer is standing right there, Spock orders the helm officer to send a false message to Starfleet. Why? Because the helm officer is a Vulcan, and it allows them to remind us that Vulcans don't lie unless it's *absolutely* necessary to the plot.It took *that long* for someone to notice the bright purple blood on the transporter pad? Can the transporters be accessed by just anyone? And aren't there records? Haven't any number of episode plots turned on transporter records? So Kirk *knew* about the homing device, and didn't even bother moving it to a less conspicuous location? Lucky Klingons are as dumb as humans.I'm not even going to go into the manifest imbecility of the Klingon dictionary scene, except to say, Books? Printed books?! Why would Spock ask McCoy to help him reprogram a torpedo? Dammit, he's a doctor, not an engineer! Why can a bunch of people just beam into a secret summit conference with phasers drawn, a short time after the Klingon Chancellor was assassinated? You'd think Starfleet and Klingon security would be pretty keen on stopping things like that.Apparently phasers have a rarely-used defenestration setting.(I won't mention Colonel ! West, since Meyer apparently retained enough sense to cut him from the original release.) Stupid movie. "},{"Title":"The worst of the lot.","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you thought Trek V was bad, take a look at Trek 6-The Undiscovered Country. Talk about crap! The major problems in this flick are so numerous that they make the few smaller problems of Trek V pale by comparison. Let's take a look-The galley scene, which shows real food being cooked, doesn't work at all. There's not enough room on a starship to store real food. And how about that alien with the bare feet making the food? Very sanitary. -Weapon alarms on a warship? That's like putting motion detectors in a gymnasium. Why didn't the alarms go off constantly? -Valeris leads the investigation into the murders and discovers that the killer is....Herself!!! She must be the stupidest Vulcan of all time. The Vulcan Criminal Justice System must be the laughing stock of the galaxy if it's this easy to get caught. -An object at rest tends to stay at rest unless acted upon by some force. This Law of Physics hasn't been discovered by the Klingons yet. That's why the sitting Klingons start to float in the air as soon as the gravity cuts out. (They also squeal little girls too. How Macho.) -The Enterprise is trying to sneak into Klingon space to find Kirk on Rurapentey Prison Planet. A Klingon outpost asks them what they are up to. The (stupid) Enterprise people reply- We're condemning food. The Klingon says, Okay, have a nice day, or words to that affect. Good thing the Enterprise ran into the stupidest Klingon in the galaxy or they might have gotten caught. (A pattern is developing.) They had to look up Klingon words in books. It's been stated everywhere that books are a very rare thing by the 24th century. Spock gave Kirk a book for his birthday and Kirk was astonished that he found one. Yet they happen to have a half dozen Klingon-English dictionaries on board. How stupid. -At Kitomer, the Klingons are watching the Ambassador. Among them is Gorkon's daughter, who wants to kill Kirk more than she wants to breath. In walks Kirk and his friends and they walk right past the daughter, even saying Excuse Me to her!! The other Klingons just let them pass without a blink. Kirk should have been filleted on the spot. Here's the killer of her father walking past her to kill someone else.I could go on, but I don't want vomit on my keyboard. Trek V may be flawed, but it has a good, solid story. The direction is also good. The camera is in the right place, and everyone is on their spots. What more do you want? The ending was supposed to have gargoyles chasing Kirk after the demon was killed, but Paramount got cheap and cut the budget. The scenes with Sybok sharing Spock and McCoy's pain are very powerful. I'm sorry, but this is one of the better Trek films. It's certainly better than Insurrection, Nemesis and Generations. "},{"Title":"Murder She Wrote in Space","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First up I'm not a Trekkie, Trekker, Trekite, or whatever the fans of this show call themselves, so my comments are not the usual eulogistic gushings you find posted about the Star Trek movies. In fact if you are a Trek fan I'd skip reading this because you aren't going to like what I have to say.The main problem I had with this film, apart from the totally ludicrous Scooby-Doo type unmasking of the would be assassin, and Spock's plodding Jessica Fletcher impression, is the filmmaker's assumption that the audience is totally stupid.For example, towards the end of the film, faced with having to find an invisible spaceship (a cloaked Warbird no less) the crew of the Enterprise come up with the wizard wheeze of attaching some of that atmospheric equipment we're carrying to catalogue gaseous anomalies to a torpedo that will seek out the Klingon ship's exhaust. They hurriedly attach the gear to a torpedo and blow the baddies space ship to bits. Hurrah! This is great - except this is the first mention of the Enterprise carrying all that atmospheric equipment. There was scene at the start of the movie on board a totally different ship, commanded by Sulu, which had just finished surveying Fifty-four planets - and their gaseous atmospheric anomalies in which we are told the sensing and analytic equipment worked well but there's no mention of the Enterprise lugging this kind stuff around until the script demands it. This is just lazy. It assumes the audience cannot remember what happened 80 minutes ago. It's insulting. Why didn't they look for the suspicious Neutron emissions that Spock noticed just before the attack? If the Warship was venting Plasma (which is very hot) why didn't they bung a night sight on their 'sensors' and look in the infra-red spectrum? Other moments of stupidity includeThe galley having a gun rack just so a crew member can vapourise a chicken and prove a point about the alarm system. Why the hell would the ship's kitchen need a gun rack? Maybe there is a setting lower than 'stun' for melting the sugar on a Creme Brulet. Who Knows?The assassin's magnetic boots being left in a locker so they could be found later. Why didn't the bad guys just bung them out of an airlock or, even better, 'transport' them off the ship into the convenient undetectable , invisible space ship hanging about outside. But no, this is a Star Trek movie. Only the heroes are allowed to be smart (and that is only by comparison) so everyone else has to be REALLY stupid. Having found the boots, the locker's owner is brought forward and challenged to put them on to see if they fit. The camera pans down the suspect's legs to reveal he has huge webbed feet. Bare, huge webbed feet. No socks, no shoes, just ugly rubber feet. I guess this was supposed to be funny but it just made me think 'Starfleet only provides uniforms for Humans? Oh come on! Grow up, people!'And what's all this guff about the Klingons only having 50 years? If Earth's moon exploded with the force that the Klingon home-world's moon did it - it was a big enough bang to rock a Federation ship light years away - it would have done more than cause deadly pollution of their ozone it would have wiped life of the face of the Earth, Mars and any other colonised planets in the Solar System. For years, we are told, an uneasy peace has been kept along the border between Klingon and Federation space. A Federation ship is warned by the Klingon High Command to Obey treaty stipulations and remain outside the Neutral Zone! Later, when the Enterprise zooms to Kirk's rescue, it scoots into Klingon space at top speed with big coloured zoom lines trailing behind it and a loud stereophonic Swoooooosh! on the soundtrack. The Klingon's response? A bored and sleepy guard hails them and asks them who they are. He hails them in voice only mind you - the first time ever in the history of the Trekyverse that I can remember that people haven't communicated via wall to wall TV - because if they had communicated via the usual wall to wall TV, the bored and sleepy Klingon guard would have seen he was talking to humans and pushed the panic button - how convenient for our heroes was that! On board the Enterprise Uhura and company frantically page through old Klingon glossaries, manuals and dictionaries they just happen to have lying around and bluff their way past the Evil Empire's borders by mumbling We art delivering food... things and...supplies to Rura Penthe... over.... Okay, says the guard, on you go. And that's it! No passwords, no words of the day, no sign of any basic military security measures at all. Nothing. So much for the mighty warlike and evil Klingon empire. It's pathetic.At least once during every movie I watch, I seem to end up thinking Why did they just do that? only to have to remind myself It's only a movie. Watching this turkey I asked myself the question far more often than I usually do. Too often. There come a point when It's only a movie mutates into Because it's crap. This is crap. Another dumb Star Trek movie only partially redeemed by an excellent score. "},{"Title":"There is an old Vulcan proverb only Nixon could go to China.","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star trek VI The Undiscovered Country is directed by Nicholas Meyer who also co-wrote the screenplay with Denny Martin Flinn. The story comes from Leonard Nimoy, Lawrence Konner & Mark Rosenthal, the musical score is by Cliff Eidelman and the cinematographer is Hiro Narita. The usual suspects from the franchise return for this sixth big screen outing, they are joined in the cast by Christopher Plummer, Kim Cattrall, David Warner, Kurtwood Smith & Rosanna DeSoto. Plot finds the Klingon's in danger of extinction and therefore keen for aid and peace in the universe. So who better to go escort the Klingon Chancellor to the Peace Summit than Kirk and company? Sure enough things go awry pretty quickly as the Klingon's come under attack and the Enterprise is held responsible, but Kirk is adamant that the Enterprise was not responsible. On trial for their lives, Kirk & Bones must hope that Spock and the rest of the crew can solve the mystery sooner rather than later. Not just for the sake of their two imprisoned colleagues, but to ensure that all talk of peace is not jettisoned forever.Granted it wouldn't have been hard for part 6 to be a better movie than the self indulgent crassness of Star Trek V The Final Frontier. But The Undiscovered Country actually turns out to be one of the best film's of the 10 big screen outings. First successful strike was to get Shatner out of the director's chair and install Meyer in the hot seat; Meyer of course was the man who directed arguably the best film of the ten with Wrath of Khan. Second successful strike was to have Nimoy at the head of the brains trust writing the story, his intelligence and love of Roddenberry's show is unbound, and with the narrative as it is in film 6, it's evident that the writers were clued in to what was needed to make a Trek film enjoyable.What mostly makes it work is that the film has all the right elements blended as a whole. It cleverly plays on real life affairs involving the Soviet Union, links it with delicious villains, laces it with knowing humour and even has it driven by a whodunit plot arc. Throw in Cattrall as Spock's protégée, some new revelations to the Star Trek lore, a blunderbuss ending (Star Fleet tag team, woo hoo) and you get a winner. Even the odd bit of ham (Shatner, naturally) and a stuttering mid-section can't dull down the overriding sense of honest entertainment that the film provides. In the year that Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry passed away (the film is dedicated to him), those involved have given a fitting farewell to not only him, but also the crew that have given joy to so many since the first episode aired back in 1966.The roads and star ways have been very up and down since 1966, but for 1991 the franchise got a highpoint. For sure. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Let Slip The Dogs Of War!","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fall of the Berlin wall and the end of the Cold War unleashed a spate of Hollywood films in which Russians defected to the United States (The Hunt For Red October), Russians and Americans teamed up to fight crime (Red Heat), shaky peace-talks began between Soviet and US politicians (The Undiscovered Country), dissident Americans sold defence secrets to the Soviets (Falcon and the Snowman) and likable America warriors kicked steroid injected Russian ass (Rocky 4).Directed by Nicholas Meyer, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is one of the more interesting of such films. Meyer, a director and novelist who imbues his films with a quiet intelligence, is of course the man responsible for Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan, a film which virtually re-invented Star Trek. Meyer took Melville's Moby Dick, several allusions to Hornblower, Naval classics and submarine flicks, and turned Star Trek into a full blown maritime adventure movie in space. The pretentious technobabble and the soulless FX of Robert Wise's Star Trek The Motion picture (it's actually pretty good), and the utopian flailings of Trek creator Gene Roddenberry, gave way to crowd pleasing action, humour, screwball banter, likable heroes and retro design changes. Elsewhere uniforms were given a more maritime feel, battles were staged like nautical encounters, crewmen blew whistles, torpedoes were loaded like cannons, captains talked about rudders and villains wore pirate eye-patches.These changes, of course, annoyed both Roddenberry and the die hard fanboys. How dare Trek &#x96; a series about ideas and social issues - degenerate into a mainstream action movie!? How dare you turn a futuristic fleet of star ships into a jazzed up version of The British Navy, each vessel literally piloted by a crew of Red Coats!? It's a valid point, until you realise that Meyer was the first artist associated with Trek to have recognised, not only that Star Trek was always Hornblower in space, but that it was always a fascist and xenophobic franchise. Meyer didn't turn The Federation of Planets into The British Empire with warp drive, he merely amplified, and questioned, what was always there.And so The Undiscovered Country begins by introducing Captain James Kirk (William Shatner) as an unashamed racist. Having lost his son to a dirty Klingon warrior, Kirk hates the Klingons, believing them to be vile, vulgar, violent and always untrustworthy. Of course his crew shares his sentiments. Why wouldn't they? Throughout the TV series, the Klingons were cast as token Russian, Black and Japanese villains. They were savage barbarians wearing Asian clothes and mostly played by black actors.But when Kirk's ship is chosen to host the peace talks between the Federation (US) and Klingon (Soviet) Empires, Meyer undermines our preconceptions by portraying the Klingons as a well spoken and sophisticated group, adept at quoting Shakespeare and well versed in Earth literature. Far from a band of vile pirates, they come across as classy noblemen. Kirk and his merry men, meanwhile, look like a horde of drunken sailors.Later, Meyer deftly toys with his audience's preconceptions, teasing us with the possibility that the Klingon's are responsible for a cunning attack on their own ambassador. But what actually unfolds is an elaborate plot, started by human, Vulcan, Romulan and Klingon militarist factions (in other words, we're all guilty), to destabilise any hope of peace between the empires. Old animosities and fears of change are essentially exploited in order to maintain the intergalactic status quo. The status quo being the constant cultural, scientific and military superiority of the United Federation of Planets.Beyond its simple parable, Country resumes Meyer's fondness for turning his films into altars to classic literature. Dickens, Melville, Doyle, Shakespeare...these are his influences. Watch how he has Spock turn into Sherlock Holmes, frantically racing to solve the case of the missing gravity boots. Watch how he pulls the film's title out of Hamlet, has bad guys quoting Shakespeare and has characters standing proudly before bookshelves adorned with A Tale of Two Cities. References to Peter Pan, the Merchant of Venice, The Tempest and the racially themed Guess Who's Coming To Diner, give the film a classiness which the franchise typically lacks.Other impressive things abound despite severe budget limitations, Meyer's space battles are deliciously spatial, his action has a cerebral kick, his dialogue is exceptionally well written (often screwball, always memorable, packed with one-liners), he makes sure all his cast members are given shining moments and cleverly counters Shatner's theatricality with appropriately theatrical villains. Elsewhere the film features an explosive shock-wave which set in stone the look of all future space shock-waves (the Star Wars shock-wave was only added in 1997).Still, the film has two flaws. Firstly, the film's lead characters are all ultimately heroes, each with their obligatory save the day sequences. You sense that Meyer wants them to be tarnished, to be deeply wounded in some way, but that these characters have simply become too iconic, too mythic, to be meddled with. And so all the film's evils are given to token characters, Kirk's evils transplanted to a Federation admiral, Spock's evils to a Vulcan officer, the Klingon's evils to a rouge captain and so forth. Secondly, like most science fiction films, the film fails in its depiction of alien planets (a boring ice planet) and alien creatures (shape shifters and costumed dogs). But this is mainstream sci-fi. When you're dealing with swashbuckling space opera, dog puppets and ice planets will suffice.8.5/10 &#x96; Worth multiple viewings. "}{"Title":"A Far better place...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The opening twenty minutes of 'Generations' aside, this is the penultimate send-off for TOS' crew. Sure, Scotty and Spock made the leap to TNG and Sulu made a sideways app. on Voyager... but this is, for me, the retirement mission.With it's meaning rooted in the fall of the Cold War, this film is level with Trek II in movie epic. Never one to shirk a social message (see various episodes and Trek IV), this one hits hard and heavy.The combination of story, action and a little Sherlock Holmes made for a great film and a proper send off into what should have been the Undiscovered Country of TNG. "},{"Title":"The most underrated Trek movie","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While most fans and non trekkies regard STII as the best Star Trek film, Nicholas Meyer's second Trek outing definitely challenges his debut. Essentially, it's a political thriller set in space, mirroring the events in Russia and Eastern Europe in the late '80s.Following an explosion on of their moons (hello Chernobyl), the Klingons decide to begin peace negotiations with the Federation in an effort to save themselves. The Enterprise is sent out to meet with the Klingon chancellor but the crew, including Scotty and especially Kirk find it hard to accept the Klingons as their new friends. Things go from bad to worse when the chancellor is assassinated and the Enterprise is blamed and faces a race against time to find the truth.Meyer's direction is a welcome change after William Shatner's attempts in STV. He returns to the militaristic style established in STII and works in the ageing of the crew, rather than have it become embarrassing. Some fans dislike this film because the plot seems to complicated and it's not as action or humour filled as previous instalments but its a great send off for the TOS cast. The only regret I think is that Meyer was not allowed some of his original ideas, notably a return of Saavik and references to Kirk's old flame Carol Marcus. But these fail to spoil a great movie. "},{"Title":"Great Goodbye!!!","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country marks the final film for the entire original cast of Star Trek. It presents itself wonderfully from beginning to end, and it shows how the crew of the Enterprise is as great as ever in this story! Each character has equal attention and seeking Kirk and Spock one last time together made me think of the good 'ol days of Star Trek in the 60's. They're been with us for 25 years (1966-1991) and it was fun seeing them at it one last time. *Christopher Plummer did a wonderful job as Chang, as well as Kim Cattral. I recommend anyone to see this film. And no, not just fans of Star Trek. "},{"Title":"Best trek movie!","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It even leads directly into the first episode of Sex in the City! Go figure.Honestly, though I love almost all of the Trek feature films, even the lesser ones, Undiscovered Country does one thing that is tough to do with a slightly campy Sci Fci flick.  Its suspenseful.  Most of the other trek films, though good, are not really the type of movie that make you grip your seat.  It makes you feel some emotion.  Its also intelligently written and avoids egregious story mistakes.By the way, I beg for more Star Trek movies.  Nemesis was not the way to go down.  LET FRAKES DIRECT!!!! "},{"Title":"Thrilling installment in which Enterprise crew takes on a dark conspiracy against Federation","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This entertaining outing deals with an accident on the Klingon moon that turns their planet inhabitable , it forces the Klingon Empire into a truce with the Federation . Reluctant Kirk (William Shatner) , despite his mistrust of the Klingons after they killed his son in Genesis, is assigned to escort a Klingon cruiser carrying the Klingon Chancellor to Earth for the meeting point . Enterprise crew is missioned to negotiate a peace treaty with Klingon leader (David Warner) but are double-crossed by renegade cohorts . During the journey to the ship , the Klingon cruiser is torpedoed , and Kirk and McCoy fall prey a trap , being taken prisoners after the Chancellor is killed by two Starfleet crewmen assassins . Spock immediately begins an investigation, while Kirk and McCoy( DeForest Kelley) are judged and sentenced to life on Rura Penthe - a far deep-frozen asteroid , there they meet a weird transformer being (Iman). Meanwhile, Spock has discovered that a Klingon Bird of Prey - one that can fire when cloaked , and under the command of Klingon General Chang (Christopher Plummer) - is the aircraft responsible for firing on the Chancellor, and the two killers came from the Enterprise . The crews of the Enterprise and the Excelsior piloted by Sulu (George Takei) must stop a plot to prevent a peace treaty between the Klingon Empire and the Federation . Meanwhile , Spock (Leonard Nimoy, also executive producer), Scotty (James Doohan), Uhura (Michelle Nichols) , Chekov (Walter Koenig) attempt to free Kirk and McCoy ; they also discover a conspiracy.This epic story is concentrated on characters as well as thrill-packed action and special effects although there're numerous of that too . The movie has tension, brief touches of humor , emotion, suspense and sensational spacial scenarios like is customary development of the franchise . Spectacular, exciting , fast-paced , thrilling this is the description of this new outing of Star Trek , film that re-innovates the saga through a perfect pulse narrative that does not give a second of rest to the spectator who is trapped for two hours approx. in a genuine visual spectacle . Idealism ,humor , humanity , several agreeable characters and trademark effects abound and will please the enthusiasts such as the neophyte .The top-notch acting convinces with the usual deliciously flamboyant interpretations from Shatner , Nimoy , Koenig , Takei , Nichols and especially Christopher Plummer in a super-villain role , while other secondary players as Kim Cattrall, Mark Lenard , Brock Peters, John Schuck , Micheal Dorn , Kurtwood Smith also make a nice work . The stirring final amazing the spectator , in which the thrilling and spectacular scenes create a perfect union that terminates with an ending that leaves you stuck in the armchair facing the formidable spectacle as a privileged witness . Fans of the series may find much to love , and others will be pleased . Exceptional soundtrack by Cliff Eidelman , he composes an impressive musical accompaniment to the film . Furthermore , a colorful and evocative cinematography by Hiro Narita . The motion picture is stunningly directed by Nicolas Meyer (Star Trek II  Wrath of Khan , Time after the time , The deceivers , The day after) who also concocted the story . Suitable for family viewing , it's an enjoyable adventure which young and old men will enjoy . Fans of the series will find this entry very amusing and fun . It is entertaining to watch and Trekkies are sure to love it , resulting to be one of the best and last installments with the original characters . "},{"Title":"The Greatest Star Trek Movie by far","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I grew up with TNG and watched Encounter at Farpoint when I was five years old and was hooked, I had found the original cast to translate into movies much better. Although the movies were generally excellent with the exception of V which was more like a parody of Star Trek, this movie was absolutely superb in every aspect. The music gives a sense of intense suspense and foreboding. I mean, this is one of the greatest scores in a sci if next to Star Wars. The emotion of first seeing the signatures of the original cast in the credits is etched into my memory. I see no weak point in this movie. Its script is strong the acting is superb, the story and plot are coherent. Everyone in the case is playing themselves and the three main characters Kirk, McCoy and Spock are highly reflective on themselves and where they have come. Being set against the end of the cold war makes this movie utterly powerful. General Chang is an excellent villain. Not just the stereotypical dumb and angry Klingon, he is cunning and intelligent, quoting Shakespeare through his scenes. Spock's successor did not turn out to be just a female Spock and that was an interesting twist.The only gripe I have is that they were able to make this torpedo to follow the gas of the bird of prey at the end. Well, why don't they always do that if it was so effective? It should have traced the neutron energy surge or something particular to that prototype. But just a detail.I cannot believe that this movie only has a 7.2. Maybe people didn't want such a dark send off to the original cast? "},{"Title":"An Excellent Swan Song for the Original Series","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE STORY Peace negotiations between the Federation and Klingon Empire are interrupted by the assassination of a Klingon high official; Captain Kirk is blamed and thus he & McCoy get sentenced to an alien mining penal colony.Like many of the original TV episodes which incorporated the important issues of the day into a futuristic space story, Star Trek VI (1991) is a morality play about the wall coming down in outer space, with the Klingons standing in for the Soviets. Nice moral about how radical change can be really scary -- there are some who are able to embrace it and others who have serious difficulty with it. In this case there are adverse reactions on both sides by those who believe they have too much invested in the present state of hostility.HIGHLIGHTS Watch out for the ravishing Kim Cattrall playing Vulcan Lieutenant Valeris. She adequately proves that sex appeal is not necessarily about nudity and flirtation, as Valeris is fully clothed and maintains a demeanor of sophistication the entire film. The formal dinner with the Klingons is also a highlight; it's reminiscent of Khan's powerful dinner scene from Space Seed. When the dinner party ends and the Klingons beam away, each Enterprise crewmember shares a fitting exclamation of relief, including Scotty's Thank God! and McCoy's I'm going to go find a pot of BLACK coffee. After everyone says their piece Spock merely looks around and characteristically raises an eyebrow. Kirk meanwhile returns to his cabin to sleep it off and voices his final log entry for the day Note to Galley Romulan ale no longer to be served at diplomatic functions (lol).BEST HISTORICAL QUOTE As General Chang prosecutes Kirk at the trial he screams out DON'T WAIT FOR THE TRANSLATION -- ANSWER ME NOW!! The writers ingeniously slipped this famous line in; it's a quote from U.N. Representative Adlai Stevenson during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962 wherein he drilled Soviet Ambassador Zorin.BEST HOMAGE It was twelve years before that Shatner uttered his ridiculously criticized Oh my God line in The Motion Picture. Well, guess how he reacts when he meets an intimidating 7-foot pig-skinned alien in the mines? You guessed it.I could go on with the highlights; this is just a taste of the many great scenes/bits.FINAL ANALYSIS This is the last film in which the entire original cast appear together, and it's a more-than-solid outing verging on greatness; a good chronicling of the events leading up to the Klingon-Federation alliance portrayed in Star Trek The Next Generation. Although the film lacks the profundities of The Motion Picture, The Final Frontier and Generations, it's a more than satisfying romp -- very involving and fun, highlighted by a nice whodunit scenario. What more could a Trek fan ask for? Needless to say, a fine way to end The Original Series.CRY HAVOK AND LET SLIP THE DOGS OF WAR!! "},{"Title":"Mysterious, filled with political intrigue and typically superb character interaction. A great final adventure for the TOS crew","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After two relatively lighthearted films, with The Voyage Home being a (brilliant) comedy much of the time, the Trek film series returned to darkness and foreboding intrigue with The Undiscovered Country. It is probably a more flawed film than The Voyage Home and The Wrath of Khan (which are my favorite Trek films), but The Undiscovered Country nonetheless is a great, great send-off for the original crew (damn you, Generations!) with a very good story and villain and more than a hint of the political intrigue which would become a big part of Deep Space 9. Indeed, though it features the original crew with their trademark interactions intact, The Undiscovered Country does bring them into a story perhaps generally more at home in The Next Generation or Deep Space 9. Though I much prefer The Original Series to anything which came after (outside of a couple of seasons of DS9), this was an interesting direction to go for the original crew's final film, and one which paid off largely again due to the characters being so well-handled.A fairly complex plot in comparison to what we'd seen before in the Trek film series, so I won't bother explaining it, but there's lots of Klingons, lots of politics, and an air of mystery well-created by director Nicholas Meyer, returning as director to the series for the first time since The Wrath of Khan and as writer for the first time since The Voyage Home. Meyer seems to have an uncanny grasp on what makes Trek click and absolutely nails the character interactions as well as the tone of the films, which are ultimately optimistic regardless of how melancholy things can get. It's a great screenplay overall, with the social and political commentary being pretty obvious but very well-done and the characters, again, handled extremely well. Great dialogue too, with Chang being Shakespeare to Khan's Melville and Spock especially getting some classic lines. The cinematography by Hiro Narita is also worthy of note.Overall the cast here is definitely worthy of much praise. Of course the original cast, Mark Lenard as Sarek, and other Trek regulars like Michael Dorn as Worf need no comment as they are all reliable performers. It must be said though that Shatner still had a little of The Final Frontier in him and didn't really deliver a performance on par with his work in the trilogy formed by II, III, and IV. However, there were some very good additions as well. Kim Cattrall doesn't even come close to deserving the sort of criticism she's gotten from some, as she plays her Vulcan character pretty much flawlessly, and I daresay better than Kirstie Alley or whomever took over from her as Saavik. It helps that she's the hottest Vulcan not from Alberta. Christopher Plummer is really, really great as the villain Chang, who isn't as good a character as Khan, but I think Plummer gives perhaps the better performance.Overall an exciting, thrilling adventure filled with political intrigue which never loses sight of the soul of Trek the characters. I do think The Voyage Home has eclipsed this as my second favorite Trek film upon this most recent viewing, but I still love The Undiscovered Country and consider it not only in the top tier of Trek films, but also a great addition to the original crew's adventures and one of the better genre films around. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"Great finale.","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek the Undiscovered Country is a great finale for the original cast of one of the greatest television shows. We actually begin with Captain Sulu and his ship, the Excelsior. An explosion rocks them and they determine that the moon of Kronos has exploded. This puts the Klingon race at great risk. Both Federation and Klingon officials talk of a peace that should happen in order to save the Klingon world. However, there are some that believe such an alliance is not a good idea. Kirk is one of them. Yet, he is chosen to command the Enterprise to meet with Councillor Gorkon of the Klingons. After a tense dinner, the Klingon ship is attacked. Unsure of what is going on, Kirk and McCoy beam over to the alien ship to discover Gorkon was assassinated. They are arrested and tried for treason. They are found guilty and sent to an asteroid prison. Meanwhile, the crew of the Enterprise works to disprove the allegations against Kirk. This is against Starfleet orders. This one has it all comedy, story, plot, and action. Aside from the finding evidence to clear their comrades, the Enterprise crew also uncovers a conspiracy within Starfleet. One of the most entertaining scenes for humor was a dinner with the Enterprise Crew and the Klingons. I also liked the aliens created for the Klingon gulag. Another aspect I liked was Sulu having his own command and working hard to help the Enterprise. Another good scene is when the Excelsior and Enterprise must play tag-team against a cloaked Klingon Warbird. This was the final voyage of the original cast. And it was one of the best. "},{"Title":"The story is engaging with good subtexts, the action is exciting, the performances roundly good and, most importantly, it is fun","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Klingon empire is on the edge of destruction but not by the sword by but the destruction of a power planet and the pollution of the empire's atmosphere. The Klingons approach the Federation to talk peace and Kirk and the Enterprise are dispatched to rendezvous with their Chancellor to escort him and his entourage to the peace talks. After a night awkwardly entertaining the Klingon party, they return to their ship when, out of nowhere, it appears that the Enterprise fire on the Klingon ship before two crew members board to assassinate the Chancellor. However this leaves Kirk and McCoy the prisoners of the Klingons with the Federation unable to reach them for fear of derailing what little is left of the peace process. Meanwhile Spock tries to piece together what happened and rescue his friend.After the rather flat part V, it was a positive sign to see writer of the superior parts II and IV and director of II returning to the film series. And indeed it proved to be as this was yet again fuel for the myth of the odd number curse of the Star Trek films as it turned out to be one of the stronger of the original films. The plot is a great bit of action with its basis in political conspiracy while Spock gets to play Sherlock back on the Enterprise. The parallels with real life peace movements and the difficulties of preparing for peace are interesting but not forced down your throat. Many viewers will get the references to Adlai Stevenson in the Cuba Missile Crisis (don't wait for the translation), the use of the famous Nixon proverb and generally the theme of Kirk struggling to come to terms with the idea of peace after so many years of war and loss to the Klingons; however if you don't get them it doesn't matter.The action works well and is delivery with confidence by Meyer but it also helps that his script does make for a strong story (unlike the fifth film for example). The humour of the film is much better as well as it is an addition and doesn't feel out of place (again, like it did in the fifth film). There are some nice touches in here but my personal favourite is the reference to Shatner's ego in the I can't believe I kissed you line (again a welcome awareness within the series after Shatner ran amuck across the fifth film). Shatner is much better here than before. He is reigned in and is still hammy but he has material to work with and he does well. Nimoy has fun with his investigation while Kelley provides the usual stuff in a good way. Support from Doohan, Nichols and others is as good as always. Cattrall is OK while Warner has more to do than in the last film. Dorn makes the link to the next generation of films and, importantly, the film is given a good baddie in the shape of Chang. Picking up from Khan, Plummer delivers a deliciously hammy villain, complete with Shakespeare quotes, and provides a great adversary for Shatner's Kirk.Overall then a fitting sign-off for the original crew and one of the stronger of the original films. The story is engaging with good subtexts, the action is exciting, the performances roundly good and, most importantly, it is fun. "}{"Title":"What is it with you, anyway?","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That comment is one the priceless moments in this the last movie of the Original crew. It could be the best of the bunch, or at least close to the Wrath of Khan and The Voyage Home. Its got a good story and upscale 'guest' casting. Even Christian Slater sneaks in for a cameo. The story was intended to mirror the Cold War tensions and eventual dissolution of the Soviet Union. It works, sort of. The crew gets around pretty good but if they'd done another movie some of them would be in wheel chairs. As Sulu says, 'it was good to see you in action one more time', and a reminder that Shatner and Nimoy really did do Star Trek before they started advertising for Priceline.I saw this on the Special Edition DVD. I didn't see and don't know of anything that indicates that the film is any different than the earlier single disc release. Possibly there was less compression since the movie was on a disc pretty much all by itself. There's quite a few extras. I didn't watch them all but did see most of the individual cast member's thoughts about the movie and Star Trek phenomena. Some thought that there would be another original crew movie. I also watched the tribute to DeForest Kelley who had a lot to do with what made the original cast work so well, and also uttered this review's summary line to Kirk after he was smooching with the female changeling. The extras are nice but I didn't find a 'making of' anywhere which would've been nicer than just more armchair reminiscing and blabbing. Its worth it for the Kelley tribute and cast interviews. I'm not so sure I'd get any more 'Special Edition' Star Trek DVDs, however, since I already had the full set.  "},{"Title":"Riding off into the sunset","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, it's time to wrap things up for the old crew.  Retirement time has come.  At least they get to go out with a bang.Nicholas Meyer returns to liven things up after the Shatner Disaster.  He brings the right mix of comedy, adventure and drama.  Once again, the supporting cast get their moments and the guest cast is first rate.SpoilersThe Klingons suffer their own Chernobyl and send a plea for help.  They offer to make peace with the Federation; but, it seems that some people don't take to kindly to peacemakers.A newly racist Kirk is sent to meet with the Klingon Grand Pubah and lead him safely to Earth.  Well, so much for that idea!  David Warner ends up dead and Kirk and McCoy are put on trial by the Soviets, I mean Klingons.  They are sent off to Siberia, while Lady Pubah agrees to a new meeting in the Galactic Switzerland.Kirk and McCoy have a rough time on ther hands in prison, until Mrs Bowie shows up.  She helps them escape in time to call for help from the Enterprise. But wait, she's on the other side!  Shatner gets to fight himself until the rescue arrives.  They zip over to Switzerland before everyone else ends up dead.Outside Switzerland, the Von Trapp patriarch is waiting with the KGB, to stop Kirk from saving the day.  After Kirk and Sulu blow him out of the sky, Kirk and the gang beam down and defeat Lee Harvey Oswald and the CIA.  Everyone rejoices.The crew receive word that they are beng sent to Boca Raton, so they steal a line from Peter Pan and go for one last joyride.  Everyone autographs the screen and it's over.This movie comes the closest to recapturing the success of Wrath of Khan.  The performances are good and there is a nice blend of action, drama, and comedy.  Kim Cattrall, Christopher Plummer, and David Warner are all superb. The only thing that holds the film back is a few too many cheap gags.  That said, the bulk of it is quite entertaining.  This would be it for our intrepid crew, while the Next Gen warmed up in the bullpen to underwhelm us. "},{"Title":"Militant but still emotional","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is very militalistic, and is basically about a prelude to war between the Klingon Empire and the United Federation of Planets.  While some of Starfleet's rules were bent and broken in this movie, it was all for the greater good of the union.  While some people may think it is too violent of a movie, I think it is very realistic about what people are willing to do -- both in order to gain power, and in order to prevent a wrong.  Kirk finally faces some of those inner demons that he avoided in ST5, and becomes a better man for it.  The rest of the cast was wonderful, and never missed a beat.  The emotions in this film are among the best out of all the Star Trek films.  My third favorite Trek flick, after 1 and 5. "},{"Title":"Farewell to the original crew.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a really good film, in my honest opinion I think it was one of the best perhaps just behind Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan. At the same time it was sad, because after 34 years on our small and big screens this saw the retirement of the original cast. I think the story line really did justice to the history in oh so many ways. We see the Federation finally making peace with the Klingons and we also get to see Mr Sulu finally getting the captaincy of his very own ship. It was nice also to see the director of Wrath of Khan Nicholas Meyer directing this one. Good job paramount. Of course not everybody wants change and Christopher Plumber plays a good part as General Chang, a Klingon who does not want peace in our time. Really recommend watching this film. "},{"Title":"A fitting send off for the old guard","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone who dares to admit to being into the Trek films will know of the theory regarding how the 'even' number films are all a lot better than the 'odd' number movies. So, here we have Star Trek 6 The Undiscovered Country and, as the theory goes, it is pretty good.It's the last full feature film of the original (and now very old) cast and what better way that to duke it out with their old foes - the Klingons. There's less comedy than in Star Trek 4 and less banter than Star Trek 5, it's more a product of its time, set when the Federation are trying to make peace with the Klingons (and released in the cinema not long after the end of the Cold War). It tries - and doesn't quite make it - to be like second outing (The Wrath of Khan), i.e. pitting Captain Kirk against an opposite number/captain. It may not have the drama or suspense, but it is a good adventure which most people should enjoy.In the wake of the reboot, I'm not sure how many new fans The Undiscovered Country will win over, but, for all of us who remembered the original cast, it's a great and fitting send off for those who have boldly gone for so many years. "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI is the reason I can't watch this movie series in numerical order. Well, mostly because it's a wildly uneven series, but also because this well-constructed grace-note is followed up with Generations - a movie that seems to want to muck up a good thing. The Undiscovered Country works so well because of, well, several reasons. One, it's a sincere send-off for the original crew. Everyone here's an aligned cog in a tuned machine. Two, it's a good murder-mystery/prison-movie/Cold War allegory. And there's a decent bit of fun to be had here, without toppling over into parody (you've gotta admit, watching Captain Kirk get into a fistfight with himself is pretty funny).But it's really just a solid movie, very watchable, and boasting a pretty great supporting cast. Unfortunately, it's sandwiched between two foul-ups (ehh, it's kinda all downhill from here on out, First Contact being a slight upward bump), but most importantly, these famous characters - by and large - don't go out like chumps.* 7/10 *You suck, Generations. "},{"Title":"A wonderful goodbye from the original and best crew of the Enterprise","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the disaster that was Trek V it looked for a time that the series was going to end on a low note. But thanks to Leonard Nimoy and Nick Meyer the crew of the Enterprise came back for one last triumph - Undiscovered Country is a wonderful movie, with some dark themes yet plenty of humour, and full of memorable scenes.The film, of course, reflects Glasnost, and is of its time - but its primary goal is to entertain, and this it does wonderfully well. With the Klingons suffering an ecological disaster of Chernobyl proportions they have no option but to sue for peace with the Federation. And of course to formally welcome them to the peace table is their deadliest enemy - none other than James Tiberius Kirk himself.Along the way we get a JFK-style assassination plot, Kirk and McCoy sentenced to a Klingon gulag and the peace talks continuing in a growing atmosphere of suspicion. David Warner makes the most of his screen time as the Gorbachevish Klingon Chancellor, and Kim Cattrall scores big as Valeris, a protégé of Spock's. Best of all may a wonderfully scenery-chewing Christopher Plummer. He looks like he's having a great time.And where would Star Trek be without humour? As usual all the best comedy lines go to Deforest Kelly - I've give real money if he'd shut up. A lovely farewell to The Shat and Co. The original Star Trek cast. And the best. "},{"Title":"Grand Finale for the Original Enterprise Crew","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, the Klingons are forced to make peace with the Federation, Spock personally...vouches for Kirk, Christian Slater drops in for a cameo, Kim Catrall goes all Vulcan (and evil) and Sulu gets his own ship in this fitting last hurrah for the original Enterprise crew.The film starts off with a cool explosion which recently promoted Captain Sulu is around to witness. It turns out the exploding planet is the Klingon moon from which they mine a good deal of their resources. Sulu hails the Klingon moon where he is told to move along nothing to see here, right before that particular Klingon lets out an agonized scream and presumably dies. Should we report this Sir? Sulu is asked. Are you kidding? Apparently he was, because next thing we know, the Klingon empire is on its knees with Chancellor Gorkon (a heavily made up David Warner who was also in the fifth film as a different character) looking to cut a peace deal and end 40 or so years of hostility. Wait a minute, does this sound familiar? Of course it does. It was 1991, we'd just lived through it with Nato and the USSR, and in many ways were still living through it then. Anyway we see some of the best character moments for the whole series in the next few minutes, As we find out Spock is leading the peace delegation and has nominated Kirk and the Enterprise to rendezvous with the captain. The tension between Spock and Kirk could be cut through with a knife and it leads to one of Shatner's finest moments as he monologues I have never trusted Klingons, and I never will. I will never forgive them for the death of my son. They have an amusing and tense dinner with Gorkon and his Party where we find out that Guess who's coming to Dinner works for pretty good comedy and also that Chistopher Plummer is in this movie as Klingon General Chang. We are roughly half an hour in and this already has by far the best script of any film in the series.Unfortunately for Kirk Christopher Plummer, Kim Catrall, a federation captain and some random Romulan have all conspired to assassinate Gorkon to stop the peace process. Kirk is accused of the murder along with Bones. Someone taped Kirk's monologue (OK it was Kim Catrall) and he is found guilty and sent to a prison planet to die.The scenes in the prison are the film's worst and it's also where the script loses the plot as this is clearly being added to increase the run time, makes little sense and adds nothing to the plot. Kirk and Bones escape with help from Spock and they are able to foil the attempt to stop the peace process.The ending is suitably moving, with Kirk making a nice speech about the future, and hope, being the Undiscovered Country. And off they fly for the last time, the major characters all signing their names in the final credits.This was a fitting end to an enjoyable film series. It has some tremendous character moments and really does feel like both their individual and collective journeys are complete. It left the slate clean for the Next Generation to take over the film series, and had some of the best and intelligent character work of any of the films, if only we could lose that part in the prison planet. "},{"Title":"An Ending That Fits And Inspires","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been a fun ride these past few movies but it's time to settle down for this crew. Will the klingons allow them to rest, though? It comes down to how these characters have grown since the beginning. Kirk this time around becomes an ass for a moment, discriminating against all klingons for killing his son. Can it get in the way of a peace treaty? Well, this time he gets framed by them for murder he committed and Mr Spock must solve a mystery. But how much as has Spock changed? Believe me, you'll feel the difference by the end.Part VI does not offer the most creative storyline of the first six but it is a fantastic ending for fantastic characters. "},{"Title":"A solid and dignified sign off for the original crew","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite disappointing box office returns for Star Trek V, Paramount was originally looking to develop a Star Trek Prequel concept for veteran producer Harve Bennett to direct. However pressure to give the original series cast an opportunity for a (moderately budgeted) sign off led to Bennett departing the franchise to return to TV producing, and gave Leonard Nimoy, as executive producer, the opportunity to steer this film to completion.He made a reasonably sensible decision to hire Nicholas Meyer, who had wrote and directed Star Trek II, and helped re-write the script for Star Trek IV. The addition of producers Steven Charles Jaffe (long term Meyer collaborator from both Time After Time, The Day After, and Volunteers) and previous Trek movie's effects producer Ralph Winter meant that a very focused team was formed. This was crucial when trying to get the maximum production value out of an outer space set movie on very limited $30 million budget. The team wisely brought back visual effects houses ILM and VCE (the same two companies who had worked on Star Trek II), and supplemented by further good work from companies run by ex-ILM workers Matte World and PDI. Like Trek II, some effective recycling took place &#x96; the re-use of the venerable Klingon Bird of Prey miniature (from Treks III, IV and V), a dusted off and modified USS Excelsior(from Treks III and IV), the the veteran K'Tinga class cruiser and the USS Enterprise miniatures, which had been originally constructed back for the first movie back in 1978!However this recycling would count for nothing if it wasn't for an interesting, solid, but not without its flaws storyline. The story idea, was at is heart, very good and typical Trek, but while it helps sustain an exciting journey, like some previous it glosses over some key plot holes. There are some excellent set pieces &#x96; the assassination sequence, and the Rura Pente break out sequence are well done, aided significantly by Hiro Narita's solid photography, and 2nd unit photographer Christopher Fante's work. Narita really brings some great atmosphere to the USS Enterprise bridge &#x96; which has not looked as good since Star Trek The Motion Picture. However, the limited budget does show and some of the sets do look, despite the strenuous efforts of Narita, cheap and cheerful and get dangerously close to pulling you out of the picture. This failing, together with some dubious plotting regarding the solving of the assassination crime, some decidedly uneven direction by Meyer (the action finale on-set scenes being very poorly choreographed) and uneven editing by Ron Roose, does mean the film feels a little cheap and dated compared with more slickly made original series cast films such as Star Trek IV and Star Trek The Motion Picture.However, these flaws are more than compensated for by some great acting performances. Shatner's grounded, slyly amusing, introspective, and world- weary performance as Kirk sets a great tone for the movie, and both Nimoy and Deforest Kelley know exactly how to riff off him and are themselves both great. The guest cast interacts with these three very well Michael Dorn in a charismatic if too brief role, Kim Cattrall as Vulcan Enterprise science officer Valeris, the returning David Warner as Klingon Chancellor Gorkon, a very interesting return performance by Star Trek IV's Brock Peters, replaying Admiral Carthwright, and a terrifically amusing and moustache twirling performance by Chris Plummer as Klingon Military leader Chang. It is the interplay between the core three Trek crew characters, and the guests that is the highlight of the film, and gets you to overlook the plot flaws, and some decidedly broad and OTT performances by the supporting Trek cast, and simply allows you to get drawn in and follow these characters through to the end of the film. This journey is hugely assisted by newcomer Cliff Eidelman's thunderous score. Like Horner's work on Trek II, this score is a real surprise and elevates the visceral impact of the film far above its relatively small budget. It is an entirely appropriate musical journey; complements the story brilliantly, and leads you through the climax and end credits leaving you with an overriding sense of nostalgia and a feeling of gratitude for Paramount allowing the original series actors to go out on a high. The music also invokes sense of completeness to the journey and a very subtle hint as to what the future (at the time) cinematic adventures of the USS Enterprise might hold. In summary a solid and satisfying way to sign off this series with the original cast. "}{"Title":"The Fitting Epitath...","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***After the decidedly marginal product that was Star Trek VThe Final Frontier(1989) , Paramount issued a final more appropriate send off for the original cast members of Star Trek.Bringing back veteran director Nicholas Meyer(Volunteers),Paramount inked a magnum opus of the cold war set to the Star Trek universe. Kirk and crew become engulfed in war and political intrigue when, while escorting his ship to a peace conference , the Chancellor of the high council of the Klingon empire is assassinated, presumably at Kirk's order.Nothing about this production really fails to deliver. There are issues where a scene can be too short , or feel rushed . This how ever in no way deters from the film's quality. This movie is good as a period viewing piece, but also translates well to the younger viewer who might have missed the real cold war.Great Stuff.Four Stars(of 5) "},{"Title":"excellent Trek film","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not everyone keeps their genitals in the same place Captain.Highly enjoyable Star Trek film. The old cast are back together to uncover a conspiracy between Starfleet and the Klingon after Enterprise's mission to escort the Klingon chancellor (David Warner again) ends disastrously with the Enterprise supposedly firing on the enemy vessel without the crew's knowledge, and two crew members beaming aboard to assassinate the chancellor. Kirk finds himself questioning his mistrust of the Klingons caused by the killing of his son, David, in Search for Spock, while doing time in a Klingon penal colony for the assassination.The cast are all uniformly excellent in this film and are clearly having a blast. I felt Shatner gave a very good performance as a Kirk now unsure and uneasy of change. Kim Cattral is the only prominent newcomer to the crew in this one, as a sort of replacement for Saavik. She makes a good Vulcan. The effects are good, the film balances seriousness and humour perfectly, and although General Chang doesn't get much time as the villain (thankfully because he spouts Shakespeare every second sentence), this is fine as the film really isn't about that as much as it is about the crew of the Enterprise coming to terms with change and retirement. Only one thing I'm not sure of, and that's what Worf is doing in this. It must be set long before his time on the Enterprise, probably only when he was the in the Academy, or before. Highlights for me include the wonderfully awkward dinner with the Klingons as guests, in which Kirk gets drunk on Romulan ale and insults them, the penal colony, a cool set- piece, and Kirk's showdown with a blue-faced alien who has glowing genitalia. Another excellent Trek film, although I don't hold by the rule that the even numbered Trek films are good, and the odd-numbered ones bad, as I thought Search for Spock was excellent. I've still to see the first one and Final Frontier. Just those, and then Nemesis, and then the reboot films to go. "},{"Title":"Where's that damn torpedo?","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Klingon Empire is collapsing and the Federation has decided to offer them help if peace can be negotiated. So Captain Kirk and crew are dispatched to broker the peace treaty. Their mission is derailed when the Klingon ambassador is assassinated. Kirk and McCoy are arrested and sent to a prison planet while Spock puts on his Sherlock Holmes hat and investigates to find the real assassins.The last of the original Star Trek film series with the cast from the classic TV show. Thankfully they went out on a high note. Returning to the director chair is Nicholas Meyer, the director of the best Star Trek film, The Wrath of Khan. Despite the serious nature of the plot, the movie has a light-hearted feel for the most part. The cast is wonderful and, I'm happy to say, they all get something to do. Obviously, Kirk, Spock, and Bones get the lion's share of the spotlight (as they should). Sulu has been promoted to captain of his own ship, which is a nice touch. Uhura, Scotty, and Chekov (wearing an awful rug) are all fun and have bigger parts than the usual Aye, Captain stuff. Kim Cattrall isn't an entirely convincing Vulcan but she's always nice to look at. Her character was originally supposed to be Saavik, which would have made more sense given the events of the third film. Christopher Plummer hams it up as a Klingon general that looks a lot like a Dreadnok action figure I had as a kid. The story is a simple murder mystery in a space setting. But it allows the classic Star Trek crew to go out properly in an upbeat and hopeful way. Some of the cast would reprise their parts in future movies and on television but this is the last time they're all together on screen. It's a fun farewell to one of the best casts a television or movie series has ever had. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Essentially a mystery in space with political overtones. The kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. It's fun watching Spock and Valeris unravel the mystery piece by piece. A great score and tight editing help. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. This is probably the worst of the sequels, with nothing to laugh at. Heartfelt and riveting from the first frame to the last, unlike Saavik, the Marcuses, et al. "},{"Title":"A Great Goodbye","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For be the last movie of the original cast of ST this movie is very good and one of the best of the saga.Actually Star Trek VThe Final Frontier supposedly was the goodbye of the cast but because the movie was a flop in the box office and both critics and fans says the this was the worst of the saga the cast comeback for one more movie.The production bring back one more time Nicolas Meyer,The director of Star Trek IIThe wrath of khan,(The best TREK movie of all saga) to make the job one more time and the story was from Leonard Nimoy and i have to say that to be the last adventure was very very good.The movie have very good surprises,great starship action,high dosis of adventure,suspense,and of course the chemistry of the one and only original cast of ST.Considered the second best movie of the saga (only behind Trek II)The movie offers a great entertainment and great action packed...You won't we disappointment,like happen with Trek V,and be part of the last adventure of the crew of the starship Enterprise one more time. "},{"Title":"A worthy send-off to the original astral voyagers","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the bore that was Star Trek V, it seemed for a while as though the original cast had played its final part. Fortunately, however, Kirk and Crew were allowed to finish their run on a more fitting note, through Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country.The film itself is quite dark at times, but when the humor comes along it fares better than the rather goofy jokes from its predecessor. The cast lands a spectacular performance as always, with the assistance of Trek newcomer Christopher Plummer and others. The score itself, like many other soundtracks from the original films, differs radically from both its predecessor and its successor, Generations - it is dark at times, nostalgic at others - this being after all the final voyage of the original crew - yet still laced with a barely-tangible optimism, particularly when Shatner delivers the final monologue, in which he implicitly passes on the torch to the next generation of astral voyagers. Star Trek VI also touches on very intriguing themes; drawing parallels between the Klingon-Federation conflict and the Cold War, and exploring the paradoxical yet vital notion of having a battle for peace.The film isn't perfect; I'd say 8/10. However, the average goes up marginally faster if I give it a 10/10, so that's what I'll do. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Motion Picture(s)","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rather than just review this - my favourite of the Original crew Treks - I wish to speak to the Curse of the Even numbered movies as well as the glory of the Odd ones. First, this release is Excellent! Along with Star Trek 2 and 4, a fan gets everything they could want. Number 8, the Next Generation cast's sophomore effort carried on this tradition. In short, the even ones 1,3, 5 (OMG!) pale in comparison. The transitory Generations, number 7, was pretty good as well, and in fact shook up the trend - the last two, 9 & 10, were both lackluster. Unlike almost every other American phenomenon, and the success of British international series such as James Bond or the Pink Panthers, these first Treks were an almost exclusively domestic pop culture fare. Certainly the 1960's TV show, as well as The Next Generation, were seen and followed around the World, at times in a cult like status (it is said that Captain Kirk is the most recognizable fictional character of all time in that he can be identified by a Billion people). But, apparently, non-North Americans just don't see the appeal of the motion pictures, and their international gross is far below the domestic one. I believe that the reason for this is that within the United States, where American culture is dog eat dog and the pursuit of profit and the American Dream is paramount, such a socialized, ultimately fair and just alternate existence is appealing (in contrast). However, in the much more socialist areas of northern Europe, such an ideology is so common within their social safety net that the stronger attraction is to more bombastic and patriotic bugle soundings of the over-the-top action hero films, or underdog stories. That Star Trek could have become such an iconic and identifiably American story at home has always amazed me given the socialist undertones. The Enterprise and her crew are not even military, contrary to popular belief, but are more analogous to the United Nations on a scientific expedition to Antartica. Kirk himself represents such a dated, misogynist persona at times that he makes even Bond's view of women look respectful. Shatner's acting, apart from his own ego, is what always carried the story, but I must acknowledge the most popular character, and the only truly unique one among the main cast, Mr.Spock. When Roddenberry dreamed him up, and thanks to Leonard Nimoy's infusion of deep facets within the logic driven alien, Spock was the one who actually saved the day and raised the shows profile and allowed for long-term popularity and imitation. Star Trek, like the Beatles, remains a milestone of the genre, and, somewhat similar to '2001 A Space Odyssey', ages extremely well. That Paramount finally decided on a motion picture with Trek 1, rather than launching a new network (at that time, in the late 70's) on the back of Star Trek's resurgence in popularity is a blessing. All the movies (except Shatner helmed 5) are readily watchable, and should be done so in order. Set your phasers to stun and Beam Me Up, Scotty! "},{"Title":"End of the Star Trek Cold War","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the failure that was Star Trek V The Final Frontier the Star Trek series with the original cast was seemingly dead, thanks to the poor critical reception and the aging cast. But with the success of Star Trek The New Generation and the 25th Anniversary to the show the original cast was given one last hurrah with the sixth Star Trek film.After years of hostiles between The Federation of Planets and the Klingon Empire are set to enter into peace negotiations after one of Klingon's moons explodes and leaving the Klingon homeworld 50 years of life left. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) had been leading the negotiations and James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and the Enterprise are tasked with the mission to escort the Klingon High Chancellor (David Warner) and his entourage to Earth, despite his hatred for Klingon after the death of his son. But Kirk is famed for the assassination of the High Chancellor, threatening war as forces on both sides wanting keep the status quo.Director of The Wrath of Khan Nicholas Meyer was brought in to direct co-write the sixth entry and he does an excellent job. They is an obvious Cold War allegory with the collapse of the Soviet Union going on at the same time as the film was being made. There were deliberate uses of pharses such as Cold Warrior and the end of history. There are themes about the unknown and the changing course of international relations , the distrust of an old enemy which raises the questions about each other's motives and people's not wanting change. There are more obvious parallels with the destruction of the Klington moon being caused by poor safety conditions and causing environmental destruction like Chernobyl and stating that the Klingons had over spend on their military.I was not that interested in Star Trek before the J.J. Abrams reboot, so it is now that I am giving the original series a go. What I liked about this The Undiscovered Country is that this film explores more the political and military aspects of the Star Trek universe and being about to focus on politics and intergalactic relations, giving the world a more realistic feel whilst also being a political thriller.Meyer does make a good looking film, it is clear he had more money to world with then he did with his second Trek film. The sets look great, looking more authentic and polished then in some of the previous entries. The models are solid and they is an excellent make-up jobs and use of special effects such as the shapeshifting. An intense sequence I personally enjoyed was the assassination of the High Chancellor, when two men in white suits and helmets go through the weightless environment of the Klingon ship and shooting everyone in the way. It was a visually striking sequence with it us of colours and well done use of a slow pace.The Undiscovered Country is a excellent send off for the original cast, giving them one very important mission that ensures a lasting change to their universe and allow them to retire with dignity. "},{"Title":"Best of the original 6","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Klingon home world Kronos is in trouble after its moon Praxis explodes. It's estimated that Kronos has 50 years of life left. The Klingon Chancellor Gorkon and Ambassador Sarek want a permanent peace. Spock volunteers Kirk and the Enterprise to escort the Chancellor to Earth for peace talks. Kirk is not happy. He hates them for the murder of his son David, and he doesn't trust them. The thing is he's not the only one. A conspiracy is afoot to derail the peace process for good.This is obviously alluding to the end of the Cold War in our time. The parallels to the old Soviet Union is unmistakable. Christopher Plummer is wonderful strutting around spouting Shakespeare. This is a fitting end to the original 6 and arguably the best of them. The special effects and production value is superior to ST5. And it has seismic implication for the Star Trek universe. It is a great movie with a thrilling political mystery to boot. "},{"Title":"They should have continued exploring the galaxy","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great and tear dropping film.Every time I'm going over Star Trek film collection, one reason why I always hesitate to pick this one because Captain James T. Kirk and his crew will be decommissioned at the end.I don't mind the storyline. It's great. Fascinating if you're going to use the lines of Spock but this film should have taken other options.Here are my suggested options and some of these involve other films.1. Kirk should have received a new ship at the of Star Trek IV, an Excelsior class starship. With this element in the film, the lines of Kirk, Spock, and Uhura will change. (I don't exactly remember the lines but I remember the plot) Kirk confronting Spock the given mission.Kirk (to Spock) Have you forgotten what they did to me. They killed my son.Spock Jim, they are dying.Kirk Let them die. Hasn't occurred to you that this is a very dangerous mission and people might get killed? Uhura receiving orders from Starfleet Command Uhura Captain, I've received orders from headquarters. We are to continue cataloging gaseous anomalies immediately.Kirk already? Spock If I were human, I believe my response would be, Go to Hell If I were human "}{"Title":"A Pleasing Send Off for the Original Star Trek Crew,","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 6 The Undiscoverd Country is a great movie and a very pleasing finale for the original Star Trek crew.It's not better than Wrath Of Khan or the Voyage Home in my opinion but it's still a very good farewell to Kirk,Spock and the rest of the crew.It is certainly a huge improvement from the previous movie,the Final Frontier,I went into this movie with a negative attitude after watching that one,but I was very pleased,it had a great storyline that was developed very well and the always great cast are as good as ever in this adventure,and I got a bit upset during the final scene,it was a brilliant farewell.Fans of Star Trek will be very pleased with this final farewell to the original Star Trek crew.The Klingon Empire sue for peace,but the Enterprise is accused of an act of war against them,it's up to Spock to prove Kirk's innocence. "},{"Title":"A Fitting and Emotional Tribute To The Best Star Trek Crew","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country***1/2 (out of 4)113 mins/ PGCast William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, James Doohan, Walter Koenig, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, Kim Cattrall, Mark Lenard, Kurtwood Smith, Brock Peters, Christopher Plummer Director Nicholas MeyerPlot After Kirk and McCoy are wrongfully charged with killing the Klingon Chancellor, The Enterprise Crew search into a political conspiracy against an act of peace throughout The Federation.JJ's Verdict In Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country, Nicholas Meyer has created a memorable and fitting tribute to the Original Enterprise crew. His direction and writing make this film and he has certainly created the best entry in the series for these characters. The film starts off with Captain Sulu, not of the Enterprise but the Excelsior. This opening is collision-packed and it is great for George Takei to have his moment to shine in. In fact, this film really just shows off every crew-member's brilliance and they all get their moments to shine. We then find out that there is a peace summit that Kirk has to escort the Klingons to. While on this journey, the Klingons and humans have a dinner on The Enterprise that excels in being completely awkward. The film gives you a sense of admiration from both parties but a certain reluctancy to extend it into nothing more than a conversation with many many awkward silences. The Enterprise then starts attacking the Klingon ship without firing anything and this all-then results in the death of the Klingon Chancellor and the arrest and charge of Kirk and McCoy for the murder. The trial scene in which they are interrogated is extremely tense and frightening in a strange sort of way. This then sets up a brilliant Agatha Christie style investigation into who actually killed the chancellor and how the shots were fired from the Enterprise. My only complaint about the film itself is that it is way too obvious who the mole is and when the crew discover who it is, the film tries to make it a massive thing. In terms of comparison to the previous instalment, everything is better. The script is witty and the one-liners actually work. We actually get a real sense of threat here and the series best space battle that isn't too far off the quality of Star Wars (although the effects still need working on). The acting is much improved and Leonard Nimoy shows here why Spock should be human and knowledgeable in every film as Nimoy's presence on screen is superb. Christopher Plummer makes a great nemesis to Kirk and really makes you despise his character. The ending itself is truly emotional as these characters leave our screens for the last time. Although Doohan, Shatner and Koenig would return for Generations, The Undiscovered Country is the perfect finale for the beloved crew of the Enterprise. Just before his emotional final voice-over, Kirk tells Chekov to navigate to the 'Second star to the right and straight on till morning' . And I, for one, certainly wish I was joining him.Rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"A great send-off for the original Star Trek","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was impressed by this sequel when I first saw it in a movie theater twenty years ago, and I am still impressed by it now. Although William Shatner, James Doohan, and Walter Koenig reprised their respective roles in 1994's Star Trek Generations, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country was a great way to send the original ST cast off.In this sixth installment, Captain Kirk is still harboring ill will toward the Klingons for having killed his son in Star Trek III The Search For Spock. But it comes back to haunt him when he and Dr. McCoy are both falsely accused of murder. Fortunately, Kirk and McCoy's imprisonment is short-lived, as they escape, rejoin the Enterprise crew, and set out to identify not only the real killers but also everyone involved in the plot to frame them.ST VI The Undiscovered Country may have marked end of an era, but the services of the original cast were - and still are - greatly appreciated. "},{"Title":"One of the best Star Trek films out there","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nicholas Meyer grabs hold of the Star Trek reigns for the first time since The Wrath of Khan for the final Star Trek film for the original series cast. Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is a powerful final hurrah for the original series cast as they end their terms serving with the Enterprise. But before they can retire they must complete one last mission. The Klingon economy has been devastated by over mining and they are now seeking help from the Federation. In order to do so the long standing Neutral Zone has to be decommissioned and Kirk and his crew have been volunteered to escort the Klingon ambassador to Starfleet Headquarters. Trouble arises when the ambassador's ship is attacked, seemingly by the Enterprise. This begins a story full of conspiracy and mystery, making for one of the most exciting and intelligent Star Trek movies ever.The Undiscovered Country's storyline encompasses everything that Star Trek is all about. The show stood for intergalactic peace and it envisioned a future where differences between races could be solved diplomatically, rather than by war and violence. This is the premise of the entire movie as the Klingon's seek peaceful help from Starfleet instead of violently overtaking them for resources, something we would surely see in your more typical science fiction tale. Of course the film is not all peace and love, and there are those who wish to use violent tactics to get where they want. And those villains represent all the corruption and evil of man. The corruption and evil that gets us nowhere in society.Then of course there is another more human issue raised by The Undiscovered Country. It is the issue of prejudice and pride in your race. It begins with Kirk, who holds a grudge against the Klingon's stemming back to when a rouge Klingon killed his son in Star Trek III The Search for Spock. But who knows, the prejudice could even go back further than that, as many prejudices seem to do. The film makes these overtones very obvious and they remain a central focus of the entire plot. Sometimes it is spelled out a little too clearly, leaving the audience no room for interpretation, but it doesn't take away any of the meaning behind these social reformations Star Trek is trying to permeate through the excitement and enticing nature of the films. There are some very profound conversations between the characters in this film, such as one between Kirk and Spock, who of course is not human either, about how when you look deep into our souls, we're all human and we can all connect. Thus stating that there is no need for prejudice when we can all solve our issues through democracy, rather than senseless violence. This film is a shining example of everything Star Trek stands for. It exemplifies the idealistic future the show perceived, and makes it a realistic looking reality.For the very last Star Trek film with the original series cast, they make damn sure to have the film pack a punch. And indeed it did. It's an extremely enjoyable film with a very heartfelt message it is trying to convey. It was sad to watch the film end as Captain Kirk signed off for the very last time, but it only made the movie that more enthralling. This is indeed one of the best Star Trek films out there, and I'm having trouble deciding if I liked it more than The Wrath of Khan or not. As of right now I haven't begun watching The Next Generation films, so those don't fall into the competition yet, but they will soon. For now, I will consider The Undiscovered Country one of the most triumphant Star Trek films of all. "},{"Title":"Above average, but the lingering pace leaves much to be desired.","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Credit IMDb) After an explosion on their moon, the Klingons have an estimated 50 years before their ozone layer is completely depleted, and they all die. They have only 1 choice - to join the Federation, which will mean an end to 70 years of wars. Admiral James T. Kirk and crew are called upon to help in the negotiations because of their experience of the Klingon race. Peace talks don't quite go to plan, and eventually Kirk and McCoy are tried and convicted of assassination, and sent to Rura Penthe, a snowy hard-labour prison camp. Will they manage to escape ? And will there ever be peace with the Klingons ?I enjoyed bits and pieces of this, it really revved up the in intensity level from the woeful part 5, but it's still not to what I had liked. Too many dull moments, and talky scenes for my liking to fully succeed. Many questionable moments as well, especially regarding the ending. What it does do well is establish the characters well, and helps set up the series for even bigger things.Performances. William Shatner is good as our fearless leader once again. The rest of the crew do good as well, while familiar faces such as Christian Slater, Kim Cattrall, Etc.Bottom line. Above average Star Trek film, that should appeal to the die-hards. I enjoy Star-Trek, but am not a die-hard. Could have done without the inconsistent pacing, but hey, it beats part 5. Worth a look.6 ½ /10 "},{"Title":"Their Final Mission Was Their Greatest Mission","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The crew of the original Enterprise (or in this case, the Enterprise-A) couldn't have chosen a better mission to end their run on. As a child, STAR TREK IV had been my favorite of the original films but my tastes have since changed and I would have to say VI has it beat. In my opinion, it was the most well-done of all the original feature films. It had everything I could want an excellent story, improved special effects, and the best villain since Khan in II. The film begins as the crew of the Enterprise-A are preparing to go their separate ways with the ship being decommissioned in three months. The Klingon moon of Praxis has exploded and left the Klingon Empire without it's primary source of power. Without assistance, the Empire faces extinction, spurring peace negotiations with the Federation. Captain Kirk (Shatner) is nominated to escort the Klingon High Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) to Earth for peace talks but problems arise when the Enterprise-A appears to fire on the Klingon vessel, beaming two Starfleet assassins on board to kill the Chancellor. Kirk and Dr. McCoy (Kelley) are arrested and sentenced to imprisonment on the asteroid penal colony Rura Penthe. Now it's up to Spock (Nimoy) and the crew of the Enterprise locate the conspirators in their midst, clear Kirk and McCoy's names, and stop an assassination plot from preventing peace between the Federation and the Klingons.I was too young to understand when I first saw the film, but I can now see the similarities between the events in the film and the Cold War politics occurring at the time of the film's release. It does add an extra element to see how closely the filmmakers tried to parallel real life events with their story to give audiences food for thought as the US sought to end the hostilities with the Soviets. Even without the political subtext, the film is massively entertaining. The story takes a mystery turn as Spock and his crew must seek out the conspirators and piece together clues to prove the ship's innocence. We are also given a more in-depth glimpse into the world of the Klingons and how their race function, as Kirk and McCoy are taken to the Klingon homeworld to stand trial for their supposed assassination.What really grabbed my attention were the film's visual effects. There's a certain level of effects I've come to expect from the original TREK films and it exceeds my expectations from the start. I'd forgotten that, by the time this film was produced, The Next Generation was into their third or fourth season and the effects had become pretty solid. From the moment we see Praxis explode and it's shockwave rock the USS Excelsior, I was impressed at how far they've come in the twelve years they'd been making movies. The same can't be said for all of the effects in the movie, as some things were apparently still beyond their capabilities. The Klingon blood floating in zero gravity wasn't done well and screams CG (it seemed too bright and reflective and stood out horribly). There is also a scene later in the film where Kirk is fighting a doppelganger of himself. It's not so much that the fight look unrealistic (they actually did a good job pitting Shatner against Shatner) but apparently Shatner has no clue how to act against himself and his dialogue was incredibly corny. Plus it was funny when he motions to point at his doppelganger and, apparently having no frame of reference, points over his head.The production design in the film is the best in any TREK film yet. It's a shame it took so long for them to finally nail down the best style for their starships. The film also boats a terrific villain in the form of renowned actor Christopher Plummer as the Klingon General Chang. He's theatrical and over-the-top, and he's a blast to watch as he spouts Shakespeare and taunts Kirk and his crew from the safety of his modified Bird-of-Prey. With each member of the crew getting ample screen time (even Sulu, who's gone on to command his own starship), this is the perfect send-off for the crew that started it all. By the time the credits roll with signatures from each major crew member, that sense of finality has settled in and you realize that the crew of the Enterprise-A has gone out on a high note. "},{"Title":"The Undiscovered Country- the Best Star Trek Film?","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Undiscovered Country- The Best Star Trek Film? I always appreciate movies that find a good balance in every category action, plot, character development, themes, villains, etc. Of all the Star Trek films, I think VI really achieves that balance in spades. Captain Kirk and crew are three months away from retirement when a Klingon moon called Praxis explodes, and the shock wave somehow pollutes the Klingon home world's atmosphere. In 50 years time, the planet will be uninhabitable. With this crisis, many Klingons come to believe that peace with the Federation is the only possible way to save their species, because they don't have the resources to restore their planet's atmosphere. Spock volunteers the Enterprise Crew to host a meeting with the Klingon Premier, Gorkon (similar to Gorbachev, not a coincidence), much to the chagrin of Captain Kirk, who despises Klingons for the death of his son. Gorkon genuinely desires peace, and refers to the future as the Undiscovered Country, a reference to the Shakespeare play, Hamlet. Things go awry when the Enterprise seemingly fires a torpedo at Gorkon's ship, but according to the ship's inventory, no warheads had been fired. Kirk is put on trial for the death of Gorkon, putting the peace process in jeopardy. Nicholas Meyer, the director of the fan favorite, The Wrath of Khan, also directed Star Trek VI, and he gives us more top notch space battles, but more importantly, the same character driven qualities as Khan. Kirk and his crew stubbornly refuse to really accept that the Klingons could actually change, when in fact they are guilty of the same thing. People have criticized this aspect of the film, because the crew did not express such prejudices before this film. Honestly I think it would be harder to believe that they did not possess any prejudices, considering relations between the Federation and the Klingons had been rocky for decades, and they killed Kirk's son. I believe Gene Roddenberry was against this aspect of the story, and Shatner had problems with some of his lines, but I am glad Nicholas Meyer and Leonard Nimoy, the writer of the film, pretty much had free reign. I think the film would have only been half as interesting without focusing on the crew's prejudices. Rounding out the cast are Christopher Plummer as the delightfully evil Klingon General Chang, and Kim Catrall as the Vulcan Lt. Valeris, who was originally supposed to be Savik from Star Trek III, but Gene Roddenberry overruled Nicholas Meyer and would not allow him to use her for reasons that become apparent in the end. Shatner, Nimoy, and Kelley give good performances as usual. The Undiscovered Country also excels in the plot department. It is a story about healing old wounds, recognizing one's flaws, and taking steps toward a new future, similar to the end of the Cold War. I have a background in history, so the historical parallels probably appeal to me more than most people, but Spock also uncovers an intricate conspiracy to ruin the peace process that reveals the Federation has not evolved as much since the twentieth century as they thought. Kirk and McKoy also have to escape from a prison in a sub plot that has many parallels to the Bridge on the River Kwai and Escape from Alcatraz. I think this movie had a more interesting plot than Wrath of Khan, which was just a simple battle between old enemies.I really don't have many criticisms of this film, except the detective story on the Enterprise is a little thin. The Enterprise crew is missing one member, Sulu, as George Takei finally convinced Nimoy to make his character the Captain of the Excelsior. I think it's interesting he was promoted to Captain, but it's a little inappropriate that Sulu is not present for the Enterprise crew's last hurrah. The Undiscovered Country is definitely my favorite Trek film, and I think you can make a good case for it being the best, given its good balance in the plot, action, character, and thematic departments. This was the send off film for the original cast, and I'm glad it turned out to be a good one. The last film in a series turns out to be the worst all too often. You really feel something for this crew in the last scene, where Kirk defies his orders to return to his star base so they can enjoy one final voyage. This really should have been the only farewell to Captain Kirk, as his appearance in Generations was not really necessary. I encourage everyone to visit Star Trek VI and give it the praise it deserves, as it often gets lost behind Khan, Voyage Home, and First Contact. "},{"Title":"Deeper Than Deep Space.","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even as STAR TREK finds its warp stride with STAR TREK VI THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY, the franchise runs out of dilythium crystal. Alas, TREK VI would be the last TREK movie to feature the complete Original Cast; before the death of DeForest Kelley (1996), the death of James Doohan (2005), and the outing of George Takei and his enormous wang (Gay Mardi Gras 2006).TREK VI would take us where no TREK has gone before, exploring disturbing themes and ethical conundrums, making sociological references from the whole spectrum of history and literature, and the principal cast pretend-acting better than they've ever pretended to act before.The look of the film, the feel of the production - is robust. No more toy models floating across a Chromakey blanket of stars. This is the first TREK to utilize that stunning new invention called - CGI.The Klingon race is dying and Spock (Leonard Nimoy) gives a sermon explaining how Starfleet, their sworn enemies, should help. Starfleet sends Kirk (William Shatner) as ambassador of peace, because only Nixon can go to China. But conspiracy is afoot. Klingon-human peace scares those who would rather retain the status quo, for the convenience of having common enemies. Even some who want peace cannot conceive of it, thereby psychologically abetting those aggressively against it. This is one of the many concepts in TREK VI that raises it as far from the rest of the series as Altair 7 is from Rigel 3.STAR TREK VI is all over its Cold War allegory like logic on Spock. But as a science fiction movie, it is still like English on Pavel Chekov - painfully uncomfortable.The Original Cast (minus Sulu) ends up onboard the old Enterprise NCC-1701-A. Again. And under Kirk's command, meet and greet regal Klingon Ambassador Gorkon (David Warner, Lincoln-esquire in bearing and diplomacy), with his snide, belligerent General Chang (Christopher Plummer, absolutely mokh-tha, as he starts chewing scenery even before opening his mouth).Diplomatic dinner follows, where uncomfortable clashes of culture are spiced with humor, Gorkon opining that Shakespeare is best heard in the original Klingon. He makes a toast to Peace - the undiscovered country (paraphrasing Shakespeare's idea of Death being the undiscovered country, from Hamlet's To be or not to be... speech, Act 3 Scene 1).Mysterious events lead to Kirk and Bones (DeForest Kelley) being framed for Gorkon's death and exiled on a gulag planet, while Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and Vulcan Lieutenant Valeris (Kim Cattrall, hotter than a starship's afterburners with her little pointy ears and white bandeau and shaved... sideburns) try to discover Gorkon's real killers onboard the Enterprise.When Kirk and Bones are in prison, Kirk admits he could not conceive of a world without having an enemy to hate. His prejudice was not just against a particular race - it was against a frame of mind! Like the new wave of Klingons here on Earth - Republicans - cannot conceive of a world they themselves say they want, so they fearmonger to retain the Old World modes of thought. Realizing deep down there ARE no real enemies left, only differing frames of mind. For the fear they exhibit towards change at every turn, they are no different than the terrorists whom they fearmonger against.Onboard the Enterprise, the conspiracy is uncovered. Spock performs the most sensual mind-meld this side of the planet of green-skinned women, on Lieutenant Valeris, who moans and whimpers like she's riding a sybian on the Howard Stern Show. It's not sex. But it's the best sex scene STAR TREK has ever had.Valeris and General Chang (quoting Shakespeare at every opportunity) lead the conspiracy against peace (as if proud descendants of Sarah Palin and Dick Cheney), stirring chaos for the simple reason they are terrified that a sea change in society would leave them bereft of purpose.So it is ironic that Kirk later laments to Spock, Is it possible that we have grown so old and inflexible we have outlived our usefulness? Their own prejudices stunted their forward momentum, and therefore their usefulness as leaders Klingons killed Kirk's son (in THE SEARCH FOR SPOCK), so he could never forgive the race; while Spock's respect for Vulcans blinded him to Valeris's treachery.The Enterprise crew save the day in a blaze of hasty action sequence, that seems tacked on to provide a headrush final curtain. Bones gets to work with Spock on a magical torpedo, Scotty gets to be an action hero, Kurtwood Smith gets to be the blind President of the United Federation of Planets, Sulu gets a Zorro entrance as captain of Excelsior, and Kirk performs a dynamic fantasy-man dive to save the President, worthy of ten barrels of German cheese. And after the flesh-crawling I've-learned-something-today speech, there's a slow clap. This movie has everything! When Sulu wryly tells Kirk, Nice to see you in action one more time, Captain Kirk! we feel the finality thump into our chests. The cast, as Danny Glover might say, is getting' too old for this ship. As their signatures are traced over the starfield backdrop, it is like a subtle goodbye. Very sad. Yet there is joy in the knowledge that before their final farewell, STAR TREK at last got it right.Now all they need are seatbelts. "},{"Title":"A fitting end to the franchise!","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After Star Trek V with the thin plot, terrible acting and tacky special effects the prospect of another seemed daunting.But after seeing Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country all doubts were pushed aside. Getting director Nicolas Meyer back from The Wrath of Khan, which he done so well was one thing that was done right.The acting ability of Kirk and co was back on top form which breathed new life into them proving there's still fight in the old crew yet, the special effects were stunning, there was plenty of moments of comic relief and the story was interesting with philosophical semantics attached for those who love to charge there minds.Action there was plenty of particularly one sequence right at the end when the Enterprise and the Excellsier defeated the Klingson ship was legendary and as with the Wrath of Khan Meyer kept everything pacing nicely.The best Trek film of the lot and a fitting send off for Kirk and co they have done me and the others Trekkies proud. As Spock would quote. May they live long and prosper "},{"Title":"Saved the best till last","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very bittersweet film to watch, for one thing it is the last film to star all the original Star Trek crew and for another, it was the final appearance for Deforest Kelley (Bones).Still out of them all, this is the best one for the action and drama. What is brilliant about the story is at the heart of it is a conspiracy plot that has everyone involved, even people on the Enterprise and it was so interesting to have a Who else was in on the plot and With the evidence, what really happened slate to the story. It was a brilliant, nail-biting plot where you really didn't know what was going to happen to the crew, if they would survive their last adventure and what else was going to happen to the way of life for the Federation.It was a bit sad that Sulu wasn't in the film as much but at least his character developed more by becoming Captain of a star ship.I also liked that Spock and Kirk's relationship was threatened again when Spock wanted peace with the Klingons and Kirk didn't because of them killing his son. It was another good arc to the story as you see the two at loggerheads over something so serious to finish their friendship. It was good at the end to see them make up.It was just so fitting and just had all the elements that Star Trek is famous for, the drama, special effects, character and fun and this film more than any other has this in shades and it is wonderful that the franchise with the original cast ends on such a high note. "}{"Title":"If I were human, this would be my favorite Trek","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, not only is 'Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country' my favorite Trek film, it's one of my all time favorite films. And no, I don't consider this a guilty pleasure. It was actually a masterpiece on its own. The dialogue &#x96; the lines in the film are countless (I found myself quoting practically 85% of the film &#x96; yeah, I've seen this film two dozen times already) &#x96; was great, the pure adventure, the mystery, the comedy, the special effects and the depth of characters all added to the greatness of this film. A lot compare this film to 'The Wrath of Kahn' due to the style and most likely due to the same director of both. Maybe it was the lack of good special effects, (it was 1982 for 'Khan's' sake, anyways) but the story in 'VI' was excellent, the comedic tones precise and the mystery/suspense was dead on. This was a fitting end to the original cast &#x96; unlike the horrid attempt by William Shatner in 'Final Frontier.' Since 'The Next Generation' was well under its way on TV &#x96; 4 years, by this point &#x96; they definitively wanted to tie up the loose end of the Klingon treaty and the old crew. Old crew, my arse. They were the best cast and most entertaining to watch. (Yes, I like Picard and Data, but for comic relief, adventure and mystery, I'll stick with the original.) The plot deals with Spock volunteering basically the last voyage of the original Starship Enterprise to escort the high counsel of the Klingon empire to Earth to sign a peace treaty after an accident leaves them vulnerable and near-death. Things go awry when supposedly the Enterprise fires and kills the Klingon leader. Kirk and Bones are tried for the crime and so the adventure begins. Hilarious, but also the movie screams adventure. Highly recommended, even for non-trekkies. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel to the enjoyable Star Trek movies.","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admiral James T. Kirk (William Shanter) doesn't like the idea that the Federation and the Klingon empire are prepare to have a peace summit after years of relentless wars. Kirk still has a grudge against the Klingons, since their kind killed his son years ago. Kirk has no other choice to make harmony to his sworn enemies. The Enterprise crew are assigned to negotiate peace with Klingon leader (David Warner). But when a Klingon ship was mysterious attacked, the enterprise is held responsible for the attack. Kirk along with Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley), only to fall prey to be double crossed by a renegade Klingon (Christopher Plummer) but there's more than meets the eye of this conspiracy.Directed by Nicholas Meyer (Star Trek 2The Wrath of Khan, Company Business, Time After Time) made an entertaining suspenseful science-fiction thriller. The premise is quite good, some exciting moments with terrific visual effects and sometimes it is genuinely funny as well. The cast are extremely good but it's Plummer that steals the show with his flamboyant performance. This was the last film with the original Enterprise crew together Shanter, Leonard Nimoy, Kelley, James Doohan, Walter Koenig, Nichelle Nichols and George Takei (Although he is seen only in a couple of scenes, since he is the captain of his own starship now).This DVD is from the Two-Disc Special Collector's Edition. Disc one has an good anamorphic Widescreen (2.001) transfer and an fine digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. Disc one has an fairly intriguing commentary track by the director and the late writer Denny Martin Flinn and Text Commentary by Michael & Denise Okuda, co-authors of the Star Trek Encyclopedia. Disc two includes plenty of interesting featurettes with promotional material and archives. Star Trek 6The Undiscovered Country is one of the better sequels of the series. Kim Cattrall is also good as a Vulcan star fleet officer. Iman is amusing as a shape- shifting alien. Micheal Dorn plays a lawyer (Who is the great grandfather of Worf in the Star TrekThe Next Generation series) and Christian Slater appears in cameos. It will appeal to non Star Trek fans as well. From a story by Nimoy (Star Trek 3The Search of Spock, Star Trek 4The Voyage Home, Threee Men and a Baby 1987), Lawrence Konner (Mercury Rising, Mighty Joe Young 1998 and Sometimes They Come Back) and Mark Rosenthal (Superman 4The Quest for Peace, The Beverly Hillbillies, Planet of the Apes 2001). Screenplay by the director and Flinn. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"modestly satisfying","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" All in all, a modestly satisfying movie. But at times ST VI treads very close to the line of mediocrity. The issue is that it tries to do two things at once be a serious drama while serving as a send-off of the original crew. That doesn't have to be a difficult task and generally it does work, but barely for me.The problem is that it takes the campy fun too far. Mixed within serious drama it looked too contrived and sometimes only to be cute; the struggling with Klingon translations scene being the most wince-inducing. It goes back to ST IV, an entertaining movie that became a borderline screwball comedy almost because it knew it couldn't avoid self parody. The movies seemed to run out of compelling reasons to exist other than to just bring back the old crew. And that's a pretty flimsy excuse for a series that was so compelling.But Trek fans would have none of this nay saying. We were going to get ST films even if we could not suspend disbelief that retiree-age star fleet officers could be on the front line battling Klingons. "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Undiscovered Country is one of those films that probably resonated more when it came out, than when we see it today.The thing was that at the time, we were ending the Cold War with the emergence of Glastnost and Perestroka, and thought that the Russians were now going to be our friends, so why shouldn't the Klingons now be our friends? (They even had a Chancellor Gorkin, sounding much like Gorbachev, and a Chernobyl-like energy accident.With the euphoria gone (The Russians are still a pain in the backside, friends or not), some of the films more dubious elements don't work as well, such as Kirk saying Let them Die about the Klingons. (Shatner himself has said he was uncomfortable with this scene.) Nichelle Nichols, to her credit, refused to say the line, You wouldn't want one to marry your sister. In short, they had to turn the cast into bigots to make their understanding at the end more sincere. The problem was that we never got the impression from the series or previous movies that our beloved crew were a bunch of bigots. They had a problem with the Klingon Government, to be certain, but not with Klingons as a race, and could even reach accords with them when needed.Despite that, a lot of the characterizations and cast interactions are solid, the battle scene at the end is still exciting. It was a high note for most of these actors to do their last appearances as these characters.Nick Meyers, like a lot of creative people, went with what worked for him in the past. A Melville quoting Khan, why not a Shakespeare quoting Klingon General? Well, okay, it strains credulity a little bit. "},{"Title":"The last film featuring the original crew, and fortunately, it was a good one to finish with","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like The Voyage Home, this is a Star Trek film which I can remember seeing part of years ago (sometime in the late nineties), but never watched the whole thing until this year. In fact, I didn't watch this final film featuring the original crew from start to finish until just last night. Without a doubt, this movie is more impressive than The Final Frontier, the second last movie of the bunch, one which is widely considered by fans to be a disappointment.The Klingons have been enemies of the Federation for a very long time, but after their moon explodes, their planet's ozone layer will be depleted in approximately fifty years, which will mean their death! In an attempt to save themselves from this fate, the Klingons plan to have peace talks with the Federation. However, Kirk is not pleased when he hears about this, as he does not trust the Klingons, especially after they killed his son years ago! Nonetheless, the crew are to escort the Klingon ship, Kronos One, to Earth. However, on their way, Kronos One is attacked! It appears this attack has come from the Enterprise, even though Kirk knows nothing about it! When Kirk and McCoy board the Klingon ship, they are soon arrested, convicted, and sentenced to spend the rest of their natural lives in captivity on Rura Penthe, a frozen planetoid!This final film of the six featuring the crew from the original Star Trek TV series is sometimes slow, and I certainly didn't love every minute of it, but I can't say I've loved every minute of any of its five predecessors, so this was no surprise. Fortunately, like three out of five of the previous movies (The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, and The Voyage Home), it still left me satisfied. There is a reasonable amount of excitement, as one would hope for, as well as impressive effects. There is also a bit of humour, obviously not as much as there is in The Voyage Home, but the film does have its occasional funny moments, including the part where Cmdr. Uhura attempts to communicate with Klingons in their language, but the sub-titles indicate that she's not doing so well.Unlike The Final Frontier, it appears William Shatner had no involvement in the writing and directing in The Undiscovered Country, which was probably for the better, judging by the quality of the fifth film. Leonard Nimoy was involved in the writing for this final installment, which he seems to be good at, and the film was directed by Nicholas Meyer, who also directed the highly acclaimed second ST movie, The Wrath of Khan. Yes, it would have been sad had The Final Frontier been the last film of bunch, but fortunately, at least one good film featuring Kirk and his crew followed, and concluded the franchise well. "},{"Title":"ST FILM SIX The Fall of the Klingon Empire","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One thing to this film's advantage, right of the bat, is that the story is about an important pivotal moment in Trek history, rather than just another mission, such as the previous The Final Frontier. It also helps to have the director of The Wrath of Khan back in the chair. This isn't as fast paced as Meyer's previous Trek outing, but remains a classy, respectful closing chapter with the original Trek crew. Nowhere is this better apparent than in the memorable, electrifying scene with Kirk when he blurts out his preference to let the Klingons die. I remember an audible gasp emanate from most of the audience in the theater when I watched this scene back in '91. See, this was real - a sudden vocal admission by a character based on years of recorded adventures, from the 3rd Trek film and many years beforehand, dating back to the original series. It wasn't something out of left field. And it reminded us of something about real heroes - that they aren't gods, flawless; no, usually they're damaged, angry men, with years of hubris and pent-up rage - that they're, well, a lot like the rest of us, really. It's rare to see a real moment such as this captured on film, especially in a supposed science fiction adventure.The music for the beginning credits is noticeably different from the other Trek films, with an ominous quality, as if heading for an uncertain future - and that's the theme of the story. The film proper begins with a bang, as many of the better films do the destruction of the Klingon moon Praxis. We learn that Sulu finally has his own command, on the starship Excelsior (seen in previous Trek films). We then learn that the Klingon Empire is on the verge of collapse, predicted to have 50 years of life left to it. Of course, the story carries blatant parallels to political events of our 20th century, namely the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1990, the year before this film was released. Kirk and his crew are ready to stand down in three months (retire? - for real, this time?) but Starfleet & Federation hierarchy have selected them to escort the Klingon ruler to new negotiations. Spock, seeming to step into his father's diplomatic shoes, has played a big role in bringing all this about, much to the annoyance of the rest of the Enterprise crew. The film has scope, depicting a moment in time which will determine the course of history in this galactic quadrant for the next century; it actually serves as a prequel to the TNG series (which was already running for a few years), in many respects.One thing I've noticed in Meyer's approach to the Trek universe is that he follows some traditional aspects of current times too closely, ignoring obvious technological advances established on the original series. He ignores, for example, the food synthesizers of the original show, showing a typical kitchen/galley on the Enterprise, as if someone reverted to traditional methods of cooking food. He ignores the fact that 300 years have passed. These are details, but it's more disturbing when viewing the racism on display here; it's shown to make a point - that it's not a simplistic 'Klingons bad/Terrans good' universe we have here - but in Roddenberry's conception, it would take an alien force, such as in the episode Day of the Dove, to actually bring such primitive attitudes to the surface. It's almost as if Trek culture had taken a step back in the films, compared to the original episodes, reverting to typical 20th-century attitudes. But, maybe these are still just details - there was at least one racist on the original episode Balance of Terror, so maybe we're just seeing an ugly side to the 23rd century not delved into before. This is a strong finish for most of the original crew, a fine exploration of Trek's recurrent theme of improving ourselves and not basing our actions on fear. Kirk, Scotty and Chekov would return one more time in the next one, Generations, but, for the rest, it was a genuine sign-off to the series (well, Sulu did show up with Rand in a Deep Space Nine episode later). "},{"Title":"A fine Ending and Farewell to The Original Series and an excellent introduction to The Next Generation","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear Readers,A shocking tragedy has happened. The moon Praxis, which orbits the Klingon home-world Kronos, has exploded. Kronos's ozone layer is suffering from the blow and in 30 years the planet will be unable sustain life. In order to preserve the Empire, Supreme High Chancellor Gorkon and his personal staff and family have agreed to have peace talks between the Federation and the Kingon Empire. The Enterprise is asked to escort Kronos 1, Gorkon's personal ship, to Earth so the peace talks can begin.Incredulous at the news, James Kirk voices his opinion of the Klingons and tells Spock that they should be allowed to die. Despite his violent opinions, Kirk agrees to the mission and the Enterprise crew climb aboard their famed craft to escort the High Chancellor to Earth. After a somewhat frosty dinner, however, Kronos 1 is viciously bombarded by supposedly the Enterprise and two men in space suits beam aboard and massacre the Klingons and kill Chancellor Gorkon. Infuriated, Gorkon's head of War, Chang, arrests Kirk and Bones and sends them to Kronos for trial. In the meantime, it becomes clear to the Enterprise Crew that there is a conspiracy against Starfleet's and the Klingon Empire's leaders. Knowing that there will be a second assassination attempt, Spock and the crew of the Enterprise work as hard as they can to piece together what really happened while trying to find Captain Kirk and Dr. McCoy.Star Trek VI is a brilliant film and a perfect ending to the Original Star Trek series. Everyone performs well especially Christopher Plummer as the charismatic Shakespeare quoting General Chang. The score is no James Horner or Jerry Goldsmith, but it suits the film just fine. The script is full of drama and spiked with spectacular humor and the direction is well-done.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"This one kind of got lost among the many Trek films","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Star Trek film is one of the more difficult ones to remember in my mind after I saw it. I thought it was okay, but that was really about it. Then I saw it again a few years later and I realized it was actually a good film but just feel it gets lost in the mind of many fans because it is the last in the series to star all the original cast and has a different tempo.This film more than most focuses on the big three--Spock, McCoy and Shatner. The film begins with an appeal from the Klingons for help--it seems their planet is doomed and for the first time they want an alliance with the Federation. Kirk's solution is simple--they are Klingons so let them die!! But, despite this view, the meeting where they sign the accord is going to happen anyway. At the historic meeting, there is an assassination and Kirk and McCoy are convicted for the murder. Well you KNOW that they didn't do it, but the real culprets must be found. This mystery-suspense aspect of the film makes it pretty interesting and at least different.Not a great film but a worthy addition to the series. "},{"Title":"Star Trek at some of its best","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This may be one of my favorite Star Trek movies of all time. It is a classic showing of what man struggles with and how he overcomes. It is also a beautiful way to end the run of an incredible group of characters.This story mirrors modern events taking place in the 90's which some have come to criticize. However, I think it is a great tool for showing us ourselves, plus this movie is done so well it could stand with out history present.We find the Klingon empire on the verge of extinction do to a their own militaristic government. The Federation is faced with an interesting situation, do we come to the aid of our greatest enemy or do we bring them to their knees? It is decided an olive branch will be extended by the hand of Kirk. Kirk is unhappy with this not just because of his history of battle with the Klingons but also because of the wound created not long ago by the murder of his son at the hands of a Klingon.The struggles of the older crew in the world that is being created is genuine and honest. The crew of the Enterprise show that human struggle comes at all times and is fought the hardest in ourselves with our own ideals.Great acting by all the cast and a fantastic direction create a real story. Incredible FX make for an exciting experience. All in all a great movie with an incredible story for anyone. "},{"Title":"A return to form","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country - Stardate 9521.6The only other time before this that the Star Trek filmmakers got it perfectly right was Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan. It should only be fitting that the director of that film, Nicholas Meyer, takes command of another classic, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Family. This film is so epic that it is the perfect swan song for the Original Crew (thankfully they didn't end with Star Trek V!). The music is absolutely fitting and spectacular, with Meyer again hiring a relative unknown (in Star Trek II, he hired 29 year old James Horner - here he hired 27 year old Cliff Eidelman). The special/visual effects again are once again up to par (after the aforementioned average Star Trek V's effects). And the acting is again very good, with the relationship between Kirk-Spock-Bones not the only focal point this time (the other costars like Sulu with his own ship and Uhura having a fun go with Klingon linguistics). This is truly the swan song the Original Crew deserves. Live long and prosper, Kirk and company! "}{"Title":"Forced Cold War analogy doesn't quite work.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 6th installment in the franchise (the last with the full original TV cast) risks harming co-writer/director Nicholas Meyer's reputation as auteur of STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN. His script for this one, written with partner Denny Martin Flinn and based on an idea by Leonard Nimoy, is more than a little obvious and simplistic. In a way it seems almost a throwback to the original, relatively unsophisticated TV series; all the more surprising in contrast to the literacy and mature sensibilities of KHAN's scenario, originally written by Jack B. Sowards and supposedly vastly polished and improved by Meyer's doctoring.What worked especially well in KHAN -- the larger than life villainy of Ricardo Montalban's title character, eloquently expressed in quotations from Melville, among others -- is here rather hammily echoed by Christopher Plummer as the Klingon General Chang. Unfortunately, his character's ferocity seems designed simply to fulfill the story's requirement of a baddie who can engage in a 'duel of wits' with Kirk, as in STII. But there's no backstory and no dramatic connection between the two warriors, and to be honest, Plummer's overwrought Shakespearean readings become old pretty fast.The parallel between the collapse of the Soviet Union in our time, and that of the Klingon Empire in the 23rd century, could have been quite effective if dramatized with more subtlety and believability. But again and again the proceedings here are undermined by obviousness and by-the-numbers plotting. We get Kirk as an unrepentant Klingon-hater who must eventually see the error of his ways. We get the insufferably smug Enterprise officers (?) showing disgust at their Klingon guests' table manners. We get a clichéd prison camp of horrors. And we get the unintentional comedy of actors who memorize their script and never listen to their fellow actors, or the director, to come to a consensus on how to pronounce Gorkon.There are a few fine scenes, particularly a harrowing demonstration of the power of the Vulcan mindmeld as performed by Nimoy and Kim Cattrall, and a funny exchange between DeForest Kelley and Shatner which alludes to Kirk's conspicuous womanizing. But there are also some of the dumbest things you'll ever see in a Star Trek story. How about a starship crewman who doesn't wear shoes? Why? Because he has big clawed feet and can't find a single cobbler in the entire galaxy who can make a pair of boots for him! How about a shapeshifting creature who can not only transform her/its body into an exact replica of another person's, but manages to perfectly duplicate the clothes as well?! How about the spectacle of the Enterprise officers, having foiled an assassination attempt in the nick of time, being treated to a round of applause by a bunch of Federation diplomats? Yep, these are all just as stupid as they sound.So which is it? Is Meyer a wizard or a hack? And is it Gork'n or Gor-khan? "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of my favourites...","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have all ten Star Trek movies and Star Trek 6 and Insurrection are amongst my favourites of all ten films closely followed by Star Trek First Contact.This entry didn't feel like an extended TV episode but did in fact feel like a movie. It had  a good story, reasonably solid performances by all the leads, and was quite serious with a good balance of humourous moments and serious ones.  I'm quite comfortable to give it a 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Old Generation's Last Stand","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Trek fans and people in general often debate which of the Old or New generation is the best. On film the old guard have an edge, the stronger focus of the classic series - 3 main characters rather than 7 - being a huge asset in the confines of a stand-alone feature film.Classic Trek gave us both the best film adaptation - II, Wrath of Khan - as well as the worst by far - V, Final Frontier - but theirs were always more cinematic, even their visual contrast more infused with character than the squeaky clean and bland Next Gen films. So what to make of this, the old guard's last hurrah?Khan director Meyer returns, solid, focused script in hand, and the emphasis is again where it should be, on the characters, and what to make of them in a postwar universe, echoing the imminent fall of the USSR at the time the film was made (with recurring villains the Klingons standing in as they often had for the red Russians). The parallel works wonders here, with harsh grudges on both sides, most interestingly within Kirk himself. This is never at the expense of telling a fun and compelling story, with an intriguing murder-mystery, framing, and wonderfully detestable Shakespeare-quoting villain played by Christopher Plummer having the time of his life. In this age of tortured, emo antagonists, it is very refreshing to see a villain truly enjoying being a total bastard.The last ride into the sunset is as perfect as you could hope for, balancing optimism, maturity and nostalgia. It is as fitting a conclusion as anyone could have dreamed up, and well worth experiencing. "},{"Title":"Good Ending","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This may seem narrow minded, but generally there are two types of Star Trek fans, those that were weened on the classic, original episodes, and those who weren't.  If you got hooked on the original episodes, then your attitude towards the first six films is vastly different than a casual viewer. Because in those first films you got to see a world made barely believable by bad make-up and worse special effects come to life in a very real, breathtaking way(or about as real as 1980's special effects could get). If not, I could see how they might seem dated and lame.As an ending to that series, Star Trek VI succeeds for many reasons - the first one being that it engages us in the characters.  On a fundamental level that is where V failed.  ST5 turned the entire crew into an aging set of charicatures.  In VI we see a little depth put into the mix.  Endings are bittersweet, and while a tinge of sadness hangs over the whole film, another overarching theme seems to be the wisdom (or gravity) of age, of knowing when it is time to step gracefully into the shadows.  For, any true hero knows when to make an exit as well as an entrance.As an homage to films past, it seems that Meyer was channeling almost exclusively from The Manchurian Cantidate.  Although there were some other references to films that I didn't realize until I read other users comments. The suspense and conspiracy elements of the plot do well to distract the viewer from dwelling on the fact that this is it.There are some weak links to this films, most notably DeForest Kelley and George Takei's performances (they were never the strongest actors, but here Kelley is simply bad, while Takei over-emotes to the point of nausea). As well, the tendency to lean back on sitcom-esque one-liners, while on the surface is diverting, tends to strip credibility from the overall images that Meyer and Nimoy are trying to portray.  The guess who's coming to dinner? line in particular seems to have been created specifically for use in a theatrical trailer.  Also, there are major plot holes surrounding the character of Valeris that would have been easily resolved if Saavik had been in the story as originally intended.Well paced, and interesting, with some of the best SFX of the original series films, ST6 is a must see for even a casual fan of TOS.  And, if your into Klingons you'll be in heaven.  "},{"Title":"Nimoy and Meyer Strike Back!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had dismal hopes for # 6 after the embarrassing 'Final Frontier' until it was announced that Nimoy was executive producing and Meyer was writing and directing. Whew! The impossible happened and the Enterprise crew got their dignity back. After that Row, Row, Row Your Boat campfire scene from # 5, I was half expecting Kirk, Spock and McCoy to start chasing each other round the fire while yelling Duck, Duck, Goose!.Instead, we return to the high quality continuing storyline that was last seen in 'The Voyage Home' (an excellent addition in the recently released Special Edition series). Even with some minor flaws, everything about this movie works. The acting, direction, cinematography...the story, the mystery and some surprising twists are all handled with thought provoking intelligence (and some obvious homages to a few movies past; a dash of the Bard thrown in for good measure).All the original characters are served well once again (after that one film hiatus) and are given the added dimension that they're allowed to grow; and go out in style. This has the greatest ensemble acting and probably qualifies as THE Trek movie with THE all star cast. So many secondary characters carry over from # 4 and some new key characters are introduced. It's a tribute to Meyer's discretion that everyone's screen time is so well balanced.And Spock FINALLY returns as the wise and noble Spock we knew (and loved) from 'The Wrath of Khan' (he even has a great line in reference to his noble sacrifice).'Undiscovered Country' is right up there with #2, #4 and # 8. 'Search for Spock' is a weaker but very necessary chapter that tells a complete story. You could...almost...ignore the rest. Star Trek VI sends the original crew out in a satisfying, fresh and grand style.8 out of 10NOTE the more you know about classic movies, the better you'll appreciate director Meyer's love and homage of the classics, including 'Judgement at Nuremberg', 'Bridge on the River Kwai' and doesn't Chancellor Gorkon's assassins look like Gort(?) from 'The Day the Earth Stood Still'?  "},{"Title":"A seemingly intractable conflict solved","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In The Undiscovered Country, the Federation and the Klingons make peace. The event is as monumental as if the Arabs and Israelis were to make peace today. From this point on the Federation and the Klingons would be allies. Along the way, there is more friendship and camaraderie as Kirk and the crew (and the cast that play them) realize that this is their swan song and they want to make one last meaningful contribution to their legacy. More great battle scenes and special effects are added highlights. This Star Trek film also had some very memorable supporting characters Micheal Dorn as Worf's grandfather, the shapeshifter, Spock's protege, and Christopher Plummer's Shakespeare spouting General Chang. Great entertainment, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Not quite that good","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All s.f. is flawed because of the impossible premises, but that aside, it was depressing for classic S.T. to come to an end with yet another example of what Leonard Nimoy himself has called character rape.  Two in a row of these movies had disloyal, mutinous, treacherous Vulcans.  They're supposed to be incapable of that.  It doesn't help things any that Spock, who is only half-Vulcan anyway, can dominate Valeris in a brutal mind-meld interrogation that should be beyond his own character.  The mind meld is supposed to be a matter of intimacy and privacy among the Vulcans (Nimoy says it was over-used in the classic series).  What Spock does to Valeris is virtually rape.And finally, I don't think it was so cute that they showed the Enterprise as some jury-rigged thing out of Popeye, complete with an old fashioned institutional kitchen. "},{"Title":"The summary of the entire experience of the original cast","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One last adventure, the entire crew of the U.S.S Enterprise faces off to prevent a war paralleling very closely high points of tension during the Cold War between the United States and Soviet Union during the late 80's. Note even the Klingon Chanceller Gorkon played by David Warner even is reminiscent of Gorbachev. I love The Wrath of Kahn but this one earns a extra few points from me. "},{"Title":"a fond goodbye and a fun, near-classic Klingon story","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 6, a little like the most recent Indiana Jones installment, knows its time is up and takes out the last gig with some dignity and fun. Nicholas Meyer, on his second and last assignment from a Trek film following 'Khan', is up to the task to make this a rousing film for the fans, and for those who, yes, might be somehow looking for a neat conspiracy plot. The premise is simple three months before retirement Kirk is asked to escort a group of Klingons, with the old crew of course and begrudgingly by Spok's vouching, to a peace conference. Things are a little uneasy in this trip, but there's a big problem that occurs when someone/something fires on the Klingon ship and they immediately accuse, try and convict Kirk. What happened? The mystery becomes one of those clever little stories of detective fiction (Meyer and the writers were apparently inspired by Sherlock Holmes), while there's some good contemplation going on about past wounds open (i.e. Kirk's son's death by Klingon) and going gently into that good night. Hence, as mentioned, a bit like Indy 4. But unlike Spielberg's film, this one sometimes gets sluggish midway through with the plotting, and of course the acting isn't always that great (Kim Cattrall works well at one beat, which here is being, well, Vulcan). Yet there's lots of excitement and suspense, the dialog often works much better than it ought to, and we even get a couple of classic visuals from the franchise the attack scene on the gravity-deprived Klingon ship from the two 'people' in the spacesuits, and the sight on the surface of the snow-covered blizzard planet (that latter image stuck with me for many years after first seeing the film in the theater as a kid).Is it a great Trek film? Maybe not quite as successful as 2, 3 and 4, but more-so on par with the first film. Which, in a way, is fitting wrapping around the original series saga makes for a little emotional viewing, but its fought back by some quality entertainment (and, of course, Spock and McCoy always kick ass, even in limited capacities this time around). "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is where the Trek franchise showed what it could really do when they put their mind and wallets into it.An excellent plot with the Klingons, conspiracy theories, wonderful dialogue and huge helpings of Romulan Ale all conspire to produce a wonderful film with great entertainment value, stunning cinematography and great action.This was also the film that marked the end for (most) of the regular Star Trek original crew including long lost Ensign/Yeoman and finally Commander Rand (communications officer on the bridge of the Excelsior this time following at least two other appearances in the previous Trek films I have noticed thus far).Kirk, Chekov and Scotty would resurface again in the next instalment and some of the original crew also managed to pop up in the TNG series but for most this was the last hurrah and what a hurrah it was.Sadly it was also the end of the Trek for the original series creator Gene Rodenberry who died not long after this film was completed.  From here on in it was obvious his vision and tight quality control was lost as successive episodes in the Trek franchise began to flag and lose their way. "}{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best of the Classic series.  Superior to The Wrath of Khan and The Voyage Home and on par with First Contact and any other science fiction film. Intelligent plot. Witty dialogue. Self-effacing humor throughout. Christopher Plummer is THE penultimate Trek villian. Superb special effects. Scotty, Uhura, Chekov and Captain Sulu are integral to the plot! Too be watched over and over again. All science fiction movies should be this well made.  "},{"Title":"Too much talk but plenty of action too","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Frontier is meant to be The Age of Peace.This one is a fitting send-off to the original crew, some of who have aged badly. Even newcomer Kim Cattrall looks chunky. Christopher Plummer is totally annoying as the Shakespeare-quoting Klingon. His brilliant prosecution of Kirk and Dr. McCoy is both spellbinding and sleep inducing. Random comments by Bones include He (Chang) never shuts up and What is it with you (and alien women)? The bloody assassination on The Klington Bird of Prey in zero gravity. Well done! Alien blood is usually red. Right? It's a funny color and their anatomy is different,so the good doctor can't save the Klingon Chancellor. It's all a huge conspiracy plot against peace with The Federation of Planets and the Klingons. (War is highly profitable and pleasurable?) After a long trial and prosecution by Chang, our boys end up on a frozen, poisonous penal-colony planet with life at hard labor. The exteriors shot in Alaska white out on the small screen and can't be fully appreciated. Kirk meets up with a shapeshifting sexy beast alien (Inman), who smokes cigars and then morphs into a big Wookiee-like thing. (Kirk shudders!) Enough plot holes to sink a spaceship. The missing anti-grav suits and boots are found way too easily. The future's security is so inept they can't detect a primitive rifle-in-a suitcase? Nice stunt doubles, as the real actors can hardly waddle. Still, a great ending to the first part of the Star-Trek legacy. Star Trek v was unbelievably bad. "},{"Title":"A disaster forces the Klingons to seek peace with the federation. The original crew is tasked with the job of escorting the Klingon chancellor.","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great movie with cold war parallel and a dark tone that is darker than most star trek movies but still remains as great as ever. Bothe Deforest Kelly puts in one of his last performances and it goes over great.The three leads have great chemistry with each other. The Writing and direction by Nicholas Meyer are spot on and work with the dark material. Christopher Plumber brings a suspenseful presence to the villain with some Shakespearian dialogue that adds a level of gravitas that supports the gigantic theme of the movie. The cold war theme goes well with the story and mirrors history well. Overall the movie is acted good, shot good, written good, directed good and wrapped into a great cold war theme with great effects. Definitely worth a watch and one of the best Star Trek movies to date. "},{"Title":"Typical of the Series","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not awful, just pedestrian. It was simply a longer talky TV episode - at least that was how it felt. William Shatner was just the same as ever -how could he be any different? The most convincing of all is the ever-reliable Leonard Nimoy. Most of the sets looked cheap and nasty, particularly the rocky caves that Bones, Kirk and Iman crawled through. The creatures and costumes were far from convincing and the makeup of some of the characters was amateur to say the least. it was 1991 when released so probably could not have benefited from the use of CGI then but overall the effects were pathetic. Action sequences needed better direction and execution and would the have involved the viewer. The new Star Trek movies were much better in execution, action and storyline and benefited from actors who could really carry their parts - I have affection for the classic ST series and some of the movies but this one was only just about watchable. "},{"Title":"Great send off to the original crew","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek 6 The Undiscovered Country is one of my favorite films in the Star Trek series and it is one of the best films in Star Trek.This being the final film to feature the cast of the original Star Trek series Captain Kirk (William Shatner) Mr.Spock (Leonard Nimoy) Dr.McCoy (DeForest Kelley) Scotty (James Doohan) Mr.Chekov (Walter Koenig) Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) also Mark Lenard reprise his role as Sarek Mr.Spock's Father along with Michael Dorn who plays Klingon Defense Attorney Kurtwood Smith as Federation President along with Lt.Valeris (Kim Cattrall) The plot has the classic Who Done it Theme as the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise are send by Starfleet to escort Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) along with his daughter Azetbur (Rosanna DeSoto) and General Chang (Christopher Plummer) through Federation Space however things go out of hand in a hurry as we learn there is more to this mystery than it realize the plot becomes more a mystery and surprise to say the least. They did a very well balance story that you never could guess what happensThe acting is very strong as well as each cast member gives a well respected performance the cast help tells the story with their characters and they all did a great job.The music in the film is top notch Star Trek has always been known for great music and this film is no different it really helps makes the film famous with each piece of music written to match the story Also I love the final battle close to the climax of the film it has you on the edge of your seat it is one of the best battles of Star Trek and the tension is like riding a roller coaster that you have to watch to believe Star Trek 6 serves as the final film with the original cast and it deserves a lot of respect the cast did a great job with this last movie and it is a great send off to the original crew With great acting, a original story that is tense and plot twist you won't see coming this is your film and for all fans of Star TrekI give Star Trek 6 The Undiscovered Country an 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A more than satisfying end for the original crew","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" At least the original crew of the USS Enterprise gets a finale worth of all the adventures lived within 25 years.Forgetting the 5th movie failure, at least a story which holds, a plot worthy of Sherlock Holmes meets Shakespeare with a bit of a James Bond twist.Being framed for an incident created by a double-agent on board and opponents to Klingon-Federation peace, Kirk and McCoy try to escape a Klingon penal colony while Spock on board the Enterprise finds pieces of a puzzle that can help innocent the Captain, wrongly accused of killing the Klingon Chancellor.Great acting and surprisingly some actors which we never knew they would play in Star Trek (watch out for Christian Slater in a minor role...) Thanks for all the adventures you have brought to us, Enterprise crew. Live long and Prosper ! "},{"Title":"A classy, dignified send-off","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" They had survived everything from Klingons to cancellation, but the one enemy the intrepid crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise could not defeat was time. By 1991, the idea of this group of 60-somethings gallivanting all over the galaxy was beginning to stretch credibility farther than the waistband on William Shatner's trousers. It would've been a shame to see these icons go out on a low note. Thankfully, 'The Undiscovered Country' is anything but.Drawing on the politics of the time (the 90s, not the 23rd century), this sixth entry in the saga draws a clever parallel between the West and the Soviet Union in the waning days of the Cold War. It's a clever premise that gives the proceedings weight while also bridging the gap between the original series and the Next Generation.Writer/Director Nicholas Meyer--he of 'Wrath of Khan' fame--wisely faces the age issue head on, turning it into a strength rather than a weakness. Though it lacks the white-knuckle action and bombast of his previous entry, 'The Undiscovered Country' delivers a thoughtful, intelligent and ultimately dignified send-off for these iconic screen heroes. "},{"Title":"Not the best Star Trek film but it's decent","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought after Star Trek 5, the movie franchise was destroyed but they did make a decent recovery with Star Trek 6. However, there are some flaws they could have worked on. First off, it was clear that Valeris was a traitor from almost the very beginning. When the Klingons leave the ship, we see two random crewmen talking trash about them and suddenly Valeris appears and tells them you men have work...then snap to it. Gee, I wonder what she meant by that. Shortly after that, we see one of the grossest moments in Star Trek history when the 2 random crewmen board the Klingon ship and kill a few members of the crew. Later in the movie when they finally discover that Valeris was in on the plot, they question her on the bridge. She mentions Kirk saying let them die earlier in the movie when he was talking to Spock in the conference room about the Klingons. How did she know he said that when she wasn't there? They also made it clear that Admiral Cartright was in on it early on when they had him refer to the Klingons as alien trash of the galaxy. Not a very well written movie but certainly better than it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"The best Trek film with the original cast by a light-year - 83%","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the grandiose nonsense of Star Trek V, there was some doubt whether it was worth assembling the old crew for another film. But luckily, they've saved the best 'til last. All great sci-fi is an allegory that has some resonance with viewers but rarely is this adhered to these days. But this film, with its wobbly cameras and pretty hokey tongue-in-cheek acting, actually delivers a film that not only serves as a great way to say goodbye to the cast but also provides a thrilling and exciting sci-fi blaster that is the best in the series featuring the old codgers.After a catastrophic explosion on the Klingon moon Praxis, the Klingon Empire has no choice but to seek peace with the Federation in order to avoid extinction. As the Klingon Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) heads for peace talks, Captain Kirk (William Shatner) is ordered to escort the Chancellor safely across Federation territory. But after a frosty reception aboard the Enterprise, Gorkon's ship is attacked by the Enterprise - to the surprise of everyone on board. Fearing the incident could cause an escalation in tensions, Kirk and Doctor McCoy (DeForest Kelley) are arrested and charged with the Chancellor's assassination. But Spock (Leonard Nimoy) remains determined to uncover the real culprits but time is running out - the peace talks are still threatened by the assassins and the Enterprise becomes the chief target of General Chang (Christopher Plummer)...Whether the effects at the time had actually caught up with the imagination of creator Gene Roddenberry or not, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is the first and last Trek film with the original cast that actually nails it. The wibbly-wobbly effects of the Sixties has been replaced by decent visuals as starships blast each other to kingdom come and Klingon blood floats across the screen in zero-gravity. The plot is also first-class - not only does it give all the cast something to do (meaning that Scotty (James Doohan) is more than comic relief for once) but is a sweeping epic invoking memories of the fall of Communism and the US's history of racial segregation as well as a fairly decent murder mystery. Aside from the original cast, performances are pretty good too - Plummer is clearly enjoying himself beneath the make-up and Kim Cattrall surprises as Spock's apprentice Valeris. As for the TV crew, Shatner (always the weakest link) seems to realise that this will be his last chance to ham it up on the big screen and boy, does he go for it! But even he cannot take anything away from a film that is surprisingly good, perhaps more than anyone really expected. By far and away the best cinematic outing of the original crew, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is a good film regardless of your feelings about the TV show. It's almost a shame that this was the final curtain call (the next film, Star Trek Generations was simply handing the baton over to the Next Gen crew) but in a way, it's pleasing that they could produce a winning film when they tried. There always seemed to be something getting in the way, usually a story that failed to convince like travelling back in time to the Eighties or Kirk literally meeting God. This is simple and plausible within the Star Trek universe, meaning that you can follow the film without turning into a complete nerd. This is not just enjoyable, thrilling and intelligently written but the best thing about this film is how much of a surprise this is - a Star Trek movie that you actually want to see. A fantastic way for the old crew to sign off but frustrating that they couldn't do movies like this sooner. "},{"Title":"A fantastic conclusion to our original crew","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek Into Darkness is honestly, my most anticipated film of the year and in order to get a better understanding of this franchise, I realized now would be the most appropriate time to watch each and every film of the franchise, for the first time! The first five films of the original crew series have been fantastic- or should I say four (exclude the horrible first film) and realizing this is the last film with the original crew, it really disappoints me. However, did I like the film I have come to love all the films of this series, apart from the first. The characters are likable and the story is generally good. There have been some real characterization moments and some great moments and fantastic comedic lines! Thankfully, this film still delivers everything great about a Star Trek film, and for me, the best film after Wrath of Khan Captain James T. Kirk and the crew of the Enterprise are sent to negotiate with a Klingon High Chancellor concerning his safety as Praxis is due to be destroyed in a matter of 50 years. A few incidents take place, resulting in the Klingon Chancellor's death as Kirk and Bones are accused and put under trial, resulting in them being put into exile on a frozen planet by the name of Rura Penthe. The remaining crew of the Enterprise must uncover the mystery of the attacker and rescue their old friends before they freeze to death! The thing with this film is that it most certainly feels like a Star Trek movie, more than the previous two instalments, which despite liking, didn't feel as Trekkie as this does! Nicolas Meyer returns to direct this film and what better way than to conclude the first part of this franchise.There were moments when the special effects did look ridiculous and other times where it looked decent but considering the SFX have been really poor throughout the franchise, that cannot be considered an issue. This film clearly illustrates that story over special effects is what matters and people like&#x85;I don't know&#x85;GEORGE LUCAS&#x85;could have learnt from this! Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is the second best instalment of the franchise and a fantastic way for our original crew to bow out of this franchise. A truly entertaining film with quite some character development sequences and a few great thrills make this a truly fantastic film "}{"Title":"To be...or not...to be!","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After 25 years of success, the Star Trek franchise released its sixth feature film, once again uniting the original cast of the series with director Nicholas Meyer. This is the final film with the original Enterprise crew, and it remains one of the best.The film literally starts off with a bang; the explosion of Praxis is still one of the most awe-inspiring special effects I have seen, showcasing a pair of giant subspace shockwaves ripping across space. The film immediately delves into moody, dramatic political tension, before the shockingly violent events that hurl the Enterprise crew into a frantic struggle to rescue their own members and discover the truth. It all culminates to a thrilling climax. A few bits of quirky humor, and an endearing farewell, round off what must be the darkest and most intense Trek movie of the lot.The story for this is an interesting one it mirrors the Cold War in many ways, but also incorporates Shakespearean lines (as seen in the film's title) to dig up strong themes of the future. Fear and uncertainty of the future drive the villains through the treachery, which contrasts heavily with the Enterprise crew's valor, and ultimately drives an excellent mystery-ridden plot. Characters remain endearing and well-rounded in this film, and the events they go through are harrowing enough to make you care for them.This film features quality photography and editing. Acting and writing are strong; even at their age, the original Star Trek cast members' performances still hold up, while Christopher Plummer plays the most deliciously fun and distinctive villain since The Wrath of Khan. This production has good-looking sets, props, costumes, and special effects. Music is extremely moody and intense, with a few upbeat parts, and I love it that way.A few cuts of this film exist now. The original theatrical cut is respectable as it is, but I've always been fond of the various home video cuts, which extend a number of scenes and bring more insight on the particulars of the story's conspiracy.The Undiscovered Country has always been a favorite of mine for its intensity and impressive action, but it's also full of heart and intelligence. Recommended! 4.5/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Very Good | Film Very Good) "},{"Title":"Superb, Stirring, Classic","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I may fall in with the seeming majority opinion that Star Trek II is the best of the series, but even if so, this one is its equal in my estimation. Which is to say, it is not just a good Star Trek or science fiction film, but a wonderful film, period. Certainly it is not a coincidence that Nicholas Meyer directed both II and VI. The story is stirringly poignant as both an allegorical take on the end of the Cold War, and as a glimpse into the minds of characters. There is a complexity to it all, not just the overall plot, but the dialog in each scene, that is a joy to experience as a viewer.The screenplay is terrific, and that, combined with the excellent cinematography, allows the actors to turn in great, dramatic performances. The cast of guest stars is also very strong. There are moments of humor, but they do not cheapen the story; rather they adding a perfect touch of humanity. The special effects are excellent.To me, the color palette of the entire film fits the tone as this is the end of an era. The bright, warm colors of the television series and early film installments gives way to a darker, more sober look, most obvious in the interior of the new-er Enterprise, and also throughout other elements of the production design. The ending scenes comprise a deeply moving send-off to an age of Star Trek. Captain Kirk precedes his final log entry by invoking the line from Peter Pan, second star to the right, and straight on 'till morning. Star Trek has gone some interesting places since this, but it has never been so cinematic in its sweep, or as inspiring in its message. "},{"Title":"Star Trek VI, a high note","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Besides doing what Star Trek always does in reflecting societies general facing on issues and simply entertaining us all based on these attitudes, this movie also delivers a quality science fiction experience. The Enterprise sets in this offering are all believable, the character presentations are also believable and well-portrayed by all. The period costuming is immaculate, as are the attitudes and feelings and actions of all pieces, including characters, that are written into the script. I believe that alongside JJ Abrams new modern movie works, a television spin off using the mentality from STVI(and STII as well), could return Star Trek to the mainstream, somewhat if not in whole, as a reflection of western society's mindframe once again. STTNG did this with incredible accuracy and aplomb and teaching ability back in the early 90's, not too mention success. Using the Enterprise-A or a sister ship or a Miranda-Class destroyer or something of the like, Star Trek could carry on very healthily as a regular offering, in this man's opinion. Undiscovered Country is that good of a work. 7/10 IMDb? Come on, it's an 8/10 at least and yes, I'll say it one more time SPIN-OFF SERIES!!! "},{"Title":"A well discovered Enterprise (DVD)","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After my musicals period, I enlist for another six movies marathon but this time, I know them. Star Trek (ST) has been part of my life for maybe 20 years now but not as long as Star Wars (SW). ST and SW are the two big franchises in science fiction and however, they haven't much in common. SW is close to fairy tales instead of ST that is rather a vision for our future.That's the first appeal in ST you know that it can happen, it's real thus you relate easily for what happens and identify with the crew.That's the second appeal of ST his crew. Being humans like you and me, it's easy for them to inspire and thanks to the genius of their creator, they embody the best of humanity. The famous trio, Kirk, Spock, McCoy is inseparable as they are the heart, logic and soul of the best of mankind. Thus, they are special friends that you can't forget all the more than they have been on the stage for all your life.That's the third amazing feat from ST its longevity. Started in 1966, this movie was the 25th anniversary of this original cast (I don't watch the spin-offs&#x85;) and I don't know any other characters being there for such a long time except maybe Indy (27 years) and some SW cast (28 years)! But the ST cast was already mature in the original show, thus, at the age of this movie, they are grandparents, with white hairs Kirk (60), McCoy +(71), Spock (60), Scotty +(71), Chekov (54), Sulu (57) and Uhura (58). The audio commentary joked about getting them free or wondered about their social security but at last, they have left a tremendous achievement for what is a cult show, unlike today when a success is always labeled this way! Thus, there is a bit of nostalgia watching the last minutes of this movie because you know it won't repeat anymore.But, as you watch a farewell, you can be sad of the chosen story, even if the script is original the themes (politics and crime) don't really deal with science fiction but are well told! A lot happens on board thus it's great to discover the ship Enterprise as never before. The score is great but very different from all the other movies. In conclusion, you watch a very healthy franchise because keeping with its roots, it's however never the same. But for a last time, it isn't a big homage for all the joy they give us for such a long time. That's why I watch the movies in reverse, because I will finish with STTMP, a exceptional and emotional science-fiction story. "},{"Title":"Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country - THE BOMB DOT COM","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favorites of the the Motion picture films. Its a political film in more ways than one. The motion picture Score has a sort of communism/Socialism feel to it. Klingon chancellor Gorkon looks like a Klingon version of Abraham Lincon, the 16th President of the United States. Chancellor Gorkon was assassinated halfway through the film. Visual effects are very well done for its time.!! MY ONLY COMPLAINT !! The producers screwed up the widescreen Aspect Ratio in this film, because its supposed to have been shot in 13 X 91 Theater Exhibition Widescreen. Not 169 Widescreen. We lost screen area by them doing that. Not to mention the fact that the picture is not vertically centered. The picture is off set by approx 1/2 an inch. "},{"Title":"Best of the Original Trek Movies","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of the currently 7 TOS movies; I have to say that this is the best one. The performances are all good, and it happens on a large scale yet still on the very personal scale that Star Trek, in my mind, has always been good at.It makes a very good mirror of what happened after the Cold War ended the Berlin Wall (for the Federation and Klingons, this is the Neutral Zone) comes down; but there's still a lot of hatred on both sides. The older generations still mistrust the other side; they're still the racists they were a few months ago before it ended.But the thing is, there's a conspiracy to end the peace talks once and for all. And Captain Kirk and Doctor McCoy are the unfortunate victims of it--they're sent off to Rura Penthe (for those who aren't very Trek wise, that's the Klingon equivalent of Soviet Russia's Siberia) after a show trial.So, the challenge is can Spock and the rest of the crew, with the help of Hikaru Sulu on board the Excelsior, bring down the conspiracy before the conspiracy brings down the peace talks? The movie did leave me with this one thought does racism end even after generations of peace? Or does it continue on forever? "},{"Title":"Best when watched in it's original Kingon...","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great movie and acting in this movie. This is the Star Trek where the Klingons are forced into making friends with the members of the Enterprise. There are many moments in which they are having dinner together at a large table! The meals that they eat are gross and of course Dr. McCoy is besides himself. The bald Klingon KANE - is very intelligent and loves Shakespeare. To be or Not to be...that is the question - according the KANE, was written on the Klingon homeplanet. I am not sure why he thinks this. Bill Shakespeare was born in England on the planet Earth. This makes one wonder if William Shakespeare was actually a Klingon Spy who was planted on Earth centuries before. There is also a part where the camera zooms in and see's the screws holding in the eye patch of KANE. The screws have the Klingon symbol on them which forces us to ask what does the screw driver look like. "},{"Title":"One of the best films signal the end of the original era","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Last time the original crew went out to space is also a rip roaring adventure as the crew of the enterprise must attempt to prevent a plot to stop the signing of a peace treaty between the Klingons and the Federation.One of the best Trek films works mostly because its just a great adventure. This is a essentially a political murder mystery in space with a prison film thrown in as Kirk and Bones getting tossed in jail. The cast is across the board excellent, all of the stalwarts doing what they do best and new comers like Christopher Plummer chewing the scenery as if it was bubble gum. Its a great deal of fun.Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Keeps up the trend of the even numbered Star Treks being good.","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, in this series I did not care all that much for the first, third, or the fifth Star Trek movies. I did like the second, the fourth and this one as they just seemed to be very well done movies. This one is good in that it had a rather good story, nice action sequences, and some good humor as well especially the scenes involving the Klingons coming on board for dinner. Well something happens in this movie causing Kirk and Bones getting imprisoned on this prison planet and this was done well before the Chronicles Of Riddick and the planet of Crematorian or whatever the heck it was called. There are some good scenes here too that are funny as well. It all culminates with a rather good fight in space and a nice last second rescue. In the end this movie is not as good as Wrath of Kahn, but it is a nice addition to the Star Trek series and a rather nice send off for the old crew. The next film would feature a few of the old crew, but it would mainly focus on the cast of the Next Generation crew. At times this one seemed like a television episode, but for the most part it was more grandiose than part three and five which were complete duds and had a lot more action than part four which was funny and entertaining, but had really nothing in the way of action. Good movie and entertaining they should have had this guy direct all the Star Treck movies. "},{"Title":"Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nipping at Khan's heels in the race for best Star Trek movie, The Undiscovered Country is a hugely enjoyable adventure.While Khan succeeded with its simple story and cliffhanger ending, this one is the most dramatically satisfying of the series to date. Densely plotted in comparison with its predecessors the political intrigue is a welcome addition and adds real weight to the gripping race-against-time events.There's no fat on the script - every scene counts. From the awkward dinner with the Klingons, the zero gravity assassination, the trial, to the prison planet, searching the ship, the beautiful Iman's memorable scenes during the escape, the tag team battle with the Bird of Prey and the nick-of-time ending - it takes you from one superbly executed scene to another and at every step of the way you're left wanting more.This is the film where it all came together for the first time in nearly a decade - performances, script, impressive computer effects - it's the kind of treatment Star Trek deserves. Although it's sad to see Sulu kept apart from the others, the entire cast are having as much fun as they ever had in the series, slyly acknowledging their advancing years with great humour and pulling out all the stops to ensure their farewell outing is a perfect swansong, and at the end there's a very novel and touching moment that perfectly conveys the end of an era. "}{"Title":"Not like the rest","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Review of the Special Collector's Edition. This is different from the rest, which doesn't mean that they, nor this, are bad. It holds elements that simply hadn't really been seen much in the franchise, and, more to the point, it does them well, with several of them being important and interesting. It's got great production values, throughout its entirety. The make-up, effects, costumes, lighting, pacing, all of it, masterful(compare this to V, and... yeah). One thing that must be mentioned is the acting, specifically of the new characters. Warner, considerably stronger in his role than in the part he played in the movie immediately preceding this, Plummer as one of the best of this, and, yes, Cattrall, save for precious few instances that are arguably made up for by certain other portions of her performance. This mostly doesn't try to be funny, but succeeds when it does. The tone is achieved rather well. I don't know where Meyer got his direction chops, but I applaud them. The language, well, there is a lot less of it than usual for these. This is both smart and entertaining, and manages to do crowd-pleasing sequences without feeling like it's stooped to a lower level. I recommend this to fans of Star Trek, and/or of the people involved in making it, and I would suggest the previous films be watched first. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific final trek of the original 'Trek'.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Remains one of the most intriguing of all the STAR TREK movies. It's Gene Roddenberry meets Tom Clancy in this 6th Star Trek chapter, and the final adventure with the original crew of the Starship Enterprise. And it's a standing ovation of a finale which, having already dealt with numerous space missions and fowl enemies, now leads to the crew dealing with the most dangerous and perilous adventure yet a fight for intergalactic peace. STAR TREK VI THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY is far from the old sci-fi films of yore, dealing with a situation more critical than space missions and dark lords. The new story, nicely co-written by series veteran star/director Leonard Nimoy proves that sci-fi movies need not be corny nor cheesy, and may actually play part in a sort of practice of peace.In this chapter, Captain Kirk (William Shatner) and the entire crew of the Enterprise are given orders to escort a Klingon ambassador (David Warner) in order to create a peace negotiations, after the Klingons' planet has been destroyed (If you may recall, Kirk has never trusted them after his son was killed by one during the 3rd film). But after the Klingon ship is attacked out of nowhere, Kirk and Doc Bones (DeForest Kelley) is convicted of murder. While trying to escape from a solitary prison and clearing their names, the Enterprise crew, including Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and a Vulcan passenger (Kim Catrall) investigate the plot, which leads to the rather satisfying conclusion.Unlike its kin (I'm talking about other science fiction movies, not simply STAR TREK movies), STAR TREK VI uses much less explosions and star fighter battles, giving it more time to focus on the plot and characters. It's shortcomings in action and edgier adventure is more than made of with keen characters and intelligent plotting. A triumphant return for Trek veteran director Nicholas Meyer (STAR TREK II THE WRATH OF KHAN) and the original cast, as well as an excellent finale.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great film, the best in the series","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably my favorite film in the series; I actually saw this on opening weekend (I remember fans in full Klingon uniform showing up) and then again 3 more times while it was in the theater. I was never really into Star Trek except very mildly until I saw this film but after seeing it I started watching the show on TV as well as revisiting the other films in the series. I still think this one holds up the best of all upon watching it on DVD today, because it combines the humorous character appeal of the fourth film with the more serious action/vengeance theme of the second film. Christopher Plummer's Chang is an excellent Klingon opponent for Captain Kirk (William Shatner), almost as compelling as Montalban's Khan from the second film. This one also gives many opportunities for our favorite crew members to do humorous and exciting things, the best of which is undoubtedly George Takei's Sulu finally being given command of his own ship and at one point rescuing the Enterprise! And like the fourth film and most episodes of the original show this one has a strong message; it improves somewhat on The Voyage Home by presenting that message through allegory. Not that it's at all subtle that we're supposed to see the Klingons as analogous to the Soviets; I think that's what they were all along and it's beautiful that this film was being made during Glasnost because it allowed Star Trek to wrap up its longest running story in the final film in a way that actually had relevance to real world events of the time. And it also joins the film series up very neatly with Next Generation, which had already showed us a Klingon living at peace with the Federation for several seasons but never explained how the reconciliation occurred. As a I remember the early sequence with the assassination of Chancellor Gorkin (David Warner, who worked with director Meyer on Time After Time) was really impressive at the time of its release, really state-of-the-art FX. I was hooked right away from that scene. I think it's got a great pace. I like the way Spock (Land the others on the ship find ways to sabotage their mission so they can remain and help Kirk and McCoy escape from the Klingon prison. The scene where Kirk is kissed by the alien and McCoy asks What is it with you, anyway? is hilarious, a good example of how Meyer has used the self-conscious character-motivated humor from the fourth film to enhance this somewhat more serious story. And I also like Spock's relationship with the new Vulcan on the ship, Valeris (Kim Cattral). But the greatest scenes are the two primary scenes between Spock and Kirk, and I commend the film-makers for pushing their hero into the scary and potentially alienating territory of racial prejudice. Shatner has explored this territory before, in Roger Corman's exceptional The Intruder, and his performance is chilling when he says of the Klingons Let them die! Having a popular and powerful character like Captain Kirk serve as the mouthpiece for this hatred and racism makes the scenario disturbingly real and immediate. As Chang (Plummer) says, in space all warriors are cold; the two old warriors are ill at ease with the process of peace. Chang chides Kirk admit it, don't you prefer it this way? as he prepares to begin a deadly space battle from which only one of them will survive &#150; by extension he might be speaking for the sadistic side of the audience and the desire in all of us to see violence on the screen. Yes, we'd like to see Captain Kirk and his crew keep fighting these space battles forever but it's just not in the cards. It's interesting how the film invites us to draw something of a parallel between the crew's reluctance to accept peace and retire from duty and the audience's own reluctance to let them sail off into that tender night.Looking at it now (as an adult) there are some clearly obvious elements to the mystery (there's really nobody except the guilty party who is a viable suspect&#133;. I mean who know it's not going to be Uhuru or someone like that) and some arbitrary plot points, especially the ease with which they dispatch Chang's ship. But I think the rhythm of the film is handled well enough that these issues aren't too noticeable &#150; I remember the whole movie audience applauding when Chang's ship exploded, which I hadn't seen since I was a younger kid and saw Return of the Jedi in the theater. Every time I see this movie I feel like I'm back in that theater again; everything just has this very pleasing larger-than-life quality. It's a great ending for the story of the original Star Trek crew. "},{"Title":"blew away my expectations","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" wow.going into this movie,my expectations were pretty low.i though it would be a decent movie,but not great.well,i don't no if it's great or not,but it's pretty darn close.this one has it all.sure,there's action,and quite a bit of it.and there also plenty of excitement to go along with it.and in liberal doses of humour coupled with the high intensity and suspense factor and you have one heck of a fun film.there are also the added elements of intrigue and mystery,which the previous had little of,if any.this is also the darkest installment up to that point.i think it is also the most ambitious of the six films.for me,this movie ranked right up there with the fourth installment The Voyage Home.there are some nail biting moments here.this movie is a 4/5 for sure. "},{"Title":"Cry Havoc! And Let Slip the Dogs of War!","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Star Trek franchise rode a popularity wave after Star Trek IV The Voyage Home was released. The Next Generation television had series entered its third season by 1989. Then the cyclopean disaster Star Trek V came and ushered in speculation that Captain Kirk and his loyal crew were obsolete. The studio nevertheless decided to use them one more time.Nicholas Meyer returned to direct and Leonard Nimoy-director and co-writer of The Search for Spock and The Voyage Home-once again contributed to the story. They determined correctly that a back-to-the-roots adventure was needed.The tone is the most serious since The Wrath of Kahn, a fact that becomes evident five seconds after the Paramount logo shows. Cliff Eidelman's music employs foreboding rises and falls, and dynamic fluctuations that give a sense that all is not well. It is the most intense opening score to date, and is followed by a big bang, literally.The USS Excelsior, commanded by our old friend Sulu (George Takei) collides with a tremendous shockwave. An officer calculates the origin to be the Klingon moon Praxis. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) informs Federation Starfleet that the decimation of Praxis has changed the environment on the Klingon capital world Kronos and will render it uninhabitable in 50 years. A reluctant Captain Kirk (William Shatner) is ordered to escort Klingon Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) to Earth for a peace conference.It is appropriate, even necessary, that the final adventure of Kirk and crew tell the story how peace between the Galactic powers is attained. The Next Generation already established that future peace, and a Klingon is a member of the Enterprise E crew.A dinner scene on board the Enterprise provides the foundation. The crew and their Klingon guests try to harmonize, but struggle with their prejudices. Guess who's coming to dinner, woefully remarks Chekov, and some Klingons harbor fearful mistrust. Ironically, it is Gorkon, leader of the warlike race, who is the noblest being at the table. The same cannot be said of his fire starter chief of staff, General Chang (Christopher Plummer).Spock summons Kirk to the bridge a few hours later to report a nearby radiation surge, and the duo next witness two torpedoes strike the Chancellor's ship. They soon learn that Gorkon has been assassinated, and Chang blames Kirk. He and Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelley) board the Klingon vessel and are arrested.The Enterprise computer inventory displays a full torpedo complement, yet the databanks insist that two were fired. Spock and his crew must determine what occurred that night and try to find the real killers. Meanwhile, Kirk and McCoy face trail on Kronos with an incensed Chang prosecuting.Like all Nicholas Meyer films, this story driven. Just like in The Wrath of Khan, the story takes a long time to develop. Of the six films featuring the original crew, this one makes the best use of its characters. Most of its predecessors focused on the three leads and only gave cursory screen time to the others. Shatner, Nimoy, Kelley, Takei, James Doohan, Walter Koenig and Nichelle Nichols all slip into their roles as they would their favorite garment, and the chemistry between them is better than ever. Joining them is Lt. Valeris (Kim Cattrall), a Vulcan whom Spock sponsored in the academy. Cattrall blends seamlessly with the others. Take for example a scene on the Enterprise Bridge where the leaders brainstorm just after viewing the trial. The five present members discuss the crisis like the old veterans they are, all led by Spock's logic. The movie is careful to involve every character, including Valeris, in multiple scenes during the investigation. Nichols and Koenig have more screen time then ever before.The film spends most of its runtime building on the plot. There is a payoff, although that term is a misnomer in this case. Spock's logical deduction provide arguably the highlight of the film, and he even references Sherlock Holmes. The conspiracy runs deeper than any of them first imagined. The shocking revelations impact the viewer as much as the crew, and there is a subtle yet effective use of foreshadowing.The deck is stacked against the Enterprise in the final combat, and the newly appointed Captain Sulu joins his former colleagues for the series most intense action yet. In a series boasting great villains, the villain here, whose name will not be mentioned, finishes as one of the strongest thanks to a veteran actor.It is actually Uhura (Nichols), the most underused character in the past, who plays a vital role in the final solution to a seemingly impossible task. Plot holes are absent, and it is the story that raises The Undiscovered Country above the first five Star Trek films and gives one of the most beloved collection of heroes in history the ideal finale to commit their futures to posterity. Their departure is sad moment, but one that comes at the end their most satisfying adventure. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the disastrous Star Trek V I had doubts when a sixth film was announced. When I found out Nicholas Meyer was at the helm with the help of Leonard Nimoy, I felt reassured. A well founded emotion, as the film was excellent. Really brought a beautiful conclusion to the Kirk era movies and bridged the gap to the Next Generation universe. The entire crew was as brilliant as it always is and having Sulu on his own command was a bonus. His involvement in the story was brilliantly written and his loyalty to Kirk and the Enterprise was great. Wonderful to see Michael Dorn as Colonel Worf defending Kirk and McCoy in too! Every facet of this story was perfectly executed, aside for a few continuity errors which are quickly forgotten, this film is by far the second best film in the Trek movie universe standing right next to Meyer's other masterpiece, The Wrath Of Khan. Would love to see a director's cut though, as the aforementioned's one was excellent "},{"Title":"A Retro-Review","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film when it was released... Twice. I had it on Video Tape.. I have it in DVD format.Since tonight is my night for writing comments about TREK, and since I have just watched this about 3 nights ago, I want to comment with a fresh perspective. Being a TREK fan, when the films started coming out in 1980 my initial reaction was to just love all things TREK. I even enjoyed Star Trek V Final Frontier, I thought there were some good things about that flick, despite Shatner, right? (Right- Haha).Also, since I just wrote a comment about Star Trek Nemesis, and that too was a Trek swan song of sorts. So, it kind of makes me sad to write these, to watch these films and to be really honest with myself and review them as Films and not as Genre.Now, this being the last voyage of the Enterprise-A, the replica of the USS Enterprise that was built and revealed to us at the end of The Voyage Home. It was not many years from 1986 to 1989, only three years, and two Trek Flicks, but in this film we must assume that enough time has lapsed between The Voyage Home and this flick, so that the Enterprice Crew is to retire and the Enterprise-A to be sent to Scrapheap City. Sulu is now a Captain of The Excelsior, Rand is his Communications Tech. Christian Slater is one of Sulu's Ensigns- Ahaha. So, this film has lots of GREAT actors John Shuck, David Warner, Rosanna Desoto, Christopher Plummer, and the Trek regulars. Not to mention Iman and Kim Catrall in clever parts.Now regarding the story, this is one of the best, being partly written by Leonard Nimoy. There is one scene which is a direct copy of a scene from Bridge over the River Kwai and I have to suspect that Nimoy was responsible for that. It is the scene where Kirk and McCoy are being inducted to the prison on the Penal Asteroid of Rura Pente- The warden is describing the rules, and that there are basically No fences, etc and that if they worked well they would be treated well, Work badly and you will die- almost verbatim to the speech the Japanese warden gives Alec Guiness and co at the start of Bridge over the River Kwai.This film does in fact have a lot of Trek Clichés, but they are masterfully handled. The speeches at the end of the film, while the action is resolving, are in fact lines from previous Trek episodes. You will hear things like Time is of the Essence et cetera.Now, as with all Trek films, this one was also badly edited, but wonderfully directed by Nicholas Meyer, and so the continuity errors that result are forgiven. Mostly, as earlier Trek were massive attacks on our visual senses with Giant Aliens and Klingons and Space Battles and Explosions and other things of the sort, this film is driven by it's dialogue which is written rather well, as well as the mystery and spy story aspects, rather than it's special effects Which were pretty basic compared to the first four Trek flicks. Possibly because this is one of the first films which used a lot of CGI, and not in the monitor displays.Michael Dorn plays his own grandfather and the character actually sets Worf on the planet of his birth (Kitomer), and Rene Aberjonois plays a sleazy Colonel who is part of the conspiracy.This film stands up to repeated viewings rather well... And the idea that we all must read Shakespeare in it's Original Kingon to understand it, is so preposterous that it is great. "},{"Title":"The original crew goes out with a bang, as they pass baton to Picard and Co.","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely my 3rd favorite trek film, trailing First Contact and Wrath of Khan. I really was on the edge of my seat. It's a political film and it's also about letting go of your anger and hate. Kirk hated Klingons, but went out of his way to preserve peace between the federation and Klingons. I also loved how Spock and Kirk continued their bickering about Logic beings and Humans, and I laughed hard when Kirk told Spock  Spock, you know what??? Everyone is Human !!!!!! Classic. The new ship the Excelsior commanded by Sulu was a gorgeous ship. It's not the Federations flagship but it sure looks bigger than the Enterprise !! I loved the style . "},{"Title":"Without doubt, the greatest ever Star Trek movie","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is without doubt the greatest ever Star Trek movie. Everything that made the original series so popular, a classic villain (in the name of General Chang), a sense of familiarity and chemistry between all the cast members - even Lt. Valeris turns in as a worthy supporting character - is here with the added bonus of a plot that does not wear thin when stretched across the running time. The way the movie develops is flawless with not one moment of boredom. The movie is entirely watchable from the beginning to the end (which is unusual in Star Trek movies with scenes on a planet = usually these are tedious and over-stretched) and the music adds another level to the film. The main theme (a theme used frequently throughout the running time) never loses its effect.All in all, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is simply one of the greatest Star Trek movies. With a sense of familiarity between the cast members (to the extent they are all comfortable with the characters they play), to the space battles between the Enterprise and the Bird of Prey; Nicholas Meyer has created a Star Trek movie that has yet, and probably never will be, equalled.Rating B+/A- "},{"Title":"Final Voyage? You got to be kidding me!","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie may be Gene Roddenberry's final piece of work, but hey, this is also the beginning of his legacy for years to come. The crew of the Starship Enterprise will never forget this adventure. Battling the Klingons has been always the agenda for Kirk. When times have past, he has started to see how his hatred of the Klingons would blind him more. With everyone around him with high ranks, and Sulu is heralding the Excelior. Kirk is never alone in the fight against alien oppressors. The Klingons are barbaric, their appetites are pretrocious. However they have started to learn Literature. Which makes them less barbaric. Then Kirk and McCoy are framed for murder of the Ambassador, which was outrageous. Kirk's log was used against him, though he later puts his vendetta aside. And there's treason inside the Federation. Which the peace talks proceeds and pride is restored on the Ambassador's daughter and Kirk's. The journey never ends, and Gene Roddenbery's legacy will live on FOREVER! RIP Gene Roddenberry, DeForest Kelly(Leonard Bones McKoy), and James Doohan(Montgomery Scott) "}{"Title":"Mostly Great Last Hurrah for the Original Trek Crew!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Caught this in an edited version off cable last night and mostly enjoyed it, I'm a lifelong mystery and spy fan and have also been a fan of Original Trek since it was on in first run (I was a kid), though I wouldn't go so far as to call myself a Trekkie, so with a murder mystery aboard the Enterprise with overtones of espionage, and Mr. Spock playing Perry Mason...I was in heaven! And it's all done while (mostly) keeping the characters in character and not making them jump through uncharacterisic hoops to serve the needs of the story.However, I said that it's a MOSTLY great last hurrah for the original crew and I gave it a 9 out of 10, and that's for something most viewers probably enjoy...all the Shakespeare quoting, which to me was kind of tedious and is one of the things I never liked about The Next Generation. It also seemed more appropriate to a Next Generation movie, which they started doing after this one. Yes, I'm a barbarian and I'm not ashamed to admit it.The last hurrah is what it must be. It's clear that the cast all knew it, from the overall tone of the movie and the signatures over the final credits (though it took me a few minutes to figure out that's what they were.) but they went out at the right time and on a good note. I'm glad they didn't try to squeeze another movie or two out of them, it would have been embarrassing and ridiculous. Besides, DeForest Kelley (Dr. McCoy) and James Doohan (Scotty) were already seriously ill. (Kelley died in 1999 and Doohan has Altzheimer's.) It would be impossible to do an Original Trek movie without Bones and Scotty! Not only that, it would be heresy!!!POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD...What I have to say next may qualify as a spoiler, but I hope it will be a welcome one. For years I avoided this movie because I thought it was the one where Kirk gets killed, the original trailers for the movie tended to give that impression. The original crew are all alive and well (and kicking!) at the fade to the end credits. The movie where Kirk gets killed has the Next Generation cast members in it, and even it turns out to have a possible loophole. I'm sorry I avoided this movie for so long and am now looking forward to getting it on video. "},{"Title":"The last good Trek","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1979, Star Trek The Motion Picture pretty much demonstrated that Star Trek works best as a feature with a budget in the tens of millions behind it. But that is only part of the puzzle. Without a solid story of human drama in which credible characters are searching or fighting for something, even the best-conceived science fiction cannot work. The failure of new series to capture that unknown element of the original cast can be traced back to this one simple fact.The Undiscovered Country is not perfect. It has been said that Star Trek is a conception of the military according to what Roddenberry wishes it was like. In Roddenberry's military, junior officers can ignore their orders if their conscience dictates, and face little in the way of consequences. In a real military organisation, this would be at least the third time Kirk would face a court-martial, and the first for Sulu. Which brings us to another problem with Star Trek in general. The principal cast being at every major event in the universe is stretching credibility beyond its outer limits. Sending a captain who is known for ignoring the rules when it suits him, and is mere months from retirement, to a vital negotiation mission with one of the Federation's most vehement enemies, shouts at the top of the lungs that the writers don't care about credibility.Setting that aside for a moment, however, let's work at what does work. It has been said many times that in order to predict the future, the past must be examined. The Undiscovered Country is filled with references to human history, although the quotes about Shakespeare in the original Klingon would embarass any writer who wasn't desperate to get something on his resumé. The tension between Human and Klingon, the show trials, the political conspiracy, these are all things we see time and time again in our own past. Credit is due to the Star Trek franchise for acknowledging that this will probably be the case for another 2000 years in the best case scenario.Everyone puts in their best performance for this episode, but the biggest surprise of the show is George Takei. In a few short sequences, he gives the impression of a man who was born to command a starship. He does a better job of it, in fact, than at least two followers who have had years in the role to try and convey it. Christian Slater's brief cameo would have been funnier if he could have worked one of his better-known lines into it, but it is amusing just to contemplate the idea of him in space.In the end, there is only one Star Trek feature that can honestly be said to be better than The Undiscovered Country, this being The Wrath Of Khan. In all, I gave The Undiscovered Country a nine out of ten. This is a solid effort that allows the human quality to outshine the effects, rather than the other way around. "},{"Title":"politics, explosions, McCoy...it's all good","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the kind of story at which Star Trek excels.  Screenwriters Meyer and Flynn cleverly used contemporary events (the end of the Cold War) as inspiration for a tale of peace-making between the Klingons and the Federation.  No other science fiction series so successfully exploited headlines in this way.  In many ways, The Undiscovered Country is the definitive Star Trek film, because the political overtones allow for a more unique, charged, and relevant story than The Wrath of Khan.  Perhaps Khan is better made, but at the end of the day, it has a garden-variety revenge plot which lacks the depth of this film.The Undiscovered Country came out at the height of Star Trek The Next Generation's popularity, but thankfully it's not too tainted by the boring stink of that particular program (though I do find Sulu's reference to cataloging gaseous anamolies to be very Next Gen-like; and why would a battle cruiser be doing stupid stuff like that?).  For the most part, this is Star Trek done the old fashioned way - big actors, big explosions, big messages.  I like this style a hell of a lot better than the techno-babble intricacies of the later shows and films.  Shatner and company are not particular hammy in my view; they're just warm, emotional, and fun characters.  I have only two reservations about this movie.  The constant quotations and classical references are fun at first, but tiresome as the movie draws to a close (on the other hand, you could say they're appropriate for a movie about cultural assimilation; Chang is afraid that the Federation will take over Klingon life, yet he ironically quotes nothing but human authors, proving that such assimilation has already begun!).  Some of the supporting characters don't have enough to do; Chekov's lines are especially painful, as he mostly just explains things to the audience, and Scotty is a bit useless too.  On the other hand, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy all get moments in the spotlight, and they're the ones we really pay to see.The final battle is fantastic, too.  On balance, this is probably my second favorite Trek film, lagging behind number five (yes, really!).  It strikes just the right balance between being shallow and deep, entertaining and enlightening.  It's a shame that so few science fiction films can still do that trick. "},{"Title":"Good film but some gaping holes","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, I am a Star Trek, and as such I probably watch the shows and movies a little bit closer than your average viewer. Maybe I watched 'The Undiscovered Country' a little to closely because I came up with a whole bunch of errors that might just interest you. I AM NOT giving away any of the story here, but if you don't want to know anything that happens in the film, maybe you'd better exit out now. Here goes1). The First Officer of the Excelsior says I have an energy wave at 204 mark 6 port sir! When we see the Excelsior however, the energy wave hits her on her starboard side.2). Why is Janice Rand already on her feet while Sulu is still clawing his way along the floor of the Bridge to his chair after the energy wave hit?3). Why didn't the Excelsior's sensors detect the explosion on Praxis? The first hint of trouble came when Sulu's coffee cup fell on the floor!4). Just after the Enterprise has left Space Dock we see Kirk in his quarters putting his bags away. Suddenly, Valeris arrives and informs him that they are almost at the rendezvous. How long does it take Kirk to put his bags away?!5). When Kirk is wrestling with Martia (in Kirk disguise) they roll on the snow towards McCoy's feet, but in the next shot they roll straight over McCoy's chest.6). When the Enterprise meets Gorkon's ship and Kirk invites him and his crew to dinner, we see Chekov at his usual seat next to Valeris. But then, after Kirk leaves, Chekov has some how jumped to Kirk's chair when he says Guess who's coming to dinner.7). When Gorkon's ship is hit by a photon torpedo (seemingly from Enterprise) we see the Enterprise's Bridge with at least half a dozen people suddenly rushing to their seats. Where did all these people come from? Were they all just standing around at the centre of the Bridge waiting for something to happen?8). At Kirk and McCoy's trial a Klingon witness says that After the first shot we lost our gravitational field. I found myself weightless... Actually, it was after the second photon torpedo that the Klingon ship lost its gravity.9). Just after Chang's ship cloaks upon arrival at Khitomer we see Kirk pacing around the Bridge, awaiting the inevitable battle. The clock above the viewscreen shows that it is 043706. However, when he wanders past Uhura's station her clock reads 043531. 10). When Gorkon's ship is damaged by the torpedos that seem to come from Enterprise, we hear Chekov say, She's still lisitng. The clock above the viewscreen shows 013849. But when Chang appears on the viewscreen the clock shows 012916.11). In the end credits, Uhura is listed as Uhuru.Apart from all that, the film is still highly entertaining and a worthy conclusion to the original crew's adventures together. "},{"Title":"Return to Form","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kirk & Company face danger when they are falsely accused of murdering the head of Klingon peace delegation.  This film returns the series to good form after an absolutely dismal fifth chapter.  Much of the credit for its success can probably be attributed to writer/director Nicholas Meyer, who, for one thing, really knows how to lay on the Shakespeare quotes.  The politically-correct story zips right along, and the script gives each one of the likeable, familiar cast members a chance to shine.  The multitude of references to events which took place in the TV show(s) and other movies may confuse some non-trekkers, but aside from that, a pleasant time should be had by all. "},{"Title":"A tie with Kahn for best ST movie, Thanks Mr. Meyer!","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nicholas Meyer is the only person to thank for the gems of the Star Trek movies (Borgs not included) as he wrote and directed IIWrath of Kahn, IVVoyage Home, and VIUndiscovered Country. Perhaps its the inclusion of such supermodel hotties as Kim Cattral and Iman but I like this better than II. Kahn was so anticlimactic once Search for Spock came out. He should have died off in Kahn. But if he did, we wouldn't get the genious of lounge singer/actor Leonard Nimoy not only in the next four ST films, but also as Spock on Next Generation. This flick has it all Klingons galore, Violence, James T(iberious) Kirk and Bones in snow prison Rura Pente, and a Cloakable?! Bird of Prey. I'm not your typical Star Trek geek, and truthfully I didn't get into the films until after I saw this one. But let's face it, Star Trek gets a bad rap as only suitable for the VOA (virgins of America) which simply shouldn't be the case. Star Wars sucks ass compared to the extensive library of Star Trek genius, and yet its cool to like Skywalker and Obie Wan. Well let me say that while the crew is extremely aged in this film its nice to see the original cast film series go out on top. I doubt episode VI and the upcoming to be horrible episode III could say the same. Light sabers suck, give me tricorders, transporters and James T. Kirk any day. "},{"Title":"Final Voyage of Original Crew Dark, but Rewarding...","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With the horrific reviews of STAR TREK V THE FINAL FRONTIER still fresh in everyone's minds, there was a general consensus among critics that all of the imagination and 'life' in the 'Trek' franchise now resided in television's 'Star Trek The Next Generation'. The opinion went that the original Enterprise crew were far too 'old' to be believable bouncing around the galaxy having sweeping adventures (DeForest Kelley and Jimmy Doohan were now in their seventies; the youngest of the cast, George Takei, was over 50), and that the 'Trek' films were positively 'quaint' compared to the cutting-edge storylines of 'STTNG'.While Producer Leonard Nimoy couldn't argue the 'age' issue, he felt that the original cast deserved a more fitting 'coda' than THE FINAL FRONTIER, and that there was still material for a great 'send-off' film. With the reluctant backing of the studio, and the return of director Nicholas Meyer, whose WRATH OF KHAN had 'rescued' the franchise, after the fiasco of STAR TREK THE MOTION PICTURE, Nimoy, with Lawrence Konner and Mark Rosenthal, wrote a dark, powerful tale of assassination, interplanetary intrigue, and the events that would forge the Klingon/Federation alliance that would become an integral part of 'STTNG'. While the Klingon storyline provided William Shatner his most complex, fascinating Kirk portrayal (Klingons had ruthlessly killed his only son, David), Nimoy's decision to write of an initially unsympathetic Captain (Let them DIE!) drew the ire of series creator, Gene Roddenberry, who complained that HIS Kirk would never have been so narrow-minded. Nimoy's vision didn't stop with Kirk; the passage of time, and inevitable changes in the dynamics of the Enterprise crew were tackled head-on, with Spock serving as a Federation trouble-shooter, Sulu commanding his own starship, and McCoy's 'fitness' as a surgeon brought into question, because of his age. Death was a recurring theme in the story, a philosophical topic that both humans and Klingons would ruminate on.As the cataclysmic destruction of a Klingon moon threatens the total annihilation of the Klingon Homeworld, the race turns to their mortal enemies, the Federation, for help. While Spock and the Federation sees this as an opportunity to end a century-long war, many, on both sides, oppose aid, and when the Klingon Chancellor (David Warner, who'd played a human Federaton ambassador in THE FINAL FRONTIER) is murdered while under the protection of the reluctant Enterprise crew, Kirk and McCoy are arrested, tried, and convicted by a Klingon court (despite the defense of 'STTNG' Worf's ancestor, played by Michael Dorn). Sentenced to a hellish prison planet, the pair struggles to survive, while Spock uncovers a multi-race plot to disrupt the upcoming peace conference. Spearheaded by Shakespeare-quoting Klingon General Chang (Christopher Plummer, doing his best 'Ricardo Montalban as Khan' imitation), the conspiracy is so wide-spread that it will take the combined efforts of all of the original cast to 'save the universe', yet again. Featuring Iman as a shape-shifting female alien that the ever-hormonally-charged Kirk becomes involved with (prompting McCoy to remark, What IS it with you?), Kim Cattrall as a young Vulcan officer with her own agenda, and cameos by Brock Peters, Kurtwood Smith, Mark Lenard, John Schuck, and more, THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY is the most 'adult' of the six 'Original Series' films, and a deeply satisfying conclusion for the cast, critics, and fans, alike. As the original cast 'signed off', individually, during the closing credits, an era was truly ending. While Kirk, Scotty, and Chekov would return to 'introduce' the next film (and Shatner's Captain would meet his controversial end), the future would now be in the hands of a new Enterprise and crew. "},{"Title":"James T. and his crew do it again, for the last time","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first half of this film is not too good. It is simply not involving enough and you can somehow imagine some of the things that will happen next. From the point when James is made to pay for what he has happened though, this film starts to get pretty interesting. Soon funny and characteristic Star Trek conversations start to surface and the film gets exciting, staying that way until the end. The persons mostly responsible for not letting this one become a loser were William Shatner (who was good AGAIN as James T.Kirk) and the guys who wrote the script. Sure the script is not too original, with some implicit references to the cold war and surely some things are not too difficult to foresee (who the traitor is for instance), but there are enough twits and turns and enough action in the second half to make up for the first half. Sadly this is the last film featuring the original the trinity of Spock, Bones and Kirk. Since there is money to be made though, the film-series moved on to The Next Generation (as did the TV series a number of years earlier). A new generation to board the enterprise, for a new generation of viewers. There is one question though, I have not yet answered (neither for myself nor for others). This question is &#145;Was it an evolution or a degeneration?' I do not know yet, since I've only seen Generations and First Contact, but I do not have high hopes and fear that the originals outdo The Next Generation (without even having seen The search for Spock).7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fitting End To The Original Series","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek VI  The Undiscovered Country had the difficult job of finally--finally--ending the adventures of the original crew of the Enterprise from The Original Series, in a way that doesn't leave its many fans disappointed.  And overall, the movie succeeds well at this.The plot is a VERY obvious allegory of the ending of the Cold War between the U.S. and Soviet Union. *** WARNING  SPOILERS START HERE. ***Praxis (Chernobyl), a key Klingon energy facility, is destroyed.  The Klingon economy is badly hurt and its leader, Gorkon (Gorbachev), decides to make peace with the Federation.  But a vocal minority of folks on both sides are unhappy with this, due to habit, distrust, suspicion, and outright prejudice.  Unknown assailants attempt to assassinate Gorkon.  Kirk and McCoy are blamed by the Klingons, arrested, and exiled to Rura Penthe, a frozen, forbidding wasteland (Siberia).  Kirk and McCoy must escape, figure out who is really behind the plot, and stop them before they finally succeed in murdering Gorkon.This whodunit, while darker in tone than previous Star Treks, is both engrossing and suspenseful.  Each of the famous characters has a decent part in this movie as a fitting end to their playing these roles.  The characters have grown more and are more multi-dimensional than they ever were in the past.  Kirk is old now, and his years of battling the Klingons and losing his son have made him bitter and prejudiced toward them.  Sulu shows he's capable of commanding a starship now.  Where the movie loses points, is in continuity with previous Star Trek.  Star Trek always had to strike a balance between inventive new plots but still remaining faithful to the basic concepts and characterizations that had already been established--something Nicholas Meyer never cared much about.  Showing treacherous Vulcans, Federation officers who are racially prejudiced toward Klingons, and Spock mind-melding a captive against her will (a kind of mental rape) were inconsistent with everything in previous Star Trek.  Given that this was to be the last feature of The Original Series crew, this was not a great time to introduce such major departures.Overall  7/10  "},{"Title":"Best of the worst, worst of the best","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek 6 The Undiscovered Country does so much so well that the little off points  detract more than they might otherwise. Let's get a few of those out of the way now --What's Christian Slater doing here? --The sabot/sabotage scene -- how stupid is the crew supposed to be? and of course --The galley scene, which is so full of badly done...everything... that it pulls one  completely out of the movie. (Three quick ones What galley? Weapons storage, there?  Weapon alarms on a warship?) It is, however, wonderful in so many other ways.  First, it's a well-done allegory on the  collapse of the Soviet Union, more impressive yet for being filmed as the last acts of that  drama were still playing out. It shamelessly pulls from movies and cultural references,  evidently just for the fun of it. It makes fun  of Star Trek's own cliches note that Kirk gets the girl...well, a girl...well, something that looks like a girl, anyway. And it is a fine sendoff for a fine cast, even if almost all of them come back, one way or  another, anyway and anywhere they could.  So, give it a look. Ignore the minor transgressions, and give a farewell to the crew of the  Enterprise. "}{"Title":"Best ST Movie","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know many people think The Voyage Home is the best ST movie, but many people also think Wrath of Khan is a good movie. I really hate the idea of time-travel-when-the-script-needs-it, but The Voyage Home is not the issue here.I have had benefit of seeing this movie when the wheels of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process were in motion. It is amazing how the movie reflected the conflict and dilemas we had here. When Kirk says he never trusted and never will trust Klingons I could see my fellow countrymen speak. When Chancellor Gorkon said If there is to be a brave new world, our generation is going to have the hardest time living in it I can understand exactly what he means. When Colonel West tries to assassing the President I remember our assassined prime minister, killed by a fanatic Israeli who believed the peace process must be stopped by all means. Well, that's why this is SF. In real life things don't end good.Other than that this movie is really good. Great plot without any annoying technical mumbo jumbo, good humor, great acting, nice effects. What more can a man ask for? "},{"Title":"The best film of the original series.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  7.5 out of 10After five movies, it was about time the filmmakers compiled together ALL the elements that made each of the quality Star Trek films successful.  And as a result, we have Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country, which is to my mind, the most enjoyable film of the original series (it's a notch above The Voyage Home but still a notch below The Next Generation's First Contact).  This intergalactic thriller successfully grafts together an engrossing plot with timely issues, first-rate action, unforced humor, and magnificent special effects.The Klingon moon of Praxis has just been destroyed through decades of overmining, leading to a serious depletion of oxygen, which they will exhaust in fifty years.  Desperate, the Klingons decide to mount a peace treaty, and sent to escort Chancellor Gorkon is the Enterprise's Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner), who's three months from retirement.  Gorkon and his advisers come on board the Enterprise for dinner and all seems to go well, but once they return, they're fired upon, apparently by the Enterprise.  As Kirk and McCoy (DeForrest Kelley) try to help the survivors, Gorkon dies, and they're arrested for his assassination.  Meanwhile, Spock (Leonard Nimoy) tries to uncover the identities of the real killers before another assassination can take place. People have often described The Undiscovered Country as Agatha Christie in outer space. That's a fairly accurate statement, as much of the film's running time is devoted to the crew trying to figure out who fired upon the Klingon ship and who on board are the assassins.  It's not exactly mind-blowing unpredictable material, but it is engrossing, and the screenwriters do go to extra lengths to keep plot holes to a bare minimum.  The Undiscovered Country can also be enjoyed for the impeccable sense of camaraderie between the crew and for its terrific special effects, easily the best of the original series.While I would hesitate to label this an action movie, director Nicholas Meyer does deliver a truly slam-bang climactic finale, easily one of the best space battles ever put to film (and this setpiece puts the ones in The Wrath of Khan to shame).  The shot of the photon torpedo blowing through the Enterprise's hull from below is the money shot of the film.  There are also other classic moments, such as Kirk fighting a shapeshifter who's taken his shape, Christopher Plummer's scenery chewing performance as General Chang, and watching Sulu take the helm as the captain of his own ship, the Excelsior.  The Undiscovered Country was the original crew's last film, and it can be said they truly went out on a high note. "},{"Title":"A Fitting Final Mission","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The countless failures of Star Trek V The Final Frontier made it imperative that another film with the original crew be made, so as to have a decent sign-off before the retirement of the characters.  The result is Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country, a competent entry into the franchise.  It is obvious that the producers were looking to make a quality final chapter, for they enlisted director Nicholas Meyer, and the creative contribution of Leonard Nimoy, both of which were responsible for the most popular films of the series. While not without flaws, Star Trek VI combines an overly complicated mystery plot with plenty of character moments, which aid in creating drama and a good portion of action.  There is also a strong villain, the Klingon General Chang played by Christopher Plummer.  Between spouting Shakespeare and plotting the demise of Kirk and his crew, Plummer rises to the challenge of stealing every scene he is in, with his performance ranking only behind Ricardo Montalban's turn as Khan in Star Trek II.  Plummer is a great asset to the film, and combines the right amount of villainy and silliness in his performance.Of the six episodes that had been released in the series, Star Trek VI has the highest production values.  While the visual effects are not as spectacular as the Star Wars films, the work of ILM in Star Trek VI is relatively impressive, with a few new environments being realized effectively, as well as providing one of the more exciting space battles in the series.  The character of Captain Kirk is taken down a few notches by the script writers and in William Shatner's more subtle performance of the character.  While Star Trek V fed the ego of its star, Star Trek VI presents the good captain as flawed, fallible and tired.  It works to remind fans of the series that Captain Kirk has some issues, and these issues are dealt with in this film.  The other members of the cast fill their roles well, but for some reason Scotty comes across as more shrill and irritating than in the previous films.  Be it James Doohan's performance or his dialogue, he actually is one of the flaws of the movie.Despite the fact that the film plays out more like an episode of Scooby Doo, the end result is that of a great piece of entertainment, ranking third behind the second and fourth entries of the series.  It resolves many thematic issues that were present throughout the series, and provides a launch point in terms of continuity for the Next Generation television series.  While not perfect, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is an admirable passing of the torch for the original crew of the Enterprise.     "},{"Title":"As usual, flawed but enjoyable","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know what struck me while I was watching this why do they bother making Star Trek movies at all? (I mean aesthetically; obviously there's a financial incentive). All of Star Trek's finest moments have been on the small screen. At some fundamental level Star Trek just doesn't _work_ as a feature film (though if you catch me on a good day I might admit that ST 4 and First Contact break that rule)As it happens I think ST VI is one of the best of the TOC Star Trek movies. In fact, early on it shapes up to be the best. It's certainly a huge turnaround in quality from the diabolically awful Star Trek V. The plot and dialogue are mature, intelligent and the wit (used sparingly) really is witty (Kirk (or Shatner?) admitting he's wanted to kiss himself his whole life was classic)But inevitably something is missing, the same way something is missing from all the Start Trek movies. In this one it's action. There is good dramatic tension, but ultimately too much yakking and not enough things blowing up to make a good ST film. The only adventure sequence, on the prison planet, was cheesy and reminded me of Fortress.Still, I rate it as one of the better ST movies, and certainly a huge reprieve for the original cast. It would have been very sad if their last hoorah had been ST V. It's just a shame ST VI wasn't a little more exciting.Oh, and the Shakespeare spouting Klingon did wear a bit thin... "},{"Title":"Superb Finale for the original cast, and one of the best!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As weird as it may sound, I think this film is the very first Star Trek film I ever saw.  I'm not positive about that, but I know for sure it is the one that I remember the best.I like all the Star Trek films, but I think this one is slightly better than the previous films.  Everything in this film is done so well!  The story is just great and keeps you on the edge of your seat, the special effects are fantastic, the comedy is right on, the dialogue is great, and the acting is top-notch!  There is virtually nothing about this film that I didn't like.All of the actors do a great job with their roles!  The core Star Trek cast is great as always.  The rest of the cast is great too.  Christopher Plummer pulls off one of his better performances (of what I've seen to date) and has a very cool look to him.  Kim Cattrall plays her part quite well, and is without a doubt the best looking Vulcan I've ever seen.  Kurtwood Smith, David Warner, Michael Dorn  and Brock Peters also deserve some special notice.  Also, pay attention for a small cameo by a one Christian Slater.  I thought it was pretty cool to see him in this film.If you're a Star Trek fan or just a sci-fi fan, I would definitely recommend seeing this film.  I would also recommend seeing the previous films first just so everything makes sense.  There are a great deal of references to the previous films that you may not understand if you haven't seen the previous films.  I truly hope that you enjoy this film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"An interesting ride","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has always been my favorite  from the series, especially due to  the imaginative nature the film took.  Shape-shifting women, assassination  plots, floating blood particles, and the  hot Lt. Valeris (the only time Kim Cattral  has looked good) was all worth it. The  performances were rather good,  considering the flop of Star Trek 5.  However, I do have one question  What was up with the president of Earth?  He looked like some bizarre cross  between Hulk Hogan and ZZ Top. I  guess a movie can't be perfect in every way. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Pretty good, more action than SF","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so it's Star Trek, so you pretty much know what to expect. This one and Star Trek IV are the ones that may be accessible to non-science-fiction people who just like the occasional action film. Star Trek II is now a little dated but still good.Given how much history and baggage Star Trek has, they do a pretty good job making the story interesting and new. There are some reasonably modern special effects, and while the crew aren't exactly the best actors, they've found the right balance between being campy enough not for that to matter, yet not so campy that you can't get into the film.Who should see this film-- Science fiction film buffs-- Action film fans with nothing better to do on a rainy day.It's not as good as the Star Trek The Next Generation filmshowever.I'll give Star Trek VI a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent sendoff","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek VI is a bridge between classic Trek and its offspring, between old and new. It is a turning point, in both the series and in the Star Trek universe. To begin with, it was the last film to focus on the original cast from the 1960's television series. Secondly, in the storyline itself, a turning point is reached in the affairs of the United Federation of Planets and the Klingon Empire. Once deadly enemies, an environmental disaster forces the two powers to negotiate a truce. The starship Enterprise is sent as an envoy. The mission appears to be fairly successful at first, but an unexpected assassination throws the peace process into jeopardy. Captain Kirk and Dr. McCoy are framed for the crime, but but the assassins' work is not over. There is a deadly conspiracy between conservative elements in both empires, and their actions could precipitate a full-scale war.Flawed but entertaining, Star Trek VI is fast-paced, with few, if any, slow spots. However, it's obvious it was put together in a hurry to capitalize on Trek's 25th anniversary. The whodunit subplot tends to be pretty sloppy, with important clues turning up a bit too easily. Some of the scene transitions are downright sloppy. Everything in the film is also a bit overplayed, with nary a hint of subtlety.Still, it's so damn entertaining that overlooking its faults is easier than one would think from the above paragraph. Besides, how can you dislike a film that features Christopher Plummer as a Shakespeare-quoting Klingon? In fact, I suspect the guy was having way too much fun with his role.*** (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures "},{"Title":"Perfect finish.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a nearly flawless finish for the original Star Trek crew. This movie has everything that came to be identified with Star Trek; a clever, intriguing story and fine performances. The writers wisely gave each one of the original crew members more than enough opportunities to do what they did best interact wonderfully with each other. The klingons are the best ones ever to appear in the movies, and the dining scene with them and the Enterprise crew is a classic. A must-see for Star Trek fans. "},{"Title":"A very good finale","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Undiscovered Country is a well written script and shows Star Trek at its best. The characters remind us of their behavior in the original series and the story is a feast for a Klingon fans. The times that Star Trek deals with problems that we have today (in this case the East-West-conflict) it is a great success, whether on TV or in the cinema.The atmosphere of the movie is sometimes a bit dark, but never disturbing. Very beautifully done are the sets of the Enterprise, which combine many elements of The Next Generation, but are not so sterile. A salute to the production designer!  "}{"Title":"An excellent send-off for the Original Cast.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember when this movie came out...I was quite excited, as I had only recently discovered Star Trek the previous year.  It was the first ST movie I saw as new and it was worth it!  It has a great plot, which bridges a gap between the old series and Star Trek  The Next Generation, as well as powerhouse performances from Shatner, Nimoy, Kelley, and Kim Cattral.  It keeps the viewer guessing, even though s/he knows that everything will turn out all right in the end.  For the action fan, it has a good number of battle sequences, explosions, and a climactic assassination scene. Several of my friends, none of whom enjoy Star Trek in particular, LOVED the movie for those elements alone.  In short, it was a fine finalé for Uhura, Chekhov, and Sulu (since we see Spock, Scotty, and McCoy in Next Gen and Kirk in Generations) as well as an exquisite way to close the book on the old series without infringing on the new. "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even-numbered Star Trek movies tend to be the best, and this one was no exception as it followed the last adventures of the original cast. It was a perfect send-off for such characters as McCoy and Spock. The peace summit between the Federation and the Klingons was outstanding, as were Kirk and McCoy's escapades in the arctic-like prison. Everyone will love this gem of a movie.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By far, this movie was the best one in the series.  It had elements of suspense, conspiracy, mystery, and enough action to keep the movie flowing at a good pace (unlike the incredibly long each-minute-feels-like-a-lifetime Star Treks I,III, & V).  The supporting cast was also the most well rounded group on any of these films, with the possible exception of 'The Voyage Home' -- not forcing us to accept someone like Christopher Lloyd as a Klingon leader. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest sign off for the old crew","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek the Undiscovered country is a good movie in it's own right but i do have a problem with it. This is the last film starring the old cast , although Kirk does appear in the next two movies, and i dont think the story is fitting enough for a send off. It is a story involving the old enemy , the klingons, and a conspiracy from within the federation to sabatage the peace process by killing the head off the klingon empire and setting it up to look like Kirk and the crew of the enterprise are responsible. It is a watchable film but not inthralling which is a shame because acting performance of the old cast is maybe the best of all the films made to date. What Kirl really lacked was a really good enemy, unlike Picard who had the dreaded Borg. Enjoy the final outing. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Once More Unto the Breach...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sentimentalist in me refuses to call this a swansong. The original crew proved that, despite their age, they were in no way ready to be put to pasture.  This movie, where Kirk's past comes back to bite him (his son's death at the hands of the Klingons), is a return to the more dramatic Trek, but with generous helpings of dark comedy (`Earth, Hitler, 1938.' `I've been dead before.'), and even making fun of itself at times (After an attractive alien woman lip-locks with Kirk, McCoy rolls his eyes and says, `What is it with you?'). The movie has plenty of fan-pleasing moments (Sarek, Colonel Worf, Sulu in command of the Excelsior&#133;), a fast pace, a great villain (the Shakespeare-quoting Chang), great performances by the regular cast, and a wonderful score by Cliff Eidelman. Never, ever dull, Star Trek VI &#150; The Undiscovered Country remains my favorite Star Trek movie.  "},{"Title":"True to the milieu, but ...","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek VI is as faithful to the world of the original Star Trek as anything done since then.  And its visual effects are good.  For that, I rated it a 6.But the story is recycled and stale.  Federation vs. Klingons vs. Romulans... you only get so many possible combinations before you *have* to recycle.  And the two-dimensional characters that played so well in the late 60s -- Kirk's swagger and defiance of regulations, McCoy's crusty wisecracking past the graveyard, Sulu's cheerful and unquestioning loyalty, and the Klingons' I-double-dare-you truculence -- don't play in a world that's learned that characters have three dimensions.  Only Spock (Logic is the beginning of wisdom, not the ending) and one of the Klingons (Kirk ... don't let it end like this) seem to have evolved at all.In its original incarnation, Star Trek's drama fit the times.  It was the Cold War era, and American culture -- especially its political culture -- saw good and evil as white and black.  In that context, Star Trek not only fit, it was progressive.  And Star Trek VI is a great chapter in that world which, for many, lives on.  But the real world has evolved while the future world of Kirk and the crew has stayed, paradoxically, in the past.  To a world that's learned to see shades of gray, and even pieces of the rainbow, Star Trek VI is just a comic book brought to life. "},{"Title":"VI,I,V,III,II,IV","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the order I liked the purely classic star trek films (from left to right/best to worst--but not that bad).what I liked about this one is that it recaptured best what was great about the original series--self doubt and analysis as to the heroes own motives and that maybe the motives of those you gave your loyalties to for your entire life may not always be as noble as you have been lead to believe.One sad note, giving Captain Sulu his own ship seemed to indicate that he may take up the Star Trek mantle in further series.  This happened for a while in the comic series and an episode on the later TV series, but nothing else seems to have been made of it.Oh well, all good things must end eventually, I guess.  Fond Farewell! "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some of the aspects of Star Trek VI that lead me to believe this would be the last Old Trek films1) There is a lot of closure to many aspects, especially Kirk's female drive -- even though, oddly, Kirk never had a Kirk girl in any of the films save Carol Marcus, who was definitely not interested in him sexually anymore. But Bones finally said the words he'd been dying to say for almost 25 years What is WITH you, anyway? after seeing Kirk kiss the bazillionth female interest.Of course, Kirk's (and William Shatner's) own ego is zinged too when he mutters I can't believe I kissed you!, his own face replies, Must have been your lifelong ambition!The other aspect that is brought to the fore is that, yes, Kirk and company are now relics. While Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan touched on being older and having to deal with your past, Star Trek VI deals with being obsolete and no longer needed. Kirk admits that he was so set in his ways, he couldn't even take Chancellor Gorkon at his word he's a Klingon, therefore must be evil. When told Qo'nos is dying, Kirk angrily mutters, Let them die! Of course, when Kirk mentions the next generation, it sends a real message that Picard and company would take over -- and while Kirk was a part of Star Trek Generations, it wasn't an Old Trek.Interestingly, Star Trek VI offers Kirk a symbolic death more than Generations did the real one -- as Gandalf and company died symbolically, leaving our world to The Grey Havens.The nicest touch is Cliff Eidelman's sweeping score at the end, accompanying the autographs of the Trek crew -- a final farewell. "},{"Title":"It's even numbered, it's got to be good!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the second Trek film i saw at the cinema and i loved the pants off it. It's a great film in it's own right, but it has good links to the past of Trek and a brilliant way of closing that era.It's great because it is a who done it, a sci fi film, a special effects extravaganza and it's not a two hour tv episode put onto film. Even if this wasn't star trek it would be a great movie because of the characters and the plot. I guess i like it because i'm sentimental about the characters, but it was their last great challange and a good film. "},{"Title":"A blast from the word go!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie.  This is the last film for the original cast but its a great one.  The film begins with a blast and keeps going from there. Leonard Nimoy is in the directors chair and describes this film as depicting the end of the cold war with the Klingons and Federation being the superpowers.  This film also gives us an interesting look at ourselves as Kirk must confront the species that killed his son to Spock trying to be a bridge between the two peoples.  The action is fantastic with Christopher Plummer from the Sound of Music quoting Shakesphere as he fires torpedoes at the Enterprise.  This makes for a starship battle like no other.  This is a must see for Star Trek fans. "}{"Title":"despite plot holes, this is my favorite movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek 6 is, in my opinion, the most dramatic film including the original cast.  I love the courtroom scene the most-- the Klingons are even warriors in legal circles.This movie has everything for fans of the original series action/adventure, a helluva good mystery (who killed Gorkon?), politics, humor (There is an old Vulcan proverb; Only Nixon could go to China), hand-to-hand fights, space battles, and even a little old-fashioned politically-incorrect sex-with-alien-babe stuff between Kirk and Martia.The one plot hole that bugs me the most  how did General Chang get his hands on Shakespeare's work so he could spout it every other line?Trivia points(1) Did anyone notice that the alien Kirk kicks in the knee (during the hand-to-hand at Rura Penthe) is either a Jem'Hadar (from DS9) or a close relative?  There are slight differences-- Jem'Hadar are gray-skinned, not so big, and (apparently) have no sexual organs.  They also speak English very well.  Is it possible that the Founders visited Klingon space and picked up this guy's family?(2) In the scene with the young officer walking to report to Captain Sulu on the Excelsior, he stops in front of Sulu's door and the camera cuts to Sulu's face as the door opens; what we don't see is the added detail of Sulu's name on the door plate.  When I met Mr. Takei later, I suggested that a SteadiCam could have shot the young officer as he walked down the corridor, revealing the door plate with his name on it.  Mr. Takei said that I had sharp eyes and that it would've been a good idea.Conclusion  In my opinion, this is the best of the original-series films. It's better than Generations and Insurrection, and just as good as First Contact.  I'll shave a tenth of a point off for the pre-use of the Jem'Hadaroid and the overuse of Shakespeare.  9.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Second best Star Trek movie","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country brought this series back from the dead after the previous entry (the excrutiatingly boring William Shatner-directed Star Trek V The Final Frontier) left critics, audiences, and Star Trek fans disappointed. The way this series has played out, it's true the even number movies are the best. And #6 is no exception. Star Trek VI is the second best movie in the series after Star Trek IV. This movie is best known for being the last film to star the actors from the original 1960's TV show, and they went out with a bang (although Shatner, James Doohan, and Walter Koenig would turn up in the next film Star Trek Generations which marked the film debut of the cast of the second TV show Star Trek The Next Generation). Nicholas Meyer, who directed Star Trek II, came back to direct this one and that was a good thing after the job Shatner did on Star Trek V. Meyer brought back the fun, enjoyment, and humor that was displayed in #4 but was sorely lacking in #5. #6 isn't as humorous as #4 but it least it has some funny moments, unlike in #5 were the supposed humor was more laughable than funny. The story this time revolves around upcoming peace talks between the Federation and the Klingons. But the Enterprise crew finds out that it's all a set-up conjured up by the main villain of the film, an evil Klingon played by Christopher Plummer in an excellent performance. Just like in Star Trek IV, all the actors here are terrific (both the Star Trek regulars and the guest stars). Shatner (Kirk), Doohan (Scotty), Koenig (Chekov), Leonard Nimoy (Spock), DeForest Kelley (McCoy), Nichelle Nichols (Uhura), and George Takei (Sulu) make their last Star Trek film together one to remember. Guest stars Plummer, Kim Cattrall, David Warner, Kurtwood Smith, and Iman are all well-cast in their parts. The special effects are some of the best in the series (the coolest effect in Star Trek VI revolves around Klingon blood), and the make-up effects (which received an Oscar nomination) are first-rate. Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is great fun from start to finish, and a fitting end for the original cast. **** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Good (spoilers here)","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very good movie, stands with First Contact second to Khan. ST VI has excellent FX, I think they are the best of the all the movies, they don´t look CGI over computerized like in the TNG movies, especially the last one. The main story is perfect and is shown very well. One thing I regret is that in some occasions some of the characters like Chekov, Uhura and Scotty once, act like dumbs. The other is that the final space battle was too short, never like Khan in which real strategy is shown. Here in Undiscovered Country,  the klingon ship is killed at once. And how the klingons knew Shakespeare so well if their culture and ours are supposedly so far and unknown to each other? But anyway, no Star Trek movie is perfect. The good things, the FX, the story, the acting,  Sulu is great as captain of the Excelsior. Well, apart of all these, the movie is entertaining enough to keep non trekies interested, a thing that only Khan and First Contact can make also.Rating Trekie, 8 of 10 non trekie, 7 of 10 "},{"Title":"Trekkie movie","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A nice movie for Trekkies, though somewhat boring when watching the first time. Most of the comedy is dependent on other knowledge of TOS. Lots of action. The ending leaves a blank, as with most ST movies, but is happy. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Very, very nice. Great note to go out on.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This final adventure of the original crew for the Enterprise is ALMOST their best one!  Again, it is the even numbered Trek adventures are the best.  What makes this movie so nice is that it actually FEELS like a movie, the references to the television series are toned down to a bare minimum and the script is ladened with tons of references to Shakespeare, making this an almost operatic sci-fi flick.  This is the closest, the classic stars of Star Trek ever got to making an actual movie that wasn't in direct correlation with the television series.  William Shatner gives a commendable performance as Capt. Kirk, although his best one is in The Search For Spock.  DeForest Kelley is wonderful in his final outing as Bones.  Leonard Nimoy is also great to see in his final appearance as Spock.  The one character though who gets his much deserved moment in the spotlight is George Takei, Sulu final gets his captaincy and commands the Excellsior.  James Doohan, as always is pleasure to watch on screen as Scotty.  Uhura is given some valuable lines in this movie instead of her usual 'Hailing on all frequencies Captain.'  While Checkov is given some decent screen time as well.  It is always nice to see everyone of these characters in the spotlight and having that sense of family about them.  This movie captures that essence.  With impressive visual effects, and great acting by other familiar faces in the Star Family, this Trek movie will be one to watch over and over.   "},{"Title":"The best ending possible for the original series...","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching Star Trek V, this movie was what I needed to regain my trust in the original ST movies. It was the best way to end it all...The movie contains mystery, suspense, but best of all, it features good-old-Kirk humor. All of these have been put together in a great way to give the series the ending that it should have.It's sad, perhaps, to think about it as then end, but consider an alternative... think that the ending was Star Trek V. Horrifying thought, isn't it? So, instead you have a great movie, intense plot and a surprising ending. 8/10 "},{"Title":"fine","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  first of all i want to say that i just love the performance of deforrest kelley, he is one of the finest actors ever! (may he rest in peace) the undiscovered country is one of the best star trek movies, second after the voyage home. i was surprised by the appearance of micheal dorn (as colonel worf) and christian slater. all in all, a very fine film... "},{"Title":"Best of the bunch","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best of all of the Star Trek movies, including the Wrath of Khan.  This has to be the best directed, best scripted, and best acted of all of the movies.  Nicholas Meyer returns to direct an incredible written script.  This movie is also a return to the old political days of trek.  There is still the swashbuckling feeling of TOS, but with a more mature feel.  This also has to be the best cast of all the movies, not counting the regulars.  Christopher Plummer as General Chang was perfect as the intelligent bad guy.  Most of the other Trek villains tend to be cardboard cutout characters, very one dimensional, but Chang has a wonderful quality to himself.  I also want to note Leonard Nimoy's performance in this movie.  He is incredible in this.  This is a wonderful culmination of the original cast, and quite a fanfare.  This has to be the best of all the Star Trek movies to date!  5 stars! "},{"Title":"The Best of the series","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The undiscovered Country is the best Star Trek movie to date, even surpassing First Contact. Great story, FX, cinematography and score. Well, the acting is just so-so but Christopher Plummer makes his General Chang the most memorable Star Trek villain ever!Live Long And Prosper. "},{"Title":"The original crew's finest hour.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS IN MY REVIEW*This movie is far and away the best of the entire Star Trek series. After the atrocious Star Trek V The Final Frontier, it just had to get better. And it DID. This movie easily surpasses Star Trek V in every single way--acting, plot, special effects, etc.--and has become my favorite of the series, followed by Star Trek II and IV.The performances in this movie were not only good; they were the best! William Shatner was terrific and believable as a man who was still tortured by the death of his son and would never trust his hated enemies, the Klingons. David Warner as Chancellor Gorkhon was also great, and I actually felt sorry for him when he did. All the other actors--especially Leonard Nimoy, Kim Catrall, and Christopher Plummer--turn in solid performances as well. No naked Uhuras, no Scotty bumping into things, no Kirk falling off a mountain. Just perfect!The space battle at the end between the Enterprise, the Excelsior, and the Bird of Prey rivals the fantastic battle in Wrath of Kahn. The Enterprise sure got whooped in that fight, didn't they? The only part of that battle that really annoyed me was when Chang (strange name for a Klingon, BTW) kept spouting out quotes from the works of William Shakespeare. It was okay at first, but got repetitive after a while, and I was finally relieved to see him killed. The special effects were top-notch, and is a HUGE improvement over the lousy Great Barrier in Trek V. But what really gets to me is the ending. When I first saw this movie, I thought, This is it. This is the last time I'll ever see these guys again. And I felt kinda sad. And I loved seeing the signatures of each of the main characters appear on the screen. Nice touch! This was indeed a great send-off, better than Generations was...All in all, the original crew's finest hour. The militaristic feel, the crew back in character for the last time, the camera work, the effects, the acting of Christopher Plummer and David Warner, all add up for a great conclusion to the series. I highly recommend this to all Star Trek fans. This is definitely a must-see, especially on DVD, with far superior picture quality and sound. A great final journey where no man--where no one--has gone before.Final Grade 10/10 "}{"Title":"Good final film for the original cast","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible peace between the Klingons and the Federation,as well as a brutal murder of a Klingon chancellor and the framing of Kirk and Dr.McCoy afterward,highlight this adventure. Strong performances by most of the cast,especially Plummer as Shakespeare-quoting Klingon bad guy Chang. Sadly,this is DeForrest Kelley's(McCoy) final appearance in a Star Trek film. However,it serves as a fitting end to a legendary crew. Followed by the very weak Generations.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Star Trek Movies!","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen all the Star Trek movies at least once.  This one, I've seen around a hundred times or more.  I'm not sure if it's the fact that it's the final voyage of the originals (Especially now since Mr. Kelley has passed away), or the fact of the wonderful story and relatively deep plot, but this installment is the very best.  I think one of the major ups of this one would be that each crew member seems to play an important part in overcoming the adventure.  I would also argue that Christopher Plummer and David Warner make the best Klingons in the entire Star Trek saga.  A guest appearance by the OTHER best Klingon, Michael Dorn, is also featured.  Contrary to what someone on Amazon.com said, the DVD version of these movie is wonderful, and includes two theatrical trailers. "},{"Title":"It's a sequel, Jim, but not as we know it!","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Elderly explorers, geriatric journeymen, altogether antiquated alien adversaries - call them what you will, but the crew of the USS Enterprise were looking decidedly jaded by the time this (almost) final installment of the original Star Trek's cinematic series hit the big screens.STAR TREK VI was released just after the conclusion of the Cold War, and the movie's themes were supposedly inspired by the Perestroika-inspired New 20th Century World Order, but surely we'd seen it all before in the previous five episodes.The most interesting features of this feature were Christian Slater's uncredited cameo (reportedly included at the insistance of his mother, a Hollywood casting agent and devoted Trekkie) and the increasing obviousness of William Shatner's hairpiece (or, maybe that was just a Tribble - remember the original tv episode - resting on his head).This film should have been earmarked as the 'Final Frontier' for the group of weary travellers, but, as soon as those hokey signatures came up at the end in the ritual Signing Off, you just KNEW that At least some of them would be suiting up again. "},{"Title":"Probably the 2nd best in the series","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nicholas Meyer does an incredible job here, directing the second best Star Trek movie, which is appropriate because he also directed the best Star Trek movie, ST2 The Wrath of Khan.  Yet this movie lacks some of the cheesiness ST2 had (like the alien brain-controlling bugs...I always hated that part), and uses some of the better special effect technology that ST2 didn't have almost 10 years earlier.  This movie has everything, and even non-Star Trek fans should enjoy it.  The only bad thing I can say about this movie is that it is a bit slow at times, but with the awesome LOOK of the whole movie, I didn't mind.  I gave it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The End of an Era","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country should be considered one of the best of the Star Trek series and one of the best Science Fiction movies of 90`s.This film gave good send off unlike most movie series. This film had better plot than second Star Trek film and probably had the most intriguing story since that period of time.  The film shows the cold war relation between The Klingons\The Federation which is similar to Russia\U.S. William Shatner performance was better than usual. The villian have excellent motives for what there doing unlike previous installments.Also, The Undiscovered Country is much than Star Wars Phantom Menace.This film is definitely one of the definitive Star Trek films.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "},{"Title":"A perfect end to a wonderful series","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me, this will always be Captain Kirk's final adventure and the real ending to the Star Trek saga.  It was a perfect blend of action, mystery, political intrigue, and humor.  Also, it was the film where each of the crew members had an opportunity to shine.  Both Spock and Sulu were given command positions, Uhura and Scotty were instrumental in the conclusion, and Dr. McCoy had one of his largest, most entertaining roles to date.It is also one of the few overtly political Star Trek stories that works well.  Since the characters show signs of prejudice towards Klingons and reticence to make peace, it shows that they are realistic individuals with real-life feelings and flaws.  They are not the emotionless saints that would be seen in future Star Trek stories.  The film makes a good point about the importance of leaps of faith in modern international politics without being too preachy to stomach - a very hard thing to pull off indeed.Truly superb and one of the last great science fiction movies to hit the theaters before we started being subjected to crap like Starship Troopers and Star Wars The Phantom Menace. "},{"Title":"A great send off for the original crew of the Enterprise","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek VI is the next best Trek film.  This movie literally starts out with a bang, and from there we are plunged into intergalactic intrigue and danger.  As usual, Kirk and Co. are there to save the day.  Leonard Nimoy and Nicholas Meyer came up with a great story line and Meyer's direction propelled the action forward.  Christopher Plummer is perfect as General Chang, and the final battle between Kirk and Chang makes for great adventure.  A worthy ending, to a fine starship and her crew.  "},{"Title":"Chernobyl and Perestroika, but no Berlin Wall?","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the second Trek movie by Nicholas Meyer, fan-favorite writer and director of The Wrath of Khan. It has the same strengths a plot based firmly in pulp history, some good action scenes, and a fairly serious tone. It also shares the same weaknesses dull direction and photography, rampant militarism, and clichéd dialogue.Kudos to the writers and producers and whoever for adding the political allegory. The Klingon Empire is collapsing due to a disaster of some sort, and it presents the Federation with a perfect opportunity, either to finally defeat their old enemies, or to turn over a new leaf and make friends. If you've seen The Next Generation, you'll know the outcome.The problem is that this is all rather tawdry. It turns out that the 23rd century is a lot like the present day, with politicians and military types and conferences everywhere you look. Remember the days when the Enterprise explored space and encountered exciting new alien life forms? None of that here. This is a much more old-fashioned adventure, with Kirk and Bones framed for assassinating the Klingon leader and shipped off to a prison planet while Spock and the gang try to solve the mystery of exactly what the heck happened.The middle third of the film moves slowly. The prison is full of aliens but otherwise a bit drab. The villain is not revealed as such until late, and doesn't get developed at all. The mystery is never as convincing as it should be because it always seems like Spock already has all the answers -- a technique Nicholas Meyer learned from old Sherlock Holmes films, though not from the genuine Holmes stories. Those stories are quoted along with an awful lot of Shakespeare; the Klingon in charge of the prison lifts his intro speech direct from Bridge on the River Kwai. The climax is pretty sharp, with a decent space battle. (Actually, the battle consists almost entirely of the Enterprise getting repeatedly shot at by a Klingon ship while Christopher Plummer spits out random Shakespearean one-liners; it's a wonder the scene works at all).So it's not a bad film, it just feels a little small. Galactic politics don't carry enough weight to make a really good movie, and there's not enough fun or adventure in the rest of the story. As usual, the unwieldy plot tends to crowd the characters out of the film, even though this, the last movie with the original crew, is where we really want to see each of our heroes get a good send-off. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever watched a movie where you figured out the ending at the beginning?  This film is it.  Everyone knows the Clingons were the Soviets, and the Federation was the Americans.  With the end of the Cold War they decided to end the Trek War, where the walls came tumbling down.  The big surprise twist at the end has no shock value at all!  What saves the film is Shatner's fight at the Cligons prison.  In the end, worth watching, but more of the same. 6/10 Will Star Trek ever die like other shows they keep remaking the same idea with new series, and films. "},{"Title":"A galaxy at a crossroad. A murder in space. A final voyage.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek 6 differs from past Trek films. The movie has an interesting plot and seems to close the book on the original crew and a 25 year saga. This movie's writing is excellent, the actors give one of their finest performances, and the special effects are great. A must see. "}{"Title":"One of the better.....","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the better Trek films out there.  The plot and characters are very driven, yet mature and sensible.  The effects were not as great as I would anticipate, however they do not detract from the quality of the film.The correlation between the Cold War and the Federation/Klingon union is, I think, accurate, and makes the film more accessable.  I also think this film was a good lead into The Next Generation, even though there is an 80 year time seperation.  I would like to see some films about the time period between this film and Generations. "},{"Title":"A good way to close out...","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Harve Bennett left the Star Trek movie franchise after his idea of making a movie based on Kirk and Spock's early days at the Academy. Luckily, it didn't come to this. This adventure is filled with a dark conspiracy in which factions within Starfleet and the Klingons do not want peace between the two sides. The sets looked better than they did in Star Trek V, as the plot was a 100% improvement over the trashy fifth Star Trek film. In addition, Sulu, who wanted to be on the Excelsior in ST4 (final scene), finally gets it. Kirk gets framed, as the Klingons have more than enough reasons to punish him for the crime of killing the Chancellor, in which this time he does not do. Superbly directed by Nick Meyer.Rating A- "},{"Title":"A waste of good (dead) Klingons...","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" and pretty much anything else associated with this drivel. Fascinating how the movies, in their own way, duplicate the progression of the original television show. The first season on TV was great, the second season was very good but beginning to show some holes, the third season was pretty dreadful. I know I'm in the minority in thinking the first ST movie was the best, but there is little question that the films slide downhill from 2 to this bitter end. Kirk and McCoy get railroaded into a hostile prison in the midst of contentious treaty discussions. I don't care. They have all these great characters ready to go, more special effects than they know what to do with, and they waste their time on some hokey Klingon with a lousy British accent and an eye patch. Comparable to an average (meaning pretty bad) third year TV episode. The crew deserved better on their swan song. "},{"Title":"Worth putting in the little extra required to keep this from remaining totally Undiscovered, but do not expect it to challenge the better entries in the series.","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fifth sequel to 1979's original Star Trek motion picture is a rather odd, yet oddly compelling all at once, political-come-conspiracy thriller featuring insiders; assassination attempts; betrayals; jailbreaks; peace treaties and a whole bunch of unease born out of an array of superpowers begrudgingly coming together as one, at a designated place, to try and thrash things out &#x96; oh, and there's some space travel stuff featuring those whom we all know and love on what appears to be their final voyage. It isn't that the sixth Star Trek film isn't any good, on the contrary; it's moderately involving and makes fairly good use of what its biting off, but there is a clammy sense of emotional disassociation to proceedings; an episodic sense of people going through motions rather than undertaking an adventure and shipping off to exotic, creative, previously unseen locales to do battle with that which lies ahead. The Undiscovered Country is Star Trek by way of Tom Clancy; this is Alistair MacLean does spaceships, and yet in spite of this, it remains a difficult film to truly dislike out of its inherent ability to have us as involved as we are in this procession of injustice and races against time.The film will open with an instrumental score accompanying the opening titles, beginning somewhat quietly compared to the levels it will reach, before building and building into something rather sinister that appears to 'clash' with that of a more rousing; more triumphant element to the music wedged in there amongst proceedings. They clash for supremacy, and perhaps fittingly, the film will go on to document something rather rousing or triumphant, in the form of a peace process between rival inter-galactic species, that eventually comes under threat from a disturbing element of sabotage by certain other folk. After a huge explosion at an off-radar Klingon locale, which is eventually revealed as their chief energy source for life, the oft overly hostile aforementioned beings are forced into retiring their usual demeanour of aggression so as to forge some kind of bond with the more peaceful; more liberal United Federation of Planets, their long-standing enemy.Such news eventually reaches that of William Shatner's Starfleet Captain James Kirk; whom, along with most of his crew, are drafted into a top secret meeting prior to which faithful engineer Montgomerie Scott (Doohan) establishes some retirement plans he and the team had in mind. Disaster, in that regard, strikes; Kirk and co. are charged with heading out into space once more to rendez-vous with a chief Kligon ship so as to escort them back to Earth as it's revealed to him they're gunning for peace. Kirk is unamused; I suppose you would be if your mortal enemy for the duration of your career decided to run up the white flag on the eve of your permanent quitting time. Kirk, as it happens, despises the Klingon's and cannot care as to whether their kind is under threat from extinction; the film, we feel, missing a trick in putting Kirk through the wringer he goes through without allowing his opinions to change on such a stance when misestimation turns out to play a key role in the film.The film has some fun with the Enterprise's coming into contact with the Klingon crew, led by Christopher Plummer's wonderful General Chang a smirking; snarling villain with war scars all over his body, whom enjoys sizing himself up against Kirk. As warriors of space, he of the physicality of warfare, Kirk's prowess lying with that brilliant mind of his and their primary clashing is good value. The initial alienation between the crews are evident in Uhura's (Nichols) comment of Guess who's coming to dinner, a line that, with McCoy's (Kelley) take on Klingon's as .....all look(ing) alike to me imbues proceedings with a certain sense of racial tension. After that proverbial dinner, an uneasy coming together prior to the trip to the meeting, disaster strikes and the Enterprise appears to fire on the Klingon vessel; causing mass damage and, to rub salt into the wounds, allowing someone to anonymously beam aboard armed to the teeth able to execute each of the Klingon council.Fingers, or whatever it is certain species possess within the Star Trek universe that constitutes towards digits on the ends of hands, are immediately pointed towards both Kirk and McCoy thus allowing for their arrest, trial and consequent imprisonment on a sub-zero penal planet.The film sprouts out into varying directions from thereon, that wily stalwart Spock taking control of the ship and instigating a detective strand to try and discover what actually happened as Kirk and McCoy try to escape from a jailed existence, that ought to have been more Hellish than it is and arrives with a certain amount of humour, as the peace process gently looms over everything. Essentially, the film is one of the one last job ilk; an often enjoyable framework that here sees Kirk once more brave the hostilities of the known galaxy when he really ought to be somewhere very different with his feet up writing memoirs. One wonders as to where one retires within the domains of the Star Trek universe; some specialist planet close enough to a respective sun keeping it constantly warm, perhaps - populated only by whitewashed villas and large lakes rife with never-ending supplies of Marlins. We enjoy the balance between strands Nicholas Meyer applies to proceedings, the film peppered with bits and pieces here and there that total up a good time. There is the gradual uncovering of the truth surrounding the situation; there is Somali-born model Iman's brief, slinky performance as the inmate whose presence on the prison planet we scoff at before being put in our place as well as the usual space battles and the rooting for the familiar faces to thwart the villains resulting in a differing, although sporadically wholesome, entry. "},{"Title":"non-trekkies needn't bother","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The crew of the (original) Starship Enterprise retires in style, making their graceful exit after going for 25 years where no man (except, apparently, William Shakespeare) has gone before. The sixth and final big screen episode (with this cast, at least) of the cult TV show is pure pop entertainment, with few pretensions to depth or substance, despite the obvious parallels between the ailing Klingon Empire and the now defunct Soviet Union. The plot involves an attempt to sabotage an intergalactic superpower summit, with old reactionaries Kirk and McCoy accused of foul play after a liberal Klingon ambassador (Gorkin=Gorbachev) is assassinated. It's all incredibly silly, but who can argue with a movie featuring a one-eyed, Shakespeare-obsessed Klingon warrior? The Star Trek films have always had more in common with the many Star Wars imitations than with the original television series (in design, scale, effects, and grandiose self-importance), so the final installment actually ends a cycle of space operas which began a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away&#x85; "},{"Title":"Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the final film to feature the star of the original science-fiction show, 1973-1975, and the do their best to make sure it goes out on a high, from director Nicholas Meyer (Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan). Basically the Klingons are facing extinction after an explosion on their moon, and their only chance of survival is to join and make peace with the Federation, after nearly 70 years of war. Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and the Enterprise crew, minus Hikaru Sulu (George Takei) who is now Captain of the ship Excelsior, are going to be part of it. They invite Klingons Chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) and General Chang (Christopher Plummer) to dinner on the Enterprise to begin the peace process, but this is quickly back to war when two unknown assassins board the Klingon vessel and murder Gorkon, and two missiles apparently from the Enterprise directly hit their ship. The Klingons, led by Chang are of course convinced that the Kirk and the Enterprise are responsible, as the Captain's Log audio by Kirk clearly expresses his hate for the Klingons after they killed his son. Kirk and Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy (DeForest Kelley) are found guilty and placed in prison on the frozen planet Rura Penthe, but they quickly escape with the help of a shape shifter. Captain Spock (Leonard Nimoy) is sure that they have been framed, and is determined to help find the real murderers, they do manage this with the help of Vulcan Lieutenant Valeris (Kim Cattrall) who knows some stuff about the conspiracy. The Klingons, or rather Chang, planned the murder to make sure that there is still war in the Federation, and they next plan to assassinate the Klingon who can make sure peace is settled. In the end, Chang is found guilty of planning the murder, and the crew of the Enterprise are informed that the ship will be decommissioned, so they decide to go on one final blast into space. Also starring James Doohan as Captain Montgomery Scotty Scott, Walter Koenig as Commander Pavel Chekov, Nichelle Nichols as Cmdr. Uhura, Kurtwood Smith as Federation President, Mark Lenard as Ambassador Sarek, Brock Peters as Admiral Cartwright, Rosanna DeSoto as Azetbur, Star Trek The Next Generation's Michael Dorn as Klingon Defence Attourney and Christian Slater as Excelsior Communications Officer. There is some mention that there is Shakespearian element to this film, I can sort of see that, but anyway, it is a good way to end the series, say goodbye to the ageing stars, and make way for Sir Patrick Stewart and the others, a very worthwhile science-fiction adventure. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing and Best Makeup. Star Trek was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Mr. Spock was number 23 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters. Good! "},{"Title":"Overrated but decently entertaining entry in the series","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Solid, decent send-off for the original cast, but definitely a crew that needed to retire. The actors and characters are both laughably out of their time and out of their element. Although the story is intermittently interesting (albeit moreso than I had expected), it was frequently too flat for attention. I'm still puzzled as to the hatred incurred by Star Trek V, as it's just as good if not better than this film, and this wasn't boring for the most part, but it proves instantly forgettable. They needed to hand the mantle over, and although they apparently do in the next film, really, they should have handed it over long ago, as these old fogies just can't get the job done.Grade 7/10 (B-/C+) / #18 (of 24) of 1991 "},{"Title":"good but problematic finale for original Trek","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The last Star Trek film with the original cast is in many ways one of the better ones. It has an interesting plot (if a little too heavily invested with current political/social references) and moves at a good clip, taking the familiar characters on an exciting journey, equal parts murder mystery, political thriller and action adventure. And yet it tries a little too hard... perhaps the story it wants to tell is bit too ambitious for a Trek universe that usually knows its limitations. There is a scene where the Klingon chancellor and his delegation attend a formal dinner aboard the Enterprise that is emblematic of the film's problems. The point being made, apparently, is that no one at the dinner, Klingons or humans, makes a very good impression on the other side even though they are on their way to a conference where hopefully the two sides will make peace for good. What comes across though is a mostly clumsy exchange that never finds any kind of consistency or logic. And despite Spock's one-sided assessment of the evening, the Enterprise officers are at least trying to be diplomatic, unlike their Klingon counterparts. The idea that the Federation must bend over backwards to accommodate the hostile Klingons, that this is the only way to proceed, is constantly put forward; those who would deal with them more 'realistically,' shall we say, are portrayed as heartless warmongers and in the end, traitors to the Federation itself. So depending on one's political bent, the story in 'The Undiscovered Country' is either an enlightened one or thinly disguised liberal propaganda. Even if it's the latter, it is told in an entertaining manner and is certainly a meatier tale than we usually get in a Star Trek flick. When one looks at the canon of original cast films, it's a very mixed bag, not only in terms of quality, but in approach. The first one is a misfire all the way around; the second, 'Wrath of Khan,' is probably the best, an honest and worthy updating of the series itself; 'Search for Spock' an okay time-filler, the equivalent of an average TV episode; 'The Voyage Home' is a diverting left-turn toward comedy and surprisingly successful at it; and 'The Final Frontier' is a weak entry with a few intriguing ideas but poor execution. The ending of 'The Undiscovered Country' struggles to hit the right note for the original crew's farewell and doesn't really succeed but that's okay. In its own way, it reminds us of those slightly sappy epilogues invariably tacked on to the end of the TV episodes, a brief conversation among the bridge crew before the Enterprise disappears into a star field, heading for its next adventure. Taken on those terms, it's very appropriate with an added touch of nostalgia. "},{"Title":"You haven't heard Shakespeare until you've heard it in the original Klingon.","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In light of an upcoming peace conference between the Klingons and the Federation, Captain Kirk puts aside his personal feelings and welcomes a Klingon delegation to dine on the Enterprise. But soon after the Klingons return to their ship they are attacked and the Klingon Ambassador is assassinated by someone believed to be from the Enterprise. Kirk and McCoy are put on trial for the murder, found guilty, and sentenced to hard labor. Surely this can't be the end of Kirk and the rest of the Enterprise crew.I'm not even sure I can be fair to these Star Trek movies anymore. I'm finding it harder and harder to take them seriously. The situations, dialogue, and action are quite ridiculous. Add to that the incredible over-acting on the part of William Shatner and his hair-piece and you're left with something I find more comedic (albeit unintentional) than dramatic. For example, watching Kirk score with Iman or watching Kirk make goofy faces as he fights his double &#150; laugh out loud funny! In reality, however, Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country is the best of the three Star Trek movies I've watched recently (Generations and The Final Frontier being the other two). I actually had fun watching it. I attribute much of that to the direction. Is it a coincidence that without Shatner in the director's chair (as he was in Star Trek V) that much of the movie actually worked for me. Sure, the writing, etc. may have also been better, but I'll argue the direction was as well. The mystery elements of the story were nicely handled even though much of the solution was way too easy to guess. There's nothing quite like a good conspiracy to keep a movie interesting. Finally, it's difficult to watch Star Trek VI and not be impressed with the considerable talent of Christopher Plummer. He makes several of the Star Trek regulars look like chumps in comparison. His General Chang is one of the more interesting characters I've run into in a Star Trek movie. "},{"Title":"Only Nixon Could Go To China; Only Star Trek Could Come Here","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nicholas Meyer (Star Trek The Wrath of Khan) returns to direct this unique Trek film about putting bigotry aside for the greater cause of peace. The film was co-written by Lawrence Konner and Mark Rosenthal (Rosenthal, the one who complained in a Superman IV commentary about what happened in that movie even though he wrote it!), as well as Nimoy. But there's much more about this movie that impresses besides its pedigree. As the conclusion to the classic Trek adventures, it's fun but bittersweet, coming across as a movie about the last few months of college (figuratively speaking, of course) with an outer-space Gorbichev at the center of the action. The plot reaches from assassination to Klingon-language Shakespeare quotations and gives every character their moment in the sun. Look for a great performance by Kurtwood Smith (Red from That '70s Show) as the Federation president. "}{"Title":"A Fine End, Though By Far Not My Favorite","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get this out of the way having Klingons bleed purple blood that looks like melted crayons is a really silly idea. Having the blood float in space is really cool and one of the best effects of the film, but purple? This takes away from the seriousness of the situation and I don't know who okayed such a stupid thing. But I digress...We see the Original Cast on their last voyage, where they try to secure a peace treaty between the Klingons and Federation. Unfortunately, someone assassinates the Klingon Chancellor and Kirk/Bones are framed.The film is great for a closing to the series, but also as a launching pad for the Next Generation universe. We see Worf's grandfather, and we see the Klingons moving into their TNG phase. We see Kirk and Bones working together to fight the wrongs assigned to them. We see Spock take full command of the Enterprise (something he was meant to do). Oh, and best of all, we see Christian Slater.I already complained about the blood. And that's really the only thing I didn't like. I can complain they put David Warner (the Lexus guy) in this film as a Klingon after he appeared in part 5 as a human, but you probably didn't even notice until I pointed it out, did you? So yeah, it's fine. If you watched the other five, you are pretty much obligated to complete your run. "},{"Title":"The Original Trekkies Improve on Their Final Adventure.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR TREK VI THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY is a decent way to end the original Star Trek franchise.  This time, the Enterprise crew's plans to go at peace with the Klingons backfires when the Klingon spaceship is suddenly attacked, beginning another huge war.  Though STAR TREK VI is not the best of the Trek movies, it proudly makes up for the disasterous FINAL FRONTIER and returns the franchise to its true form with the excellent cast and neat special effects intact.3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"The Best!!!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion it's the best of the Star Trek films and possibly one of the best sci-fi films of all time. The movie has it all.You may think 90's sci-fi was all about terminators and the like but you need to see this - it's CLASSIC stuff.In my opinion it's way better than anything Lucas ever came up with. "},{"Title":"It's Dead, Jim!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, this Was actually one of the better ones in the run, wasn't it? Right up there with Khan, the one where they save the Whales, and where the Borg get whacked by the Bald Guy....all of'em pretty good, fun to watch, etc.I think they sent off the old guys in a proper, fitting way, with Bones and the rest kayoing the Klingons. It's too bad such putrid films as the first one(Dull, DUll DULL!!!) and #5(or, Captain Quirk gets to Direct) are still floating round out there to sully a generally good series' luster.But, looking round and seeing some comments in here about how crappy Star Wars is, missing Trek...guys, get a grip. Star Wars leaves this series in its wake big time, and there ain't any getting round that fact. Even Jar Jar. "},{"Title":"Average final instalment","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The last of the STAR TREK movies to solely feature the original cast, this is better than the previous one but not one of the best. In this one, Kirk and McCoy find themselves on a separate adventure, Sulu has his own ship and the Klingons are the stock bad guys again.I found that STAR TREK VI is a fun movie for the fans but maybe not so much for the rest of the cinema goers. Part of it, involving fight scenes with ugly monsters, seems to be out of a STAR WARS film rather than a STAR TREK movie, but to counter this there are some nice character-building moments in which the likes of Kirk and McCoy look back over their long careers.It's also touching to see the whole team back for what would be the final time, but in reality this amounts to little more than an extended and fairly forgettable example of the original TV series. "},{"Title":"Still not a fan","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this fifth sequel has knowing humour, excellent visual effects and a few moments of intrigue, it's let down by a rather plodding and uninvolving mystery. When the Enterprise apparently attacks a Klingon ship and members of the crew beam aboard to assassinate the chancellor, Kirk and McCoy are tried and sentenced to spend the rest of their lives on Hoth...er, sorry, an ice prison planet. But who was really responsible? Well, it's not all that interesting despite the usual fun banter between William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelly. The script has moments of banality and poor jokes while most of the regular cast demonstrate why we never see them outside of 'Star Trek' films. The score by Cliff Eidelman isn't his best but lifts the otherwise disappointing material. The sign off is kind of sweet, though. "},{"Title":"The Final Voyage","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my mind, this ranks as one of the better Star Trek movies, and certainly as an appropriate farewell to the original cast, who actually seem much younger and more vibrant than they had in Star Trek V (perhaps reflecting the fact that they were working with a far better script and story.) There is some believable evolution that has taken place. Sulu (George Takei), for example, is now a starship captain in his own right (of the Excelsior), which at least was a step toward answering what was - for me - the problem of this crew never really seeming to advance very much beyond their original manifestation in the TV series. The primary leads (William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley) seem to enjoy reviving their roles as Kirk, Spock and McCoy again.The story is interesting, as it follows an attempt by the Federation to make peace with the Klingon Empire. Even up to the present day there has possibly never been a better Klingon in my opinion than General Chang (Christopher Plummer), a Shakespeare quoting fierce warrior. The farewell is begun by Captain Sulu, who says to Captain Kirk (and speaks for all Star Trek fans) nice to see you in action one more time, Captain Kirk. The ending is predictable enough (Kirk et. al. save the day, as they always manage to do) and the final scenes revolve around orders from Star Fleet Command to decommission the Enterprise, as Kirk ruminates about passing the torch to a new generation - clearly a reference to the cast of the TV series Star Trek The Next Generation, and to the fact that future movies would feature that crew. (One of the things I liked in this movie was the casting of Michael Dorn - Worf in STTNG - as Worf's grandfather who defends Kirk and McCoy before the Klingon High Council.)This is a fond farewell to a familiar group of actors (even though several of them kept popping up in TNG and later movies.)6/10 "},{"Title":"Nope","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a long-time Star Trek fan (although not so much of the movies). After seeing this particular movie twice, it didn't get any better the second time around.The movie was Star Trek for its own sake. It was bloated, too filled with itself, the last gasp of an aging franchise. The original actors had all become old, really old. This movie lacked the freshness and vigour of TOS. It didn't make this long-time fan rejoice in the original series; it made me feel sad about what had become of it.It made no sense that all of them (minus Sulu) were still aboard the same ship (although I suppose they had a story line -- something half-assed and bogus -- to explain that).They tried too hard to recreate TOS. There must have been fascinating, original, age-appropriate things they could have done with the aging cast of this series -- but this certainly wasn't it. A quiet movie exploring the later lives of these space explorers (perhaps mixed with an intelligent sci-fi story) would have been more appropriate here. They should have called in a great science fiction writer to do this one.This movie reveals a basic exploration v. action tension that is also affecting Abrams's recent Star Trek movies. The almighty dollar is forcing filmmakers to make action movies; however, that's not what Star Trek is all about. The magical moments of the original series had nothing to do with the bridge of the Enterprise, spaceships, phaser shootouts, etc. Star Trek was primarily about ideas. "},{"Title":"Star Trek as inept message movie.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Star Trek VI, on paper, has a lot going for it. It's an even numbered Trek, those are supposed to be good right? And Christopher Plummer, who doesn't love him? Plus Nicholas Meyer is back to direct, and he did the very good Star Trek II. In fact, in theory, this should be a very good movie, and it's quite likely people have convinced themselves that it is.It isn't.See, Star Trek VI is a heavy handed, ineptly constructed, and far too obvious message picture. Throughout, there are all sorts of references to people in the Federation hating Klingons. Because, get it, racism is bad! Look at how bad racism is! But in its execution, this heavy handed execution is so inept and obvious it ruins the film. Everything ties into the overall theme of how bad racism is, to the point where it becomes absolutely absurd.What makes it worse is that they're using Star Trek, and beloved Star Trek characters to push this message, when it is so completely inappropriate in the world. Star Trek has, for years, been founded on how in the future these petty distinctions would be overcome, and people would become more enlightened about these things. And yet, when it's convenient, they throw all that out. It's sickening. "},{"Title":"Star Trek VI The Wasted Opportunity","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is a pity that, by this stage in the Star Wars franchise, the torch was not passed to the younger generation of the crew. To have seen Sulu or Chekhov in command with perhaps cameos from Kirk and Spock could have made for an exciting adventure.The story itself is rather ordinary, the sort of thing that would have struggled to make the cut in the original series. As with several episodes in TOS, the script leans heavily on Shakespeare as though the mere presence of the Bard can impart a gravitas which the script lacks. He can't and the only gravity here comes from the bulging waistlines of the aging crew. Scott is the worst culprit, having obviously scoffed more than his fair share of haggis and short bread; the scene at the end when he has to waddle up some stairs in order to shoot a would-be assassin is obviously ridiculous (why not use a younger fitter and trained security guard?). But it is Kirk, despite excellent work from his corset and an Oscar-winning performance from his bouffant wig (played by Hammy the Hamster) who is the most incongruous, since the script requires him to engage in some of the virile manliness which made him famous 20 odd years earlier. Unfortunately unlike Ricardo Montalban in WOK, Shatner has not aged too well, and we are subjected to the unedifying sight of a podgy middle-aged man not only fighting but also making love to an alien babe. Yuck! "}{"Title":"OK movie but no science fiction","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is just a political thriller in space as kirk and bones are accused of killing some klingon big shot. Not really much action and certainly no frightening monsters or trips thru black holes or anything like you expect in a scifi flik. And of course, the characters are showing their age. Uhuru is not sexy in the least and scotty has turned into a blimp. Grace lee Whitney has a small part and still looks good at 61 but not like the stunner she was in the original TV series. If they had used her in every episode back in the 60s, the series would have lasted 15 years. What a babe she was.Kim Catrall has the female lead as the vulcan valeris. They could have made her look exotic and sexy but no - they give her a silly hairdo and make her look like a toad. I'll never understand why movies feature ugly female characters for no purpose. "},{"Title":"Undiscovered Rest Home Enlarged Prostate Edition","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadSeriously, this is not that bad of a movie. If you were Paramount and number five went down in legendary flames what would you do? Answer Hire the director of the best of the series the Wrath Of Khan's Nicholas Meyer. The movie still has two flaws that were the center of critical attack 1. It is tied too strongly to the fall of the Soviet Union with its attendant quixotic wistfulness towards the future (they hadn't met Putin yet). 2. The worst sin any detective movie can commit the concealing of information that would have allowed you to solve the mystery right away. This is why you see a lot of hate in some of these reviews if you are a Noir or detective movie buff this will really irritate you. It centers around the torpedoes did or didn't the Enterprise fire them, yes, no, maybe, I'm not sure, I will get back to you, finally, right before the ending YES!. Plummer and the pacing are the stars of this movie. While, admittedly, it is nowhere near Khan, it is commensurately better than all the other Non Nicholas Meyer's movies. Plummer is evocative of Lauren in Blood Simple; a smiling ghoul joyfully full of hate and trying to start a galactic war with the Federation by assassinating his own chancellor with the help of some Federation, Klingon-hating malcontents. Almost every word Chang speaks has a sinister other meaning. I love when he meets Kirk,I was so looking forward to meeting you Captain, Kirk replies,I don't know how to take that, Chang's adjunct does damage control quickly,Sincere Admiration! Plummer owns all his scenes as a happily malevolent figure quoting The Bard incessantly and wishing to steal England's greatest author along with lots of territory. The pacing is the other reason I own this; it begins with an explosion and it keeps going non-stop. The assassination is quite intense for a Star Trek movie with the assassins shooting pretty much everybody they meet on the Klingon Ship. The intensity continues through the attempted resuscitation of Gorkon, Kirk and Bones' arrest, trial and incarceration on an ice moon, escape and the climax the race to the conference. Chang has an invisible bird of prey that can fire while cloaked. The other great attraction is Meyer's intelligence; we do not have to suffer through humanistic lectures like TNG or boring campfires, comedy scenes or nostalgia. He actually focuses on exciting action and entertaining us, imagine that? Fan's of Abrams' Star Trek will find this and Khan the closest to that style of Star Trek. It is quite different from all the other Non Meyer's movies.If you are going to collect these movies, buy Khan first, then this one. Especially avoid number four with the woman and her whale love partner. Yes, the above critics are right, if you focus on the silly, poorly rendered detective movie, you will hate this movie. Above all things, this is an action movie which is why I cut it more slack. Also, even non Trekkies, like myself, like the ending with the signatures up on the screen. It has a farewell, pensive tone with Spock explaining why he has a picture of Man being thrown out of the Garden Of Eden,It is here to remind me that all things must come to an end. This is a beautiful existential metaphor for the function of the film. They are aware this is the finale and the writing, direction and acting show it. I must admit, even I, a scathing critic of Star Trek felt sad seeing them all leave at the end. I grew up watching this cast on an old black and white set. While it is the opposite of my existentialist philosophy, I still own this one and Khan; I cannot own the others, especially, TNG's versions. Trust me, after you watch Generations, you will wish they had turned the ship around and come back. Not A Masterpiece, But Also, The Second Best Movie.In All Farewells A Bit Of Death, My Friends, Parting Is Such Sweet Sorrow. Shakespeare "},{"Title":"I guess you have to be wearing Spock-ears to enjoy this.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disappointing and predictable. I wasn't expecting much, but ST has sunk to new lows. The old clichés from the (much better than most of the feature films) TV series make their appearance once again Kirk has a double - if only temporarily; Kirk (and McCoy) falsely accused and on trial; and a universal movie cliché - traitors and conspirators all over the place. Plus the very tiring Klingons with their bad make-up. It's not really the age of the original crew that had become a problem - it's the utter morons who are allowed to do these Star Trek scripts.When political correctness starts dictating characters, dialogue, and plot, then, realistically, no quality can be expected. Barely better than all the unbelievably crappy TV spin-offs, all of which are a combination of PC, soap-opera plots, bad make-up, and mediocre actors. Strictly nerd material. If you have any sense, or taste, stick to the 60s TV show which is camp, nostalgic fun, and ignore almost everything else that has to do with Star Trek. (Except movies I and IV; they are good.) "},{"Title":"A terrible film!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Star Trek 6 is awful!  I must have looked at my watch at least 100 times while watching it.  I hate the Star Trek films.  I find them boring and the characters weak.  The visual effects are good but even that is not enough to save this film and the other Star Trek films from being truly awful. "}]