[{"Title":"Fun Little Film","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not great cinema, but as long as you don't go into it looking for earth-shattering insight and emotional depth, its actually an amusing little time waster.  The movie's goofy but original premise conceals its relatively cliched plots, and all concerned appear to be having fun. Bottomline, if you avoid taking either the movie or yourself too seriously, LP #9 is good for a few laughs. "},{"Title":"Nerds in love. One of my favorite guilty pleasures","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Guilty because I know if I admit how much I like it, I might lose some cred as a film buff.  But it's a great fairy tale, Anne Bancroft's brief scenes are funny, and Tate Donovan is a man I can get behind!  The scene where the nasty superficial gal crushes his ego at the bar must really hit home with a lot of men.  And say what you want about Bullock, but here she shows why she became a huge star with her megawatt smile!  But my favorite is Mary Mara, a great character actor given a chance to play a broadly funny, well, broad. If you ask me, Pretty Woman is overrated and this movie is underrated!  "},{"Title":"silly but fun fantasy","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock has the type of looks that can go either way, i.e., plain Jane or knockout. She does this very successfully in Love Potion No. 9, a cute film based on the song of the same name. The film sports a cameo by Anne Bancroft.Bullock and Tate Donovan play scientists who fool around with a love potion (number 8) which Bancroft gives Donovan to try. He doesn't try it; his cat does. After being overrun by horny cats, Donovan and Bullock move on to Bullock's chimps and then themselves.This all eventually leads to a return visit to Bancroft, this time for love potion number 9 and a very madcap finale.Entertaining. Bullock is always a delight. "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, worth seeing.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It is sort of a guilty pleasure, but I have to admit, I love this movie. Caveat a lot of that has to do with the fact that I have a special place in my heart for Sandra Bullock. It seems some people have gone from loving her to trying to not love her. Me, I never got off the loving her bus. With that said, this is a cute movie. Some of the humor is a bit crude, but not so much as to make the film seem moronic. It has a nice message and even though it is a bit dated and silly, I still get that warm, fuzzy, happy feeling when I watch it. There is extensive use of music from Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker within the film to amusing effect. "},{"Title":"Started well, but loses steam in second half","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I almost convinced myself that this was a good movie, but after giving it some thought, this is average at best.  Things start out well, as the two leads take full advantage of the potion, but then the film bogs down and becomes too formulaic.  Much of the second half of the film is hopelessly predictable, and is routine in the extreme.  Things remain conventional right to the end, when the obvious conclusion takes place.  The leads are both likable, and the there are several funny moments, but the best comedic bits are in the first half.  The thoroughly unoriginal second half left a bitter taste in my mouth, and that made it too standard to recommend. "},{"Title":"Good for viewers seeking yet another romantic comedy","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Paul (Tate Donovan) is a single, somewhat nerdy, biochemist who strikes out with women at every opportunity.  Diane (Sandra Bullock) is a geeky fellow scientist who is not a hit with the guys, either.  Hoping to change his luck, Paul goes to a gypsy and acquires a potion that will make him attractive to women.  It works quite well.  That's when Paul discovers he's in love with Diane.  Diane, however, is also making use of the potion and is suddenly surrounded by suitors.  Will Paul win the affections of Diane?This is just a fair entry into the genre of romantic comedies.  The two leads are likable but the plot is plodding in parts and detracts from the overall success of the film.  Also, the movie has some funny moments but overall does not register high on the laugh-o-meter.  The ending is predictable and somewhat satisfying yet just does not elicit great feelings of joy.  Fans of Sandra Bullock will probably want to see this early example of her work. Others who are crazy about romantic comedies are likely to want to spend an evening with this film, too. "},{"Title":"Love potion # 8","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Imagine if there ever was a strong potion that would make plain, unattractive people into glamorous ones. That's what happens to Paul Matthews, a nerdy scientist, who doesn't have much luck in the love department. When he decides to visit Madame Ruth, she tells him he is a lost case, but with the help of one of her magical preparations, he will be a winner. Well, Paul, a man of science, knows better, and never takes the seer's advice. His cat, on the other hand, discovers the magical powers when it licks the preparation that Paul threw in the garbage can.Diane Farrows, another scientist, sticks out like a sore thumb when we see her with some friends at a restaurant. She is a shy woman who has a car problem. She is in danger of losing her insurance as the traffic cop keeps writing her up for speeding. When Paul tells her about his discovery, she decides to experiment with one of the monkeys in her lab. Little prepares her for the results. Diane takes matters into her own hands and suddenly she is a popular girl who even attracts Prince Geoffrey, a hunk, who falls for the new woman.Dale Launer, a screen writer with a lot of hits, directs this mildly funny comedy we never had seen before, but which turns out to be a harmless way to spend an evening. Mr. Launer knows what he wants and he goes after it. He was lucky in casting the two talented principals in roles that with other actors might not have been as funny. Sandra Bullock appeared in this film before she made a splash in Speed and While You Were Sleeping. She plays the nerdy scientist with great panache. She goes a total transformation and we see her beauty that was hidden inside of what looked a homely girl. Tate Donovan also does good work as the nerdy Paul. Anne Bancroft is seen as the gypsy woman who can see the future. The rest of the cast do excellent work for Mr. Launer.Watch the film the next time it is shown on cable and let it work its magic on you. Mr. Launer knows how to write comedy, as he clearly proves it with this movie, once again. "},{"Title":"Very cute","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a very cute movie.  I love the plot of how computer nerds can attract even the uppercrust.  It also shows that you should never judge a book by it's cover and you never know who will be your soulmate.  Being an avid Adrian Paul fan also made the film that much more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I did not really have an aching desire to see this movie, but I enjoy Sandra Bullock, and mainly wanted to see it because she starred and thought it would be an enjoyable experience in at least one way or another. Love Potion #9 is not a masterpiece, nor was it terrible. It is just a fun little film meant to entertain and give the audience a good time, and it did just that, but here again, it did only that, so I am not positive it would be as good on a rewatch.I thought, even though sometimes the movie got annoying and uninteresting, it did a good job at keeping the audience's attention, and it nevertheless entertained with the story plot and performances. I love Sandra Bullock and seeing her in this film made me smile, because she is one of my favorite actresses, and even though there wasn't anything to highly praise, it was very cute and edgy, and overall I liked the movie for what it was. Don't sit down expecting the worst or best. Just clear your head of all expectations and you are bound to enjoy something about it, because it is enjoyable indeed, in my honest opinion. "},{"Title":"Astonishingly under-rated yet brilliant comedy.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Dale Launer, who wrote, produced, and directed this film got a bum rap. I can't believe it's so astonishingly under-rated. I found the film to be hilarious and touching, with superb performances by the two leads and the supporting cast.This film shows how fabulous Sandra Bullock can be when the material matches her talents. She gives a delightful and remarkably nuanced performance. The sight of her eyes shimmering with amusement is by itself reason enough see it.Yet Dale Launer is the real star here. He's written several films, including `My Cousin Vinny', but this is the only film he has so far directed. What a shame. His directing is nothing less than brilliant, and his sense of timing takes the film to a whole new level of hilarity.Highly recommended. See this movie!  "}{"Title":"From ugly duckling to swan.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I had seen Love Potion Number 9 many years ago and after Ms. Bullock's recent movie, Miss Congeniality, I realized in both movies she goes from ugly duckling to swan. For me, it works in both movies. In fact Love Potion Number 9 was the first movie I had seen her in. I am a big fan of both movies. Please note that they are comedies, not artsy message movies. Both movies are essentially silly, with some physical humor. Most importantly, they made me laugh, and I certainly enjoy watching the very gorgeous Ms. Bullock. "},{"Title":"Tell Your Troubles To The Gypsy","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I suppose that any of us living in urban areas have many times wanted to visit one of those basement apartments inhabited by alleged gypsies who have all kinds of cures for whatever ails you. If it's an affair of the heart there are test model love potions running all the way from one to Love Potion No. 9.Poor nerdy Tate Donovan can't seem to get a date nowhere, no how is persuaded by friends to visit one of those gypsies played with real bite by Anne Bancroft. She gives him Love Potion No. 8 and the stuff really does work. And Donovan being a biochemist actually figures out just how. In fact he and colleague Sandra Bullock try and boy do they like it and each other. But they have to experiment and Bullock hits the jackpot with the Prince of Wales played by Dylan Baker over here on a goodwill visit across the pond. He gets within the prescribed distance of Bullock and she could be the next Queen of Great Britain. As for a girl that Donovan's been putting his normally clumsy moves on, Mary Mara, she winds up in the end with more boyfriends than she could possibly have time for.It all comes to a head when a guy Bullock has been off and on seeing for years all of a sudden becomes madly infatuated with her again and they're about to be wed. Dale Midkiff of course has an agenda of his own and if Donovan's to stop him he'll need out of Anne Bancroft's medicine cabinet, the latest model, Love Potion No. 9.Donovan and Bullock are amusing and the rest of the cast gives them good support. I think you'll get a laugh from the doings at 34th and Vine and a little bottle of Love Potion No. 9.Good for what ails you. "},{"Title":"Cute RomCom, Nice But Overdone Premise","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is not an original premise, nor is it an original movie, but it IS sweet, funny, and entertaining. I enjoyed this flick, though it is only a flick, and it does have some cute elements.While this IS just another RomCom, it aptly entertains anyone whose mindset is to enjoy and/or seek out this type of movie. If you're already in the mood for a PG-13 romantic comedy about a shy biochemist and a shy biologist who dabble in love through alchemy via a Gypsy's love potion, then this is definitely the movie for you.On the whole, it rates a 4.9/10.As a RomCom, it rates a 6.7/10.That's an average of 5.8 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"It's no Great Comic Masterpiece but has its moments","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I learned a lot about myself that day.  I learned that power corrupts, and that absolute power corrupts absolutely... -- line from LP#9Some of the movie plot is by-the-numbers.  But the best moments come when the screenwriter asks, What would you do when you knew that, no matter what you said and no matter what you did, you couldn't miss?The answer is go wild, in the case of Tate Donovan's character.  Donovan gets the funniest scenes in the movie.In the case of Sandra Bullock's character, there's a moment where she's talking to a man in his cubicle and he looks so confused as he falls in love with her.  (Could have something to do with the fact that he's listening to The Village People's YMCA during the scene.)Mary Mara's character puts her own spin on what to do with a love potion, and her actions complicate the plot and create some hilarious moments. "},{"Title":"cute show about 2 sweet kids falling in love","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love Sandra Bullock; she is so cute in this kind of film.She plays an unlovely girl who is unable to make a connection with the opposite sex except as a bed partner. She works with a guy who is exactly like her - a loser. They discover a potion which makes them attractive to others. The show romps through a series of men and women coming on to them after they use the potion. Unfortunately, some rotten folks get their hands on the stuff and use it for their own nasty selves. But, the heroes work hard to stop these nefarious slugs from hatching their evil schemes. Funny and fun movie - 4 stars. "},{"Title":"I would like to commend Sandra Bullock for her amazing performance in Love Potion No. 9","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Being a Sandra Bullock fan already when I watched this movie, I was, of course, hoping to see a great performance by her.  She was absolutely brilliant in this movie.  Her portrayal of her character was so sincere and honest, just as with all of her performances. I was pleasantly surprised, however, to have been completely bewitched by this movie's cunning use of magic, romance, and intrigue.  I was spellbound by the innocence and transformation of the two leads, the characters Diane and Paul, played by Sandra Bullock and Tate Donovan.  Their love story completely took me back in time to when I fell in love with my husband of 7 years, and touched my soul.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who is a true romantic at heart. "},{"Title":"Bullock is very likable in this love formula","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Love Potion No. 9 (1992) Tate Donovan, Sandra Bullock, Mary Mara, Dale Midkiff, Hillary Bailey Smith, Anne Bancroft, D Dale Launer. Petty romantic-comedy fantasy about a biochemist with no luck when it comes to women and a nerdy biologist who both spark sex appeal from a gypsy's love potion that later brings them together. Spectacled, buck-toothed Bullock is very likable in this silly, protracted love formula. Inspired by the song by Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller. Launer produced and wrote. Running Time 92 minutes and rated PG-13 for some language and sexual content. ** ½  "},{"Title":"Perfect romantic comedy","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  this movie is about a woman and man who find a love postion that makes people of the opposite sex fall in love with them. I would hate to really admit it but i loved this movie, its funny and really cute Sandra Bullock and Tate Donovan are great in this film, and you dont see any really cute movies like this anymore i would give it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Are Dylan and Jordan Baker related?","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It seems obvious that I cared very little about this movie, if I am reduced to asking such a question. I can ask why they decided to make it in the first place? After all, it's kind of a wacky idea to make a movie in 1991(or something)and model it after a song from the 1960's. I can also ask why the characters were supposed to be ugly at first, and so were represented with glasses and drab hairstyles, but then they turned attractvie after they had love potion? Isn't that a little shallow to determine that people only get attracted to each other because of good looks? What about personality? Well, I could ask why there two lead characters were so dull and didn't have much personality, particularly Tate Donovan. I could also ask why Dylan Baker, the only one really worth watching in this picture, had about a five second part? And then I could ask why he was cast as a British prince? And what about Jordan Baker? Who in the world was Joanne? I could ask why the writers did not give her more screen time so that I could find out? Well, look at all of these questions! I guess even the most sub-par of movies can provoke a little bit of wonder in viewers.  "},{"Title":"Excellent View of Sandra in a Wedding Dress !!!","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A movie about a potion that when taken makes the opposite sex want you, A good comedy for most, Sandra of course is just superb, and that wedding dress well rent the film and see!.  "}{"Title":"Only one great scene but generally unfunny","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Biochemist dork Paul Matthews (Tate Donovan) is horrible with women. He goes to a gypsy and is given love potion #8. He and fellow dorky lab rat Diane Farrow (Sandra Bullock) discover the potion works through their voice on the opposite sex for 4 hours. They try experimenting with the potion. It works better than expected. However the potion gets loose and the gypsy gives Paul love potion #9.Both leads are a couple of believable dorks. Paul getting rejected at the bar is great. Bullock with bed hair looks way too hot to be dorky. Then the movie gets boring and unfunny. Quite frankly, Paul's return to the bar is not as compelling as it should be. I question if the writing from Dale Launer is actually funny. It's a disappointment since he had written some pretty funny movies. Although he's not a good director and maybe that's the problem here. Bullock is crazy adorable and Donovan is likable enough. However it doesn't have the heat or the comedy for a good rom-com. "},{"Title":"Love In A Bottle","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Need Success with dating then this film is just an idea on one of the ways of getting one, with a love potion. A fair comedy with some mishaps along the way, Sandra does her usual superb acting, the best bit is when Sandra gets into a wedding dress, Fhourr!!!  "},{"Title":"Bullock's innate grace and charm has to carry this a mighty long way...","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Dale Launer wrote and directed this early comedic showcase for Sandra Bullock, its title taken from the hit song of years past. Strained romantic fantasy has two science nerds made attractive and popular by a gypsy woman's love spell. Unknown at the time, Bullock asserts herself with aplomb despite supremely silly and threadbare surroundings. Picture begins well, mostly due to Sandra's dryly charming sass, but Tate Donovan emerges as little more than a moving hole in the screen and the film's second-half is all downhill. Barely released by Twentieth Century-Fox, who must have known this stiff was dead on arrival. * from **** "},{"Title":"A Silly Tale Used Countless Times Before, but HERE'S Sandra Bullock!","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The title of this flimsy little outing of a film from 1992 - LOVE POTION #9 - should give you an idea of where you're headed if you rent this movie hackneyed story about two science geeks (Sandra Bullock and Tate Donovan) whose experimentation with a 'love potion' obtained from a gypsy (Anne Bancroft playing Anne Bancroft) has kick back effects which all end up in a love story of sorts.The reason for watching this little effort is to see one of Sandra Bullock's early forays into comedy (she actually started making things like this in 1987 but this film drew enough attention to get her into 'Speed' two years later, that famous launching pad for Bullock and Keanu Reeves). Aside from Bullock and Bancroft the remainder of the cast is forgettable as is the story...but it is a lot better than many of the similar flicks on the shelves right now. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"At least it isn't Police Academy","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very silly film.  The most interesting thing about it is just how awful costuming and makeup can make Sandra Bullock look.  The Nerds Get Even idea can be milked for a few laughs every once in a while.  But this film doesn't even begin to match the humor in such classics of the genre as Revenge of the Nerds and Weird Science.  BTW, thats called d**mning with faint praise. "},{"Title":"It was a drag.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie years ago and remember it as being quite good. The bar scenes were very good. I bought the VHS of it and gave it another viewing. They must have changed the VHS version as there was only one bar scene. I am wrong. It is not a good movie at all. It had Sandra in it and you can't mess her up. She was super in it as always. She did her very best to save this movie but it was not to be. It really was a drag. I can,t say for sure that it was that bad because I think they changed it quite a bit leaving some really great scenes out. It just wasn't the same as I remember it. I will say it was nice to see Anne Bancroft once again. It boils down to this. I think the first time I saw it it was okay. The version I bought was not okay. Don't get me wrong, the acting was good. The movie was bad. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock is the only reason to see this movie.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Love Potion No. 9 is the fantasy of every young boy, and I suspect a few young girls, although I have to guess on that one. I have never been a young girl, and I don't plan to start now! But take the premise, Paul (Tate Donovan) is more than a bit geeky and his dating life could be described on a very small piece of note paper. So his friends do what any good friends would do -- send him to Madame Ruth (Anne Bancroft in a nice small role) who has supernatural connections. The result? A love potion that makes it impossible for the opposite sex to resist him.However, for me more interesting was the rest of the movie, after Sandra Bullock's character, Diane Farrow, also gains access to the love potion. She creates a great character here, for a so-so little movie, as a real, unappealing geeky girl. A quick spray and the guys can't resist her. She and Paul do what any geeky scientists would do, they treat the whole thing as a big experiment, and evaluating the results has some interesting and funny consequences. While this is by no means a very good movie, it is interesting to me mainly as an earlier Bullock movie, before she gained more widespread attention in 'Speed' with Keanu Reeves. "},{"Title":"Watchable early Bullock vehicle, but rather dry and unfunny...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Decent enough romantic comedy about a nerd who acquires a dose of so-called love potion from a mysterious gypsy fortune teller. This suddenly makes the opposite sex take notice for once. Sound routine enough for ya?Bullock is fine in this watchable early vehicle, but it's rather dry and unfunny. Based on the iconic song, Love Potion No. 9. Otherwise, there is no connection.** "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock Is the Only Real Attraction Here","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Funny, but somewhat dumb film about two lab-rats (Sandra Bullock and Tate Donovan) who get a love-potion from an old gypsy (Anne Bancroft) and go from dweebs to hot-lovers.  Now they are having sex with anyone and everyone that they are attracted to.  However they both turn jealous, realizing that they love each other.  The film is funny and sappy, but nothing exceptional ever comes out of the final product.  Bullock would soon become a super-star, but her film persona does not save this one.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard to be funny and ends up being boring","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  	'Love Potion #9' is a somewhat boring comedy that yearns to be goofy, but by the end, when it does quickly show flashes of being good, you care so little for the characters and the far-fetched situation they are in, that you just don't care.	As I sort of hinted at earlier, the plot isn't very realistic or enjoyable. It bills itself as a comedy, but isn't, as the definition of comedy is usually to be funny (which it nearly achieves at the climax, but not quite).	So, after absolutely no deliberation, I grant this film a failing grade, it's neither funny or entertaining. Other than a few good lines and well thought out performances from Donovan and Bullock, this movie serves as nothing but a bad career move for all involved "}{"Title":"Love Potion No. 9","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was an excellent movie. I bet Sandra Bullock and Tate Donovan where excellent. Mary Mara was beautiful. The chimpanzees where cute. Whats Hilarius that the chimpanzees where fighting. This story happens when Paul Matthews had get 1 potion from a gypsy in a interesting house. But just then something has gone wrong. Diane Farrow does not want to speak anymore. That was cute when Diane Farrow cuts her hair and when she clean her teeth. Whats horrible that Paul Mathews does not have Diane Farrow anymore. The music was excellent. This movie is excellent you will like Sandra Bullock, Tate Donovan and the movie and do not forget the music and the characters "},{"Title":"Wow this is Really Bad","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  There's only three movies I've ever watched that I remember being so bad I lost any sense for the story line - Twins, Michael, and another one I can't think of.  This is close.  Problem is that plot involving love potions could have actually been the basis for an entertaining movie.  Not this movie, but some other movie.  Sandra looks great but otherwise doesn't hint at future stardom. "},{"Title":"Good premise but sometimes annoying","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" OK-I was gonna hold off on saying anything because my friends insist this is great and want me to give it another chance. I can't resist though, for now in saying that being a Sandra bullock fan and liking(or REASONABLY liking) all her movies when I was channel surfing on late night and came upon this I thought Id like it. However, although I had no problems with Bullock I was a little irritated by this movie. This movie or what I saw of it-was both over the top and not very funny. One scene I did really like was at the bar with the group of nasty girls. That was very funny. But other scenes that were supposed to be comedic didn't do anything.All the emphasis on animals/lab monkeys and tripping and falling/a lot of irritating things happening overshadowed the premise until finally I had to change the channel. Now I don't know-my friends have begged me to give this another chance but if I do I will have to fast forward through parts of it. I hadn't ever heard of love potion number 9 before stumbling upon it late night. I HATE to bash on movies and I always look for the positive and then again I didn't stay to watch the whole thing and my friends think it's really cute. Since I didn't watch to completion, vote's still out. The pleas from my friends are so strong on this one for a re look, maybe I will just have to try. But all I can say for now is it wasn't for me. And this is the type of movie where you need humor-and LOTS of it-to get into the storyline at all.Right now, I'll be kind and rate it 5 on here(and since my friends usually have good taste) but I doubt this one'll ever become a 10. "},{"Title":"terrible movie","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awful.  Not funny in the least and totally unbelievable.  Do not waste your time on this movie, I lost an hour and a half of my life watching this movie that I can never get back.  Unless you really like one of the stars in this movie it is totally not worth it.  I was surprised to see Hillary B Smith (from One Life to Live) in it and she was the only character that did not whine through the whole movie.  She was also the only character that was not totally annoying.  I do not recommend this film to anybody. "}]