[{"Title":"A tribute to a dying sort of men","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"64 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's the kind of movie they don't make any more. Packed with testosterone and huge loads of male pride, Harley and Marlboro set out to kick some ass. I really love this movie because it shows like friendship between men works or at least how it is supposed to work. Even though the two main characters haven't met for years, they know where the other one is and when they come together again it's like they never were apart. They also help each other regardless if it will cost their live because in their mind It's better to be dead and cool, than alive and uncool. (Harley Davidson) Of course this attitude brings them nothing but trouble but those two take it the macho-way and stand to whatever comes up. And for those who only think it's a modern macho western Back off!! Take a closer look and you will see that there is a lot of soul and spirit hidden between the macho talking and behaviour.  "},{"Title":"This was a typical late 80's early 90's flick..","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a typical late 80's early 90's action flick....but its memorable for the title alone...just like all of these action movies THE PLOT IS EXTRA! the dialogue is head and shoulders above anything Stalone or Segal ever said...and the bickering between Johnson and Rourke is genuinely funny.... Above Average Action; Very Good Dialogue (for an action movie) "},{"Title":"Guilty?  Sort of.  A pleasure?  Indubitably!","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my ultimate guilty pleasure.  All my critical faculties tell me it's a trashy action flick with no particular value.  But critical faculties don't mean a thing when chemistry is as kinetic as that between Rourke and Johnson, who for my money have Newman and Redford beat by a mile in one of the best buddy teamings ever.  Moreover, the movie is beautifully cast down the line and the pace is always great.  Everything from the costuming of the lead characters to the atmosphere in the bar to the performances by Tom Sizemore and Daniel Baldwin are right on target.  But mainly it's Johnson and Rourke's connection that makes the movie.  They're terrific.  I've seen this movie several times and it never loses me for an instant.  Yeah! "},{"Title":"Bikers With Hearts Of Gold","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two biking buddies team up to help a friend save his L.A. nightclub from an evil banker who wants to replace the beloved bar with an impersonal high-rise. The ensuing plot has the two bikers repeatedly confronting the banker's cold blooded, robotic henchmen, who make quite a fashion statement with their slicked-back hair, their blank faces, and their irritatingly hip, long black coats. The numerous confrontations between the two bikers and the thugs culminate in explosions, fights, and gunfire.The story is standard Hollywood fluff, aimed at kids, young boys in particular. Except for the unique airplane graveyard setting, the plot is mostly a dud. Fortunately, the characterizations of the two leads rescue the film from banality.Harley (Mickey Rourke) and Marlboro (Don Johnson), swagger, posture, and strut their macho stuff, as you would expect, for two bikers. They swear. They fight. And, of course, they follow the babes. Underneath the public toughness, however, are two nonconformists, and each has his own brand of insecurity. And, they have a conscience. They want to do the right thing. It is this textured characterization of Harley and Marlboro that makes the film worth watching, especially in the first twenty-five minutes, before the action plot interferes.The is a working man's movie ... with all the gritty realism of urban street life. The film's first half features some good cinematography, sultry music and atmosphere, great production design, and costumes suitable for the most hip biker bar. The best approach to this film is to ignore the silly action plot, and focus instead on Harley and Marlboro, and their unorthodox outlook on life. "},{"Title":"Great Cheesy Fun","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good buddy movies don't have to have to seem real. The more far-fetched the better, And not many movies stretch as far as this one. The combined charisma of Rourke and Johnson make up for the questionable story. Tom Sizemore is a great villain, and Daniel Baldwin is not half bad as his cold blooded henchman. The other thing that stands out about this film is the futuristic feel to the movie. It was made in 1986 and the movie was supposed to take place in 1996, so it guesses as to what changes would be. It's another corny, but fun touch. Top that off with a gorgeous cameo from Tia Carrere and you have all the trappings of a great, cheeseball buddy-movie.  "},{"Title":"True 'Cult Classic'","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie and a true 'cult classic'. Yes I realize it's a spin on Butch Cassidy but it's a good one and it works. Completely overboard action sequences, cheesy and campy humor galore.I'm sick of people giving this movie a bad rating because the action isn't 'believable'. It isn't SUPPOSED to be believable. Is a movie about gigantic, talking, transforming, sentient robots doing battle with each other 'believable'? Give me a break that movie was one big long commercial.If you're a fan of 'cult' flicks you will like this one. If you'll take the time to check out the profiles of the people leaving bad ratings, most of the bad ratings are coming from British people with awful taste and even worse teeth. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Look, this movie is one of the most fun movies I've ever watched. Its not some heady uber intelligent movie for one to contemplate and discuss afterwards what the other possible motives might be in the characters. Its for quoting not discussing. Its a buddy movie, its fun and it was in my opinion well done by all with good performances from a majority of the cast. If its on i cant help but watch it if only to see a couple of the great quotes in it as well as the action. I hope Mickey doesn't truly feel like a sell out for this movie because it was in fact a very well done movie and something that was a great deal of fun for many people that were even already fans from as far back as 9.5 weeks. "},{"Title":" I think I killed him using  twelve dollars worth of bullets ","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's not too far from anyone's life to believe there are friends, . . . and then there are Friends. This film illustrates the ladder. Two men, Harley Davidson and his partner the Marlboro Man, (Mickey Rourke & Don Johnson) reunite after a couple of year absence and discover their old life time mentor, (Julius Harris) is being evicted from a special nightclub. The club and its location has remained in the owner's hands for over thirty years. Therefore, unless, he can raise a couple of million dollars, he must vacate the property. With the help of other nightclub friends, they decide to raise the needed money by robbing the very bank which holds the mortgage. The bank job proves easy, however instead of bank money, the robbers learn they have stolen two million dollars of the latest, specialized but illegal drugs. The bank president assigns a special hit squad, led by 'Alexander' (Daniel Baldwin) to recover the drugs and dispose of the thieves. The film is very fast paced and there is no shortage of action, confrontation and physical violence. For anyone seeking a good old fashion, shoot-em-up gangster film, you are invited to this one. "},{"Title":"Over people's heads","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a loose remake of Butch and Sundance. The jokes are funny as hell when you know the Newman/Redford classic. Many of the scenes, many of the lines, are directly taken from it. If you know that film, you will appreciate this one much more. "},{"Title":"No gimmicks, just a fun movie","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No big action stars here. Nor any super fantastic effects. Nope, it's just good, clean fun from start to finish. This is one of the reasons why 'Harley Davidson & The Marlboro Man' is one of my fav movies. The casting is fine & the movies moves along well. Not to mention a great soundtrack to go along with it. When Harley comes back to town & finds out his favorite bar/hangout is going to close due to not being able to renew the lease, de realizes he has to do something about it. Him & his buddies decide to get the money, but robbing an armored truck. But that's when all the problems begin. Great fun! "}{"Title":"It's Better To Be Dead And Cool Than Alive And Uncool!","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here it is 2011 and I'm STILL lovin' this movie! As a matter of fact up until I looked over my IMDb history, I thought I had already reviewed it but much to my surprise I haven't. I guess that will make this review that much more better as it will be one of the more current ones.This is one of those you-either-get-it-or-you-don't movies made to appeal to the egos and fantasies of the rugged alpha male. You get that sense at the opening credits as Mickey Rourke's intro scene during the opening credits makes you want to go out and ride a chopped up steel horse. It's the ultimate escape, at least for men! It's laced w/ moral fiber in that it's all about being down-and-out and still managing to drum up the where-with-all to help your fellow man. IMHO I think this movie's setbacks are through no fault of any of its creators or participants. Looking at many of the cynical reviews of movie-goers and critics of its time, it was clearly ahead of its own genre. And although many might find the title as well as some of the names of the characters to be cheesy (Virginia Slim, Jack Daniels, etc), I admire that they took the risk to acknowledge the outlaw, anti-hero biker image through images of Americana. I also read somewhere (probably on this site) that Rourke did this movie out of desperation which doesn't help a new viewer go in w/ a favorable attitude. Hopefully Mickey can look back and appreciate this piece of work like much of us do. I've still yet to see Butch & Sundance but now I'm inspired to check out Redford and Newman's piece even if it's just for the similarities that many reviewers have suggested.I guess it comes down to the fact that this is much like anything else in that it isn't for everybody. Perhaps the audience it was intended for has dwindled substantially (if it's ever really been out there). But if that's so, we can always take comfort in knowing that we have something we can truly appreciate w/o having to be fashionable. "},{"Title":"The Path Of The Lone Wolf","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst, this is as close to being a purely man's movie as one can achieve. The movie resonates for all the fellow Lone Wolves out there of every Dasein or being there. Philosopher, scientist, explorer, in this case, single guys. This is such an easy movie to review for you; the movie splits viewers into two groups. Those who love the friendship between two men who will never fit into one of society's boxes of domestication will adore the movie. Rourke and Johnson's friendship is the star of this movie; the heist strains credulity and generates the low rating you see here. Their friend, who owns a restaurant, is losing it to the bank. He is being pressured by the bank's hired goons to sell out. Harley and Marlboro concoct a scheme to rob an armored car and get the requisite money. The unlikely following events are entertaining if you turn your brain off like all action movies. This is not why I own the movie; I am one of the delineated types of Lone Wolves that the movie echoes existentially with The Philosopher. Harley makes no attempt to connect with that life he will never fit into. Marlboro painfully wants that life but just cannot fit in. He is at the end of a relationship with a female cop whose patience for his existential nomad life is at an end. The best scene in the movie is where he returns and she has a police captain in her bed.They say good-bye and the anguish on his face at wanting to be what he never can be speaks to every man in the audience who is in one of my delineated categories. I like two other submerged aspects of the movie; The closeness to God and the freedom from fear. Harley speaks often to Marlboro, to his great irritation, of there being 'something more,' 'I'd like to meet Him.' This ontological separation free from its mountain of worries about kids and wife does lead one closer to God. Yet, it is honest about the dark side also. There is this greater recklessness and risk-taking; it is viewed as phony by people not living inside of a Dasein where Death is a constant companion as are thoughts of it always. So, if you are not a lone wolf, if you were lucky enough to find a partner, my honest advice is to avoid the movie. It will do what all things that conflict with our Path do annoy or anger you. I love the movie for it reminds me I am not alone. Their are many like me who must walk alone. Their friendship, with great humor, lightens the darkness. If you choose to watch it, do not expect a realistic heist, pursuit and escape. This part does work for a handful of people; the vast majority I know hate the movie for its lack of verisimilitude. The friendship is the star of the movie and its delineation that speaks to all who must walk life alone. In its defense, yes, both aspects are true Closer to God and, concomitantly, nearer to Death. Behavior does tend to be reckless, impulsive and carefree just as you see them behave. Harley is at peace more than Marlboro. Yet, the love he cannot have has been sublimated and now it is towards God. Marlboro's painful realization that he cannot hold on to a beautiful woman who wants a family, this is the deep pathos of the movie. Believe me, the earlier the existential realization, the less suffering you will endure. The acting between the two is excellent; their friendship, with its deep sadness, will stay will you. I often re-visit the movie and draw comfort from it. There is great humor mixed in just see it for what it always has been Two men who will never be domesticated whose friendship provides the only true warmth they will find in this life. A Pensive Beautiful Movie. Q.E.D.To Live Is To Suffer, To Survive Is To Find Some Meaning In The Suffering. Nietzsche "},{"Title":"Totally wonderful!","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now let's see. I was getting a bit drunk this evening when I watched those 2 hillbillies in this awesome movie, but I think that made the movie even more fun to be honest. I had forgotten how sexy Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson were those days, but in this movie it's like a sex explosion with the needed violence and gunfights to make the movie what it is. It didn't really help me that both of them had a motorcycle either because motorcycles might just be sexier than those 2 men together in the same movie. This is a combination of fun and violence and like someone else said Those movies aren't made anymore. Some people might not like this movie because today when watching a movie a lot of people seem to forget the real reason to watching a movie in the first place, did you enjoy it? Was it fun? In my opinion Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is one of its best in this category. It is so totally worth watching more than once. Even the music in this movie is great with Bon Jovi - Wanted Dead or Alive! See this movie, I am sure you will have a great time and maybe even more fun with a bit of alcohol ) "},{"Title":"I just wanted to see how bad it got till the end","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is so 90s action, with over the top action plot so thin you could see right threw it. I really love to know what were the masterminds behind this movie thinking, its so bad its good. Ill start by the names of the characters Harley Davidson, Marboro Man, Jack Daniels, and a Mexican guy called Jose Cuervo at this point just call him Tequila Burrito, and a black guy called Jimmie Hendrix...just go with it, man and i thought a Michael Bay product placement was over the top. I remembering seeing this as a kid and it rocked i mean it was just the coolest thing i ever saw... But as i saw it in my early twenties i saw how unrealistic it actually was still it was enjoyable, i mean even if Mikey Rourk said he made this for money you can tell he was having fun with his character, i don't see the point of the Marboro man riding a motorcycle but hey there few little of logic in this film for that. Ill just say these two would probably died a couple of times during there escapes, and the villains are mostly dumb, so if your looking for a 90s action pack movie ill totally say give it a watch...just don't pretend to make much sense. "},{"Title":"My review","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was a little bit skeptical when I purchased this DVD with the reviews I've read. I'm a Mickey Rourke fan, so I decided to take my chances. Needless to say I am not disappointed! I was expecting a film specifically made for male audiences only but it turns out both sexes can appreciate just how great movies used to be in the 80s and early 90s. The frequent one-liners were hilarious and at times though provoking. The action is just right and not over the top and the plot line was even decent. I give it a 7 out of 10. I sometimes wonder if Mickey Rourke looks back upon his sexy looks and regrets all that he's put his face and body through! "},{"Title":"Fading into the sunset...","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Look, anyone who says they didn't like this movie, is either a self righteous fat chick, or has no ability to appreciate film. On the surface this is a pretty standard dim look into the very near future kinda movie, a style that was beaten dry in the late 80's and early 90's. But if you really watch this, and really pay attention, you get way more than what you bargained for. It's not gonna win any awards, don't get me wrong, but it's a fantastic film As has already been stated repeatedly here, the film is so laden with testosterone that watching twice in one day may double you sex drive for a week on top of instigating the formation of a few new active hair follicles. The fight scenes are overacted, the dialog is too snappy for real life, and the characters are so god damned tough you'll look up to them for the rest of your life. Characters, mind you, who couldn't have been casted better, Don Johnson and Mickey Rourke really bring this piece of true performance art together. Not to mention watching Bobby Sixkiller from The Renegade... You know what, just watch it. "},{"Title":"Should be a classic","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It may not be a picture of realism, but why do we watch movies if not to show us cool ideals? This movie has as much magic in it as when I first watched it over 10 years ago. The chemistry between Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson is first of all fantastic. The opening scene with Mickey Rourke (aka Harley Davidson) getting on his cool biker gear and leaving his naked lady in bed, all to the tune of Dead or Alive by Bon Jovi makes you fall in love with a different kind of life. I also appreciate the writing - every scene is relevant and characters and their history's are revealed in an understated feel that underscores the movie's cool things just keep happening sort of feel. A great movie about coming home, about real friendship, and about two unlikely heroes who make things right.  "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was quite good","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was absolutely hilarious. Don Johnson and Mickey Rourke had great onscreen chemistry. The way they kept bickering with each other was hilarious. I didn't even know about this movie until I saw it on tv the other day. This movie is definetly on my to get list. I just hope I can find it on DVD. "},{"Title":"A simple and human tale not only for bikers.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It seems that Mickey Rourke own personality is somewhat close to the one of his hero. Even in robbing banks he's charming, as well as his partner Don Johnson. It's hard to believe that they could serve the evil. The plot is simple, but the actors play with great sincerity and although they represent reckless persons, you should admit some moral strength and righteousness in them. Sure if you are obsessed with avoiding triviality at any price, this film is not for you.  "},{"Title":"Good Flick!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has some good action along with a little comedy thrown in. I have seen the movie a few times and have enjoyed it very much each time. Granted, it's not an oscar quality movie , but I think most people who watch it won't be sorry that they had. "}{"Title":"Rourke's only action comedy","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" HARLEY &#133; is a quite funny and amiable spoof, extremely likable, and it has a rare (in today's movies) quality&#151;that of being very enjoyable, a strong amusement. Rourke lamented often his presence in HARLEY &#133; (he stated how ashamed he was of this role each time he had the opportunity&#151;he would better have complained more about Wild Orchid, White Sands,The Last Outlaw and other such crap instead &#133;),but this is unfair, since he made much worse career choices since. HARLEY &#133; has a nice premise&#151;a tandem of goofy picaresque travelers who embark on a grim adventure because their sense of honor asks them to .The most important thing brought by this spoof is the proof of Rourke's talent as a comedy actor; he proves to be much finer than one could have suspected. He was parodying his own bad boy tough biker persona as popularized by the tabloids. Without him in one of the two main roles, HDAMM would have been crap.As a goofy comedy, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man (1991) is absolutely delicious; this could have been a good concept for a TV series about a tandem of bums who &#133;.HARLEY &#133; is nothing for Mickey to be ashamed about &#133;.He did far worse movies.It came the next year after the severely, drearily underrated Desperate Hours (1990). Rourke downplayed his role in a comedy, but HARLEY &#133; is many times better than Wild Orchid (1990), White Sands (1992) and Fall Time (1995),not to mention things such as Double Team (1997), Love in Paris (1997), Point Blank (1997), Out in Fifty (1999) and Picture Claire (2001) and so many others&#151;these, and not HARLEY &#133;,are the films to be ashamed of. As a comic books action comedy, HARLEY &#133; is way better than the hideous, charm&#151;less SIN CITY. HARLEY &#133;is to Rourke's career what Beat the Devil is to Bogart's career (all proportions considered, since the Rourke comedy was not directed by a Huston, but by a much humbler director instead).Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man (1991) is the second Rourke film I have seen; I was 15 yrs..I have re&#151;seen this movie many times since. A severe _cinephile that I have watched HARLEY &#133; with enjoyed it also, as an unpretentious, funny, youthful comedy of delightful gusto. Here Rourke laid aside his 'posters' persona', and took a funny and likable, cordial role. This should have been awarded, and not blamed. The action in HARLEY &#133; has no interest in itself whatsoever, it is merely a pretext for a double recital&#151;Rourke and his colleague. I think HARLEY &#133; is a cool comedy, what could have been a small funny interlude in Rourke's career (but proved be only the preface to an atrocious fall that he has never recovered from since).Yet, if it's funny, HARLEY &#133; is no less second&#151;rate. With the '84 exception, Rourke was never granted a first&#151;hand comedy, something that would deserve and fit him equally. Here, he is fairly above his material. He towers it. He knew how to be funny in a cordial way, without debasing himself. His role is well structured with that thorough professionalism Rourke brings to his movies.Here Rourke was not violent, sadist, crazy, furious, psychopath, sociopath, etc., but a funny, dynamic bum, in a comic books world with two dimensions. It is too bad he was not allowed to explore this comic aptitude of his (while he was still young and beautiful). He proved to have, surprisingly, the modesty required for such a comedy role. Most of the greatest actors are very good in comedies&#151;Gabin was ,and Brando, and Newman, and Bogart, and Gable, Mastroianni, Fresnay, Belmondo, Jouvet, of course Welles &#133;.Previously, Rourke already had allowed brief glimpses of his comic gusto&#151;in Nine 1/2 Weeks (1986),in Barfly (1987);and there was,of course,his '84 cult comedy, his _cultest film,if I may term it like that &#133;.He had brio, charm, enough instinctive finesse, much brio, a luminous intelligence. Yet, he was not offered much in the area of the comedy as a genre, in the Hollywoodian labeling system (I wish he would have accepted the lead in BH COP &#133;--still, when I did mention this, once, to a young woman, she answered&#151;'He could not be a clown').I do not know if he would have made better things than Willis in the comedy; yet, it was worth a try &#133;. "},{"Title":"Two Men Being TrulyFree","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Right after dropping out of college, I rode around Texas on an old Kawasaki KZ900. I would just travel from town to town. If I needed money, I would work in the oil fields and get a few paychecks. I would party, shack up with a woman for a while then move on again.Now I do the 9-5 thing. Drive my daughters to school. Pick up the dry cleaning for my wife on the way home.A few nights ago this movie comes on Showtime. I watched it, looked around at my lot in life and wondered what the hell happened! That is what this film is about and why guys love this movie so much. It is about two guys living life on their own terms, under their rules. The plot means little in this movie. An armored car robbery gone wrong is just a vehicle. The plot could have been about getting a lost kitten back to it's original owner and been just as watchable.When Harley picks up the sexy hitch hiker at the end and rides off to nowhere special every guy wishes he could be riding along side on his own bike. What makes it truly sad for me is that once upon a time I was. "},{"Title":"This Trashy Action-Adventure is Entertaining and Underrated.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harley (Mickey Rourke) is a ex-druggie riding motorcycle man, who comes to L.A. to visit his long time cowboy buddy (Don Johnson). When Harley decide to help his buddies to save their landmark bar. Harley and his friends decides to rob an armor bank truck, which they succeed. But unfortunately, they accidentally stolen drug titled Crystal Dream, which this drug is killing addicts by the thousand. The Vice President of the Bank/Drug Dealer (Tom Sizemore) decides to take back, what's his and the Heroes go to war with the pushers.Directed by Simon Wincer (D.A.R.Y.L., Free Willy, Operation Dumbo Drop) made an entertaining, trashy action film with an nice sense of humour. This film was an major box office disappointment back in the summer of 1991. This film has become an cult classic. Rourke and Johnson gives amusing performances.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD only extra is the original theatrical trailer. This Post-Futuristic action film is fun and a treat for fans of the two leads. Written by Don Michael Paul, who wrote the equally trashy action-thriller Half Past Dead. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Greatest Film","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two 80's stars Mickey Rourke (Harley Davidson) and Don Johnson (Marlboro Man)live in 96 in Burbank, Los Angeles. This district isn't their Burbank anymore (have they ever been in Burbank in real?). Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is an American movie with two greats (and dangerous) American brands as moderns hero's. And it's classic thriller with hold up, crimes, cops, motorbike, shoots, action... And a beautiful (and unforgettable) final dialog between Harley Davidson and a hitch hiking blond girl. A thing like that  Harley Davidson Where do you go? The Blond  I don't know... Harley Davidson Good I go also. And they're leaving together under the sun.A real classic! "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson are Harley Davidson and The Marlboro Man both of them find themselves hunted by a group of thugs sent by a drug dealer who uses his banking business as a front for selling the new drug in this standard action movie which has only a few noteworthy actionscenes as well as the chemistry between Johnson and Rourke to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Absolute trash.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The whole movie is nothing but a piece of absolute trash. There was no planning, no creativity, no story and no acting throughout the production. Mickey Rourke tried to show some of his class with his same old smile but the sheer lack of acting among his co-stars let him down. The film featured some cool motorcycles and cigarettes and that's all. The story was childish, the screenplay was horrible, the acting was cheap and the cinematography was pretty average. Just 1/5.  "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye....unfortunately","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this is a somewhat typical action movie for the time, they would have been better served to try for an original plot rather than trying to modernize a classic new age western..Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. There's so much action in this movie that many seem to lose sight of the parallels between the 2 movies. In both they ride, one on horses, the other on bikes(or iron horses even), both buddy movies, both open with gambling scenes, one at poker, the other at pool, both have a screwed up robbery, both have one character who is a dead shot, the other calls the shots, in both they're chased by a posse they cant outrun, in one they jump off a hotel into a pool, in the other its off the cliff into the river.I've always had an image in my mind of this movie being pitched in Hollywood, it's, it's Butch and Sundance in modern day LA!!....then again its the same industry that made the Beverly Hillbilly's so why should i be surprised. "},{"Title":"The buddy-movie genre hits a new low","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a version of Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid made for the nineties, this buddy-movie finds Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson in some of their most unwatchable work. Harley and Marlboro rob a bank to save the bar in which they love to get drunk, only to find they've accidentally stolen mob dough, and naturally, lots of one-liners and violence result. The attempted character-depth conversations between Harley and the Marlboro Man atop a billboard and elsewhere are boring and cheesy, while the action takes up the rest of the film. However, the film is easily comparable to Butch and Sundance...the latter was great, while this is pointless. "},{"Title":"I like the dedication between friends in this movie","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie.  Ten years ago I left my hometown on an old Suzuki.  Every so often I go home to visit friends and it is just like old times.  Racing bikes on the old strip, drinking beer in my uncle's bar.  It is not exactly like HD & MM but this film ads adventure to the memories that I carry home each time.  If you are into bikes, and if you are away from home, this is the movie for you. -Mikey  "},{"Title":"They don't make em like this anymore","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are some movies that perfectly encapsulate the late 80's, early 90's epitome of trash bag, chromed up, machismo soaked, violently silly over the top theme park ride vibe of the action genre at that time. Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is a perfect example of that. It's a down and dirty sleazeball flick that is just so fun. Mickey Rourke plays Harley, a biker cowboy on a steel horse who makes his way back to a slightly futuristic LA to reconnect with his old barfly friends, including the rodeo riding Marlboro Man (Don Johnson). Rourke claims he only did this one for the dough, but I call bullshit. He has such a ball with his leathery tan, cocky prick attitude and spiked hair it's impossible he wasn't invested, even in a purely camp form. Don Johnson is slick and deadly as his trigger happy buddy Marlboro. Between quips, fist and gunfights, smoking and boozing, they try to exact revenge on the tyrannical big city banker (Tom Sizemore) who laid waste to their friends inner city bar. Sizemore is no stranger to dangerous, mean spirited roles, and he plays the megalomaniac financier with a razor sharp, homicidal calm that's giddily entertaining. A young Tia Carrere shows up as his sultry assistant, as well as work from Daniel Baldwin, Kelly Hu, Vanessa Angel and Chelsea Field. It's no smart action flick, but it's a brutal, tongue in cheek modern western with dusty, broken glass and whiskey soaked style that will entertain anyone who has nostalgia for that era of action movies. "}{"Title":"bad guys look too silly","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Biker Harley Davidson (Mickey Rourke) joins up with his cowboy friend Robert Lee Anderson aka The Marlboro Man (Don Johnson). Their friend is in danger of losing his bar to the bank. The boys and other cohorts decide to rob an armored truck from Great Trust Bank. Only they are attacked by heavily armed assassins. They escape with bags that are surprisingly filled with a special new drug. The bank president Chance Wilder (Tom Sizemore) is dealing the drugs and uses his gunmen to hunt down the boys.It's a silly action B-movie. I'm willing to buy the ridiculous title characters played competently by these two actors. They seem to have fun and this movie could be fun. However the villains especially the black coated assassins are too ridiculous. It pushes it over the edge for me. I can't enjoy this when it looks so stupid. "},{"Title":"The damn thing's oddly engrossing.","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Don Johnson steals this movie. I suspect one can use that statement as a barometer for gauging their interest in this particular film (no disrespect intended, Mr. Johnson).Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson star as the titular characters, respectively. When their favorite bar comes under threat of foreclosure, the two cowboys hatch a scheme to rob the bank for the $2.5 million needed for the lease renewal. But instead of money, the truck is carrying Crystal Dream - a high-potency drug of the future. Harley and Marlboro run into more trouble when the owner of the bank (bad-guy-for-hire Tom Sizemore) sends gunmen (led by the bored Daniel Baldwin) to recover his stolen drugs.Essentially a modern re-telling of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man takes place (primarily) in a not-too-distant future Los Angeles (5 years, to be exact), where hit men wear Kevlar trenchcoats, cars have barcode license plates, and the city of Burbank is an international airport.The film has the look and feel of your average early '90s action movie, although said action proceeds in fits and starts. And it doesn't help matters that the villains don't seem very threatening. I think this is where the film suffers most from a lackluster script. Tom Sizemore is fantastic at playing annoyed, but doesn't go any further than that. And Daniel Baldwin is just a stalking robot with a big gun, but his glassy-eyed stare gives the impression that he'd rather be somewhere else. Mickey Rourke has the same problem. It's my understanding that Rourke took the role for the money (and now regrets that decision) ... and it shows. Rourke's just going through the motions here. Any camaraderie that the lead characters are supposed to have suffers for this reason. Don Johnson's the only one having any fun here. He's the charming of the two, invests some energy into his character and he tends to steal every one of his scenes because of it. Indeed, Johnson ends up looking like the only one who cares about what is otherwise just a paycheck movie. Still, the film retains a certain watchability. I still can't put my finger on why, but for a film that, on its surface, seems like a disposable affair, I still wouldn't mind sitting through it again. Mostly for Don Johnson.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"It's a good day for dying. I'll do it slow","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I probably would have liked this flick a lot better back when it first came out. I was still a pro wrestling fan back then, so seeing Big John Studd would have been a treat. Except for being overweight, he looked better and younger here, well after his wrestling career was over. I had to wonder though what happened to his cauliflowered forehead from all those blading jobs he did back then. So now you fast forward to the late 2000's and Mickey Rourke actually becomes The Wrestler and it's like coming full circle.I was reading the other reviews on this site, and was intrigued by the number of comparisons given Rourke and Don Johnson to Redford and Newman. I had the same thought while watching the film, but not because this was such a great buddy film. The story actually ripped off two Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid gimmicks - the 'Who are you guys?' line, and the buddy jump off the cliff to escape the posse. As far as their buddy chemistry went, I'm not convinced they were as tight as Butch and Sundance, and certainly not in the same league.As for action and plot, this one's been done dozens of times, and at best is passable for a couple of hours of light entertainment. I was probably most intrigued by the movie references made by all the memorabilia in the Old Man's bar, especially the poster and statue honoring John Wayne's Hondo. It seems I just saw a film with another Hondo poster in it not too long ago - The Man With Bogart's Face. One of the benefits of being an attentive movie fan.Anyway, I was never a big Don Johnson fan, and as for Rourke, it looked like he was doing Bruce Willis here just a couple of years after Willis got his big movie break with Die Hard. Suffice it to say that this was no crystal dream, and if I might point to another buddy flick, Tango and Cash, this one might not quite have been FUBAR, but it was pretty close. "},{"Title":"Very unlikeable movie","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It has been reported that Mickey Rourke stated that he did this movie for the money, and it certainly says a lot about this movie. This was a very unlikeable movie and despite not having seen this rubbish in over 20 years, I have never forgotten how bad the movie was.Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson play (and infamously named) Harley Davidson, and The Marlboro Man, two unlikeable losers who set out to save their friend's bar by robbing banks and armoured cars, and also uncover the fictional drug named Crystal Dream. Are you serious? Is somebody having a laugh? Come on, surely you can do better than that! Was this meant to be some sort of comedy? No. Is this just a rough and tumble action movie? Meant to be. Does it fail? In every way, yes. The dialogue is atrocious, and all the action scenes are poorly executed and unrealistic.I have nothing against Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson, but I wish that they could have teamed up in a better movie. It's good to see Mickey Rourke have his career resurrected after the success of the critically acclaimed 2008 movie The Wrestler for which he was deservedly nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor. Don Johnson, famously known for his role in Miami Vice, enjoyed success with the TV show Nash Bridges in the late 90's before popping up here and there with lesser known movies and TV shoes and small roles in such movies as Machete (2010) and Django Unchained (2013).Keep an eye out for Tom Sizemore (Heat, Saving Private Ryan, Black Hawk Down), Vanessa Williams (Eraser, TV's Ugly Betty), Tia Carrere (True Lies) and Giancarlo Esposito (Gus Fring in Breaking Bad) in small roles.It was no surprise this was a critical and box office failure back in 1991, although this has since become a cult classic following its release to home video. You may either like this movie or you won't like it. I certainly have never forgotten how unlikeable this movie was, and this is one movie I won't give a second thought to watching again.1/10. "},{"Title":"It's a good day for dying.","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Who was the Einstein to put Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson together, because their agreeable combination was a blast as the two novelty title characters &#x85; but as for the feature itself it was a very lukewarm conventional buddy action comedy with a modern western touch to it all. From guys having a good time, organising a heist that goes wrong (not money, but drugs&#x85; whoops) and then finding them on the run for it. Having strong protagonists is one thing (though you could say Rourke and Johnson do feel like they were on cruise control), but they do carry this one along, where as having weak villains is downright criminal. A less than imposing Tom Sizemore is wasted, despite being the main corporate villain oozing with confidence, while Daniel Baldwin just lacked any sort of punch even though looking the part decked in black leather as a henchman. Even the bit players come and go with little to no impact. Julius Harris adds some class, while there's amusing playful parts for Big John Studd and Giancarlo Esposito. Then the likes of Chelsea Field, Vanessa Williams, Tia Carrere and Robert Ginty's characters felt like secondary inclusions to add something ala filler, which probably could have been scrapped from its bloated script. Director Simon Wincer gives it slick technical treatment (crafty cinematography) and aplomb in it's vigorously over exaggerated action set-pieces and stunt-work, but its liveliness couldn't hide its generic score, banal story structure and silly plotting. A mindless popcorn action romp with its two stars having a ball. It's better to be dead and cool, than alive and uncool. "},{"Title":"Hey, kids!  It's a live-action cartoon!","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What's not to love? This is a live-action cartoon; an homage to the classic oater of yesteryear that absolutely refuses to take itself seriously; a fun frantic buddy flick replete with motorcycles, guns, an explosion or two, a disgraced former Miss America, an army of villains gunning for our heroes, and a sleazy, wealthy, powerfully-connected bad guy directing the nefarious doings from the safety of his well-secured office. Hmmm.... Come to think of it, that bad guy has a lot in common with our last president....But I digress. Seriously, for all those who whine about the script, the chemistry, or the unbelievability of the scenario carefully untwist your panties, butter your popcorn, and put your brain in low gear for an hour and a half. You might shock yourself and end up having a good time with a rompin', stompin' shoot-'em-up cowboy picture.And anyone should know, within the first five minutes of viewing, that a rompin', stompin' shoot-'em-up cowboy picture is what they've got. This is not the pretentious drop-your-Rolex-in-the-sand artiness of Easy Rider, or the heart-rending After School Special sob-story of Mask (the Sam Elliott and Cher Mask, not the Jim Carrey version). It isn't even the high-concept hi-jinks of my favorite road movie of all time, Roadside Prophets. Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is nothing more than FUN; escapist and cathartic fun with a couple of wise-crackin' rough riders ready to do battle against big corporate baddies. Come along for the ride! "},{"Title":"What  a great fun action movie","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has been knocked for ages, but if you sit down kick back and relax this is the movie for you, its a movie for a warm Saturday night, with a couple of beers, and just watch the action as Don Johnson & Mickey Rourke have fun with this movie, there is enough laughs and a huge amount of action to satisfy anyone, who enjoys a movie where you don't have to think about every detail for the length of the film.With names like Harley Davidson,Marlbro, Jack Daniels & Virginia Slims you know this is not a serious movie but one to be enjoyed for what it is.A young Tia Carrere has a small bit part in the movie as well.But for those who love action, well he we have a movie to be enjoyed "},{"Title":"Where you headed?  Nowhere special.  -Hop on.  I'll take you there.","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ug. This film is not great. It's also not quite good, either. Hambone acting from everyone involved, with writing to match, makes it a good candidate for Bad Movie Night. While it may find some merit in this regard, more isn't really deserved. The from-the-gut pat lines from Rourke and Johnson left me rolling my eyes. How Johnson finds his ex riding down the road is a mystery to me. Did I miss something? I do like Tom Sizemore, but his paper-thin bad-guy role is very tepid at best. I will say that Daniel Baldwin was better than I thought he would be. Even as cheesy as his performance was, I liked him. The method in which he and his mates appears is very much a cheese soaked experience. Have I mentioned the cheese? There is some. Much. And more. No, no. I'm full. Please stop. No..?Oh, I sat through the entire film and even paid attention (note title). Lots of folks rave about the buddy connection points of this film, but I thought it was vapid and ridiculous. Comic book style. It's certainly not the worst film 'evar', but it also never got over the hump of gaining my favor, but I guess you (The Reader) know that by now. For a brainless semi-action tough buddy film, it's okay, but Tango and Cash (7of10) would be a much better one in that genre. Check that one out. I give this one a 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"Butch Davidson and the Marlboro Kid...","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A couple of easy-going buddies carry out a robbery. They use too much explosive when carrying it out, but they get away with the loot unscathed. Shortly after, though, they discover they're being relentlessly hunted down by those they have stolen from and go to ever further lengths to evade capture, even jumping from a ridiculous height into a body of water&#x85; Nope, we're not talking Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, we're talking Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man, the palest of imitations.Actually, that's not quite true this movie is more of a rip-off than an imitation. While it's obviously not meant to be taken too seriously, it departs so far from the real world as to be unrecognisable to most people. Harley and Marlboro (let's call them Bike and Fag for short) decide the only way their friend can afford the exorbitant rent on his bar is by robbing a bank. Presumably a certain amount of planning went into this heist but we, the audience, are privy too none of it. Having successfully diverted an armoured car (manned by the world's two worst security guards), our heroes are in the midst of transferring their loot when a car filled with serious looking dudes in full-length Kevlar suits and machine-guns turns up. It's these men &#x96; not the law, who are nowhere to be seen throughout the film &#x96; who track our boys down for the rest of the movie. Actually what I wrote about the lack of law in the film isn't quite true - there's some love interest for Fag in the shapely form of a policewoman (instead of a teacher), who is getting a little tired of his wandering ways, which was presumably an attempt on the part of the writers to inject a little pathos into the proceedings.I felt quite sorry for Mickey Rourke (Bike) and Don Johnson (Fag) here. They're the best things about the movie &#x96; which admittedly isn't saying much &#x96; and they try really hard to generate some of that Newman-Redford chemistry, but, with lines such as, 'Better to be dead 'n' cool than alive 'n' uncool,' to speak they just don't have a chance. Take my advice if you're in the mood for a buddy movie stay well clear of this mess &#x96; go and see the original Butch and Sundance &#x96; or even Turner and Hooch for that matter&#x85; "},{"Title":"Driving and Smoking just don't Mix","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** With a title like Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man you would expect a ninety minute commercial. That's exactly what the makers of the film thought you would by having a disclaimer before the film even started saying that none of the products, and there are dozens of them, in the movie are endorsements by the film company. You can now breath a sigh of relief and sit back and enjoy the show knowing it's commercial free.For some reason the 1991 movie starts on July 4, 1996, five years into the future, as Harley, Mickey Rourke, leaves his home in Texas and drives on his Harley to L.A to meet his long-time friend The bronco busting Marlboro Man,Don Johnson, who's hustling for easy money at LA pool halls. Almost getting his brains beat in by this six foot six Indian who he just hustled out of $500.00 Harley come to his rescue with the friendly and neighborhood pool hall being turned into a combat zone. Harley himself ran into a little action earlier in the movie by breaking up a gas station robbery where the grateful attendant offered him a free fill up which, even though he was short on cash, Harley refused.The movie gets down to he nitty-gritty when the two walking billboards show up at their old stomping ground The Rock & Roll Bar & Grill run by old man Julius, Julius Harris, a life-long friend of the two who's is about to have his place shut down and demolished. Julius signed a 30 year lease in June 1966 for $350.00 a month that ends in five days with the rent going up, O' the Hmanity, to an insane and unreachable $41,666.67 a month!Harley & The Marlboro Man coming to the conclusion that the only way to get the cash, a cool 2.5 million to save the bar and grill,is to rob the bank who owns the property. THat leads to a deadly shootout with a group of bank security men headed by zonked-out and zombie-looking Alexander, Daniel Baldwin, wearing bullet-proof overcoats.The movie gets even better, or worse, when it turns out that the money that Harley and the Marlboro Man though that they took from the bank armored car was the deadly drug Crystal Dream! Like the bank president Chance Wilden, Tom Sizemore,told Harley & Marlboro Man at the end of the movie I make $500,000.00 a year as a banker but 15 million as a drug dealer.Harley Davison and the Marlboro Man limps along with the two anti-heroes being chased with a secret transmitter, planted in a silver dollar, exposing where they are, all over the south by Alexander and his band of black overcoat assassins. It's then the two end up in a shootout at an old airplane graveyard. Harley and the Marlboro man finally figured out to aim for the heads of the bank security men instead of their bodies, that were protected by their bullet-proof Japanese Kevlar overcoats, and put Alexander and his band away. This after the Marlboro Man ends up badly wounded.Big confrontation with bank president Wilder and his sexy secretary Kimiko,Tia Carrere,in his L.A office With an armed helicopter pilot friend of Harley and the Marlboro Man getting the drop on Wilder almost blasting him, and his back-clothed security goons, out of the building. This then lead to a cliff hanging slug fest between Wilder and the Marlboro Man. With Wilder hanging on for dear life he soon fell some 30 stories to his death when the Marlboro Man's torn and scotch-taped boot, that Wilder was holding on to, gave way.With their adventures, and the movie, just about over the Marlboro Man goes back to his first love, riding wild bulls at the local rodeo. Harley takes off back home for Texas with a beautiful hitch-hiker on the back seat of his Harley. "}{"Title":"Better to be dead and cool, than alive an uncool","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mickey Rourke plays Harley Davidson and Don Johnson plays the Marlboro Man, two pals who along with some other solid citizens rob some bad guys out of a lot of money. Then the bad guys kill their friends and the pair run off with the money and try to stay alive. But a final showdown is inevitable.Not much of a story, plus the film never takes itself seriously for one second. The film has high camp value, one stupid line swiftly followed by another. But I like Rourke and Johnson so I can easily sit through this junk and find some enjoyment out of it.Can't say I recommend this stuff, but if you wanna switch off your brain after a hard day's work; this is an O.K. way to kill an hour and a half (have some beer on hand though). "},{"Title":"A childhood fantasy","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this movie was released in 1991 I was still in primary school and I loved every minute of it. Me and my best mate used to watch it every week. After a while we used to know every line and quote Harley and Marlboro on a daily basis.What we liked about it I guess, besides the action was that the main characters Harley and Marlboro, were two outlaws that we just loved to identify with. What 10 year old kid wouldn't fantasize about riding around on Harleys, armed with guns, taking on gangsters in Kevlar coats and constantly smoking Marlboro cigarettes.When I watch it now I still enjoy it. I am a little more critical about movies nowadays, but I don't find this a bad movie at all. There ARE great lines in it, and both Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson give very likable performances.Some thing don't work so well, such as the Bon Jovi intro song, but the action is cool, the villains entertaining in their wickedness(Tom Sizemore is great) and the screen chemistry between Rourke and Johsson is very comical.I would recommend this movie to anyone that enjoys action movies that do not take themselves too seriously. It's a nice modern cowboy tale with plenty of thrills, jokes and memorable one-liners.I give this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Come on, this is a great movie! Great soundtrack, lots of action this is one of the best movies I have ever seen! Don Johnson plays a great role as the Marlboro Man and this is one of the only times I am ever going to say this but Mickey Rourke actually looked like a decent actor in this one as Harley Davidson. I recommend you hit blockbuster and get this from the week long rental section, it's worth it! "},{"Title":"Money well spent","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I decided to rent this movie today, and I must say Money well spent. I didn't have much expectations of it, but because I smoke (I know, it's a sin) Marlboro's and have a Harley Davidson (not quite of a sin) the title just appealed to me. The sole reason why I rented it.After seeing it, I found myself to find it a great movie, fairly good screenplay by the actors, but a rather bad script (typical late 80's, early 90's Rambo-like). I just watched this movie, and it is Monday, and I had a kind of bad day, but this movie managed to cheer me up.Overall I think this is one of the movies I'd like to watch again in some time, with some friends. Do NOT bring girlfriends, unless they like bikes, booze, strong language and/or Rambo. I don't say I like Rambo, but it just gives me that feel. A men's movie I think... (I'm sorry if I have offended any women, but that's just how I feel about it)I know this isn't a very good review, but it's the best I could do without this message containing spoilers. I hope any other viewer will enjoy this movie as much as I did.Good luck! "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is definitely on my top 10 of all time. I just cant get over how close these guys are together as friends, they always come through to each other. I don't see why critics put this down - this is a great example of an action flick with a good script, great acting and good dialogue.It does have the very typical stereotypical action movie scenes (jumping out of trains, jumping off roofs, car explosions, a motorcycle chase, lots of gun shooting, 2 guys traveling with a large sum of cash, a helicopter shooting at a building while the heroes are inside, and I could go on) but that is what action movies have, and they are done very tastefully.There are a couple of very loose love stories that give this movie chick appeal, too - my fiance liked the movie, and she generally doesn't like action flicks much.Get a DVD copy for 5$ on Amazon and you wont regret it if your into action films. "},{"Title":"A good movie despite what the critics say!!!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched Harley Davidson & The Marlboro Man recently and I figured it would be some corny macho movie but as it turns out, it happens to be a great movie. We see our characters Harley (Rourke) & Marlboro (Johnson) in 1996, Harley returns to Burbank to his hangout only to find that the bank is seizing the property so Harley and his buddies decide to do something to save their bar. Great one liners and almost every character is named after a tobacco product, motorcycle and a brand of alcohol, the highrise scene was great as was the rest of the movie, so if one night you just want to crack open a beer and watch an action packed movie, then this is the one, 9 out of 10 on my scale!!! "},{"Title":"worth a 99 cent rental","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies, Don Johnson did a great job in this film. I don't care much for Mickey Rourke, but he did play the role as Harley well. I don't have much to say about this movie except it is the common bad guys verus the rebels who save their hangout from being taken away, the drones who shoot at them are kinda strange in their own way. Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is a movie worth renting, it isn't as spectacular as other action films, but worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes you can judge a book by it's cover","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Or in this case, a DVD case. I read a few positive reviews on this movie and thought i'd give it a shot. I should have listened to instinct. Better yet, I should have listened to the girl at the checkout counter at the rental store. It's hard to tell who gives the worst performance, Rourke or Johnson. Both are bad. The action scenes are bad, real bad. In fact, I can't find one thing about this film that I liked. Clich after clich, bad line after bad line, I thought it would never end. I somehow stuck it out as I have been known to give up on a movie when it's really bad. I should have given up on this one. I wished I had been able to catch this on TV. Maybe I could have saved my 3 bucks. Now i'm out 3 bucks and 2 hours. "},{"Title":"Best Fun I ever had watching this as a kid!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harley and The Marlboro man are your typical western heroes in this.  Kind of like Clint Eastwood and Eli Wallach in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.   Is this one of the last great B Movies to made and they say that this didn't do anything good for Mickey Rourke's career.  That is true but that doesn't make it a bad film.   It's as straight as it is going to get as far as storytelling goes.   Harley goes back to his hometown after two years to see his best friend The Marlboro Man  played by Don Johnson and to see the place where he grew up is under the threat of closure and has to come up with $2 million to save it.   He rustles up all his old pals including the Marlboro Man to rob the bank and of course it goes al horribly wrong and realise the people they stole from are actually the people they need to pay the $2 million dollars to, so it doesn't get much simpler than that really.You have your thrills and chills during the movie but the characters that are brought to life through Rourke and Johnson make this film all the worth while as there are some incredible exciting action sequences.  There is also some nice tender moments between the two main characters were they share each thoughts on the philosophy of life which also makes this intruding to watch.Do not expect a masterpiece or the best action comedy ever.   I think it is worthy of that title but others won't and never will but this is a good story of friendship and is a lot better than most B-movies which come your way these days. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've ever seen, an idiotic plot with two absolutely loathsome actors strutting their lack of talent. I watched it in endless fascination. How could ANYTHING be so bad? Name any important element in a movie --- motivation, credible plot, solid story line --- and this one fails miserably. "}{"Title":"The Western Narrative will never die","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that I fondly remember from my younger years, and while back then I simply watched it as a typical action movie, I come back to it now to see that it is a movie that brings out the essence of American culture, particularly culture out in the west. This movie, while set in the near future (when it was released), follows the style of a classic western movie. It is about a couple of drifters, cowboys, Harley Davidson, the new style of cowboy riding his Harley and wearing his leather jacket, and the Malboro Man, a classic cowboy with his boots and his hat.The narrative of this film is similar to the old style westerns, but in many ways goes to show that nothing has changed and nothing will change. We see that despite progress (the world now flies into and out of Burbank Airport) the west is still lawless and has still been left behind. Chance Wilder, the antagonist of the piece, only earns $500,000 a year as the head of the bank (most likely the Los Angeles branch), and has to supplement his income in other ways.The west is still lawless, and while the police to appear, they tend to take a back seat. Virginia Slim (a type of cigarette) is Malboro's girl, and while she works for the police, she has no idea about what is going on, nor does her partner. Instead, it is still the law of the gun, as can be seen by the thugs that carry out Wilder's dirty work.The cowboy still drifts, as we see Harley drifting from east to go out west, though not to make his fortune, and then drifts back east at the end of the film. However the east and west division between civilisation and barbarity is still evident as they jump on a train back east when things get too hot, though returns to the west to finish off the unfinished business.In essence this movie is about the American culture, the main characters representing the motor bike and the cigarette, with Virginia Slim being the feminine Marlboro. Throw in Jack Daniels, the the big guy who is representative of tough, but ugly guy that you don't want to upset. It is all about taming that which is wild. The cowboy rides the bull, which is in essence the duty and nature of the cowboy, to go into the wilderness and bring civilisation there. Yet this is also evident when we see the woman on the bike in the bar, in the same way the cowboy is taming the wild beast. I guess this demonstrates the American Narrative, that in one sense, looking from the east, the west is still a wild and untame place, but even now that the West has been won, there is always new horizons and new frontiers that need to be tamed. "},{"Title":"Being a tough guy can be hazardous to your health!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In much the same way as cigarette packets carry warnings and motorcycles can be lethal if in the wrong hands, this movie shows that being a 'MAN' can sometimes be a tough proposition! There are few finer exponents of 'macho cool' in Hollywood than Mickey Rourke and Don Johnson; they both have the same grit and craggy weatherbeaten air that suggests they've lived a tumultuous life about ten times over; so there's surely no two better people to cast as a pair of cool, jaded outlaws? This is a movie that wears it's brawling credentials proudly on its sleeve, and acts as a kind of sad and ironic late goodbye to the unselfconscious action pictures that characterised the 80's decade. It opts to play its masculinity completely straight even as the viewers themselves are aware that it's faintly ridiculous. In that sense, it reminded me a whole lot of Road House - Good, cheesy fun.It takes a special kind of skill to deliver what might seem risible dialogue in a deadpan way, and both Rourke and Johnson have it, which makes this film a really enjoyable experience, if by no means a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"No masterpiece, but very enjoyable","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Besides having a title longer than the movie itself, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man also has a bit of a nostalgic value to me. I remember watching it for the first time some ten or fifteen years ago, after reading about it in a martial arts magazine, if memory serves.Plot outline - Biker Harley Davidson (Mickey Rourke), aside with the bike-riding rodeo cowboy Marlboro Man (Don Johnson) and a few other small time crooks robs a money transport, which turns out to be a big mistake when they find out that they got more than they bargained for. And all hell breaks loose...The story of this movie isn't too complicated, but it contains a lot of fighting, gunfire and explosions. Which seem reasonable, since it is an action flick, and therefore should be judged as such, and not compared to other movies with more solid and refined story lines and so on. And as pure action, it is great. Mickey Rourke does a great job portraying the biker who turns out to be a less-than-proficient marksman who couldn't hit a barn even with a sniper scope. Don Johnson does very well as a gun-slinging cowboy - especially since his weapon of choice is a .44 cal Desert Eagle, not the most handy or practical handgun on the market - who would fit in any classical western movie. Together they form a must-be-seen-to-believed duo.To me, this is Rourke's finest performance on the silver screen up to this date - although I have a feeling that this one went straight to the video shelves - and Don Johnson does a great job too, even though I've only seen him in Miami Vice as well as a couple of other movies. We also see a young - and thin - Daniel Baldwin as the goon in charge, and Tom Sizemore as the mobster posing as a respectable business man, with Tia Carrere as his sidekick/secretary.All in all, and as an action flick, this is as good as any other. Movies in this category often get rather low ratings, and in my eyes the problem is that they aren't judged for what they are, and not compared to other action flicks. Yes, the storyline could be summed up in a few sentences, but come on, that's what action is about - Action. Bullets flying, fists pounding, vehicles exploding. If I want to watch a good drama or thriller, I watch a good drama or thriller. I don't watch an action movie and then complain that it wasn't like any good drama or thriller.I give it 6 out of 10 bullets. "},{"Title":"20th century cultural icons come to life","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is a fun film about friendship and eratically created characters based on cultural icons of the 20th century.  It is not the best written film or the best acting but it is a just a fun flick to watch about futuristic Burbank and see your favorite vices come to life, have a mind, a voice, a opinion and even some advice. "},{"Title":"The Best Buddy Flick of All Time!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie close to 20 times or more by now and it never ceases to amaze me. I mean sure the plot is a little thin in spots,the action scenes(note this in all action movies) are some times cheesy,but to look at those facts alone is downright wrong. I mean look at the big idea of this picture Two friends meeting up after 2 years of not talking,they grew up together and think of each other as brothers. The movie teaches 3 very good lessons; 1.Always stand up for what's right. Marlboro(don johnson)This ain't right but i'm gonna go back and make things right. 2. Friends can be the most important thing in your life and you should respect them. Harley(mickey rourke)Well your the only family I got Marlboro. and 3. Sometimes it's ok to admit you love someone.Marlboro-I just wanna let you know Virginia you been the better part of my life,the best part. If you think this is a  bad movie you are judging to much,relax and enjoy the movie for what it is, a movie of two friends fighting for what is right. "},{"Title":"pretty cool","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  it's not one of the greatest action flicks of all time, mainly because the action sequences are lame. bulletproof baldwins? but mickey rourke gives a pretty good low-key performance and his tough-guy attitude is believable...and the fat biker is cool. "},{"Title":"Not enough critics ride!","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" So far I've heard this movie is too violent, unbelievable, cheesy...come on folks! This is a great buddy action flick. It's supposed to be clich. That's the fun in it. And I've read people saying that the beginning needs more excitement. Go to a bike rally!!! They had the perfect song to start off a biker movie and anyone who really loves motorcycles was drooling when he wheeled that bike out of the garage and rode across the southwest. Good interaction and humor between Mickey and Don. Both were great for the parts. I saw this movie when it came out and I have enjoyed it immensely over the years. And if you know nothing about motorcycles or biker buddies....well...why even comment? You don't have the depth needed to understand this movie. I believe that falls under the category of overeducated and ignorant. I feel sorry for you. "},{"Title":"Fun night at the movies....","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not sure why this movie is rated so low, I found it to be quite entertaining.  This is a cool buddy-flick with enough action for anyone who likes hard drinking, two fisted brawling, Harley-Davidsons, and slick gunfights with big guns (and helicopters).  If you got nothing better to do, give this movie a whirl. "},{"Title":"what can you say?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  there's not much to say that hasnt been said of this movie before on these message boards. Watch it, it is unbelievable. You will either love it to death (as i do), or hate it and wish you could have the 100 or so minutes of your life back.  "},{"Title":"a wonderfully bad film that is strangely captivating","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ranks up there with the likes of Road House and They Live as one of those special films that isn't very good, yet is strangely captivating and impossible to turn away from once started.  The best aspect of the film is the way it completely buys into the fantastical setting and characters.  Always teetering on the brink of parody, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man somehow wills its way into acceptance, producing a reaction that is part sympathy (for its sheer stupidity and unbridled chauvanism) and part respect/admiration (for creating its own macho world). This is not high art by any means, but it is a great guy movie. "}{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest opening sequence in film history","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The rest of the film is decent, but the opening scene is AWE-INSPIRING. For these first few minutes, the cinematography is unreal and the music selection is PERFECT. Rourke just looks cool as hell, and the motorcycle he rides has to be the coolest ever used in a film. I tell ya, if this scene doesn't make you want to go out and either ride or buy a Harley, nothing ever will. This scene alone makes this movie required viewing for anyone who even remotely likes action or motorcycle films.Good flick. 7 1/2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"It don't get much better than this!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great one to watch, just about anytime.  Full of one-liners, humor, action, serious situations, good guys/bad guys, morals.  You name it, it's all in here.  Taking it apart, and applying different aspects of it to different real life situations, it says a lot for the world we're living in today.It ain't right... We've got to make it right. -Marlboro Man (Don Johnson) If you haven't seen it, do it.  If you have, watch it again.  There's no end to what you can learn from it, from an entertainment, personal, or societal viewpoint.   "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why people say that this is a bad movie. Well, I guess there's nothing new in it, but so? It's fun, there's action, great one-liners and so on. This movie beats the Godfather. Damned.  "},{"Title":"Very good.another film hated from this site.","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" beautiful film. As to the usual one, the usual negative comments which talk about a classical film some years 80 which everyone does not like it to the nostalgic ones are met.Sure Heros that this film had to have a judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason. Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as the past is better than the present they have given several credit to the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think separately with its head. "},{"Title":"Wanted Dead or Alive","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Recently my boyfriend has been trying to stump me with movies, since I've seen so many, he wanted to know there was at least one movie that I'd never seen but he did. He finally got me with one Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man. I had never heard about it, but he told me that Mickey Rourke was in it; I got excited because I loved Mickey in 9 1/2 Weeks and was hoping for the same kind of performance in Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man. Now the funny thing is that I made my boyfriend watch 9 1/2 Weeks with the smooth operator Mickey and I watched Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man scary motorcycle Mickey. But onto the movie and wither it was good or not. Now actually, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man wasn't at all a bad movie, it's better than most I would say. It's actually a cool action movie and has a decent story despite it's unusual title.Harley Davidson and Marlboro are buddies way back, together they ride their motorcycles on a care free life. But when they go back to the bar that they love so much, they find out that a bank is about to replace it unless the owner, Jimmy, comes up with two and a half million dollars to cover the cost. Harley and Marlboro decide to rob the very bank that is taking the bar away with some of their friends, they think they got away with it when they do, but it turns out that the truck they stole that they thought had the money has drugs instead. So they make a deal with the evil guy from the bank and get the money for the drugs; they just did one thing wrong, they trust the evil super duper bad guy too well.Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is good cheesy fun that was kinda fun to watch, sometimes you need the typical and predictable action movie that just has the great exciting scenes to make you at least be entertained. Both Mickey and Jon seemed to have a lot of fun together and I would say clicked very well. I loved how Marlboro was trying to teach Harley how to shoot his gun, and well, it comes in handy at the end to actually make for some dark comedy jokes, but I'm not going to tell you what happens. I think I would recommend Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man for those who just want entertainment, it's a fun action movie.5/10 "},{"Title":"Marv and Sonny make for funny","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man, (here after known as hd&mm)is first of all, strictly speaking, a science fiction film because it is set in the future. All of five years in the future but the future none the less. In 1996, the ozone layer is mostly kaput. Yeah, I've heard that before. Curiously, people still go out without sunscreen. But I digress. Mickey Roarke is hd and Don Johnson is mm. One is a biker, the other a failed rodeo cowboy. Their old hangout is gonna be closed unless the owner can come up with 2.5 million dollars. In today's dollars that would be, ummmm, 2.6 million dollars. Anyway, a robbery ensues and naturally it goes all wrong. The bad guys come after hd&mm. There is a lot of witty banter, bullets,t&a (very good t&a),chases and the usual. I liked this movie a lot. Hd&mm have some very funny arguments and both actors do a pretty good job. Don Johnson looks good with a beard. There are some cool motorcycles and the villains are interesting. The hit men come across as sort of a cross between The Terminator and a fashion show from Hell. Don't expect any Oscar winning, well, anything but just sit back and let it pull you in for 90 minutes of harmless fun. "},{"Title":"You say clich like it's a bad thing ...","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First if all, understand this is a western. It's not set in the western era, but it is a western, nonetheless. Trucks and cars instead of horses. Otherwise, an oater. Some have likened to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Probably a valid comparison. This film borrows shamelessly from every western-ish scene committed to cinema. That's its bane and its crown. No pretenses about being innovative here. It's a collage of all those testosterone driven story lines, moments and one liners. All the stuff guys like to see and hear. Just like the films that contain all the feminine standards girls like in their movies.It could have easily moved to cult classic status, one feels, if those involved had realized what they were tapping into and had given it a grain more of respect.That's my gripe about a movie I really like a lot; direction and production's aloofness about the material comes through in the film.A really good film (a magical combining of major characters), made of welcomed guild-edged clichs (that everyone enjoys revisiting) including a pre-Matrix kind of ominous bad-guys gang ... well, maybe there is some innovation going on here after all...Yeah ... no one should like this movie ... but there is a lot to like. An apologetic Yes! Grazed the beard of greatness but should have become a cinematic tattoo. "},{"Title":"An Homage to the American Rebel Hero","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this flick ever since I saw it 10+ years ago.Now, I don't like trashy movies of any kind. You know the type, cheapo, uninspired, poorly written formula pics they air on TBS or USA network at 2AM, and that is the group that I always hear people lumping HDatMM into. They couldn't possibly be further off-base.This movie is an homage to every great western and action flick ever made. Its like a love letter to a certain breed of American cinema. It does for the drifter-hero genre what Jackie Brown did for Blaxploitation movies. If you're not keen on those kinds of movies, then this one will not be to your taste. However, taken in the way the filmmakers intended, this is a darn good picture. It's reasonably well made, has a great cast of actors who all perform admirably, and features clever dialog that surpasses Tarantino's at times.Compared to flicks like The Wild Bunch or Gone With the Wind Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man might come up a little short. But hold it up to something like the Lethal Weapon series, and I can't see how so many people could call it a lump of crap. Don't pass judgment without seeing it yourself.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Some good moments, but I didn't like it that much, too violent","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A man who rides a motorcycle and calls himself Harley Davidson and a man who smokes and calls himself Marlboro Man get in a lot of trouble when they try to save their favorite hangout in Burbank by robbing an armored car (the new lease will cost millions of dollars).  I didn't see that much to like before the robbery, and while things looked promising after the robbery, the movie never really went anywhere.  There was apparently a lot of bad language before editing, and way too much violence for my taste.  Although if you like seeing machine guns fired over and over and the damage that they do, along with the killing, maybe there is something for you here.  I sort of liked Don Johnson as Marlboro Man, and there was enough comedy to keep this from being a total bomb, but it wasn't for me. "},{"Title":"Not masterpiece, but good movie","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, this movie will not be written down by the gold letters in the book of world masterpieces. And certainly, it not Fellini. It is cinema does not become the winner of festivals. However film does not apply for it also. However I know many people looking it on 5 and more of times. Why? For absence of incredible emotions, for cinema about friendship, for good comedy (if you suppose  what Ostin Powers is a good  comedy - I beg your pardon, don't reed this comment),   for the good actors and their good play. By the way probably it is the best play of Johnson. 10/10 - simple for that this film is possible to look from any place of the tape. "}{"Title":"All time low","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow that was just bad. It's a Z-class movie, with actors I actually liked in the 80s. Mickey and Don were my teenage heroes and I always felt kind of pity for their careers after they had peaked. But this movie is inexcusable. Rourke starts too look like a alien, I think he had a chemical peel before this movie, because his skin just looks extremely smooth. Maybe I am wrong, but he looks strange. Maybe it's just the hair. Don looks better and in my opinion, his acting skills are way higher at least in this movie. Mickey gives an awful impression. Maybe if I would see myself looking like this on screen, I would give up my movie career too and sell myself as a sand bag. The worst are the bad guys, they are bulletproof and made out of a comic book. Horrible. They must have been smoking that new drug they have in the movie. How did they think that they can possibly get away with this crap? I was a big fan of MR, but after seeing this movie, I just feel sorry for the guy. "},{"Title":"Simply appalling - but in a good way.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is total crap at its best (or worst). This movie is garbage &#150; excessive and stupid. It's also extremely homoerotic, packed to the gills with fetishistic male machismo, sweaty muscular men, and Don Johnson constantly wearing an open shirt. (By the way, he's nicknamed Cowboy. Hmm.) In the opening sequence, Harley Davidson (Mickey Rourke) is cruising along on his bike. He stops for gas, and when he enters the station, there's a hold-up going on. He strides up to the front and asks for ten bucks' worth of gas. The robber shouts something at Rourke to the effect of, You idiot, I'll kill you! Rourke keeps his cool, whips the gun out of the dude's hand and smashes his face in.The other robber, a knife-wielding weirdo straight out of a Joel Schumacher movie, screams I'm gonna cut you long, hard and deep! Now, is this what one heterosexual male would say to another man? No way. Need I mention he takes a swipe at Rourke like a pansy? The movie is one of those absurd, bright, eccentric late '80s/early '90s hybrids, where the neon glow of the past decade carried on into the hard, visceral dimension of 1990s cinema &#150; resulting in, for lack of a better word, schlock. During the aforementioned holdup, the camera pans down to the hostages of the store &#150; two black guys, both looking very stereotypical, and one looking a bit like Steve Urkel (complete with the glasses). It's just awful, awful stuff; and the vibrant colors of the clothing, backgrounds and foregrounds are dizzying and nausea-inducing.The dialogue is atrocious. Example Harley Where are you headed?Beautiful Hitchhiker Nowhere in particular.Harley Well, let me take you there.It's spoken so poorly, it becomes the punch line of an unintentional joke. Avoid this movie at all costs; unless you enjoy movies that are so bad they're good. In that regard, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is a classic. Graded as a regular movie, it's complete garbage.P.S. I'm a huge fan of Mickey Rourke so I secretly think this movie rules to a degree of coolness because he's such a bad@$$ in it. But it's still stupid and insulting. "},{"Title":"under-rated","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harley Davidson (Mickey Rourke) and Marlboro (Don Johnson) along with their pals Jimmy, Jose and Jack Daniels rob a bank transport carrying two and a half million dollars to save the local bar they frequent from closing down. Turn out they picked the wrong transport and snagged drugs instead so now Chance (Tom Sizemore) sends his henchmen, including Daniel Baldwin after them. This is a vastly under-rated film, lambasted by critics when it was first was released unfairly. Mickey Rourke, just like he would over a decade later in Sin City OWNS this movie.My Grade BEye Candy Chelsia Fields shows ass; Mitzi Martin and Bobbie Tyler show breasts and buns "},{"Title":"A film so bad it's almost beneath contempt - almost....","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pointless and stupid buddy-action picture. I'm not sure what about this film deserves the greatest condemnation, whether it's the relentless strip-mining of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, the outlandish cartoon-like (Coyote vs. Road Runner comes to mind, only we're supposed to believe these people are real) action sequences, the weak direction or the lame performances of the actors. Set appropriately enough in that holy of holies of American tack, Las Vegas, HD&TMM is a grindingly obvious and dull buddy pic which, groaning under the dead weight of its two anticharismatic leads, suddenly takes a 135 degree turn into a garish and empty-headed action picture about (who else?) evil drug runners. That's not a plot twist by the way, it's a desperate and failed attempt to make something out of a film that was going nowhere. This picture cannot be redeemed. Every copy should be pulped and buried in disused salt mines. Avoid. "},{"Title":"The very definition of cool ...","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love it !!!This flick is the kinda movie that is ALWAYS fun 2 watch ! Good actors (probably 1 of the few movies i like of Don Johnson & Mickey Rourke), great dialogues, beautiful ladies (maybe 2 few), lotta axion !!! I had seen it a couple o times b4 buyin it on DVD (who knew i'd find it @ 3 bucks) but i keep on likin it. So get ur girl (it's probably a betta idea 2 watch it wit a couple o buddies but OK), get a drink, get a snack & enjoy the good times. 2 bad they don't make em like this anymo.Peace "},{"Title":"A very underrated movie in the 1990's.","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harley Davidson And The Marlboro Man is a very super movie about 2 friends trying to help a friend not to lose his bar.This movie wasn't given enough credit.The stars of the film help make the movie great,a real great story,and lots of action too.Harley Davidson,played superbly by Mickey Rourke(Body Heat,9 1/2 Weeks and Year Of The Dragon,and the Marlboro Man,who's real name is Robert Anderson,played by the great Don Johnson(Miami Vice and Nash Bridges),are 2 friends who are trying to save a friends bar from being taken away from him by the bank,Mr Jiles,played by Julius Harris(Darkman,My Chauffeur,and Going Berserk),Jimmy Jiles,played by Giancarlo Esposito(Taps,Maximum Overdrive,and HomicideLife On The Streets),they need 2 1/2 million dollars to re-lease the bar.The late Big John Stud(WWF) is the son-in-law,Jack Daniels,and Lulu,played by former Miss America Vanessa Williams,is also part of their family.Virginia Slim,played by the beautiful Chelsea Field(The Last Boy Scout,The Birds IILand's End,and Skin Deep),is the former girlfriend of the Marlboro Man who he goes to see,but tells him she is getting married.Harley makes a plan to rob the bank that is strong arming the Jiles family,they go ahead with the plan,but are in way over their head's,they find the truck is full of a designer drug called Crystal Dream.Things get worse for Harley and Marlboro as they deal with the drug dealer,Chance Wilder,played by Tom Sizemore(Natural Born Killers,Saving Private Ryan,and True Romance),is the bank president who is running the drugs.Alexander,played by Daniel Baldwin(Knight Moves,Vampires,and HomicideLife On The Street)is the leader of the goons in a bullet proof jackets,kill Jimmy Jiles,his dad and Jack Daniels,Harley And The Marlboro Man get away,but want to make things right.The showdown at the airplane graveyard is a great scene,Harley Davidson,who can't shoot a gun great,does make his shot,,literally,and when they deal with Chance Wilder.This movie really rocks,the heroes in the movie are what I consider true Americans,they haven't sold out to corporate B.S. and they live their days by their own rules,and live their days one day at a time.The supporting cast include Kelly Hu as the gas station clerk,Tia Carrere(Wayne's World 1 and 2),Branscombe Richmond(The Kentucky Fried Movie,Star Trek III,and the TV series Renegade)as the Indian in the bar that the Marlboro Man fights,Eloy Casados(Born in East L.A.,The Best Of Times,and Hollywood Homicide)as Jose,who is a deaf-mute and a friend of the Jiles family and Harley and Marlboro.I give this film 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A gross insult to motorcycles and cigarettes","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not one line of dialogue, not one frame of film, nothing about this piece of crap was entertaining. Don Johnson should be ashamed, Mickey Rourke probably said, another lousy acting performance, nothing new for me. The action scenes were pitifully set up looking; a 5 year old couldn't get excited over this boring humdrum silliness. After emptying a trash can full of banana magazines at the 2 heroes, one would think professional hitmen could put at least one round where they wanted it. Absolute trash - 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stellar movie! I loved it","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" These guys play a great role as Harley and Marlboro. It is a great action / comedy for anyone out there who likes this kind of genre... I really can't explain much without ruining the movie. But this one is very unique, because Harley and his friends are so extremely calm over everything they do, it makes this movie absolutely unique. Some great one liners in this movie as well. I definitely recommend watching it. A true Classic. and it definitely deserves more than a 5, i give it an 8.5 at least... People today are warped with all the new 04 movies and cannot appreciate a good classic anymore, It seems that anything made before 2003 gets bad ratings, but i feel anything made after 99 have had too much computer graphics done and lack the true skills of good acting. Everyone is into fantasy these days and no one can appreciate a good old style fashion action. This is one of the last good ones out there. i don't know how people can watch Crap with more computer effects and blue screens than actual acting. Matrix is a good example... if anyone wants a good keeanu movie, watch point blank or bill and teds. keep the classics alive by renting this one and don't stop here, check out other greats, like One Man Army starring Dolph Lundgren or American Ninja. starring Michael Dudikoff "},{"Title":"Insanely Good","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion you can't say enough good things about this film. Don Johnson and Mickey Roark are all over it turning in the best and second best performances of their lives respectively. At the height of it's genre this buddy-action-adventure-romance-caper-distopian future-comedy is an edge of your seat laugh a minute thrill ride with a heart of gold and duct taped boots.  "},{"Title":"Bar brawls, bank robbers, motorcycles, cowboys, big boobs, and a pack of cigarettes the man's man movie.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harley Davidson and the Malboro Man had the potential to be a pretty decent Man's Man movie, but it took too long to get started. Then, once it did get good, and the story got interesting, it fails at about the point our heroes and their relentless nemeses decided to be too invincible. Harley Davidson (Mickey Rourke) and the Malboro Man (Don Johnson, hubba! hubba!) are the subject of our story as two loner heroes. Their rugged terrain in their Texas town, one that motorcycle riders and cowboys love--dirt roads, dust, etc--is being overrun by skyscrapers. Amidst their routine bar brawl and pool hustling, they learn that their close friend's bar, the 'Rock N' Roll Bar', is facing a tough financial crises because, with all the development in town, rents are on the rise. The bar owner's five year lease is now $2.5 million, and without it, his landlord is threatening to shut him down. So, Harley Davidson gets the bonehead idea that he and his buddies, including Malboro Man should rob the bank. Only, what they steal turns out to be blue bricks of Crystal Dream. The bank CEO (I guess that's what he is), played by Tom Seizemore, orders his three invincible goons in bulletproof Matrix-like trench coats to get back their stash--no matter what. Harley Davidson and Malboro Man think they're just going to hold the junk ransom and order that the bank goons pay $2.5 million and that will be the end of it. No way.****SPOILERS BEYOND**** There's too many far-fetched action sequences that for me, ruined the makings of a pretty decent action flick. For example, when Harley and Malboro stow away on a plane to Las Vegas, their trench coat-wearing nemeses still magically find them. Even know the hotel where they're staying and what floor they're on. Then, Harley and Malboro, having to run for cover on the roof, decide that it would be a good idea to jump off the hotel into a swimming pool. Jumping from that height into a pool of water would be the equivalent of jumping onto concrete. They would have never survived the fall. Harley Davidson and Malboro Man (except for the very end for Malboro Man) never ever get shot despite the fusillade of gunfire they always manage to step into. The villains always carry around something like Uzi's and the heroes carry around plain old handguns. But they never get hit. There's that part in the airport graveyard where, even though one of the guys is wearing the bulletproof trench coat, and Harley and Malboro know they have to shoot him in the head, they still pierce his chest with bullets despite the trench coat. The end is even more ridiculous as Tom Seizemore is hanging out of the window by the heel of his shoe. I was just starting to enjoy the movie before all of that happened. But, that's basically what you're in for. So, if you like a movie with bar brawls, pool hustlers, boobs, motorcylces, and shoot outs, and can still have fun with it, despite all of those incredulous flaws, then this movie is probably good for you. I thought it was only half good. "}]