[{"Title":"Not what it seems to be","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At first glance, One False Move would seem to be just one more cops vs. psycho cocaine killers movie, but it's actually quite a bit more than that. It shows us what we first take as stereotypes, then throws them back at us clean-cut, good-looking, intelligent (black) Pluto (Michael Beach) and beady-eyed, slovenly, foul-mouthed, slack-jawed trailer-trash (white) Ray Malcolm (Billy Bob Thornton) are partnered with beautiful black call girl Phantasia (Cynda Williams) in a rip-off of some Hollywood coke dealers. The robbery turns into a horrific massacre--instigated by Pluto, who, it turns out, is a heartless, remorseless serial killer whose few pleasures in life include slicing up his victims with a knife. And, as it also turns out, Phantasia isn't Pluto's girlfriend, as would seem logical, but she's with Malcolm, who looks and acts like he should be on a recruiting poster for the Ku Klux Klan--and who, for all his outward bluster, tough talk and murderous appearance, is actually the weaker of the two men by far, and almost totally under the thumb of the icy, cold-blooded Pluto, of whom he appears (with good reason) to be terrified.The L.A. police eventually discover the trio's identities, and their investigation leads them to believe that the killers are headed for an Arkansas backwater called Star City, so they send two homicide detectives there to help the local sheriff apprehend them. In this film, though, even the two sophisticated, big-city cops aren't exactly what they seem, either; one is an easygoing, slow-talking, overweight black guy, the other is a good-looking, stereotypical Joe Friday type white guy who, as it turns out, has his own demons to deal with. Even the Star City sheriff, a young, garrulous bubba (Bill Paxton, in a first-rate job) excited by the prospect of doing some real police work with some real big-city cops, turns out to have more of an interest in this case than just a purely law enforcement one.This is a crackerjack movie, with no big stars but chock full of good, solid character actors, an inventive, well written script (by Thornton) and direction by Carl Franklin that brings to mind the best of Don Siegel, Phil Karlson, Joseph H. Lewis and other noir icons of the '40s and '50s. A clever, sharp, tough (it does contain some quite graphic violence) and twisted--in the best sense of the word--thriller from start to finish. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Still on my mind","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film in 1991 and I still think about it frequently.  It has become a standard to compare other films.  The violence at the beginning made me uncomfortable, and I almost turned it off.  I am glad that I didn't, because I would have missed one of the best films of the decade.  The movie's pace and tone are perfectly natural - not artificial in any way.  I like the scene in the diner best.  The two LA cops are joking with each other about the backward local sheriff (Paxton), and they didn't know he was standing there.  The awkwardness of the moment encapsulated the film.I think One False Move, Fargo, and The Sweet Herafter are a great trilogy of movie making at its best.  All set in small - real towns with real people.   "},{"Title":"Lots of false moves.","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Boy, this film takes me back to the jerkwater Arkansas town where I spent several years of my youth. Bill Paxton (Aliens, True Lies, Big Love) is spot on as a cracker sheriff who, in his words, hasn't drawn his gun in six years on the job. Well, he drew his gun seven years ago and it has now come back to haunt him and put him in a position that could get him killed.Billy Bob Thornton (A Simple Plan, Sling Blade, Astronaut Farmer), Arkansas born himself, co-wrote and starred in this film and really pulls off the psycho robber with such perfection that I really cannot understand how a supposedly intelligent guy like Pluto (Michael Beach - Short Cuts, Third Watch, ER) could hook up with him, especially since they spent two years in jail after the last job. Joining the duo, was Cynda Williams (Mo' Better Blues) in her second film, as Fantasia/Lila. She did a super job.As the trio heads to Houston from L.A. the body count rises and the Sheriff is put into a position where he has to act alone. False moves throughout the film just add to the tension and excitement. "},{"Title":"A neglected gem","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Three criminals pull off a cash and drug heist in LA, which results in the sadistic and brutal murders of six people. The crooks are Fantasia (Cynda Williams), a bad girl with a soft spot. She got pregnant in her teens and got talked into the robbery by her boyfriend Ray Malcolm (Billy Bob Thornton) who is a paranoid and violent psychotic. Yet throughout the course of events, Fantasia wants to go back home to Star City and see her little boy (something that ultimately contributes to her downfall). The third member of the gang is Pluto (Michael Beach), a would be intellectual crime boss whose personality varies between being a cold and sadistic killer with a passion for knives and a cool calm and collected crook who won't kill unless he has to. Having pulled off the job they decide to make for Phoenix Arizona in order to sale the drugs and split the money. However, things are complicated by Fantasia wanting to go home and more blood is shed along the way.ONE FALSE MOVE is a neglected gem. It marked the feature-film debut of American director Carl Franklin who takes a run-of-the-mill cops and robbers yarn and wisely places the emphasis on character. He is most ably assisted in this by a largely unknown but solid cast who give their director maximum effort in every scene. Williams, Thornton (who also co-wrote the script) and Beach are excellent as the three gangsters while Bill Paxton is also excellent as Hurricane the Star City cop entrusted with the task of helping the LA police track the gang down. The film got a very poor release at the time and it was even denied the film a screening at the Sundance Film Festival and it was dismissed as too violent. The film starts off quite violently but once it gets going the emphasis is on good old fashioned character study, but because of it's failure to reach the Sundance festival it wasn't picked up by a major distributor and it more or less went straight to video. Director Carl Franklin has done very little since apart from DEVIL IN A BLUE DRESS with Denzel Washington, a crime thriller that was well received by the critics but didn't take on with the public. Billy Bob Thornton, however, has since become an international star appearing in such modern classics as A SIMPLE PLAN (1999) and the Coen Brothers' sublime black and white noir film THE MAN WHO WASN'T THERE (2001). "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad language and violence aside, this is one of the best movies of the 90's! This is actually, a lighthearted police drama with many surprises. One of the surprises is the depiction of small town Arkansas. They may have finally gotten it right! It is slower, safer and more relaxing in comparison to the life that the cops from L.A. have and there isn't any stereotyping that I could find! Another surprise is the performance by Billy Bob. He may be one of the most evil drug dealers I have ever seen on the big screen.A word of caution though. This movie, at least in my opinion, has one of the most violent (not overly graphic, but sadistic) openings to a movie I have seen in a film. The way the murders and tortures are committed are a little hard to watch. But if you get past that, the movie settles down a lot and you really want to see the bad guys get what's coming to them! And the language is extremely rough. I saw the movie again on BRAVO and while there is a lot of silent moments, where they cut out the language, nothing else is cut from the film. A remarkable film.I give this film an A-.  "},{"Title":"Realistic, No Frills Thriller","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This modern film noir pits three violent criminals on the run from a violent drug rip-off against two LA cops aided by a rural sheriff.  The trio of bad-guy consists of a white-trash loser (Thornton), his African-American girlfriend (Williams), and their high-IQ, sociopath friend (Beach) also black.  After committing multiple murders in California they high-tail to Thornton's and Williams' hometown of Star, Arkansas to lay-low.  Their journey across the backroads of Texas is fraught with danger, (it's not like they don't stand out) and unbeknownst to them, the cops are waiting....Very well done without the look at me I'm so realistic dialogue too often found in this much copied genre.  One of the best of its kind, well worth the rental. "},{"Title":"Two movies in one.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice.  The first time, for the whole movie I was on the edge of my seat.  This was an intense film.  From the extremely brutal beginning to the climatic end, I couldn't relax once.  I did notice the fact that race played no factor; all colors were represented on both sides.  In 1992, I had seen over fifty movies at the theater so I put together a top ten list and this movie made it easily.  Since I knew how the movie would play out, on my second viewing I was able to look for other things.  This time I noticed though the thrilling aspects of the film were used to set the movie in motion, underneath there was an examination of big city meets rural town.  Amazingly, the main characters weren't treated as stereotypes.  Each character (I count six) was fleshed out but not too much.  There were no judgments on which life was better or any advantages or disadvantages to either style of living.  In a lot of ways the film reminded me of John Sayles' movies.  In other words a movie that a lot of thought went into making it.  A great film. "},{"Title":"Forget about sticking to a plan.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bloody, ruthless and very interesting early writing success for Billy Bob Thornton. After a drug buy goes bad, Ray(Thornton)and Pluto(Michael Beach)with pretty Fantasia(Cynda Williams)in tow head from California to Star City, Arkansas. Waiting there in the middle of nowhere is the local sheriff Bill Paxton and he is eager to go from small time to the big time. With or without the help of a couple of L.A.'s finest on the case, the young sheriff is out to prove himself. The finale is a burst of action. Also in the cast are Jim Metzler and Earl Billings. Billy Bob, with pony tail and all, will be no disappointment for his fans. "},{"Title":"A perfect move.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is awesome!!!! The characters are all well developed and I loved the atmosphere created by director Carl Franklin. Bill Paxton is great in the lead role and Cynda Williams is a welcome surprise in this film. There's a different type of Billy Bob Thornton in this picture as he plays a very evil cocaine dealer. The screenplay is the reason for this film's perfection. What a great script and it should be shown to all screenwriters in Hollywood to help them develop their characters more and make their films more interesting. Great film.  "},{"Title":"A Little Gem from the 90's","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In Los Angeles, after a violent drug rip-off, the Los Angeles Police Department detectives find the identity of the trio &#x96; the sadistic I.Q. of 150 and college graduate Lenny Pluto Franklyn (Michael Beach); his not so bright buddy in San Quentin Ray Malcolm (Billy Bob Thornton); and his girlfriend Fantasia (Cynda Williams). Their further investigation indicates that the criminals are fleeing to Star City, Arkanas, and LAPD detective Dud Cole (Jim Metzler) and his partner John McFeely (Earl Billings) contact the local Chief of Police Dale 'Hurricane' Dixon (Bill Paxton) and they head to the little town. The yokel family man Dale, who is used to resolve domestic issues, is fascinated with the chance to participate of a manhunt and befriends the two detectives. But when he sees the picture of Fantasia, he recognizes her as Lila Walker and is haunted by his past, hiding a secret about Lila Walker.One False Move is a little gem from the 90's and one of the best in the genre neo-noir. The first time I saw this film was on VHS in the early 90's, but now I have the chance of buying the DVD and watching it again. The dramatic story written by Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson is engaging and without redemption. Cynda Williams, in her second film, is awesome but Bill Paxton steals the film in the role of a bragger hillbilly and chief of police that sees the chance of his life of arresting real criminals but meets his past instead. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Um Passo em Falso (One False Step) "}{"Title":"Show me the money...","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS.This genre piece excels. Everything seems to click and work together well. The story isn't very complicated. Three killers -- Billy Bob Thornton or whatever his three names are, Williams, and Beach -- drive from LA to Star City, Arkansas, where two LA detectives (Metzler and Billings) and a local chief of police (Paxton) await them. There are some violent incidents along the way and a final shootout in which people get pretty much what they deserve. There is one hole in the plot. Towards the end, Paxton is holding Williams captive and expecting a visit from the two unsuspecting murderers. He wants to call for help but Williams says she won't cooperate if he does. When she finally answers the phone and tells the miscreants that everything is kosher, come ahead, Paxton has ten minutes to call his office in Star City and have all his deputies rush out to his aid -- but he doesn't. It's a small point and the pace at this point is so up-tempo that it's overlooked.I'm describing it as intelligent because Frankin, the director, has handled the material very well. The local color, and local culture, of small-town Arkansas is effectively captured. None of the characters is overdrawn. Nothing is in-your-face obvious. The violence is over quickly and no more gory than necessary. And the violence is not used as a selling point -- not done in slow motion or with multiple squibs exploding everywhere. There are no car chases and no explosions. Instead there are characters that are at least half-way believable as are the interactions between them. The two LA detectives make fun of the hick police chief, laughing at his intention to apply for a job with the LAPD, not knowing that he's overhearing them. They just chuckle at the thought, and Billings says, Can you imagine him hanging around Parker Center? The other LA detective, Metzler, has a bland face and unimposing presence (he looks a bit like Fuhrman from the O.J. Simpson case) but he turns in a fine performance. Some of the minor touches are most delicate. Paxton's wife is trying to get Billings to talk her husband out of his fantasies about being a big-city policeman. You know him, she says, He watches TV. I read non-fiction. (I read non-fiction. That's good writing. By Bobby Jim Thornton, too.)In fact, everyone is good, even the usually wooden Paxton. Billy Joe Thornton -- or Clarence Earl Thornton, or Edgar Allan Thornton, or Oliver Wendell Thornton, or whatever his names are -- is outstanding as an impulsive weak killer. The performance is the more impressive if you know what a good-natured, easy-going guy he is off the screen. Beach is just fine as the college-educated guy with an IQ of 150 who never laughs or smiles behind his accountant-type eyeglasses but who slaughters helpless people dispassionately with a knife, as if they were nothing more than trussed-up swine. The only word to describe the sleepy eyed Cynda Williams is yummy. She's first-rate in this film, switching back and forth between black locutions and those one might expect in a white middle-class family in the San Fernando Valley. Do catch this one if you have the chance. "},{"Title":"A great movie that makes you think","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a neglected gem, and it is a real shame that it never quite received the popular audience it deserved. A well made, genuinely tense film that plays with ideas about race and explores consequences of decisions made years before. The graphic opening is not one I can watch easily and adds an tight rope feeling to the following events. The male criminals' venality is frighteningly mundane to themselves. Cynda Williams as the broken Lila, doing what she can to help her son, brings a vulnerability to Bily Bob Thornton's character which is not enough to lessen his coldness. He appears to love her yet we all believe he would kill her without thought if his survival necessitated it. Bill Paxton's portrayal of a good ole boy, with a secret of his own is sensitive. Sympathetic enough to make us care and believe he is a fundamentally decent man, it does not shy from the reality of a man who has failed to live up to his own expectations. Using another ordinary house as the backdrop to the final bloodbath again emphasises the sadness of the story which reflects far too many broken lives. Having Dale meet his son for the first (and last?) time plays on our emotions and leaves just as many questions unanswered as have been tackled by the events and characters of the film. I wanted to know what happened afterward to the characters left behind by the physical and emotional carnage they had lived through. "},{"Title":"forgotten gem","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" stumbled on this while scrolling through fearnet on demand. Its not a horror but a well-paced action-thriller about ruthless drug dealers traveling across country from LA to Arkansas. Billybob Thornton is riveting as the unpredictable, volatile crackhead while Bill Paxton is the easy going country boy-made -good sheriff who has never had to use his gun before and gets a thrill out of helping out the LA fuzz apprehend Thornton and his accomplices. Throw in a prior relationship/paternity situation between Paxton and Thornton's girlfriend/moll and this ends up being far superior to your average cops and robbers showdown. It had a great 90's feel to it with the complete absence of modern devices like cell phones, everyone puffing away on cigarettes like there was no tomorrow and some very un-PC language and references. In these sort of movies, endings usually disappoint but I felt this tied up everything perfectly and there was no over-dramatization which is what the director sometimes feels like he has to do. "},{"Title":"Fugitives, Lawmen & A Secret From The Past","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Carl Franklin's directorial debut is a real surprise package as it not only has a story which is more interesting and original than most but also boasts a collection of characters who are much more than mere stereotypes. In fact, it's the interactions between them and their various relationships which ultimately determine how the plot develops. The movie's carefully created atmosphere, its precise pacing and its visual style are all impeccable and enhance its overall quality enormously.One False Move is a tense thriller which makes a powerful initial impact as it depicts very graphically the grotesque savagery of a series of murders before it develops into an intriguing tale about a group of people whose lives are destined to be brought together in an unavoidable and deadly confrontation.Two ex-prison buddies called Ray (Billy Bob Thornton) and Pluto (Michael Beach) and their accomplice Fantasia (Cynda Williams) steal a substantial quantity of cocaine and money from an L.A. drug dealer and then travel to Houston to sell the cocaine to one of Pluto's contacts. Ray and Pluto had killed a number of people in the course of carrying out the robbery and later, in Texas, Fantasia (who is Ray's girlfriend) shoots and kills a state trooper who was suspicious of them and stopped their car to carry out some checks.Two LAPD detectives are assigned to the case and soon uncover evidence which suggests that the three fugitives could be heading for Star City, Arkansas. The detectives go to Star City and discuss their plans with the local sheriff Dale Hurricane Dixon (Bill Paxton) who is very impressed by the big city cops and is tremendously excited to be working with them.Fantasia leaves Houston by bus to see her five year old son who's being cared for by her mother in Star City and Ray and Pluto stay to complete their drug deal. The deal doesn't go well and the two men kill three more people before making their escape and driving on to reunite with Fantasia.A past connection between Hurricane Dixon and Fantasia (whose real name is Lila) is then revealed before the couple make a deal which leads to the story's extremely dramatic climax.The three criminals are an unusual combination as Ray is violent, volatile and unpredictable, Pluto is highly intelligent, cool and calculating and Fantasia is a drug addict who has moments of compassion when dealing with children but also kills a state trooper without too much hesitation or remorse. When they're together, their regular disagreements and unstable behaviour also make them seem just as likely to be a danger to themselves as to anyone else.The three lawmen are also not entirely on the same page. Hurricane is energetic, enthusiastic, totally unpretentious and thrilled to be working with the LAPD officers who he admires greatly. The two detectives on the other hand are seasoned and cynical city cops who exploit Dixon's good natured generosity and at the same time regard him as naive and inferior.The use of low angle shots and close-ups in the violent scenes early on in the movie are particularly effective in emphasising the amount of fear and tension involved and similarly, in some later sequences, there are numerous moments of real suspense which are very convincing.The screenplay by Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson is excellent, the acting is of a consistently high standard and despite its various plot twists, a palpable sense of inevitability remains strong throughout. One False Move is an unsettling movie but also one which is very compelling and memorable. "},{"Title":"One false move from someone could spell disaster for everyone.....","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One False Move is directed by Carl Franklin and co-written by Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson. It stars Thornton, Bill Paxton, Cynda Williams and Michael Beach. Music is by Peter Haycock, Derek Holt and Terry Plumeri and cinematography by James L. Carter.Three criminals, Ray (Thornton), Fantasia (Williams) and Pluto (Beach), are on the run from LA. after a drug heist ends in a bloodbath. Heading for Star City, Arkansas, the three are oblivious to the fact that the law, both local and of L.A., is lying in wait for them.One time actor Carl Franklin has good standing as a director in neo-noir circles, his Devil in a Blue Dress (1995) and Out of Time (2003) had the benefit of starring Denzel Washington, with the former often thought of as an undervalued treasure. Neither of those films, in my opinion, comes close to the excellence of One False Move. A superbly understated thriller that oozes fatalism while studying the characters at hand. Beginning with brutal attention grabbing violence, picture unfurls as a road movie until it reveals itself fully in the town of Bleakville. Franklin and his writers slowly open up the story to reveal an emotionally complex thriller, bleeding the flaws from the main players with clinical glee. These be a mix of classic losers, psychotics, redemption seekers and a naive dreamer, and there's a link from the past that's going to impact devastatingly on the present.Modelled on a High Noon good guys Vs bad guys like destiny, narrative also has little observations on racism and the class divide between big city America and small town Americana. Sly little reveals in the script such as a policeman's alcohol problem show good attention to detail by the makers. While Franklin has a wonderful way with his camera, only revealing enough for us to fill in the blanks, and often his camera is used as a character POV device, with close ups and cuts blending seamlessly with mood of the story. The cast are uniformly strong, with the stand outs Williams, Paxton and Thornton reaching down deep to give their respective characters some stunning grittiness, doling out sadness, misguidedness and rage with a believability that's as impressive as it is riveting to watch.One of the best crime pictures of the 90s and an essential viewing for anyone interested in pure neo-noir. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Southern Masterpiece","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Carl Franklin and Billy Bob Thornton have crafted one of the finest good guys v. bad guys movies of the last twenty years. Moreover, Bill Paxton's performance is just a joy to watch. Every minute that Hurricane (Paxton) is on screen is just a burst of excitement and wonderful character development. This is filmmaking at its best.The story picks up with a very violent drug deal gone bad in Los Angeles and ends with a violent showdown in a small rural town in Arkansas. The movie details how these two worlds came together. One of the strengths of this film is the gritty reality of the story. Many of the events seem very sordid and all too real. Moreover, the characters played by Billy Bob and his partners in crime are just so interesting. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"A very well directed thriller !!!","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Directed by Carl Franklin and written by Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson, 'One False Move' is a thriller starring Cynda Williams, Billy Bob Thornton, Bill Paxton, Michael Beach,etc. Although the film on the surface is another drug deal gone wrong type thriller with violence and blood, but it has a lot going on beneath the violence of the criminal activities portrayed on screen. The script deals with the themes of the contrast between the country and the city, racism and the mask that many people wear to hide the complexities of their lives and their past. Somehow all these themes come together in the most seamless and nuanced manner to enhance the poignancy of the film. The plot reminded me of Richard Brooks' 'In Cold Blood'. It has a similar structure of criminals on the road trying to evade the law while the police is making plans to bring them in.The acting is very good from all involved. Many of the characters in the film are not what they might appear to be initially. I have to individually mention Bill Paxton and Cynda Williams for showing a lot of range by playing character, the perceptions for whom change radically in the viewer's mind with the revealing of new facts about their past.I have already mentioned that the script is layered, but even then this could have become a standard crime-thriller with no depth. Carl Franklin actually underlined the themes in the script by putting more emphasis on the characters, their behaviour and their past than just the violence of the criminal activities. The film ends on an optimistically in a subtle way. But personally I would have probably ended the film on a bleaker note to go with the subtext of the film. But the ending to the film still works as a hopeful message. "},{"Title":"devious part for Cynda Williams","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dealing in illegal drugs has become a lot more violent since the flower days of the 60's. Watch this film to get a flavor of the depravity and brutality the whole business has sunk into. Few films have the impact the opening of this one has, a drug and cash ripoff in a house in night time Los Angeles which is initiated by a young woman named Fantasia (Cynda Williams). While her two partners are ostensibly more violent, her character turns out to be the one who holds the interest the most and makes this movie sink under one's skin. She's perfected a deft mix of qualities perfect for what she does, which is get in a house only to be followed by the two heavies in her crew, Ray and Pluto (Billy Bob Thornton and Michael Beach). After the LA mayhem the action goes eastward through Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and finally a small town in Arkansas. Half the film is the LA detectives who find out where these guys are going, and the other half is their trip their. Thornton's character is run of the mill brutal guy, but Beach plays the the more disturbing part, though Cynda Williams steals the show. Bill Paxton is part of the police contingent, a small town Arkansas sheriff who tries to keep up with the two big city LA detectives who coordinate the investigation. Actually, director Carl Franklin did pretty well with the police, too, kind of weaving in and out of both sides of this drama. "},{"Title":"One false move - one good movie","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although this movie has been made ages ago I only watched it recently for the first time. Many people consider this to be Bill Paxton's break out role and I can understand why. He does justice to the role of Hurricane Dixon, more than just justice, he finds the fine balance between winning the viewers' sympathy for the character without failing to show his flaws, fears and weaknesses. The script is excellent, the acting compelling and the conclusion fitting. Billy Bob Thornton is brilliant as Ray and Michael Beach menacing as Pluto. Fantasia (interesting name) is another character the viewers can really appreciate. It's touching, thought-provoking and entertaining - and that is what good film-making is all about. "},{"Title":"Franklin's best direction, Paxton's best performance","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow.What starts as a police procedural quickly turns into one of the best Filme Noires of the last 30 years, right up there with Blood Simple.Black director Carl Franklin is at the peak of his craft as he creates a tale that builds and builds. Bill Paxton gives the performance of his life as the town cop who the locals call Hurricane but he doesn't get the joke. The audience gets it. And Michael Beach gives an unforgettable performance as a stone killer who barely blinks once during the entire movie.Billy Bob gives basically the same performance he has been giving for his entire career along with his signature line, Goddammit. So it is hard to single his one out.ONE FALSE MOVE is a terrible title for his film and one suspects it was the working title and no one remembered to to change it.A wonderful piece of work from all concerned. "}{"Title":"Quiet, unassuming but lethal film noir","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Some films just slip, for whatever reason, below the radar. We get any amount of top-budget, CGI-heavy dreck which go on to catch the headline - albeit for a week or two - but other films, such as One False Move, which proudly stands head and shoulders over its rivals is barely noticed.The story is simple and effectively told. There are no false histrionics, there is no grandstanding, the violence and horrific murders are not celebrated in that god-awful balletic way favoured by Tarantino and his ilk, and the whole thing is presented to the viewer on the assumption that the viewer has a brain.Yet despite its undoubted quality One False Move slips past and is 'just another film'. It's strength is that it is character-driven and people talk and behave like real people. It manages to convey the complexity of people one of a trio who ripped off a drug dealer and six people are horrifically killed in the whole episode spares a young lad and saves him from certain death at the hands of her more sadistic accomplices, then goes on to kill a state trooper in cold blood.A small-town sheriff who yearns for greater things is mortified when he overhears the two big-shot cops from LA laughing at him behind his back. It spurs him on to try to be a hero and apprehend two of the gang all on his own. He does so, but at the cost of three lives and gets badly injured himself. All in all he might have got the men, but it is all just a bloody mess. The performances are all good ones, and the direction, camera-work and editing all add the sense of dread and help heighten the tension.The director is Carl Franklin who made another great but overlooked film in Devil In A Blue Dress. If you are able to catch this - though I don't know how because it doesn't seem to be shown on TV - do so. You won't regret spending time on what is something of a gem. "},{"Title":"A 93 surprise hit that makes all the right moves","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's one of the great indie flicks of 1993, where more so it's a film. The story is so well plotted, in what is a flawless movie/detective thriller. What's great about One False Move is we really spend time with the characters, an amazing quality I found here in this BB penned film, where too his threatening and menacing performance as a really bad dude, part of a trio, kind of chills ya, because he can just go off, at any moment. The other two wanted escapees, are a black guy with a very high IQ, and a sexy black woman, who provides a twist later on in the film. The trio are responsible for ripping off a band of drug dealers, and murdering them in a quite disturbing and violent fashion, taking no prisoners. This crime scene is heavy and raw viewing, in what is an impactful blow by blow film. Of course the stealer of the film is Bill Paxton, a likable, hyped up cop, pushing for a higher position, where he might of struck a little bit of opportunity, when assisting out of state cops. They're here to stop the three, who could be heading towards Paxton's town, where relatives of the black escapee, could be expecting her to show up. We even delve into the life of Paxton's present wife where the out of town cops, who made me hungry in a couple of scenes, watching them eat, depress at Paxton's place for barbecue time. The criminal trio, doesn't let us forget how dangerous they are, and what they're capable of, even the black woman, who's so all peachy creamy. The ending was kind of worrying as to Paxton's fate, but here is such a bloody well constructed film, that really captures the lives of it's characters, good or bad, big or small. In fact, future screenplay writers, should use this film, as a model example of how to construct tight story, and tight suspense moments, where truly the first ten minutes of BB's baby, really has you, and knocks you on your arse. "},{"Title":"Quite the unusual film.","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Violent opening scene. Criminals on the run while a few cops go to a town where the criminals might end up, too. In that town the cops meet with a cop who might not be so right for the job, or is he? It turns out he has a history with one of the criminals and (more) drama ensues when that (female) criminal returns to the town in question and the other two criminals follow later. In the end violence explodes again, immediately followed by a sentimental bit.'One false move' is quite the unusual film (playing with a lot crime thriller drama conventions) that uses (strong) violence only a few times, but mostly builds on drama and characters. Maybe some things are far fetched (the girlfriend of the sheriff turning out to be the one he got pregnant years ago) and some things are not all too credible (would the brilliant knife-specialist really not aim to kill straight away - and go for the throat - when attacking the sheriff?), but these may be coincidences and odd choices that people in real life make sometimes, too. The only part that I didn't particularly like was the overly sentimental very end (when the boy gets left alone in the cop car and wanders over to the dying sheriff).But there is some fine acting, it has an atmospheric soundtrack and it was more than adequately filmed. A small 8 out of 10. P.s. There's a thread here about the meaning of the title. Besides to the obvious nature of the situations at hand, it also applies to the 'false move' that the sheriff made in the past with the black girl, whom he loved but then discarded - all too easily, as his past comes back to haunt him. "},{"Title":"Low budget and lesser known but great thriller","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this movie was made outside mainstream by some little studio . I expected some cheap B-thriller and I was pleasantly surprised. It's a solid thriller . It's not a movie driven by twists, but by characters . It succeeds , because the direction is top notch . The director was able to create some unnerving moments of true tension and when the violence kicks in it's a really painful (emotionally ) experience. This is more of a character driven story not by twists.Also , almost the whole movie resolves around Bill Pulman (Predator 2) as a Redneck sheriff . He's adorable . There is so much passion in him , a child like naivety and easy going personality . Later in the movie he shows he's darker , more mature side.The other actors give solid support to Pullman . I have to mention Michael Beach who really seems to be cold blooded psycho and good performance by Billy Bob Thornton (who is also the writer of the movie).I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Surreptitiously Excellent Film Masquerades As A Simple Cops And Robbers Thriller","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This fascinating first film by Carl Franklin stayed with me long after I turned it off--which is a good sign; my initial impulse was to give it a medium rating as higher ratings are alloted to films which are not only brilliant conceived and acted, but which ultimately are highly individual in tone and have something positive to say about the human condition.Perhaps that sounds a little pretentious for a cops and robbers film, which this is, a buddies-on-the-lam film combined with several contemporary film motifs--the absent father, forbidden love, and violent crime. Hitching the rating way up is first-rate ensemble acting, first with an in-depth performances from Billy Bob Thornton, as well as with lesser known but equally able performances from Cyndi Willimas, Michael Beach, and Bill Paxton (who turns out to be an unlikely hero of sorts).The final twenty minutes is mesmerizing, with a professional editing job that carefully links together all the complex interweaving gone before, taking the viewer all the way from LA to Arkansas back country. While not the greatest film ever made, One False Move accomplishes all its goals with perfection, pretends to be nothing it isn't, and ultimately offers a positive statement about people; that's why earns a high rating from me. "},{"Title":"One False Move (1992)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One False Move was simply a beautiful, and little seen, crime film. Three drug dealers on the run are suspected to be heading towards Arkansas. Here, a couple of big city cops meet up with the local sheriff. Paxton is fantastic in this role. He's not very worldly, has never had to use his gun, and is just a little too excited about the approaching threat. His enthusiasm comes off as naivety, and he is laughed off by the LAPD. The film does well to follow the cops and the killers. We see a bizarre triangle between the murderers. Thornton is filled with anger and out of control, whereas his partner is cool and calm but ultimately terrifying. The pacing of this film was done very well, offering moments of tension in a film that has a lot of waiting around. It also harvests a lot of emotion and depth for its characters. Paxton comes off the best as a giddy little boy waiting for Christmas. There are some great moments, such as his reaction to hearing the teasing from the city cops. Another scene sees him use the n word in front of the black cop. His facial expression is priceless, as he realises what he has said. Eventually Paxton takes responsibility, and he shows that his enthusiasm masks his competence. A big fish in a small pond. One False Move is very dark, but has a lot going for it. Most of all the tender ending. "},{"Title":"For a movie about false moves it has an awful lot that rings true.","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I'd been hearing about One False Move since it's release in 1992 so when I finally got around to seeing it in 2011 it was, perhaps, a little too much to expect it to live up to the hype.One False Move is an understated, slow-moving character study and thriller that starts off with some explosive violence as two men (Ray, played by Billy Bob Thornton and Pluto, played by Michael Beach) rip off some drug dealers before heading out of town with Ray's girlfriend, Fantasia (Cynda Williams), in tow. The law has an idea of where they may be heading to and sends two detectives (Jim Metzler and Earl Billings) to the small Southern town, where they meet it's head law enforcer, Dale 'Hurricane' Dixon (Bill Paxton). The differences between the big city ways of doing things and the small town ways soon become apparent, as do the varying attitudes, while the violent crooks make their way towards a place they think could be a safe haven.Written by Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson, the script for this movie and the way the dialogue is delivered by the actors (all of them pretty perfect in their roles) all rings true. Bill Paxton, in particular, is a man often overlooked by those praising great actors and yet with his performance in this movie and his work in Frailty he deserves recognition - Dale may just be his best ever role. Billy Bob can play the Southern slimeball in his sleep and does so once again while Michael Beach is often genuinely unnerving. Williams does well but is more of a catalyst for events than a well-rounded character. In my view, anyway.Carl Franklin directs and works well with the material, giving everything and everyone a certain amount of breathing space that helps to ratchet up the tension while simultaneously allowing viewers to really get to know a bit more about each character. The movie features two men who are very bad men indeed but everyone else gets a nice variety of good and bad. Dale is a wonderful guy but also a man who grew up with certain ingrained beliefs about racial (in)equality. The officers visiting the town accept Dale's hospitality and rely on him to show them around but then mock his small-town approach (in a great, surprisingly moving scene) when they think that nobody is within earshot.I don't think being slightly underwhelmed is the worst reaction I could have had to One False Move. In fact, I think it may well have been my reaction had I seen it way back in 1992 anyway. It's that kind of film. I also think it's a film I will find myself revisiting in the future, purchasing and growing to appreciate more and more as time goes by. But for now, it gets a solid 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Good but Creepy Movie!","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This one keeps you on edge and it gives me the creeps, still, it is a well crafted, beautifully acted movie. I guess it's a bit too real for me. The murders are extremely violent. The less I see of drug addicts, coke heads and drug dealers, the better. Bill Paxton is absolutely terrific in this film and he outshines the rest of the cast, who are very good. Why haven't we seen more of Cynda Williams and Michael Beach, they are very fine actors? The film is well paced, beautifully photographed and there's even a little homage to North by Northwest. This genre of realistic films is definitely not my 'cop of tea', but I can appreciate a well made film. Kudos to Carl Franklin for a job well done! "},{"Title":"And you thought Tarantino had the corner on graphic violence.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow.  Just rented this movie last night & I was not prepared for the nauseating, over the top violence portrayed here. While this was of course just fiction, it was very true to life - a part of this life that is well, hard to face.  Call me a weenie, but I found myself hiding my eyes for many of the scenes in this film.  The murder scenes in this story weren't like the ones in films such as Scream or any of the Friday the 13ths that are so unrealistic that you can just laugh/gag at them & then forget about it.  They were horrible, terrifying & realistic.  You could easily believe that this is how and why people involved in drug trafficking end up dead.Violence (gulp) aside, this film was well written and well acted.  The director lost me a few times.  That isn't to say I couldn't follow the story line, I just didn't like the way some of the scenes played out. Yes I will openly admit to bias here, but I can't help thinking that if Billy Bob Thornton would've been the director as well as one of the writers and a principle actor, this film would've been much better.  Overall though it was a solid effort, but I would not recommend this movie to folks who can't stomach wickedly realistic depictions of murders and violence.   "},{"Title":"Powerful, disturbing, and (above all) touching.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what can I say?  This one made my all time top-five.   At first, it appears to be a simple crime-noir, but the emotional power makes it much, much more than that. It is truly a work of art.  I know how that sounds, but trust me, see this movie.This was done before Billy Bob Thornton had gained wide recognition (he was co-writer) and it was only a hint of things to come.  In the role of Ray Malcomb, he displays a meaness and cruelty that you would never guess him capable of.  His, then wife, Cynda Williams does an excellent job as his girl-friend, Phantasia, and Michael Beach is bone-chilling as the stoic Pluto.  Together, this unmerry trio, leave a bloody trail from Los Angeles to the sleepy little town of Star City, Arkansas.  Little do they know that there are two L.A. cops and  a small town sherrif (known by the locals as Hurricane) waiting for them, ready to give the three a warm welcome.Yeah,  the plot does sound very standard and cliched,  but by the sheer force of the talent involved, this movie rises to a whole new level. It is a must-see for anyone who likes to actually think about what they watch.  It is defintitely worth more than one viewing and I'm sure it will find a place in your video or dvd collection.  Trust me.  10/10    "}{"Title":"Cops, crooks and culture clash, who will live?","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that I really like. On the surface, it is a tension-filled film noir about a trio of drug dealers fleeing justice after committing a brutal crime. It is also the parallel story of two Los Angeles detectives thrust into dealing with an ambitious small town sheriff, Hurricane Dixon, played very well by a young Bill Paxton. They are more sophisticated investigators but Hurricane knows the small town of Star City and the players very well, and in one case too well.This was the first film directed by Carl Franklin and was co-written by Billy Bob Thornton and they both did a great job. Every time I see the movie something new hits me. The connections among the characters run deep and cross racial, class and gender lines and the payoff, even though shockingly violent, is great because every character stays in character right to the end. There is no copping out in the script to soften the ending. It is really one of the best films about crime, punishment, race and class in the recent film history and the careers of everybody involved, Paxton, Thornton, Franklin, Michael Beach, and Cynda Williams got a well-deserved boost from this one. "},{"Title":"Poet Laureate of Redneck America","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of a series of excellent low-budget movies written by and starring Billy Bob Thornton. This is screen writing at its finest. He really captures the selfish, random evil of the Ray Malcolm character. There are many subtleties to the interaction between the characters, and it has plenty of action. The structure of the movie-- around a road trip-- lends itself to building drama. For anyone looking for the perfect Blockbuster rental, this is it. (See also, Don't Look Back with Billy Bob, Eric Stoltz and John Corbett, set in Galveston, Texas.) I think of Billy Bob Thornton as a modern version of the great Southern writers like William Faulkner, Tennessee Williams, Walker Percy and Flannery O'Connor. Instead of the deep South, Thornton's postage stamp of the world is the great plains between the two focal points of the movie, California and Arkansas. Kind of like Billy Bob's journey in reverse. And the man certainly knows his beer joints and convenience stores. When he gets tired of being a mega-star, I hope he returns to writing screenplays like this movie. "},{"Title":"Quite watchable and memorable.","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A sweetly innocuous small town gets a visit from some big time hoods and local sheriff Bill Paxton wants in on the bust, much to the annoyance of the two L.A. cops trailing them. But soon there is much more going on than a crime story. The sheriff's ex is traveling with the goons and her personal history with the sheriff then serves to fog up an otherwise straightforward pursuit. Motives and loyalties are questioned, temptations arise and personal drama takes the foreground. This second act shift from crime story to relationship drama is what gives the movie its power and makes it memorable and unusual. Too often, crime thrillers have tacked on romantic subplots that just clutter things up, but here the relationship and its fall-out are inextricable from the plot and are in fact pushing it ahead. The proceedings feel authentic and the drama has power rooted in that emotional authenticity. Cynda Williams is particularly good as the ex; she doesn't just appear in the movie, she haunts it. Her strong presence and her emotional history with the sheriff pervade and color everything that comes after her first appearance and she becomes the key figure and the great enigma at the center of the drama. I liked the dusty-but-harmless look of the small Arkansas town, and the way everybody in it manages to convey normalcy without being dull. This shows good writing and quality work on the part of the minor players. The whole movie is a testament to putting quality in the details. There are few false notes struck here, a rare thing for a low budget crime drama. "},{"Title":"Right up there in my Top 50 Movies","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If I were to select one single aspect of this film that appeals to me the most, it would have to be the simplicity of the plot. Neither the good guys nor the bad guys even make much of an effort to outsmart each other. There are no complex double-deals...no lost treasures...no undercover agents or secret informers. This contributes a great deal to the credibility of the film. The characterizations and acting are also uniformly good. Paxton was absolutely perfect for his role, as was Thornton.I could have done without some of the more violent scenes, but I never thought that they were gratuitous or forced.Highly recommended for film noir fans, but definitely not for the kids. "},{"Title":"One foot in violence, the other in people","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Here we have thugs on the run from a vicious crime, police waiting for them on the other end, holed up in a small place in backwoods Arkansas. Some ordinary tension as the first desperately try to evade cops on their way to getting rid of the drugs.Eventually it reveals itself to be about people, or wants to be. About the local yokel cop who wants to make it big in LA, eavesdropping on LA cops who make fun of his eagerness. About the black girl who came all the way back to see her son but can't because cops are staking out the house.When these two come together in an empty house for a night far from the anxious plot mechanics, that's where plot is supposed to part and we should have tentative baring of souls. That's where we find out about a white dad who walked out on his black kid one day and how that's rippled through to happen again. Tentative, while plot mechanics are meanwhile snapping into place. It's more the sentiment for a certain kind of weary world that deceives than the unencumbered view of what it means to be in the middle. We're always more heavily invested in a plot way than urges sent forth and encountered. It's one of those films where maybe a few tweaks could change it all around. The actors - Billy bob, Paxton, the black girl - and camera stop short of embodying this world in a way that would make the difference. Devil in a Blue Dress by the same maker got there I thought.Noir Meter 1/4 "},{"Title":"Great thriller and more","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.One False Move (1992) is s great thriller, with excellent script from Billy Bob Thornton. Acting was also very very solid by everyone involved. I was really involved into this movie, it got me hocked from the get go. This is at the same time straightforward thriller, but after some 25 min you will notice that it is not actually. It tels more stories, personal ones as well as about one small town police officer who want to go big. And more, much more.Overall, One False Move is more then a simple thriller. It has superb script which in my opinion should have been nominated for Oscar as best original screenplay. It also has a very solid acting by everyone involved. It perfectly captures the mood of the place. It's also a bloody movie, it is not about violence though, although it doesn't shine away from it. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie not relevant in 2012?","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Just watched ONE FALSE MOVE again for the first time since the VHS era, and am really glad I did. This movie is never on cable TV, at least as far as I can tell, but certainly should be. It's a top notch crime movie that other than a shot of a phone booth, doesn't feel dated at all 20 years later.I'm not going to get into the story or plot, as that's been discussed several times in the preceding comments, so I'll just say that all the actors really hit their marks. Bill Paxton is great as a small town sheriff with an overbearing rah-rah attitude and a dark secret, and a younger Billy Bob as a ruthless killer on the run is downright frightening. Throw in the performances Cynda Williams, Michael Beach, Natalie Canerday, and the actors who played the LA cops, and it all adds up to an awesome 1 hour and 40 minutes that will completely suck you in.I can't recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"A rough gem...","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...heralding the rise of at least two notable acting careers, One False Move commits only a few of its own while limning the classic tragic arcs of a handful of well-drawn characters. With an admirably tight script by co-writer/star, Billy Bob Slingblade Thornton, and longtime collaborator, Tom The Gift Epperson, One False Move not only helped solidify Thornton's creds, it equally established Bill Near Dark Paxton as an actor with more than scene-chewing chops. It's a simple noir-ish tale of the inevitable collision of two homicidal ex-cons with a down-home Dudley Do-Right of a sheriff. Thornton's loose cannon is nicely balanced by a cucumber cool Michael Third Watch Beach as his dispassionate partner with a penchant for knives, while the pair's quest for drug money is enabled and then scuttled by Fantasia, Thornton's chippy girlfriend (and real-life wife at the time), Cynda Mo' Better Blues Williams. After a grim opening to establish the bad guys' brutality, One False Move settles into a groove reminiscent of an Elmore Leonard novel as its protagonists move toward their fates. Carl Devil in a Blue Dress Franklin, a veteran TV actor turned director, coaxes solid performances from his leads and supporting cast, ably abetted by DP James L. Don't Answer the Phone! Carter, and choice music from two founding members of the Climax Blues Band.I mentioned that there are a few false moves, and there are, but to me the only egregious one is a scene (that could have easily been rewritten) in which an Arkansas state trooper handles a traffic stop in a decidedly unprofessional manner, much to his regret. See if I'm not right when you watch the film; it caused me to lose a great deal of sympathy for a character that requires it desperately. At any rate, it's still a minor quibble, and the story only stumbles a bit because of it. Highly recommended to genre fans everywhere. "},{"Title":"The Elimination of Race","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In seedy Los Angeles, an anti-Mod Squad drug trio slaughter six people and make off with some cocaine and cash. The killers have connections to a small Arkansas town. Going there are sleazy snorting Billy Bob Thornton (as Ray Malcolm), sexy girlfriend Cynda Williams (as Lila Fantasia Walker), and smartly psycho Michael Beach (Pluto). Tracking them are cool, calm, and collected LAPD cops Jim Metzler (as Dud Cole) and Earl Billings (as John McFeely). Local sheriff Bill Paxton (as Dale Hurricane Dixon) is looking forward to some police action. He gets more than he's expecting...At heart, this is a predictable story involving the characters played by Mr. Paton and Ms. Williams. Specifically, it's the old race affair, based on the peculiar way race is defined, still, in some quarters. But, they took that and wrapped it up in a tight, engrossing crime drama about ugly people. Screenwriters Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson, along with one of the former's wives (Williams) plus director Carl Franklin are to be commended. They augmented it by having Mr. Paxton characterize the film's unraveling hero, revealing beneath the elimination of race as a barrier to love.********* One False Move (5/8/92) Carl Franklin ~ Bill Paxton, Cynda Williams, Billy Bob Thornton, Michael Beach "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A brutally graphic crime film, with some terrific performances from a non-star cast, especially Thornton and Paxton. The ending turned off some viewers, but I think it is the perfect ending to an ultraviolent movie. This may be the first movie I saw Thornton in, and he is simply amazing. The plot doesn't always hold up, but this film is not so much about the plot as the people. Highly recommended to crime film buffs and violence junkies -- and lovers of small, independent films.  "}{"Title":"Unsure ? by Jason G","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One False Move is one of the most graphic and spine tingling action mystery movies I have seen in a long time.  There are many memorable scenes which give goose bumps to any normal viewer.  Astounding performances were given by the dismal villains (Billy Bob Thornton, Michael Beach, and Cynda Williams) and the high spirited sheriff (Bill Paxton).  This all-star team of actors only adds to the film.  The only thing that I could think about was what could possibly happen next.  It all begins in LA and later ends up in a back roads city in Arkansas, which has been untouched by true cold blooded criminals.  As the viewer you are shown what happens when a couple and their intelligent, but cruel partner, get greedy and commit several horrific killings.  Unable to run and hide the three killers have to commit one murder after the next to try and save themselves.  What started out as a simple agreement between the three, ended up putting one against the other to save their own skin.  Ironically Fantasha, Ray's girl and Pluto's lose end, has a hidden secret with the quick acting sheriff of Star City.  Unfortunately for them Hurricane, the sheriff of Star City, remembers Fantasha when he sees a picture from a convenient store security camera.  See what happens when the LA police team up with Hurricane to bring these three killers to justice.  I strongly recommend this movie for those of you tired of seeing the same old Hollywood movie, and seeking some adventure.  "},{"Title":"Billy Bob. 'Nuff said.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Several years before he struck gold with Sling Blade, Billy Bob co-wrote and starred in this neat little thriller.A drug heist that results in a mass execution puts Thornton, iceman Michael Beach, and Thornton's girlfriend Cynda Williams on the run. Their plan is simple enough drive from LA to Star City, Arkansas, and lay low. Problem one Thornton's character of Ray is the leader, and he has about the same IQ as Karl Childers, his simpleton in Sling Blade. Second, they have to make it through Texas in a stolen car white trash in a ponytail, his black girlfriend, and their well-dressed psychopathic black friend. Again, no recipe for success here. Acting kudos to Beach, whose Pluto is one of the most frightening villains in recent memory. No big speeches before he kills you. He just gets it done. Only business. Billy Bob plays a character unlike anything he's played since. The Man's talent appears to be limitless. Bill Paxton is fine as well, as the local Sheriff who has a few secrets of his own.It's very rare to find a film like One False Move. No fast-pace. No logo-infected skyline. No partner's chattering about cheeseburgers or Josey & the Pussycats. To wit no constant reminder that you're watching a Hollywood product. As mean and violent as it is, you gotta love it.  "},{"Title":"No False Note","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this is a great film - nasty and brutal where it needs to be, but rarely gratuitously so. But my favourite thing about is the performance by Jim Metzler - just brilliant. Why isn't he huge? "},{"Title":"ANTIDOTE FOR YOUR INDIE JONES; SUBLIME PAXTON","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ONE FALSE MOVE (1992) **** Bill Paxton, Cynda Williams, Billy Bob Thornton, Michael Beach, Earl Billings, Jem Metzler, Natalie Canerday.  Carl Franklin made his directorial debut with this swiftly paced and excellently executed tale of a crime spree from Los Angeles to a small Arkansas town with intriguing characters of cops and criminals in this above-average road film. One gem of a sleeper and suspenseful script by Tom Epperson and co-star Thornton. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies you haven't seen.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the first movie that I ever saw Billy Bob Thornton in and only the third that I had seen Bill Paxton in.  After having seen many more from both actors, I should say that this is undoubtedly one of the best performances I have seen either actor turn in. And on top of things, we were able to get the EXCELLENT Michael Beach as Pluto. I am simply amazed as to how this movie was as overlooked as it was when Oscar time came around the year this came out. Well if we have learned anything, my fellow movie buffs, its that the academy is a bunch of monetarily motivated horses asses. They should let people like us, just every day joes, decide who the oscar goes to. Just my .02 "},{"Title":"One great thriller!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you want a tough and realistic thriller watch this one.Full of  bloody action sequences(VERY graphic ones indeed) and a terrific bad guy played by Thornton,this movie deliver the goods.Exciting and very realistic.Very.After watching this movie I was happy,finally a great film noir without ANY of the typical Hollywood flaws.There`s not a better film noir than this.If you like this one I recommend Devil In a Blue dress(also Franklin),Red Rock West and The Last Seduction(both directed by John Dahl).By the way,the best film noir ever is L.A Confidential.Okey,so One False Move is SECOND then.Enjoy!Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"Murdering scum cause trouble wherever they go","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Three killers depart from California for Arkansas leaving several dead bodies in their wake. Upon arriving in Razorback country they must face the 2 L.A. cops who trailed them east, and a local sheriff who has never been battle tested. Violent and profane, but exciting all the way with a dynamite, though terse, ending. Hot stuff. "},{"Title":"Overall it's outstanding -- interesting characters","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Personally I REALLY like this movie.  The major and minor characters all seem quirky -- it's as if the movie could go off in almost any direction, following any character, and it would still be an interesting story.  (In this way, it reminds me of another favorite movie of mine, Something Wild.)The violence here looks real and terribly chilling -- not like the cartoonish violence of typical big budget action thrillers.  (Again, in this respect One False Move is like  Something Wild.)I like the ending, though I'm aware that some others find it unsatisfying. Like much of the movie, it leaves some questions unanswered.  "},{"Title":"modern noir","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Film noir in colour over the past 20 years has always been a mixed bag. This film is no different. Paxton and Thornton are two of the better actors in contemporary cinema, and they're on good film here. Small-town America seems perfectly judged by the film. However it does drag, and by the finale you've lost empathy for any of the main characters. "},{"Title":"Great storytelling","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is very great and it reminds me of Underneath, and Simple Plan, this is great American flanking ten stars, all of the actors are in control of their characters, the leading girl is superb, as well as Paxton, the bandits look very hard even when we do not see super extreme graphic violence, but the overall tension of the film is one of its achievements, creating such atmosphere demands a lot of flanking skills, the end of the film surprises with sobriety, the use of angular lenses in some shots is beautiful, the universe of this struggling characters is contradictory, like life, like in a spiral, tension from all places. "}{"Title":"A standout in spite of it's flaws","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  By keeping this movie simple and emphasizing character instead of plot, it is much more realistic-feeling  and gritty than many films with more gore and action. By keeping the violence to a minimum, it made what violence there was much more affecting and impressive. These were people really getting hurt and killed, rather than the typical movie where everyone takes five bullets each and still lives. There were many plot problems and character inconsistancies, yet the plot and the characters worked. Is that to the credit of the director, the actors, or both? Unlike most comments submitted about this movie, I felt Cynda Williams' character was not fully realized, in spite of some very fine elements to her performance. I blame that on the director, who may not have worked the character out with her well enough. The emotionless violence of Beach was expected from his character, but  I just didn't believe Williams as a cop killer, and her subsequent lack of concern over what she'd done. Nor was I completely convinced by Michael Beach. His  appearance was perhaps just too professorial. There was no hint in his face of the monster he was supposed to be. His dialogue and motivations were sound, but he just didn't look quite right to me.I found all the talk of race essentially uninteresting because I personally have no qualms about such things. It was intended for more naive people who's blood boils at the thought of racial mixing. I have no idea how a black man (Beach) would react to seeing  a mixed couple ( Williams and Thornton) making love. The Beach character seemed annoyed, but I didn't get any insights as to how he really felt, and to what extent it contributed to the friction between them. My lack of empathy in that respect has to be laid at the feet of the actors and director, who failed to communicate this to me.All that said, this was a much better than average movie.  "},{"Title":"(*****) Excellent film, great character performances.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A masterful film. One of the best crime movies of the 1990's. The great character performances far outweigh any shortcomings of the plot. Bill Paxton is at his best . It's too bad this movie didn't get a wider release, though it faired better than expected as the film was aimed to go straight to video, but achieved a theatrical release after great word of mouth reviews.Note - In correction to review posted by george.schmidt  below a quick glance at Carl Franklin's filmography on this very site would indicate that this was not his directorial debut. He, in fact, directed three other movies prior to One False Move.  "},{"Title":"unforgiving brutal crime drama","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ray Malcolm (Billy Bob Thornton), his girlfriend Fantasia (Cynda Williams), and psychopathic killer Pluto Franklyn (Michael Beach) kill a drug family and steal their money and drugs. The police's investigation is leading to Star City, Arkansas. Dale Hurricane Dixon (Bill Paxton) is the small town's police chief eager for a big case. The trio is heading to Houston to sell the drugs before going to Star City for family.Billy Bob Thornton is warming up in this 1992 movie. There isn't a false note in this movie. It's a hard-boiled crime drama. Billy Bob and Michael Beach make for fearsome killers. Cynda Williams is a revelation. Bill Paxton is a fun backwoods cop. It is a dark, unforgiving thriller. It is brutal without the cartoon violence. The sense of doom is unrelenting. "},{"Title":"And you're dead","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This cult favorite degenerate cocaine crime caper starts out in what looks like South Central L.A and ends up in rural Arkansas. Directed by Carl Franklin from a script by Billy Bob Thornton, and starring Thornton, Bill Paxton, Cynda Williams, and Michael Beach, it begins with bloody bodies on the floor and ends with bloody bodies on the ground. There is some sprightly dialogue en route, some sharp editing, fine acting all around, and the dramatic tension is well maintained. We are intrigued by the clash of personalities and the degenerate hijinks. However, after awhile I began to feel that if they light up one more cigarette I will be forced to rip the pack from their hands, tear the stogies into shreds, and feed the debris to them with a large spoon. Also the standard quota of one thousand improvisations on the f-word was exceeded here. I am therefore condemning director Carl Franklin to an absurdist nightmare in which he dreams of getting scripts in the mail in which the dialogue for all characters consists of just that one word in its various grammatical forms, repeated for one hundred and twenty pages.Paxton plays a small town sheriff in awe of the cops from the big city who is nonetheless intent on proving his manhood. (One of the cops, by the way, in a bit of prescient genius, looks a whole lot like former L.A. cop Mark Fuhrman before he got all those bags under his eyes.) Thornton is a kind of murderous cocaine-addled urban animal in a long greasy pigtail whose life has neither direction, purpose nor insight. Williams, whose primal sexiness will keep your eyes open even if it's two a.m., plays a chocolate strawberry who can kill when she has to. Beach is an icy cold-blooded knife murderer who spends his off-duty hours worshiping his well-muscled body and practicing squeaky-clean living. The familiar Billy Bob Thornton fascination with things country contrasted with things city is explored here and reminds us a little of A Simple Plan (1998) in which he also teamed up with Bill Paxton. This genre, which I might call Grunge City gore, was morphed into an art form during the eighties and nineties in films from, e.g., Coen and Coen, Blood Simple (1984), David Lynch, Wild at Heart (1990), Quentin Tarantino, Reservoir Dogs (1992), Oliver Stone, Natural Born Killers (1994), and others. This is actually one of the better ones, but I think I need a break. Maybe a nice Disney favorite or something with Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks...or even something with Bette Midler and Whoopie Goldberg.Then again, maybe NOT.Incidentally, the reason all these films made especially during the late eighties and early nineties contain some much blood and guts and cigarette smoke is (1) Sex had become somewhat taboo because of the rise of AIDS, and so Hollywood switched to violence, and (2) The tobacco companies fronted money for films that promised to have a whole lot of puffing going on. Hopefully we are living in more enlightened times.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A Very Good Crime-Drama","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I honestly wasn't sure what to expect when I decided to watch this movie. But after the first few minutes I could tell that this was going to be one of those films that might be worth watching. Essentially, Cynda Williams plays a young woman named Fantasia who has gotten herself mixed up with the wrong kind of people. Her boyfriend, Ray Malcolm (Billy Bob Thornton) has just gotten out of prison and along with another ex-convict named Lenny 'Pluto' Franklin (Michael Beach) are involved in drugs and murder. Unfortunately, things begin to go wrong for them as they travel from Los Angeles to Houston and then to Arkansas. Anyway, rather than divulge the entire story I will just say that this turned out to be a very good crime-drama. Both Billy Bob Thornton and Cynda Williams performed in an excellent manner and in my opinion carried this film. Definitely worth a watch if you like movies of this genre. "},{"Title":"One Good Movie","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A tale of big city LA violence that winds its way into small town Arkansas, One False Move expertly blends vicious crime drama, clashing urban and rural outlooks on life and a plainspoken take on black and white relationships in the South. It asks the viewer to ponder the bad in the very good, the good in the very bad and a woman who is just a mixed up jangle of the two.Dale Hurricane Dixon (Bill Paxton) is the chief of police in tiny Star City Arkansas. He says he doesn't know why folks call him Hurricane, but it's obvious as you watch him blow through life at top speed, knocking everything in his path aside. The crime rate in Star City doesn't come close to matching Dale's energy, though events in Los Angeles will soon bring him the worst challenge of his life. A pair of brutal criminals named Ray Malcolm and Pluto (Billy Bob Thornton and Michael Beach) rob an LA drug dealer and leave a pile of bodies in their wake. With Ray's girlfriend Fantasia (Cynda Williams), they roar out of town and head to Houston to sell their stolen drugs.LA detectives Cole and McFeeley (Jim Metzler and Earl Billings) learn that Ray is from Star City and meet up with Dale in Arkansas to see if Ray and company will return to his hometown. But it's Fantasia who Dale catches up to. Her real name is Lila and she's also from Star City and she and Dale knew each other years ago. There's a secret between them that forces Dale to let her go, but only after she lures Ray and Pluto into Dale's trap. It's small town cop vs. big city killers and no one's going to walk away unscathed in body or heart.Though not all that flashy by modern standards, One False Move is very well written. It balances two different protagonists (the LA cops and Dale) against its trio of antagonists (Ray, Pluto and Fantasia/Lila) with a great deal of care. It keeps these three separate story lines going as them come together, apart and back together again without ever neglecting any character or any situation. Too often, a film simply forgets about certain characters as it focuses on others, but this one keeps everyone in the forefront of the audience's attention. The scenes are all well constructed and the main characters, and a few minor ones, all have a decent amount of depth and texture. The script tries to offer up a few catchy lines of dialog, but they seem a bit out of place against the casual normality of everything else said.I'm not sure there's a standout performance here, though the cast all does some good, solid work. Most interesting is the contrast between Billy Bob Thornton's Ray and Michael Beach's Pluto. There's an Oscar Madison/Felix Unger pretense to their relationship, but each actors adds an extra level to their role. Ray is more of a white trash lowlife, but Thornton gives him a core of normality. Ray's an ordinary guy who's not very bright and has poor impulse control. Pluto, on the other hand, is much smarter and more controlled, but Beach understands that these two thugs co-exist because Pluto is broken inside and not as functional as Ray. He needs to have a lesser partner, so Pluto can always feel like he's in command of things and not threatened.The story also dabbles in the racial politics of Dale's interactions with the black detective McFeeley and the black Fantasia/Lila, as well as the socioeconomic politics of the LA cops dealing with a rural police chief. It offers up examples of how prejudices can both be unthinkingly casual and so deeply ingrained that it's hard to tell how much anyone should be blamed for them.The violence of One False Move was pretty harsh for its day, though its not quite as rough by today's standards. It still serves its purpose in the movie and produces both a memorable beginning and ending.One False Move is well made and entertaining. If you want to watch a good movie, or just want to see Billy Bob Thornton with a douchebag ponytail, give it a look. "},{"Title":"Routine Crime Drama","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Two LA cops team up with a country bumpkin sheriff to track down drug dealers. This routine drama benefits from having some interesting characters, particularly Paxton as a small town police chief who dreams of joining the LA force and Thornton, who co-wrote the screenplay, as the leader of the criminals on the run. Williams, who plays Thornton's girlfriend, is good looking but is not a good actress. Perhaps she is supposed to be strung out on drugs, but she seems to sleepwalk through this one. Franklin, an actor turned director, does a competent enough job but does little to enliven the proceedings beyond the mundane. The violence is rather gratuitous and off-putting. "},{"Title":"movie is a good concept that could have been done better","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie follows the story or three cocaine runners driving cross country to Arkansas, and the three cops that are there waiting for them. The movie does a good job developing  Bill Paxton and the criminals, but falls short with the LA cops. The ending sucks.....but overall it is a good movie "},{"Title":"Hot Cynda Williams in racially charged road thriller","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, that Cynda Williams is really, really hot. What on earth was she doing with Thornton? Oh, yeah, good for her career. Anyway, she does a fine job in this film, as do most of the rest of the cast. We all know Billy Bob Thornton can do sniveling evil, and he does it to good effect here. Michael Beach does a good change from his TV personae, and Bill Paxton pulls off his part pretty well. The whole film is racially charged, sometimes explicitly, and sometimes not. Perhaps this is to be expected in a film with six main characters, three black, and three white. Only some of the minor cops seemed unreal, like the Texas trooper who was obvious cannon fodder. Overall, this film is worth seeing, surprisingly good for a flick I'd never heard of until I taped it from cable. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Crime thriller with a lot of inter-racial relationships","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dear Billy Bob Thorton, how are things? How's Bad Santa 2 going? Its sad Terry Zwigoff is not a part of the project. I'm a big fan of yours.I watched One False Move. It is so overrated. I know you wrote it.It was a pretty brave film. You wrote a film with a lot of inter-racial relationships. Some of it was really interesting. I don't think I understood all of it, I am not an American.The film was pretty dull despite the premise with so many interesting relationships. It felt like you were reigning yourself in a little bit.Anyway, Cynda Williams was awesome. She is such a great femme fatale.But I don't really understand the structure of this film. Why did you write it this way? You should have taken a leaf out of some of the thrillers from the 50s and the 60s. The film was also quite long.I liked the whole vibe of this film - the small town and the ridiculous red neck sheriff.Some people on the board seem to love this film.I do not.Best Regards, Pimpin.(5.5/10) "}{"Title":"Just the Facts, Billy Bob","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One False Move is not a unique film. It has a derivative plot which has derivative characters - that take turns getting developed and forgotten very sporadically in the film. It's the typical on-the-run caper of the perfect crime that Ray (Billy Bob) and his spaced-out wacko pal named Pluto (Beach) screw up like two bumbling stooges who, no matter what, do their best to 'look' cool. Kind of like the brothers in Night at the Roxbury.  To these moronic maniacs - it seems to be about nothing but image and cool one-liners. Living in a fairytale, literally, is Fantasia (Williams) who's the 3rd screw in this monkey wrench of a getaway to a nowhere town in Arkansas. Waiting for them (with the anticipation of a kid at Christmas) is a racial-slurring, jittery sheriff nicknamed hurricane (Paxton) who can't wait to use his trigger finger. So the plot thickens like water into dirt and the result is mud, when plot holes as far as the eye can see start to appear..  Are we really supposed to believe that two L.A detectives are going to make a cross-country roadtrip to join up with a backwoods badge to catch two killers and a wannabe cokehead girlfriend that any rookie cop-on-the-beat could bust using something as simple as a cell-phone as some common sense? You be the judge. This is unfortunately another tragic example of the lack of inspired screen-writing, much like TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES, N.M or RED ROCK WEST. But the film does have some interesting plot equations that make it barely watchable.  Which is only added by the fact that these are actors we usually depend on for performances. All in all - below average. When average for this genre is dead and buried. "},{"Title":"so much over-rated!!!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie. Good, and nothing more. But a 7.7...... wow, that was too much! The action is normal, the characters are normal, the acting is normal and some times less than that... Not that much material here, don't let yourself fooled by the rating. But you can watch it, because as i said it's good enough. Vote 5.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"WHAT  happened in the end?SPOILER","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'M  taking a vote, does the main character,the sheriff   live or die? We're left wondering what happens to him   ..and his little son is sitting next to him!!!!!!! How's that for keeping us in further suspense! Shar  from oHIo "},{"Title":"One false Move after another","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Billy Bob and Tom Epperson started writing movies together (5 films with each other thus far) with this mildly over-rated movie about 3 criminals, who seem to take their cue from the Goldilocks & the three bears form of acting. You have Billy Bob (who overacts), Cynda Williams (who underacts), and Micheal Beach (who is just right). Bill Paxton is the local sheriff who teams up with two big city cops to take the threesome of perps down. The pace is slow & a sub-plot introduced late in the film brings it down to soap oprea standards.My Grade C-Where i Saw it Black Starz "},{"Title":"A Convoluted Mess and Waste of Time","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This thing is long, very long to watch, yet it's 15 minutes shy of two hours.Go figure.If you were completely unaware that some black folks in America have white blood, and that some white and black folks are having sexual relations, then this may be an interesting movie for you to watch.However, you should understand that the multiracial crime scenes are complete garbage that does not exist in the real world, and Pluto -the black criminal- with the 150 IQ would not do the stupid things that he does here, though you may forget that he's supposed to be that smart because if not for the one spoken sentence by a police officer giving Pluto's profile to his fellow cops three hours earlier (or wait, the movie is less than two hours long, oh well) then you would never guess that Pluto is this smart.Perhaps eleven years ago this was supposed to be really edgy, but now both the movie and the black director (whose career disappeared) are nowhere.  "},{"Title":"One False Movie","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who cares? Why is this important? Why were the LA cops even written into the script? Where were the Feds? Let me get his straight backwoods Andy Griffith takes on the gang that couldn't shoot straight? Ezra Pound's rule of thumb was Make it new. Obviously this film's writers had never heard of Ezra Pound. Here's an alternative tagline  This sheriff has something to prove ... and also something to HIDE! (Wooooo scary.)I want two hours of my life back. I only give this movie a 3, because I just finished watching Dick which was even worse than this. A feather in the Director's cap, to be sure.  "},{"Title":"are you joking??","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most boring insipid movies I have ever seen.  I can't believe anyone could find anything redeeming about this film.  I find the comments on this site extremely shocking.  Everyone I know who has seen this film things it is awful.  If you want to be bored out of your skull and keep asking yourself why am I watching this film, I recommend you check it out.  Otherwise, it is a highly clicheed (the opening violent scene--oh please!!!  We are supposed to fear this pocket-knife -wielding villain??)  and highly uninspired B-movie and I suggest you never listen again to anyone that recommends you to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Too Many Race-Cards Played","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"14 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The racism and stereotyping in here turned me off. I'm talking about director Carl Franklin, who did a similar (but much better) race card film the following year in Devil With A Blue Dress. I could put up with the bias in that film because it was so beautifully-photographed and had such good 1940s ambiance. However, this movie didn't offer those visuals a cool lead character played by Denzel Washington. In these two films, all the white people are scumbags and the hero (oes) are blacks. That's bias. If the reverse were shown, critics would be screaming! Can you say double standard?Gutless Liberal critics, of course, raved about this mess, er movie, so I got sucked into watching it. It's no Devil In A Blue Dress, let me tell you. It's generally a convoluted, boring story with characters that are a little unbelievable such as thug with a 150 I.Q. who still does dumb things. Bill Paxton, as the sheriff, is probably the most annoying actor in the film and plays a favorite of (mostly White) liberal writers - the trigger-happy stupid southern sheriff. Puh-leeze!Paxton was a good choice for the role as few actors have a voice that sounds as stupid as his Speaking of stupid, if you analyze the story, you'd come to the conclusion that cops from hip Los Angeles would not be needed to bail out the backwoods Arkansas lawmen to get the stupid crooks in this story.....but it feeds the writer's elitist egos, I guess. "}]