[{"Title":"Okay movie, disturbing comments","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"124 out of 163 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I was re-watching bits of this movie a few weeks ago, I read the user comments here at IMDb and was very disturbed. Since it is still bothering me, I decided to write my own comments on the movie and on what has been said here.First, the movie. It is about an international custody battle. That is a very real problem in this day and age. When couples from different countries break up they often each want the children to live with them and grow up in the country (and culture) in which they were raised. Each naturally thinks the way he or she was raised is better for their children. This movie is Betty Mahmoody's story. And the culture clash is between the United States and Iran. It takes place in 1984. The Ayatollah Khomeini was still very much the leader Iran and the Iran-Iraq war had been going on for 4 years and would continue for another 4. Iran was quite isolated from much of the world at that time. And 'Moody' Mahmoody, an Iranian-born doctor practicing in the U.S., brings his American wife, Betty, and their daughter, Mahtob, to Iran for a visit. When they arrive, Moody is dismayed at the changes in Iran, especially the breakdown of the education system and the resulting shortage of doctors. Then he becomes an ultra, ultra fundamentalist Muslim &#150; so reactionary he makes suicide bombers look moderate. He demands that Betty dress and behave how he thinks a good Muslim wife should and wants their daughter to be raised to do the same. He becomes physically abusive to Betty. If she wants to return to America, it is fine with him, but Mahtob will remain with him in Iran. So Betty plans a dangerous escape for herself and her daughter.Does the movie work? Somewhat. 'Women in peril' movies are always a guilty pleasure and Sally Field is a good actress. The biggest problem is with Moody's character. Alfred Molina is a wonderful actor, but it's hard to do much with a character that undergoes such a radical change in his basic character in a matter of weeks. I kept expecting to learn that he had once been diagnosed as psychotic or schizophrenic.Is the movie unfair to the Iranian people? Again, somewhat. Virtually all the characters in the movie except Betty and Mahtob are Iranian. Some are good. Some are bad. But you can't have a 'woman in peril' with no peril. And that is provided by Moody and his family. But the people who help Betty escape are also Iranian. What unfairness there is lies not in maligning the Iranian people (it doesn't do that) but in implying (and sometimes saying explicitly) that the Iranian culture is inferior just because it is not westernized. As a free American woman I would not want to live in any fundamentalist society, regardless of which religion was in control. But post-revolution Iran is no more representative of thousands of years of Persian culture than Italy under Mussolini was representative of a land that produced the Roman Empire and Michelangelo.Is the movie unfair to Moody? No, because this is BETTY's story. Talk to anyone in a bitter custody battle and they'll tell you all about why their ex is evil. And they wouldn't be lying. They are giving you their point of view. That doesn't mean Moody doesn't have a different point of view which is equally true and equally untrue (and which, I gather from the comments, was explored in another movie.) But 'Not Without My Daughter' doesn't pretend to be a sociological examination into the two sides of a dispute. Let me repeat for the third time, this is BETTY's story.That brings me to why some of the comments disturb me so much. I would fully understand if some viewers thought the movie was silly or inaccurate or biased. But several writers have used their reviews as an excuse to joyfully bash the United States. My favorite was 'Who died and made Americans god to do movies about other countries??' That writer is from Sweden but doesn't seem to have a problem with Jan Troell making 'The New Land' (Nybyggarna) about America. And, were we to listen to her, we wouldn't have 'An American in Paris' or 'The Killing Fields' or 'Out of Africa' or 'Amadeus' (all of which are much better films than 'Not Without My Daughter.') But in the United States we have freedom of speech. That means that movie producers are free to make any movie to which they think they can sell tickets. And, as a member of the viewing public, when I disagree with what they are saying I have a very simple remedy. I don't buy a ticket.  "},{"Title":"book vs. movie plus misc. comments","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"77 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a bit confused as to why so many people seem to question the truth of Betty's story. She and her family are the ones who lived it. Who is anyone else to assume she is falsely presenting it? In my opinion, much of the reason for the movie and the book (which I agree is much better based on thoroughness alone) is that she is telling her story as a warning to other wives who may find themselves in a similar situation to not put herself and child(ren) at that risk. Others have mentioned that they were free to come and go as they pleased from Iran back to the U.S. Betty clearly points out in her book that she knows others in that same situation. It just wasn't true for her. I agree that the book is far superior to the movie, but for the movie to accurately represent the book, it would have been several hours long. As such, within the time frame, I think it did a great job. Perhaps I find the book and movie 100% believable having had the pleasure of meeting Betty. Also, I was born and raised in one of the small towns in Michigan where Betty lived, and worked for a year in one of the other small cities where she lived. Her descriptions of those places were right on target. My sister, a nurse, knew Moody from one of the hospitals mentioned--and confirmed, as stated by Betty herself, that at that time in his life, Moody was indeed a very nice man. In the book, Betty also makes it VERY clear that she knows and has great love and respect for many of the Iranian people--many of whom put their own lives at risk to help her and Mahtob escape--people whom she knows she can never repay in any way for what they did for her. The only Iranian people she presents (in the book) in any really truly bad light are those of Moody's family--especially the freeloading, ungrateful relatives who lived with them for a short time in America and expected her to wait on them--her being a second class citizen simply because she is a woman. There is nothing wrong with her making those statements. After all, she should know. She was not portraying all Iranians as having those characteristics. Also, in the book, she very adequately describes how erratic Mood's behavior and personality were, problems with situational depression--and how she chose to ignore/tolerate it because neither of them were very realistic and were non-confrontational people--often letting things get out of control before situations were even addressed. I could go on with many other things, but I think the reviews that see this as a culture bashing movie are reading a lot into it that is not there. It is simply one woman's story of what happened to her--as a warning of what is a chilling reality of what could happen to a child in this kind of situation. After what she went through to make sure her daughter did not have to live as a subservient second class citizen, she wrote it to try and keep the same thing from happening to anyone else. "},{"Title":"This Movie","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"53 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie a few times and in my opinion, I enjoyed it and didn't find it racist at all. This is what happened to Betty and her story.Is she saying that this is how ALL Iranians are? No, just what happened to her. The movie didn't give Iranians all a bad name because who were the people who helped her to escape from Iran? They were Iranians. It was not like every single person she met in Iran was rude to her. She is just talking about her husband's family and the way they treated her. Also remember this happened in 1984, twenty years ago. For people to compare Iran now to the Iran in the movie, it's totally different. The country has changed in the pass 20 years. I fully enjoyed this movie and admire the real Betty's courage. As a mother myself, I totally understand her not wanting to leave without her daughter. I would fight to the ends of the world for my child and that is what Betty did for her child as well.  "},{"Title":"Good movie. Some quick comments about Farsi vs. Arabic.","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"65 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Many people on here have said that they were not speaking Farsi in this movie. Actually they were. Most of the actors were Israelis of Persian origin. Most of the dialogue in this movie was in Farsi, not in Arabic contrary to the claims made by many who have posted here. Even the non native speakers like Alfred Molina, etc muttered lines in Farsi, not in Arabic. In fact all throughout the movie you could see banners of Farsi hanging over the streets of Tehran, and graffiti saying Marg Bar Amreekaa. This means Death to America in Farsi. None of this was Arabic.How do you say Death to America in Arabic? Al Mout Li Amreeka....this line was not once uttered throughout the entire movie. And it never appeared on a single banner or graffiti message.There was Farsi throughout the entire movie. Just for starters basic words or phrases like Khoda Hafez Salaam, Ashpazkhaneh etc. etc.Farsi is a very distinct language from Arabic. Very recognizable. Even if you didn't speak farsi you could easily distinguish it by ear from Arabic. Arabic is extremely loud and guttural. In contrast Farsi is much softer. The accents of these two separate languages are entirely different.So to the many people who said they didn't speak Farsi in this movie, you are wrong. Its been a while since I have seen it, but as far as I can remember, the only Arabic used was in prayers over the loud speakers. And when the family was performing morning prayers, they did speak Arabic, but it was ironically even in Persian accent. But this is normal. Iranians always pray in Arabic, the language of the Holy Quran. The movie was absolutely right about this.This movie was filled with Persian culture. Even the names of the foods were Persian, not Arabic. And remember some of the names of the characters? Ameh Bozorg, Baba Hajji, Miss Alavi, Khanum Shaheen, Aga Hakim...etc. etc.These are literally Persian names and titles. Very authentic.So I am really clueless as to what people are talking about when they said they only spoke Arabic in this film. Clearly not true. A note on Persian culture and language. There is no denying that Farsi is extremely arabized Persian. Farsi belongs to the Indo European language family but has thousands of Arabic loan words. Even the name Farsi itself is arabized. Its actually Parsi but the Arabs have no P sound, so its always been known as Farsi.So although Iranian culture and the Farsi language is quite distinct from Arab culture and is Persian in origin, there is no doubt that it is at least somewhat influenced by Arabic ways. Why do you think Farsi is written with the Arabic alphabet? Why is the main religion of Iran Islam? Obviously because of the impact Arabic expansion and culture had on Persia so many centuries ago.Throughout the movie you also saw posters of Khamenei and Khomenei. Two Iranian totalitarian clerics. These men are not Arabs they are Persian.There were so many references to Persian in this movie. Moody even said to Mahtob (another Persian name)....You know, I was born in Persia.So when people accuse the producers of this film of being ignorant about Iranian culture and Farsi language, you are quite mistaken. They did a very good job, especially with filming this in Israel. They could have easily botched this movie, but for the most part they didn't.Also, some on here have said this movie is racist. I beg to differ. This movie is based on a true story. The book is even more graphic. This movie actually sugar coated a lot of things.And how could one be racist against Iranians? Since when has there been an Iranian race or a middle eastern race? Thats like saying there is an American race or North American race or something. It doesn't make sense.But anyway, this is a great movie. Very informative about the current oppressive regime in Iran. The Shah was bad, and unfortunately America supported him. But the current Islamic theocracy is far worse. They hang little girls from cranes in public. "},{"Title":"Powerful And Disturbing","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story of Betty Mahmoody is a truly frightening one. The book she wrote and this movie based on it are controversial (many see it as little more than a racist slam against Iranian culture) but to me this movie came across as both believable and balanced. There's no doubt that life in Iran isn't presented as paradise, but the story really isn't about life in Iran; it's about one woman's experience of being forced to remain in Iran against her will after she and her daughter accompany her Iranian born doctor husband back to his homeland to visit his family, and about her subsequent efforts to escape Iran with her daughter. It also does a great job of depicting the almost complete lack of rights and freedoms women possess in Iran - having a status as little more than property to their husbands, and subject to their complete control.Sally Field was excellent in the role of Betty and Alfred Molina was also disturbingly believable as Moody - her husband. As the story opens, the family are living a comfortable life in Michigan and Moody is a completely Americanized doctor working in a local hospital - a loving husband and father. Against her better judgement, Betty agrees to visit his family in Iran - a family more radically Islamic than Moody who from the moment they arrive begin to pressure him to stay and adopt their ways. Molina did a good job of showing the gradual changes in Moody's character and as he becomes more and more abusive and controlling toward Betty. Field superbly portrays Betty's growing desperation and her feelings of helplessness (and hopelessness) as every opportunity for her to escape with her daughter seems to close. Finally, with the help of some sympathetic Iranians, Betty and daughter Mahtoub make a mad escape attempt toward Turkey.Whether all aspects of Iranian life and culture are accurately portrayed here seems somewhat beside the point to me. This isn't, after all, a documentary about life in Iran. This is Betty's own story as she experienced it and remembered it - and it's a story that makes the viewer ache for her as she tries to figure out a way to escape this nightmare she's caught up in. I found her story completely believable and brilliantly portrayed. "},{"Title":"other boards where they stick up for the worm husband","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen other comments that tell his side of the story. He was a cruel man and basically held her hostage by not letting her leave without her daughter. He was a worm and a bully. Hurray for Betty and the bravery of her escape. I would have loved to see his face when he found out she made it back. He under estimated her--that stupid fool. He forgot that American women don't like to be bossed around. I hope he never got to see or talk to his daughter again. He doesn't deserve it. And don't believe any propaganda they try and sell you about how her poor husband got the dirty end of the stick. He pulled an underhanded sneak attack on her and didn't have the you know what to tell her his plans. Good for you Betty--and as for that creep and all creeps like him in Iran--good riddance. And don't buy it for a minute that Betty was lying. She wasn't. I have heard the same from other women in the same boat. She spoke the truth about everything and it is much worse than she even described. "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about!!!!!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie quite some time ago and enjoyed it.  It did not leave me with a negative image of Iranians, Islam or Persia at all.  I saw it as a simple story of mother trying to do what was best for her daughter.  Not wanting ones daughter to be a second class citizen in my own opinion does not warrant the hostility I have seen portrayed in the previous comments.  Sally Fields performance was certainly good.  The movie told the story from the wifes/mothers point of view.  I found that the movie showed just cause why the husband would become disenchanted with the USA.  I can completely understand why he would like to return to his home.  After all there is no place like home.  My sympathy however with the husband left me when I saw the deception he displayed keeping his American family in Iran.  This movie, though flawed was well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"A Weak film","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, i'm a fan of Sally Fields and so I rented this to see what she was like in a film about Persians, my own background. To say the least, I was disappointed. The film was blatantly Iranophobic in most aspects. First off, to those 'morals police' (yeah the ugly fanatics with the machine gun) bring their truck around to nab at every opportunity some poor American woman whose bangs fall out of her scarf what the hell? I think the gov't, in a state of war, would have better ways to allocate funds than to have crazy men and women driving around in morals trucks, fully armed, to tuck someone's hair in. Secondly, when they showed the young boys being kidnapped to fight in a war, and the Iranian man tells Betty that they'll be given plastic keys to paradise, made in Taiwan, i don't even understand what that's supposed to signify. Children were never kidnapped and the plastic key bit made absolutely no sense. Perhaps they were trying to demean the sacrifices of the men and youth who fought in the war, which, need I remind us, was fought against Saddam Hussein (on the gallows presently), who was outright supported by the U.S. But, of course, that's never shown. I could write so much more but I think anyone who has seen it won't need any further explanations. Yes, it's a good story in the sense that international custody conflicts do happen, but the overacting was ridiculous, and the script even more so. Some say its not racist because 'there is no Iranian race', so its definitely anti-Iranian.And about the Israeli comments; do you honestly not think there's an implicit bias in having a film about Islamic Iran filmed in Israel with Israeli actors? think how you'd feel if the Iranians made a film about a Muslim woman in Israel who has her son shot, filmed in Iran, portrayed by Iranian actors? don't you think there'd be a huge outcry of bias, unfairness, racism, and *gasp* anti-semitism? It's unfair both ways. "},{"Title":"one sided,but undeniably powerful!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie does everything possible to ilicit a reaction to the horror that betty mahmoody went through. Sally Field plays Betty Mahmoody, an american woman that married an Iranian in the US, only to go back to Iran being told by him that it would be a vacation, he decided to stay in Iran and virtualy had her as prisoner because she didn't want to stay. This movie has been criticized for being one sided, showing muslims, especially men as violent wife beaters. Though I agree that the film does do that, the film is told from her point of view, and is not meant to be a documentary. The husband is Moody is played by Alfred Molina, his performance is good, the script does allow him to be 3 dimensional, there are moments when his facial expressions transmit that he knows that what he is doing to his wife is wrong. The movie might have been better if they would have focused more on his feelings, but it is hard to sympathize with him, from the beginning he had mislead his wife, later beating her often. Is it a great film,no, but its performances are good and it inspires thought. This movie works on the level of a personal story, politicaly, it can be said that it is just pro US propaganda. But Betty's story is harrowing nonetheless "},{"Title":"There Are Two Sides to Every Story","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I strongly urge everybody interested in the story of the Mahmoody family to watch the documentary Without My Daughter which tells the story of Dr. Bozorg Mahmoody, Betty's husband, who has been robbed of the right to even see his daughter and publicly and globally humiliated and criminalized.Even from the film itself, it is kind of obvious that it is intended as propaganda and a political move.Of course, I really don't have the means to verify which side of the story is the truth, but the documentary looked quite more valid and with stronger grounds than a sensational statement. "}{"Title":"Good drama but the film doesn't play fair with Iranians, or for what it's worth, the father...","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In that scary black-clad Iranian crowd covered by gigantic Khomeyni portraits (I've seen jollier pictures), a redeemable Muslim person is actually more difficult to spot than Waldo. Indeed, there have been movies where a whole town or a group of people have played the bad-guy role, but for the sake of fair play and objectivity, they were always given a chance to raise their voices and give their side of the story. But Not Without My Daughter gives the mother's side, and only the mother's side. Her name is Betty Mahmoodi and she's played by Sally Field.Surely a woman of such intelligence could go beyond the trauma of her experience and expect that such a story wouldn't improve the general opinion about Islam. But what one can say about the cry of a mother who, apparently, didn't find any ally among the people who surrounded her during two nightmarish years&#x85; apart from those who helped her to leave the country? And even then, you have a primitive guy trying to abuse her in her sleep. It's very revealing when there's no attempt whatsoever to shine not one single positive light on a Muslim, except if he explicitly speaks against Islam. No one would ever believe after watching the film, that what happened in Iran was perceived as a regression, even from a Muslim standpoint, even for Iranians.Look at today's Iran, look at the Iran of A Separation, look at any documentary and you'll see women wearing make-up and showing hair, you'll and see how far it is from the one-dimensional depiction in Not Without My Daughter, where even women seem to approve the aggressive behavior of Betty's husband. I don't think it is possible to accept that a human group can be that brainwashed, so lacking in empathy everybody would act with the same level of blind hatred. The film is efficient on that level, because we see the family from Betty's eyes and we all despise them, and as soon as Betty sets foot in Iran, we just want her (and her daughter) to get the hell out of it. And this is the most infuriating and frustrating aspect of the film, because our persuasion can only lead to contempt. And if the drama involving Betty's separation from her country and the risk of losing her daughter Mathob, the interaction of Sally Field and her daughter, are efficient, I wish the screenplay wasn't so abrupt in the husband's reversal.Alfred Molina is a great actor, and when the film begins, you can feel the love and tenderness he has for Betty and Mathob, we feel his pain when he's teased by his colleagues, mocking Iran's ignorance and primitiveness, and we love the genuine interactions with Mathob when he tells her that Iran used to be Persia, a rich and civilized country. But when he goes to Iran, he becomes a caricature, illustrating the very negative archetypes he was fighting against. A flawed and tormented character suddenly turns into a one-dimensional villain à la Mommie Dearest. Yes, he lied to his wife and she had the right to be angry at him, but one should go beyond emotions. It wouldn't have hurt the film to have a few words about the Iran-Iraq war, to highlight the way it affected the husband, even more because USA was indeed giving weapons to Iraq at that time. But no, Moodi had to be a 'regular' wife-beater.And Not Without My Daughter exploits a terrifying experience (if only because Betty's goes from a steady idyllic setting to a country in War) to display every possible archetype against Islam. She's welcomed by the sight of a bleeding sheep, men react like hysterical hyenas when she lets her hair loose, there are mentions of girls being married at nine, or women being considered as totally disposable and so forth. The film was directed in 1991, 2 years after the Cold War ended, and in the midst of a war against Iraq, the Green scare had efficiently replaced the Red ones and movies didn't have to wait too long Ironically, when Not Without My Daughter was released, Iraq became the enemy, so in the eyes of people, whatever was Muslim or Arabic, belonged to the darkest side of humanity. And the fatwa against Salman Rushdie didn't improve the publicity.Sometimes, I remember what I said about Midnight Express, one of my favorite movies, and I said that the film wasn't a cry against Turkey but a hymn for hope and perseverance against adversity. One can say the same about Not Without My Daughter, except that the bars that make the prison are cultural barriers that reassemble all the negative imagery one has about Islam. And while I love to see the ending as the triumph of a mother who saved her daughter, I bet many viewers would look at it as the triumph of civilization over primitive. Now people not only fear Islam, but they think they have good reasons to do so. I was just watching a South Park episode recently (and I love South Park) and an Iraqi guy shot Santa Claus and talked with ugly bark-sounding gibberish, with Bagdad looking as primitive as Kabul or Iran. I laughed at the satire but I knew some people would see this as the proof that there is something inherently evil in Muslim people.And that's not the right mindset, not for Muslims, not any people in the world. Typically, Not Without My Daughter is the kind of films loved for the wrong reasons. And it could have been a poignant multi-layered drama, it chose to be a one-sided view of reality, one that overshadowed the inspiring story of a courageous mother, as we never got the side of Iranian people, or, for what it's worth, the side of the father. "},{"Title":"Politically motivated and Full of Lies","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is full of lies about Persian (Iranian) culture and also the production itself is quite amateur. It's clear that in early 1990s they have been in rush to just make an anti-Iran film for their political agenda. In a scene for example you see the microphone in the top side of the frame. They even did not care to film that part again or correct that !Hollywood has a long history to make films against Persia (Iran). Not Without My Daughter is just one of them. In recent years Hollywood has also another anti-Persian film 300 which shows Greeks brave, handsome and freedom fighter and shows Persians wild, ugly and barbarian! And the interesting point is that Cyrus the Great, king of Persia, was the first leader of the world who proclaimed what has been identified by scholars and archaeologists to be the oldest known declaration of human rights, which was transcribed onto the Cyrus Cylinder sometime between 539 and 530 BC. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was on the Bravo Channel one night. The commercial looked quite appealing, and I figured I'd check it out. Mind you, my cup of tea is horror (check my review list) but I'm open to anything.And boy, was I surprised.First, I'll start with the plot. Betty, an American, and her husband Moody, an Iranian, live with their daughter Mahtob in America. One day, Moody overhears two fellow doctors at the hospital he works out making racial comments about him. He quits, and proposes to Betty that they take Mahtob and go to Iran for a two-week vacation. Hesitant and scared, Betty agrees.And that's only the beginning. The life in Iran is harsh and Betty is constantly forced to be wary of her surroundings. But the real nightmare begins when she realizes that Moody doesn't want to go back to America, and she herself is trapped in Iran, and has to save herself and her daughter.This movie is enthralling. Sally Field plays the role perfectly, and her character is someone you can't help but identify with. The helplessness of her situation is overwhelming, but to watch her struggle for an escape from her abusive husband (abusive in anger because she is trying to leave) and the rough conditions of a foreign country is even more overwhelming. Some of the scenes are amazing. When Betty's nightmare first begins, and she's begging for help from Moody's family, and they're all yelling at her in Iranian as she screams, God Damn you all! to them is one of the most intense of the whole film. And the ending is great. Not what you would expect. Well, it's not like something shocking, it's just subtle. But it will definitely give you so much pride to be an American, and you'll feel some comfort in being in this free country. All in all, I definitely recommend this movie. For anyone. You will be amazed. I was. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 From Outer Space has a rival...","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not Without My Daughter is one of the 50 worst films ever made and one of the five worst I've ever watched.I had to watch it for a schoolwork. Well, I had the opportunity to watch a really awful movie, with actors who look like robots. Sally Field is very very bad here and she deserved to be nominated to the Razzie Awards - she should have won. But I don't know why the film, the director, Sally Field's husband in the film, all his relatives and even the boring little girl weren't at least nominated to the Razzie Awards.Well... Now I realize that Spiceworld and The Avengers aren't so bad at all. After watching this disgusting thing I think Plan 9 From Outer Space has a rival.1/10! "},{"Title":"Nothing but Propaganda","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No doubt Mrs. Mahmoody's experience in Iran was not pleasant, but the portrayal of Iran and Iranians in this movie is an appalling propaganda to exploit differences between the cultures and to spread seeds of hatred. Anyone who thinks this movie will provide them with an opportunity to learn about Iran is sadly mistaken. If you really like to learn about Iran or any other country for that matter, visit your public library. If you like propaganda and sensationalism then watch this movie or what is on television. "},{"Title":"It's not complete true story .....","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm an iranian girl living in Iran since before the revolution. I don't say everything for women to cope with, was easy during 21 year.but it's not that bad, that in this movie you'll see. Certainly our culture is different from what you see.Actually you won't feel any special difference comparing other countries in these recent years in Iran. I just wish politic and movies won't be mixed again. "},{"Title":"A Big Lie","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"23 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have never written anything for any movie because both my English and my knowledge about cinema are not good enough. However, last night after watching this movie I decided to write my idea about it. I am an atheist and I hate the Islamic Regime in Iran. I am also by no means a nationalist. But after watching this movie I was so angry that had to walk a few minutes to cool down. The Iranian society even today has lots of problems. In 1980s after the Islamic Revolution the situation was much worse. But the situation pictured in this movie is so exaggerated that you can't believe it is just a misunderstanding about Iran. This movie has certainly been made for a political purpose. Anybody who has been to Iran even for a few hours will agree with me. There are lots of things I can mention here that are not (and have never been) true about Iran and you can see them in this movie. For example in this movie all Iranian women are wearing chador (a kind of Islamic cover). There are lots of women in Iran without chador who use scarves to cover their hair and they don't even cover it completely as was shown in this movie. There are a few cases of asking women to cover their hair and it is never done as it is shown in this movie. They are often asked politely to cover their hair. The other point about chador is that it is not common for Iranian women to wear it at home and they definitely don't wear black chadors for praying at home. In this movie all women are wearing chador, even at home and even when they are praying. It was obviously tried to show everything about Iran dirty, ugly, primitive and savage. The houses and streets are dirty and destroyed, the women are ugly (which is actually the opposite!), men act like wild animals, etc. There are pictures of Khomeini and the logo of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards everywhere (even inside the house!). No woman wears make up. And I have no idea why there are soldiers and military cars in the streets! If you haven't been to Iran, please do not believe what you see in this movie. Although the Islamic regime is not what most of us want in Iran, it has never made our country as it is shown in this movie. "},{"Title":"this movie is awful in many ways...","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"26 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie is awful in many ways. First of all it's filmed in the most deserted and horrifying areas around Kabul (Afghanistan) and we are supposed to think its Tehran, the capitol of Iran. That gives a wrong impression of this beautiful city.Second, the Persian family that is presented here in this lousy American propaganda movie is a very unusual family. I'm a Persian myself and I've never come across meeting or even heard of such a family. I think this movie gives a completely wrong and distorted picture of what a Persian family is like.I live in Denmark, and a lot of my friends asked me after watching this movie, is it really like this in Iran. And of course I said 'NO'. Because it isn't. It's not Paradise either, but it's not that bad, as we see it here in this picture. I've noticed how this movie has affected people's vision of Iran in a wrong way.Third, it doesn't make sense to me at all. Moody is a loving father, a man that has been living in America for many years, suddenly when he comes back to Iran he's transformed into a tyrannical, cold-hearted beast. It's not logic&#133;..He must be a very disturbed man.This movie among many others is used for making a commercial for U.S.A. A politically propaganda movie. We are supposed to conclude that America is the perfect country, and every time there is something wrong in other areas of the world, America is there like an angel, and America will save us from all evil. I'm sick of this Americanisation. America is NOT the world&#133;&#133;and I'm extremely happy about that!!!!I've seen other people comment on how good and factual this movie is!!! To those I would say, unless you are Persian or Iranian, you should not comment on this film at all. This movie has only been made for propaganda. Can you tell me about an American movie that has been made about (Iran) that is positive?Please write back to me and name some movies!!! Surprise me please!!! "},{"Title":"Controversial, Harrowing, Powerful, Edge-of-your-seat, True-Life Story","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Adapted from the book of the same name by Betty Mahmoody, the film was directed by Brian Gilbert, screenplay written by David W. Rintels, and filming locations ranged from Ankara, Turkey, Neve Ilan, Israel, and in Atlanta, Georgia. It's a thoroughly well-acted, very absorbing drama, shrewdly evoking the central character's escalating nightmare as she comes to terms with being held hostage by her husband and being totally powerless to do anything about it. What alarms me more than anything is that, despite a number of reviews praising the film, one reviewer stated Sally Field displays a lot of over-heated anguish. Is that person for real? I think the viewer is sympathetic to her ploy, as she was fooled into visiting Iran, and then was forced to conform to their culture, which is very primitive when it comes to women. Field has many scenes where she is able to show off her acting abilities and her performance never once shrinks, delivering a powerful turn, as does Alfred Molina in the less-sympathetic role. There is a beautiful performance from a very young and gifted Sheila Rosenthal as their young daughter, Mahtob, and displays acting abilities that are incredible for her age. Inevitably, this situation she and her mother find themselves in, affects her the most being just a six-year-old girl. I won't reveal the ending, but I can certainly say it is intense, very edgy, nail-biting stuff, which makes you incredibly nervous, and it's very well-drawn out. Unfortunately, the film ended up being largely criticised by Iranians, who saw it as another attempt by America to shame their culture. Many critics stated it had a hidden agenda. This is simply not true. The real-life Betty Mahmoody acted as a consultant on the film, to ensure accuracy, and it is made more than clear that she saw Islam as having great beauty in it; it was just the excessively oppressive system to women she could not adapt to. Some accused this of showing all Muslims as monsters. Now, I can see why this film could be used as racist propaganda, but, I also didn't see it this way. It was telling a true story, no more, no less. For instance, without giving too much away, it is actually a group of Muslims that aid Betty in her daring escape plan; the same penalty would be handed out to these Muslims if they were caught helping her - death! Some of the Muslims in the film are shown to be warm and very gracious, so I don't believe there was any hidden agenda here. If there WAS then all I can say is wherever the eyes of the filmmakers may have been, the heart of its stars were definitely in the right place. I also find it hard to believe that despite the harrowing tone of the film, those same critics that were mocking it stated that it is no more than an over-sensationlised, Lifetime-type TV movie; grossly inaccurate. This is far from some glossy, shallow melodrama. Yet, those with a rather closed-mind may view this as the be-all and end-all to life in Iran, which I don't believe it sets out to do. The incidental music accompanying many of the scenes was also criticised by some, though I personally felt it helped create the intended atmosphere and tone, as well as enhance the edge of the story.Ian Phillips "},{"Title":"Amazingly not true","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I seen this movie and wounder how it can be wrong.Firstly it is not a story about an mother and daughter cause it portrayed all Iranian like cruel and bad people, and of course they behave to women like slaves.... ! Some points why we should not believe Betty Mahmoody;First, I admit bad people could be found all around the world, however, this is not just about a bad and cruel husband, she portrayed all Iranians like this. I suggest whoever believe this just google it and see read about Iran.Moreover, I am sure if you do a little bit of effort, you will finally find some Iranians or some who traveled to Iran. Just simply ask them if Iran and Iranians are like this....!!!Definitely, there are some limitations But not what portrayed.... Apart from religion and politics in Iran, women are part of our culture and with all limitation they have had applied their opinion. I admit not like men in recent decades but it is part of their culture from thousands years ago.....!This movie is totally political as governors comes and goes and the changes some laws but they cannot change culture easily. this happened in 1984 just 6 years after revolution and no one can change culture of people even in decades....Just do a little be research about Iran, CULTURE AND PEOPLE and you will see 100 percent lies and discrepancy.....! "}{"Title":"Stereotypical culture clash drama","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know how to say this to you. We're not going back. We're staying here.Not Without My Daughter is basically a family drama that focuses on spouses from two very different cultures that clash together. Sally Field plays Betty, an American woman who has been happily married in the States with her Iranian husband, Moody (played by Alfred Molina). The two have a beautiful young daughter played by Sheila Rosenthal. The film takes place in the 80's when tension between America and Iran began escalating, and in a way it begins to take a toll on Betty's marriage. Moody gets bullied a lot at the hospital where he works due to his Iranian background and he eventually ends up losing his job. He convinces Betty to come along with him to Iran to visit his family and that is where the tension escalates because Moody's intentions are to stay in Iran. The Iranian culture is very patriarchal so Betty can't return to the States with her daughter and ends up being held against her will in a country that seems to despise her. Moody who seemed to be a loving husband, goes through a drastic change when he arrives at Iran and begins abusing his wife and forcing her to stay against her will. The film then centers on Betty's attempt to find a way out of her current situation. Sally Field and Alfred Molina are talented actors, but I fear the material they had to work with was very weak. These characters are stereotypes of how we perceive Iranians to be and I'm afraid the characters are never given distinct personalities other than portraying the Iranians as bad people. I just found the story a bit too lazy and predictable because it was full of clichés. The film plays out exactly the way you are expecting it to. "},{"Title":"rethinking Iran","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" as an Iranian, I didn't enjoyed the film. I expected watching one really true story from a woman who experienced the society of Iran. unfortunately it was harmfully wrong. believe it or not, it's narrating an ugly face of Iran which is corresponding with and confirming the clichés have been claimed regarding muslims and Iranians so far. I won't escape from reality but take you(the readers/the watchers) into reality, into what's going on in Iran nowadays. Iran is based on one of the biggest ancient emperor called Persia( Persian gulf, Persian cat, Persian carpet, Persian music). we as Iranian students have never been learnt to curse the West, including America, but respecting the Others as we expected and waited the same rather to us. I learned English and French in Iran's school. I recommend reading the books orientalism by Said and following Muhammad by Ernst. by the way, I am ready to response and dialogue with whoever wants to know Iran and Islam better in depth. 2bahar1388@gmail.com is waiting you! "},{"Title":"So what did you expect?","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film has received a great deal of flak for its treatment of Dr. Mahamoody, of Iran and indeed, of Islam itself. Yet it must be acknowledged that this is the reality of life in Iran as well as other countries operating under strict Islamic law (c.f. Saudi Arabia) women cannot so much as board a plane or check into a hotel without their husbands' permission, children are in the custody of the father and the family will do as he says.The postmodernist is occasionally willing to admit this, but quick to point out all of the supposed past and present faults of Christian and Occidental civilisation. To this end, the filmmakers (I am not familiar with the book) have done an excellent job avoiding either explicit Christian traditionalism or liberal feminism in depicting Betty's struggle. It could well be read as Christianity versus Islam notice the large crucifix conspicuously dangling from her neck, and the implication that Betty would never truly consider converting; it is also implied that Betty has raised her daughter a Christian and resists any notion of conversion. On the other hand, it could be read as modernism and feminism versus fundamentalist religion Betty is shocked that she cannot simply come and go as she pleases, and with her child. (I lean toward the former interpretation, though my reasons for thinking so would take up too much space.)Further, the people who helped Betty escape Iran included Iranians. It is true that these Iranians were depicted as sincere Amerophiles, but let us ask, honestly what other type of Iranian would help an American escape from her Iranian husband? Moreover, the movie depicts the local Iranian women as genuinely wishing to help Betty adjust this could well be read as an acknowledgement that the mentality in Iran is quite different than Betty's or any Occidental's.True, the film is centered around Betty and any value judgments would tend to lean toward her side, but in my mind this is a film that cleverly avoids explicit value judgments and tends toward the problem of culture clash. Whatever one thinks about religion or cultural relativism, the fact is that people ARE different, however many similarities one may find, and this has practical consequences. Moreover, the depiction of Moody as swinging from moderate to radical is based on Betty's real memories and should not be discounted. This is one woman's story; the reader is invited to draw his own conclusion. "},{"Title":"a lie","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone should see the Finnish movie Ilman tytärtäni (2002) which tells the father's side of the story. Not Without My Daughter gives a completely false testimony on Iran and is a lie. The father of the daughter hasn't been given an opportunity to defend his reputation.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every time I see this movie I get a good laugh.  How can it be taken seriously?  This movie is great camp, nothing more.  It really is truly awful, but awfully fun.There are so many funny moments.  I especially like when Betty attempts to explain her predicament at the dinner table (floor?) and all fifteen relatives (which have the patience of an alarm clock) erupt in frenzied ululating and finger wagging.  Meanwhile, Sally Field's grating voice and incessant whining have me rooting for the husband.  You almost wish she >would< leave without her daughter.  Well, at least she got a worst actress nomination. "},{"Title":"One sided Woman as Victim - made-for-TV style movie","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was extremely one sided and belongs on the Lifetime movie channel which shows all the other woman as victim and disease of the week films which are usual titled The XXX story  (Fill in the name). I really would like to have seen more balance.  Rather than being an abusive thug, the husband came across to me as a very weak man torn between his allegiance to his country, culture and family and his foreign wife and daughter, and extremely frustrated by the pressures from his family and a whining snivelling wife who made little attempt to fit in.  Betty seemed unable to comprehend that the assertive, pushy, go anywhere, independent western woman is very offensive to many cultures, and not just Islamic. Western women can seem very loud and vulgar in the eyes of many.  Not only that, but a husband is responsible for his wife's behavior; thus, if Betty was offending people, they would pressure her husband to keep her in line. It is hardly surprising that he walloped her now and again.  He seemed to vacillate between his American and his Iranian life, not being able to make his mind up once he was back with his family.  The husband seemed to love his wife and not want to let her go, but he was not prepared to return to the US, which regarded him as the enemy because of his being Iranian.  At time of Dr. Mahmoody's return to Iran there was a great deal of hostility toward Iran.Unfortunately this film was used to portray Muslims in an unfavorable light. Iran was shown as a dreary poverty stricken nation with nothing working, but with barely a mention of trade embargos and that Iraq seized the chance to go to war against Iran. Although the Iranians are NOT Arabs, the entire film had an Arab bashing slant belonging to the Reagan era. Sally Field and Alfred Molina wasted their talents in this film.   "},{"Title":"uhm.. how bad can a film be!!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Is this really supposed to be a real story!!Gush.. isn't there some regulation here saying if you advertise something to be true.. it should be true!!  well it doesn't seem like that to me!! an awful film.. with a made up plot just for political reasons.... how bad can a film be!!? I am just ashamed of myself for wasting the time to see this movie!!! "},{"Title":"-= One sided at all =-","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" well , to be honest , not only cause i'm Iranian but also as a movie lover , i think this movie is really ONE SIDED ! the pictures shown about the Iranian family , about the way Moody behaves his wife and about the way people in the city treat her , is nothing of reality . i think it is more like a propaganda than being a movie . though actors are good and directing too , but as a result of a great LIE named Screenplay , i didn't like it at all . I think making a movie , such as all the other aspects of arts , should be beyond these political calculations and so on . Regards - Shahab Habibi "},{"Title":"I can't believe this wasn't a Lifetime movie!","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A hamfisted plot, lame lines and unbelievable characterization all conspire to sink this ridiculous movie.I'm not Iranian, but even I had a sneaking suspicion that Not Without My Daughter wasn't exactly cinema verite.  The filmmakers don't portray Iran in a very positive light, to say the least, and this unflinchingly negative depiction just gets way too extreme.  In other words, I can believe the basic premise - a woman escaping her abusive husband in a repressive country - but I certainly can't believe it as it's handled in Not Without My Daughter. The movie is simply too illogical to resonate emotionally.  Moody's abrupt reversals, Mahtob's strategically placed pleas, Betty's American friend who's also in a heinous marriage... it's all too much, and too cheesy.  Not to mention the completely over-the-top depictions of Moody's family.  It's like My Big Fat Iranian Family.Speaking of over-the-top, Sally Field *does* try her best, but she is ultimately betrayed by a heinously manipulative script.  Alfred Molina does what he can with a cardboard character, but he gets even less to work with than Field.  Nobody's motivations make any sense!  Why would Betty marry Moody, only to condemn his culture as primitive and backwards later on in the movie?  How stupid is she?  How does Moody transform from a slightly grumpy doctor into a wifebeating maniac?  How does Mahtob stay so placid through all of these traumatic events?  Etc., etc.  The funny thing is, although this movie is infuriatingly stupid, I find myself glued to it every time it comes on television.  This is mainly thanks to Molina's charisma (even at his most abusive, he brings a certain spark to his character), as well as the general train wreck quality of this movie.  File it under guilty pleasure -- at best. "},{"Title":"Idiots believe in this movie!!!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie when  i was 16 and I thought wow!!! I mean poor woman. Then, when I was 18 I met my Iranian Boyfriend and we went to Iran when i was 21. We started with his sister do some research about not without my daughter. It shows that it's all bull****. Just because Americans make a movie doesn't mean it's true. Iran is a wonderful country it might have a bad government but the people are fantastic. I'm Swedish and I didn't see anything I saw in the movie. People get upset by this movie and the book to them is like Mein kampf (Hitler). Why did they choose sally Field because she looks so innocent! Have you seen B. Mahmoody?! What about Moody? The man I met was so tiny. If you believe this movie then your really are a racist. Who died and made Americans god to do movies about other countries?? My boyfriends family cried when they saw this movie in Iran. Shame on you! "}{"Title":"Good but not true","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie tries to describe a true story but in a wrong way! Iran has never been as bad as it was in the movie and not a single scene was from Iran or Persians. Although the movie was very nice the story was a real awful lie. "},{"Title":"Compelling, with serious limitations","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was extremely powerful on a visceral level - it is almost impossible not to be rooting for the mother and daughter as she scrabbles to get out of the country with her daughter.  However, there are two seriously weak areas that keep it from being a really successful film.  First, the husband's character is never fully developed so that when he undergoes such a radical change it is hard to believe or understand.  A little more time spent on this and on their relationship would have made a difference.  Second, the writers seem almost racist in their portrayal of the Iranians - a little depth and variety here would also have helped.  The whole population couldn't be so monolithically controlling and evil.  "},{"Title":"Horrific Exploitation","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I never thought a movie would have me say this but, I can't believe they made this garbage! Don't get me wrong, I know that bad movies are a part of the Hollywood ecosystem, but this movie jumps the line into outright racism.  At the center of this movie is Sally Field playing the normal Sally Field character a concerned, spirited woman fighting against some societal obstacle.  Normally this would only warrant a ho-hum. In the context of Not Without my Daughter.  It acts as a vehicle for racism.  I don't know if anyone in the entire film has ever seen, been to, or talked to anyone from Iran (or anywhere else in the Middle East), but the portrayal of the Iranian people is disgusting.  Any educated person with a knowledge of other cultures can see the prejudice seep from every film cell.I guess it should come as no surprise.  The film was after all written by the real life person who escaped the Iranian menace portrayed in the film. The film maker, in the desire to make the story powerful, skimped on accuracy and pushed the alien culture factor to the max.  The result, as Roger Ebert noted in his review, was rather tainted. I think that this movie can best be described as a mixture of jingoism, star-exploitation, and Birth of a Nation all rolled into one painful package.  Shelve this one in the propaganda section, right next to the Goebels collection. "},{"Title":"a women gets marry then starts to lie","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why the producers decided to make this movie before they do a research on Iran and the facts. it is a fact that Betty Mahmoodi wrote this book after she couldn't get any money from his husband so she decided to trash him and his country. maybe if this movie was based in a fictional country it could get some credit cause it had some good acting, but the facts were complete lie and fabrication. And you can't make movies and lie about the facts and the events that happened. just because there was a book doesn't mean its true. Betty Mahmoodi was just an opportunistic women who couldn't get what she wanted so she decide to trash everyone. "},{"Title":"Nice try...not!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Apart from the fact that this story is not true as it's told this movie sucks long before it even starts. There is no way to verify the author's side of story except the fact that she has been married to a Persian doctor and spent a while in the capitol of Iran, Tehran.However there are many others calling her a liar and a mentally instable individual. One of these persons is an American lady who has been friend with the story teller. What every one know is that she made some money and got (in)famous by telling this highly doubtful story. Who gives a damn anyway? Her problems are her problems just like your problems dont keep her awake at night...blah! "},{"Title":"agreed","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" even a hillbilly such as myself can see this film is pure tripe. i was dubious from the start with the casting of sally field...she has not made a worthwhile effort since the seventies in Sybil. this is pure semitic propaganda. thank you Hollywood for towing the white house line. Washington has been slandering Persians since the Sha of Iran died. Apparently someone in the church bank rolled this garbage and i only hope that my so called fellow Americans will at least look around on the internet for a more realistic representation of Iranians. Whats most troubling is this is actually a fairly common practice in Turkey (one of Americas dubious allies) yet the producers IE church dollars, chose the setting as Iran. Is that irony or just despicable? both maybe. "},{"Title":"this is a lie!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" this is really a racist liar and funny movie. i am 25 years old and i have never seen Iran like this . in this movie Iranian men and women are silly and racist and dirty . Iranians are like nonhuman in this movie . all of the film is a big lie from a sick mind . the producers are really racist about Iran . beautiful Tehran in this movie is is like no city. i had never see (even my grandmother grandfather mother and father never seen) anyone say prayers like the movie . i tell you there is no chance to hit your wife or husband or your child or anyone else like this in Iran like Dr Mahmoudi hits his wife in public!!!! without going to jail for several months even if you do it in private. you cannot put your wife in your homemade jail like this in the country that on its walls had wrote the heaven is under the mothers foot. i cannot understand how can anyone say such mad thing about a nation and a country without sending him to madhouse in his or her country. in this movie the Iranian women are mindless but the truth is that more than 60% of university students in Iran are women. at the end i have one thing to say about this movie  racist! lier ! racist lier! "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies i have seen in my life!!!!!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" k let me just start by talking about my family. I've been born in Iran and currently i live in Canada, however i have spent most of my time in Iran. Any way lets just start by talking about the acting, if you could understand farsi you would get the impression that there are a bunch of robots talking this weird language which you understand sometimes but the rest of the time you have to listen carefully just to understand the language that you've been talking all you life!!!! What was up with the damn hand movements ( going back to my example of robots ). Now lets get to my main idea, i think the director has got ARABS and Iranians mixed up somehow,somebody please tell him that were not Arabs. In all my life time i have never seen women being treated so badly except in this movie, as i have said before i have lived in Iran most of my life and can tell you that not even the most religious people wear the veils at home. This is starting to sound like i'm trying to say that Iran is a first world country which has freedom in every way, it's not!!! However it's not even near what the movie makes it look like. In conclusion this movie has been made in 1991 and Iran today, although very undemocratic, is a million time better than 1991. Therefore, this movie should not be allowed to be shown on TV as it would give the viewers the wrong impression!! PS, i have left a link with pictures of Iran today and if you take the time to look at it, you would be amazed how different it is from the movie. http//www.bigsoccer.com/forum/showthread.php?t=199709&page=8&pp=15just copy the link and paste it into the address bar. "},{"Title":"A film that all non-Arabs need to see.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand the rather low ratings of this film, although it drags quite a bit in the middle, it is a gripping true story, well scripted and well acted. Alfred Molina as the Iranian husband and Sally Field as the American wife are perfectly cast and each does a great job in their respective roles.  I give it 8 of 10.First, we need to accept that part of the reason this film was made, and part of why it drags a bit in the middle, was the producers' desire to expose the mistreatment of women in certain Arab countries. This one was set in Iran, but presumably thousands of American women married to men in these countries are virtually imprisoned, not allowed basic freedoms, including the freedom to return to the USA. Or perhaps other western countries. I was in one of the Arab countries for a week in 1991 and what is depicted in this film is very accurate.The story - SPOILERS FOLLOW - it is 1984 and Betty is happily married to an Iranian-born doctor, and they have a 5-year-old daughter. We see them as a typical well-off American family, fishing in the lake in Michigan (filmed in Georgia) and having a family outing with the in-laws. At the hospital fellow doctors are making uncomplimentary remarks about Iranian doctors, and kids at school to the daughter. Plus, his large extended family back in Iran (formerly Prussia) are putting pressure on him to return. Betty is afraid to go for a short visit, but her husband swears on the Koran that he will see that they remain safe, and they will return home in the US after a two-week visit.When they arrive in Iran, the large family celebration looks more like a grand homecoming, which is what it was. After two weeks he told Betty they weren't going back, in Iran she is his property and she has no independent rights. When she argued, he hit her in the face with his fist. At one point, when her father was ill back in the states, and she wanted to travel to visit him, she would not be allowed to bring her daughter. She said, Not without my daughter will I leave, thus the title.  Betty and her daughter were there for almost two years before they finally escaped, taking a dangerous route across one border, risking their lives for freedom.  She had spent most of that two-year period constantly trying to find a way to escape. Angered by her attempts at one point he told her, Try this again and I will kill you.  That coming from  her husband with whom she lived such a normal life just months earlier. All in the name of his religious beliefs.The DVD is relatively sharp, but not reference quality. There is only one short extra of note, and it is a making of which also includes some comments from the real Betty.  Good film, still can't figure out why it has a relatively low IMDb rating. "},{"Title":"Idiotic, Racist, Worse than a Waste of Time","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Leaving aside for a moment the poor story, plot, credibility as based on a true story, etc. -- the movie comes off as sheer anti-Islam propaganda.Apparently based on a true story (whatever that means), the movie completely ignores the point that whatever truth there is to it would simply be that this woman's husband was a psycho with a mental illness.  His religion, culture, country of origin are completely irrelevant to this -- and yet in the movie they are made out to be the root causes of his behaviour.  As some of the comments on imdb show, this (and the whole anti-Islam tone of the movie that shows Islam and Iranians as a sinister, unfriendly threat) leaves some people with a misguided and foolish view of Islam and/or Iran.  (For those people, I sincerely encourage you to look to more credible sources for your cultural & religious education.)  Thus, the movie is worse than a waste of time.It's unfortunate that this kind of blatant misinformation (for want of a better word) in the form of entertainment is becoming so common.  Oh yeah, the storyline is vaguely absurd (you telling me they had a fairytale marriage for so many years, the wife never noticed anything odd about him, and then the air in Iran suddenly turns him into a nasty monster?) & the direction extremely poor.In short, only see this if you like being slapped in the face.  "}{"Title":"Scary but true story of a woman and child trapped in a foreign country by an abusive husband.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At first I had reservations about this film until I lived in a country similar to Iran.The fact is that no one can comprehend the differences in culture and religion until they have lived it.Women of any nation or religion suffer from abusive relationships but as laws go in many Muslim countries, problems arise when a foreign national woman wants to leave with her children because the children are seen as belonging to the husband's family.I did find fault with the film however, because they seemed to show alot of ugliness in the land and of the people.  I find this often in films critical of Arab, Iranian, or Muslim countries.  Its as if the producers look for the worst looking actors and locations they can find to make the viewers think that all the people and places in those countries are like that.Overall I liked this film and found it true and correct.  Sally Field is a great actress and played the part of Betty Mahmoody well. "},{"Title":"This is the dumbest movie ever!!","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The whole movie is a big lie, they didn't even film the movie in Iran, it was filmed in Israel. They are just doing this to sell and to make a bad picture of Iran. I am not Iranian my self but I have a lot of Iranian friends and they all told me this story can not be true. People who pretend that they are talking Iranian are actually Talking SOME OTHER LINGU. ALL the actors are pure blood Non-Iranians and none of them haven't ever seen Iran. Many people pretend to take this movie seriously but this movie is made for people who have never seen Iran, a Iranian, Or anything close to that. You could watch the movie if there is nothing on the comedy central, but make sure you don't take it seriously. Read all the facts before making any judgments. The acting is awful to. Although there some great actors in this movie but they can't play right because they don't believe in the story line. "},{"Title":"Moribund Profundity","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As an American of Iranian extraction, I love reading the reviews about 'Not without my daughter'. Reviews written by my fellow Iranians reviewing it as 'one of the great lies in history', alongside reviews written by what I can only presume to be caucasians (mostly women probably) who call it a masterpiece, on the scale and scope of the Godfather or Citizen Kane about a moody Muslim who treats his wife like his goat.Honestly, it's hilarious. I'll try not to lose temper and beat my American wife. I am Muslim crazy for 'Not without my Daughter'. I tell my caucasian wife all the time that I'm taking our two daughters back to Iran. I can't wait to watch this with them when they get older. "},{"Title":"Glad I finally watched this classic","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Finally watched it last week after reading an article referencing it. Sally Field and the rest of the cast were excellent as was the script and dialogue. The movie is fast paced and although it is long, I didn't once find myself looking at the time. The only part I couldn't work out was whether the teachers in the school were sympathetic to her or not - would love it if someone could tell me their thoughts on this! I found this story so engaging that I then searched for more information about Betty's story, interviews etc. The movie is quite violent (women being beaten) in parts so I would not recommend this being viewed anywhere that children could walk in This movie has really stood the test of time. "},{"Title":"Good intentions","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When Betty(Field, determined) go with Moody(Molina, transforming from loving to cruel) and their daughter Mahtob(Rosenthal, cute, devoted to her mother) back to his home country of Iran for a two week vacation, they find it very different from last time he was there. Since the revolution, the laws are more strict. And when the fortnight is up, he tells them that they will be staying. It's a dangerous place to be, women have few rights, and a divorce would just mean he gets custody. But she knows she has to get out, and her girl is coming with her. One way or another.I don't know enough about the period to say how realistic this is, but it comes across as credible. We see some of the local customs, and the choice to keep it entirely from their perspective was smart - as long as they are in that country, so are we. The acting is good for all concerned, including children. Some of the dialog and cinematography are odd, taking you out of the experience, when they easily could have been better. Other than that, this is fairly well-produced. This is 108 minutes without the credits, or 111 with.There is some solid tension, albeit these sequences tend to be over too quickly, and removed from any greater context. The pacing is decent at best. This stops and stalls, and it's one of the based on a true story pictures that focuses so much on being accurate, it forgets that it's also, ultimately a piece of fiction(not a documentary), and as such, has to entertain. There are plot strands that end up going nowhere, and this is easily 20 minutes too long. By the end, you've simply stopped caring.There is some violent and disturbing content. I recommend this to those who badly want a film about these events. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good film, great acting..!!","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Two kinds of people have reviewed the film one, Americans, who for the fear of being tagged racists voiced their anger over some issues. and two, native iranians, who obviously were hurt for being shown as near monsters. i being a right minded 3rd person saw the movie with an empty mind and found it to be a hardhitting, well crafted movie. i don't know whether the facts are embellished as some claim. i don't know if there was any kind of exaggeration or generalisation and i have no means to be sure. but what i saw was an example of brilliant cinema. sally field was flawless. and so were other actors. it hurts me to see the negative response to the movie which i believe is because of the reservations in peoples mind. the screenplay i believe was great too. AND I AS A REASONABLE PERSON COULD BELIEVE IT TO BE TRUE...about that one family, not about the whole country. even the film never showed all iranians as bad. even the husband was not all satanic all the time. i have nothing against them. but i know of occurrence of such incidents. in fact a similar film khuda ke liye was made in Pakistan and it was hailed as a great movie. in my country too these things happen in the more conservative societies-exactly the same way. it was a good movie if we look at it objectively is all i wanna say. "},{"Title":"Loved the book!","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't understand why this movie was called racist! It happened and there is a prevalent problem with some child custody cases involving parents from different countries. I did read Betty Mahmoody's sequel book entitled For the Love of a Child . It basically deals with the aftermath of her escape from Iran with Mahtoob, but she also writes about other cases where children from such marriages (one parent from a foreign country) who use the international system to hold their children hostage against the other parent. I recommend this book more than Not Without My Daughter It shows the nightmare of losing your child to international courts in nasty child custody battles. I had no idea it was such heartache. "},{"Title":"Regarding statements of the invalidity of this film...","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie may not win in terms of geographical accuracy or cinematography. However, the woman depicted in the movie is based on the real Betty and she is the writer of the screenplay.I know many things about many different countries, which seems to be odd for an American. I have read many books about Islam, and ultimately I think that it is most often a religion associated with violence, especially against women. I understand that there are many modern, peaceful people who practice Islam, and I am of the opinion that they have adapted an ancient, oppressive creed to their modern progressive values in order to reclaim it for peace.To anyone who thinks the husband is irrational, or unrealistic, understand that this movie is based on ACTUAL events, not fiction. I know as a woman, that there is no way I could ever safely travel through Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, and many other places regardless of it being 2010. I feel it is sick and sad that these women are covered because the men in those places have not learned to control themselves.I interact with many international students within my TESL program, and the only people who prefer to not speak with me or acknowledge my statements in a classroom have been Muslim men. Culture is one thing, and trying to kill Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a dutch parliament member originally from Somalia, for making a film about exactly which parts of the Qur'an oppress women is another. Sadly, Islamic extremists did manage to kill her director, Theo Van Gogh, while he was bicycling in Amsterdam (not an Islamic country). I am proud of France for standing up for equality and banning womens' head scarfs in Governmental buildings because they represent the inequality of men and women which goes against their republic. I just wish I could convince my public college to stop building prayer rooms and foot washing facilities for Muslim students using student fees. No religion should be getting state money for any educational facilities, and yet in Minnesota there is a charter school next to a mosque that is suing the state for not handing over funds because they violate state law regarding religion in schools (google Muslim school in MN gets state funding). They, of course, are not the only religion trying to get into schools. Many Christians would like to see their religion in schools again as well. I have been following stories of Islamic oppression of women for many years with my mother. While I understand that there are MANY, NON-VIOLENT, MODERN Muslim people, there are still many cases of abuse against women and children by Islamic men across the world. There have also been many cases of Islamic extremists destroying artistic works, literatures, and other cultural artifacts that are not of their culture. This is fundamentally wrong in my opinion, as it was for death metal groups to burn down 13th century Christian churches in Sweden, (google Swedish church fire). These types of art and structures hold value to ALL MANKIND not just the people that made them. This is human history being destroyed!I myself am of the opinion that MOST major organized religions oppress women, especially Catholicism, Lutheranism and various sects of Christianity in America. Buddhism didn't allow women to practice for a long time. I do believe that Islam may be the most oppressive religion to women overall.In light of more recent works like Persepolis, this movie is not unrealistic, despite being tacky and poorly filmed. In Persepolis, the parents are very liberal and modern. The writer of those graphic novels lives in France despite having very liberal parents, and that says everything. "},{"Title":"Great book, awful movie...","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is a common law telling us that if you liked the book, loved the book, enjoyed the book, adored the book, yes, and couldn't put it down... you should not watch the movie made out of it. This is especially true about Not Without My Daughter. The actors are perfectly wrong. Sally Field portraying Betty Mahmoody? Gimme a break! Alfred Molina? Even worse. And the vital parts of the book are shortened to the place of disturbance. There is hardly anything left of the true story in the book. So, if you've read the book and liked it Don't watch the movie. If you haven't Watch the movie first Then read the book "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie demonstrated what extremes people will go to when they feel trapped. The Iranian husband wasn't happy in the U.S. and wanted to have his wife & daughter with him in Iran. He either lied to her when he promised her that they would only be in Iran for a two week visit, or changed his mind once he got back home & found himself much happier or strongly influenced by his relatives & homeland. When the wife, Betty, found out that she couldn't leave to return to the U.S. she was desperate to find a way for her & her daughter to get back to the U.S. Most movies I forget quickly. This one, however, sticks with me as a terrifying look at what it would be like to find yourself totally trapped in a situation beyond your control. "}{"Title":"Incredibly Unintelligent, Racist and Dishonest Movie","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was born in Iran back in 1984 and I lived there long enough to realize the type of country I was living in back in the 80s. When I watched this movie I was so frustrated at the level of ignorance that is present amongst some people in the world. First of all there is not a single actor in the cast that has original roots from Iran and if there is they are all Israeli-Persians, who want nothing but to make up lies to humiliate a country that they haven't been to for so many years and have no idea about.Where should start, with the airport that they land in &#133; the Airport in Tehran is one of the most modern and beautiful airports in the world and yet it's symbolized as a desert with sand in this ridiculous movie.Secondly the women in Iran are treated with so much respect unlike what everyone thinks. Back in the 1980s one of my dad's co-workers was taken to prison for simply screaming at his wife and because she was a bit afraid. Living in Canada I know of many interracial couples consisting of Iranian men and Caucasian Canadian women, with countless number of them having traveled to Iran and back and all you hear from the women is the great stories about the historical beauty of the country of Iran with only good things to say.In North America women get raped, beaten, abused, and murdered and if the man has enough money or connections he buys himself out of trouble and nothing every gets publicized. In Iran if anyone is convicted of raping a women he will be sentenced to death immediately.Is this your definition of freedom? Because you can do what you want and buy your way out of it with money and have it never be publicized because you are part of a mafia! Or maybe you think freedom is the fact that Gay couples can get married in Canada! The fact that it is normal for teenagers in American colleges to have sex in large groups!My message to the director of this movie is you did a great job, if your goal was to look like a total idiot. And my message to Alfred Molina is that you have no idea how ridiculous those Iranian sentences you put together were, I didn't understand a single word that man said and Farsi is my mother language that I speak it fluently. It makes you wonder with so many Iranian men who fled Iran after the Islamic revolution why there wasn't a single one there to play the role of Moody???Overall this movie contains so much negative portrayal of what simply does not exist, part of a large corporate propaganda to put down the image of Iran. If I were to point out every single situation it would take days to finish. "},{"Title":"Completely one-sided, not worth it","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" We had to watch this movie in law class a while back, and I remember it was a sexist, racist piece of trash. OK, I understand that women are treated unfairly in Iran, sometimes even harshly. And I understand that this was based on a true story. But this movie is so exaggerated, so completely ridiculous in it's portrayal of another culture that it is impossible to recommend. The main character doesn't even TRY to accept the cultural differences, in fact she risks her life just to get back to her soulless suburban homeland of America. Absolutely sickening to see her walk up to the American flag and go we're home. And yes, this movie does seem to say that all men are evil. I give it a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Pessimistic and Biased","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"27 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It will not give you a realistic view of Iranians, but a pessimistic one based on Betty's version of the story. I have also heard her husband's interview who tells the story in a different way, which seems more rational. The film lies. MGM has left a bad record by producing this film. I generally and sometimes in a different way agree with one of the people who had leaved comments that despite what the film says directly/indirectly1) Tehran does not have sheep roaming its streets. Its a sprawling metropolis, with smog clogging up its streets, and it hasn't had sheep since about 1890. Why the hell the filmmakers have chosen a street in rural Occupied Palestine (so called Israel) to film this movie, and use this village to represent Tehran is beyond all reasonable cognition. They wanted people to think Iran is a backward country.2) Iranian women are stronger and empowered than in many other countries in the world. 3) Why are almost all Iranians in this film brimming with animosity and anger? Iranians are warm, ESPECIALLY to FOREIGNERS!How come looking at the credits there is not a single Iranian in the main cast? All religious and political divisions of Iranians can be united by the racism and propaganda that this film portrays against them. "},{"Title":"*the* truth is not in here","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"27 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  most of the comments here mention that this movie was based upon a *true* story. this is not true. it was based upon a book by one of the main characters in the story, the american mother that is. last year a movie was made about the other side of this story. internationally the movie is titled 'without my daughter' and you could see a little bit of information in the imdb here <http//us.imdb.com/Details?0345428>. after seeing this movie and only then, you will be able to find your own truth in this tragedy. "},{"Title":"Too many missed opportunities","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" *SPOILERS* I had read the book back in the 90's, and just recently got around to watching the film. While the book is riveting and suspenseful, the movie missed a lot of opportunities to be a truly great film adaptation.The movie starts out right by employing two great actors - Sally Field and Alfred Molina - as its two leads. But they aren't fully utilized as they should be. Their talents are limited by a sub-par script and direction. Moody is portrayed in the beginning as a kind, sympathetic character. Then all of a sudden he does a complete 180 and becomes a controlling, abusive husband. Alfred Molina is equally good at portraying both good and bad guys, but the film doesn't give him the chance to portray why Moody went from one extreme to another. I found it unbelievable that a man who spent 20 years in the U.S., living a Western lifestyle and being a kind and gracious husband and father, all of a sudden gets brainwashed by an ultra-fundamentalist Muslim culture. The movie could have explored his motives a bit more, or at least made him a bit shady in the beginning instead of so nice and well-adjusted.Betty's character is also not fully explored as it should be. Other than being controlled by her husband and being forced to wear a chador, we don't see any other hardships she had to endure. In the book, there is a harrowing scene in which Betty had to remove an IUD birth control device herself in the bathroom, since she didn't want to risk death by being caught using contraceptives, which are illegal in Iran. This important part of Betty's experience represented the extremes she went through to protect herself. Unfortunately, it is left out of the film. Also, the film jumps from Betty doing everything she can to go against Moody's wishes to being a dutiful Muslim wife after some time had lapsed. I would have loved to see the film portray the actual process of Betty integrating into Iranian life as a way to gain her husband's trust so she can escape.Another aspect of the book that I wished was emphasized more was Betty's struggle to leave Iran with her daughter. She was able to find many people who would smuggle her out of the country, but had a difficult time finding those who will smuggle her daughter as well. This is where the title comes from. In the movie, she just happens to stumble across a man who can get both her and her daughter out of Iran. The movie missed the opportunity to show Betty's struggle and proactiveness in finding a way to leave with her daughter.To top it all off, the final escape sequence isn't as suspenseful as it should be. I didn't get the overwhelming sense that Betty and Mahtob were in danger, or that they may not make it. Once again, another missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Bland but still somehow gripping","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Such a disappointing movie.  I watched it because I like Sally Field so much that I was willing to look past the many negative reviews here.  But Not Without My Daughter looks and feels like a sub-par TV movie it's simplistic and predictable, and gives us self-righteous Americans an uncluttered opportunity to hate the brutal Iranians.  Character development is almost non-existent.  Plot is totally predictable.  And as seen through the eyes of this movie, Iranians are black-and-white either totally bad or totally good.  Most disappointing is that this movie barely let Field's talent show through.  That's the fault of the script and the director, not the actress.And yet I was sufficiently engaged to watch Not Without My Daughter through to the end.  It gripped me in much the same way as Apollo 13 (although there's no comparison between the two; Apollo 13 is an infinitely better movie) even though I knew how it would end, I was still caught up in the drama, and my gut was pulling for the mother and daughter. But that's more a comment about drama and its power to engage the viewer than the value of this movie.I admit that this story was told coherently and strongly.  Many movies can't even claim that.  But unless your adoration for Sally Field compels you to see everything she's done, your money and time are better spent elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"Terrifying Look at a Mother's Struggle For Freedom","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not Without My Daughter is a chilling film depicting the true story of a woman escaping with her daughter from an abusive husband and domineering family set against post-Revolution Iran.While I am no big fan of Sally Field, nor of this genre, but this is a great movie, full of good performances and a great, stark setting.  This film serves its social purpose to call to attention the plight that many American women face overseas, and it really makes a spoiled, jaded American like me want to wrap up in Old Glory like its a big, warm security blanket.  "},{"Title":"Just another one of the biggest lies of History","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just another one of the biggest lies of History In the the name of the same God that the very producers of such movies in holly wood try to make him forgotten It is really easy to sit back & accept whatever lies they feed us in movies & not even giving the people of the nations being slandered by holly wood producers,the benefit of the doubt.This is not the first nor the last time that we see such movies drag not one,not 10 but millions of ppl's names through the mud just by making a movie most of which are made in the name of Comedies,the others dramas based on truth.America's policy towards Iran & the middle east is obvious & its media tries to leave the same impression in public minds by showing the middle eastern ppl as a Neanderthal generation,violent with no culture or civilization. if they wanna let ppl know the truth why don't they tell them about the plans made by them & Betty -who is a member of CIA -several years before marrying Dr.Mahmud?Alice Sharif ,one of Betty's friends that also married an Iranian & now lives a happy ,rich life in Iran saysShe betrayed all of us because we had a great life in Iran & were financially Supported by our educated husbands.The lies shown in this movie simply didn't include the cruelty of such a she-beast who prevented a compassionate father from seeing his only daughter ;a great unrecoverable sorrow that eventually lead to his death! Before judgment hear both sides of the argument,if you believe in Justice "},{"Title":"Controversial movie","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie sure has stirred up controversy. I have read the book to which was actually a bit better. Some people on here say it's true, some say no. I have no idea but I am just focusing my review on the movie itself. I preferred the book. The movie just didn't have the same impact and though I like Sally Field I felt she was miscast, not that she didn't do a good acting job. Obviously, whether this is true or not, no one country should ever be portrayed as all bad, because that's never the case, their are good and bad people in all countries and everywhere. I do think the movie did this much more then the book and also just can't explain why but the movie was just different and did not have the impact the book did.I think I will be fair in my rating of this movie, and give it an average of 5. I was very surprised to see how controversial this is on these boards but it is just a movie and most I know have not even ever seen it. My rating is 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Thats not true, all of them was a lie","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I fond the film Not Without My Daughter awful. Because all of the story was just a lie and not more. I am Iranian woman and I fond all of them just a lie. I had to laugh when I was watching the movie. I became sad because I could not believe what I was listening in this movie. I don't understand exactly why such a movie had made? For what purpose? Let the people see what happens in Iran? What kind of people they are? Shameful. I hate that movie and I hate all of the people who in this way think. I am very sorry for the the people who have played in this film. Such a people without any image or idea about Iran. I am very sorry also for the writer of this story. "}{"Title":"Bigoted, Racist, Inaccurate, Wrong","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"36 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far, one of the most inaccurate and racist films I have ever seen in my life. It portrays the Iranian people in a cruel manner. Never will a woman be threatened with a machine gun for letting out a few strands of hair. Those of you who believe you are learning about Iranian culture by watching this film are totally mistaken. These types of movies do nothing but imprint biased images in the minds of many. It is true that the United States is the best country that one can live in, but there is no need to portray any country, and especially its people, in such a manner. All those involved should be ashamed of themselves for making such a movie.  "},{"Title":"Plays out like a Lifetime movie","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I honestly don't know all that much about the Muslim religion or the conflicts going on in Iran during the time this movie was made. Does it portray the Iranian people in a bad light? Maybe it does. But don't forget, Not Without My Daughter is a highly dramatized movie, the seemingly sadistic nature of Moody and the primitive conditions in the setting chances are have been exaggerated to make the movie more exciting to viewers. It's also told from the POV of an American woman who traveled to another country, not used to the culture, during a conflict in the country, so her view on the subject might be different from the other people involved. This is why I'd highly recommend not taking this movie too seriously. Yes it was based on true events, but it's all dramatized.It doesn't matter if you're from Iran or America or any other place in the world, an abusive husband is an abusive husband. And the movie never went to say that all Iranian men are wife-beating creeps, in fact most of the Muslim people shown in the movie were very nice and caring people, trapped under the thumb of strict religion and laws. They were obeying orders to protect themselves and their loved ones, just like we would do, like anyone would do. In fact it wasn't America that brought Betty and her daughter home, it was a very understanding Iranian shopkeeper and his partner (and by the way Betty leaves her baby son there, no idea why).Stereotypes are often in the media, where countries portray other countries in stereotypical ways. For example, Canada and the United States have a back and forth game. In movies and TV, The States portrays Canadians as environmental hippie, eh-saying do-gooders who love eating moose and seals (we're not at all like that, none of the people in my town anyway). Canada portrays Americans as gun-loving, obese idiots (they're not). Unfortunately stereotypes are always going to be there. I recently noticed a plot similar to Not Without My Daughter in the 2012 Lifetime movie Left to Die, which portrays South America as a poverty-stricken world of thieves and liars. An American woman gets arrested and put in prison there. I found it to be very inaccurate, but it was only a movie.Not Without My Daughter is much like a Lifetime movie, don't expect it to be the most accurate thing in the world. For what it's worth, the acting and soundtrack wasn't bad at all. It's not the best movie I've ever seen, but for entertainment alone it manages to keep you watching 'till the end, so you've gotta give it credit for that. Just don't watch it in place of reading a textbook or accurate information. If I were you I'd read up on the Muslim religion and the conflicts taking place at the time of the movie to get a better understanding of the reality behind the Hollywood drama. "},{"Title":"Godawful","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Lifetime-type, woman-in-peril, movie-of-the-week that clearly was a vanity production for Ms. Field. Watch how she heroically suffers at the hands of evil Muslims! For a similar bad movie/vanity production, see THE MUSIC BOX, which has a plot involving a former Nazi on the lam in the U.S. but instead turns into a 90-minute worship of star Jessica Lange. Ms Field, who has made some great (SOAPDISH comes to mind) and some extremely bad movies in her long career, went on to make an even worse woman-in-peril film, EYE FOR AN EYE. You may safely skip this one unless you are dying to see Ms. Field decked out in Muslim garb. "},{"Title":"No, no, no. You did *not* go there!","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Pamela-5, This isn't a movie about feminism. This is a blatant Lifetime-esquire movie where men are portrayed as utter assholes no matter what they do and don't and women are perfect Mary Sue angels who are always right even if they murder someone for the laughs. This is a movie that slanders a whole country for the sake of drama, pity parties and racism. It's offensive, not faithful to anything similar to truth, blatantly anti-Iranian and full of lies.Feminism is about equality for both genders. Not about women oppressing men as a revenge. If you (general you) believe that bullshit, you are NOT a feminist you're an ignorant, hate-filled idiot. PERIOD.http//www.mehrnews.com/en/NewsDetail.aspx?NewsID=523053 Here is the account of an Iranian working woman on this shitty movie. Go read it. It's quite eye-opening. "},{"Title":"Truth about Iran","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the truth about Iran back in that time period.Then when the evil Ayatollah finally died and went to hell where he is dancing with Hitler things started to change for the better, But then Hitler 3 took over Iran and it's sliding backwards.There's a reason everyone with any brain wants to get out of there.The reason there were so few doctors was every educated person left that country.And if Mahtob had stayed there she would have had female circumcision by age 7 and married by age 10.The movie told Betty's side of the story.Part of me wants to believe that her husband was as trapped as she was at least at first. Knowing if they tried to leave they would all be killed. Because killing is an Iranian hobby during that time especially.But no father who loves their daughter would ever subject them to that culture.In most of the middle east women have no rights. Rape is legal for the rapist but the victim gets stoned.Girls aren't educated or if they are they are taught to be good wives, submit to being raped by their husbands and that they are not worthy. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it!","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie was awesome! So many people marry into other nationalities and races not knowing of any of the history before doing so. I think if it wasn't for her tragedy there will be people husbands, wives and sister, brothers, etc... that have no idea of foreign laws and what they consist of. I think for the people who don't have an open mind and who are ignorant and no nothing at all about other countries or laws should not see the movie. Though the movie is just a quick version of what really took place. I believe the movie came to the plot/point very quickly. I would love to read the book to catch the details that the movie left out. I know she had to have done more investigation and had the desire to learn the language to get around. I know that English wasn't used in that Country as much as in the movie. I do wish also it had subtitles. "},{"Title":"Where was the Oscar for Sally Field's performance?","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Where was the Oscar for Sally field's performance? Sally Field has always been one of my favorite actresses. I think this is the best work she has done to date. I couldn't believe it. It was not acting ; she was living with the role. She was awful! I don't care if the story was true or not. She simply made the movie worth watching. C'mon, I couldn't sleep the whole night after watching it.Being the husband of a foreign woman myself, I try to put myself into Mahmoody's position but couldn't accept what he was trying to do with his wife & baby daughter. Whoever says that this movie is boring or worthless should think from the point of Mother-Daughter relationship. Forget about the religion crap. Hey I've nothing against Muslims or any other religions ok? I think people should think about their family. Husbands should be able to take the proper decision themselves. Shouldn't let the relatives or religious matters endanger the family life.Well done Sally Field.... fantastic performance indeed! How I wish I could meet you... Here's my 10 out of 10 for this movie.  "},{"Title":"Not Propaganda","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If I were to review the book, I would give a clear 10/10 as the content shows Betty Mahmoodys lack of bias and gives more of an idea as to how the Muslim religion is etc.I would lie to begin by saying that like others I am disturbed by these film reviews. It does not portray ALL Iranians to be violent and inhospitable, it portrays Moody in this light and his family.Those of you who believe Betty Mahmoody is a liar, racist, prejudiced or all of the above need to take the time to move away from your TV screens and read her books 'Not Without My Daughter' and 'For The Love Of A Child'.In 'Not Without My Daughter' she expresses gratitude to the Iranian people and speaks of the oppression that reaches Iranian women. She only seeks to highlight her treatment at the hands of Moody and his family. She finds solace in the Muslim religion and respects it.In 'For The Love Of A Child' Betty explores how this story is familiar to couples of all cultures. Such stories feature a South African woman taking her children from her Libyan husband, a German woman kidnapping her American husbands daughter, Algerians taking French children...Betty does not seek to paint the Middle East in a bad light and this can be seen in the way she explores what she clearly sees as a world wide issue of parents being 'left behind'. This book also shows how she counsels Mathob in remembering her Persian roots and not holding her father in contempt. At many points she tells Mahtob that it is okay to still love her father and remains within their Iranian, Pakistani and Iraqi social circles in America. She also highlights how the climate between America and Iran created bias around the film and how she personally along with Sally Fields attempted to illustrate that the Iranians were kind.I know it has been mentioned that the Iraniabs are more hospitable than Americans. At the time of Mathob and Bettys plight that was most likely not the case. You must bear in mind that Betty simply couldn't fabricate this story, that is why we have laws against libel in most corners of the world. If the details of this film were untrue why has Dr Moody not successfully sued Betty? In addition to this friends of Dr Moody who were based in Tehran at the time of the story occurring confirmed the details. What reason would they have to lie? I think when watching a film like this its important to bear in mind that your bias' will come in to play and that seeking the facts is a better route to take than ranting like a maniac. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read the book and I could not wait to see the movie. I was throughly disappointed in the movie. I understand that while making the movie they left out a lot of the harsh things that were said in the book, probably because they did not want to offend Iran. I am okay with that, however the movie changed some of the important things that happened in the book. It is one thing to add to a movie, but to take out important facts ruins it. The movie did not accurately portray the fear of being imprisoned in the country. I did not feel they same terrifying emotions from watching the movie as I did from reading the book. I would not recommend the movie to anyone. I would however recommend reading the book to anyone who is considering marriage to a Muslim. Too bad I wasn't able to read a review before I watched the movie. "},{"Title":"Read the book first","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Betty Mahmoody's book, Not Without My Daughter. I have worn out several copies reading it, as I feel a sort of inspiration in her story. The movie however, leaves out so many details that it comes off as completely racist. Many strong points are lost on the film. For example, Betty herself said that not all Iranians are bad people, and specifically stated that she wanted Americans to remember that. She made SEVERAL Iranian friends during her stay there, and speaks quite fondly of them in the book. Ellen, the only friend the movie showed was the worst example they could have used. She betrayed Betty often due to her fears of brutality by her husband. It was Betty's IRANIAN friends who supported and helped her, not this weak and stupid American woman.Having known many Iranian and other Muslim Men personally, even having dated a few, I can tell you that some of the portrayals are accurate, but not all. People are people, and after all, no religion or culture can make a group of people exactly alike. One must take into account the mental state of each individual, something the film leaves out. Moody was completely NUTS. He was mentally unstable, and his abuse had little to do with his being muslim. His loss of mind was a gradual thing, beginning in America shortly after the marriage. The film leaves all this important information out. As for him beating her, the truth is that in the Koran it does state that Men may beat their women, and many do believe that is permitted, but that is a problem in all cultures. The film does not explain enough about this, and therefore comes off as racist.As for the Muslim aspect of this movie, I can only say thisShiite Muslims are all fanatical, but not all Muslims are part of this particular sect. Moody's family were indeed Shiites, but it is important to remember that they are just one sect of a large religion. Are we to believe that all Catholics are fanatical abortion clinic bombers too? Or that all Wiccans are devil worshippers? More time spent on the religious details would have made the film less racist too.One other thing I must mention. In the movie, during Betty's escape, they show a white haired Kurdish man attempting to rape her as she lies in a safe house sleeping. IN THE BOOK THAT NEVER HAPPENED!!! To portray one of Betty's rescuers as a sexual predator is completely disgusting, I am sure Ms. Mahmoody protested that detail being added to the movie.There is so much more I could say, but I will leave it at thisRead the book, then see the movie. The movie is just entertainment. The book is the real story. "}{"Title":"Difficult to like","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie deeply unappealing - and no, I'm not Arabic or Iranian at all! It's the story of an American woman who marries an Iranian doctor who gives up returning to Iran to stay in America and raise his daughter. Although he misses Iran, he tries his best to adjust to American life for his wife's sake - until he loses his position at the hospital due to what he perceives as anti-Iranian sentiments. Missing his family, yearning for the status he once had, thrilled at the possibilities of Iran without the oppression of the Shah, realizing how much more he could do for his family in a country desperately in need of doctors, and believing (rightly or wrongly) that his family would better prosper where the popular culture was more family-oriented, he moves his family to Iran. Not having made any definite decision, he wishes first to test the waters in Iran - and so tells his wife they are going merely to visit.While in Iran, he and his wife see their daughter happily playing with other children, he finds a prestigious position by which he can now support his family, and he finds the security from his close extended family nearby. He can now again support his family and recover his self-respect in a nation that will not discriminate against him due to his national origin and a culture with which he feels at home.Sympathetic to his wife's difficulty in adjustment, he promises to help her accommodate to the different culture - as she had helped him to adjust to American life. As a family, they had tried American life, now they can try life in Iran. Unfortunately, his wife embarks on a campaign of deceit - almost immediately arranging on false pretenses (untruthfully saying, honey, I'll try, I'll really try) to go to another home from which she may plan her campaign to abandon her husband and take their daughter. She lies about where she goes outside the home, visiting the Swiss Embassy; she takes money from his clothes; she arranges with others to break up their family. The worst of it is that she arranges to steal away the daughter upon whom he dotes.It's difficult to sympathize with the wife. If she had truly sought to adjust herself to her husband's country, one can more easily sympathize with her - but the movie only shows her anger from the start at being in her husband's country. The selfishness of thinking of only HER country as a possible domicile for her half-Iranian daughter and Iranian husband, the indifference to her marriage vows to remain with him until death, the lack of consideration for his paternal feelings for their daughter - make this a deeply unsympathetic movie. One needn't wish to live in Iran - and I don't, believing it to be one of the most supportive of terrorism, and most oppressive, in the world -to find this selfish and calculating woman's behavior deplorable. The movie asks us to applaud this woman's destruction of her family because she refuses to try to live in his culture - as he had lived in hers. The viewer rebels at the prospect.  "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm sorry that some people feel that a true story is some sort of Iran bashing. I'm also sorry that so many middle eastern countries are primitive and have little respect for women or their right to equality.Sally Field did a great job in this movie, and yes since it's a true story - it actually happened - how about that? Yes it made me hate Moody and his family - and why not it portrayed their evil. And evil is exactly what they were so the movie did exactly what it should have. I think this movie is another great insight as to what goes on in the middle east and certainly doesn't deserve any of the criticism found in these forums. "},{"Title":"ITS A MOVIE ??? RELAX WITH ALL THE SERIOUS COMMENTS.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"22 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Its only a movie!!! Relax with all the serious comments about the movie trying to put down Iranians. Personally I thought this movie was a great drama. Living in Iran is nothing like living in the USA. Imagine being used to all the freedoms you enjoy in the US and suddenly find yourself in Iran.Here you are in Iran. Strange place, strange people, restricted freedoms. Okay I can handle this for a few days I guess. Then you are told we are never going back home. Woe!!!!!!!!! Talk about a sudden feeling of fear and anger. Sally did a great job of putting you in the driver seat, right with her. All I could do was root for her to get her daughter and get the hell out of that place.As for the comments about the mother being selfish and not respecting his wishes. She agreed to go visit his family, and he lies to her tricking her into staying.I agree this would have been a good Lifetime drama, but not a bad movie at all. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You like me...or maybe you don't.","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How can I take a movie seriously when the title keeps cracking me up. And Sally Field is way too into herself. This movie has been lovingly parodied by South Park. Maybe if it had a different title I would have been able to pay attention.  "},{"Title":"A reality bite","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Post 9/11 the entire world is slowly coming to terms with the alternate world that exists which we know now as Middle East. Today we are all upto speed with the culture, events and happenings out there. Not without my daughter released in 1991 would be hailed as one of the first which gave sample of reality bite. And certainly the word queer would have knocked our head umpteen number of times as we watched it. The degree of truth portrayed in it is a matter of debate/ opinion and I shall abstain from crossing the lines. Much have been discussed and argued on the subject already. Alfred Molina was an eye-opener. He shocks you with his performance. I wouldn't doubt the competent factor in Sally Field. She would give nothing less than her best. But in Not without my daughter I felt her performance was falling short of something. Or maybe the other characters came across more strong than her. Roshan Seth was adequate. The kite runner & A thousand splendid suns are Not without my daughter of today. "},{"Title":"Engrossing, suspenseful","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It sometimes happens that one's world is suddenly turned upside down A telephone call from the police about a fatal car crash; coming home to find your home in flames, etc. This movie is about how a woman deals with a sudden life-changing event. Sally Field gives a fine performance. The movie will pull you in, you will forget about your life and your troubles, and you will be fully engaged with the drama on the screen.This movie is much better than the (as of this writing) 5.8 rating. The reason is that 11% of the votes are 1's, probably from muslims who want to discourage people from watching this film. So, if you are not Muslim, do not be put off by the mediocre IMDb rating. The movie is excellent cinema. "},{"Title":"Not biased at all!","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A very good rendition of reality and truth. This IS how it works in that shadowy world of religious insanity. Although most of the reviews here condemn the movie, one only has to pay attention to the world and it's reality to know differently. Sadly, most overlook the qualities that make this an excellent piece. Sally Field does an excellent job portraying Betty Mahmoody. Since this piece was made, there have been incredible changes in the position of Islam in the world. It almost seems that this film was a warning as such. A lot of what has been condemned as race-biased fiction has come to light as reality. I have to say that this is a must see. "},{"Title":"This movie is NOT racist!!!","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What is with all the posters saying that this movie is racist?? Just because Mr. Mahmoody's family was horrible to Betty, that does not mean a movie is racist just because all of his family is Iranian. How dumb can you get? Nobody cries racist in all the other movies where a wife and children are abused and beaten up. In fact, most wife-beating husbands are white, middle-class suburbanites, aren't they?? Betty just happened to marry an Iranian who was a beast, and his family encouraged him to be a beast. It has nothing to do with being Iranian or Islam. So Betty wasn't Iranian -- that's the only reason people say this is racist; there is no logical reason for saying this.I don't necessarily disagree that Sally Field was miscast, but she did a decent job of portraying a desperate mother. The story line isn't even about race, it is about an abusive husband that wants to keep his wife and child in bondage. The fact that Iran was a strange, different country that Betty and her daughter were not used to was accurately portrayed; just because they had to adjust, doesn't mean they were racist.One of the reviewers said Mr. Mahmoody's character was insufficiently developed -- that the movie gave no reason why he suddenly changed from a loving husband to a violent, woman-hating bigot. What point would there be for a movie director to make the husband's character more long and drawn out if he turns out in the end to be a creep anyway?? It would not add anything to the movie -- it would just have made it overly long. It is apparent, anyway, that his family pressured him to keep Betty quiet, and lots of people go along with what their family wants, whether it is right or not -- it's not limited to Islam or Iranians!! Lots of cultures have family pressures.Plus, what is his side of the story? That women should do what their husbands tell them to do? That his wife should be trapped in a foreign country that they didn't BOTH decide they wanted to live in? The husband deceived her and then expected her to just give in. Bless her for not doing so.All in all, it was a good movie. The acting was well done and it portrayed Betty and her daughter's terror quite well. I particularly liked the child actor who played the daughter because she was good at not being afraid to talk back to her horrible father. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Excellent job!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have loved the excellent book by Betty Mahmoody. This movie, although sometimes very different from the book, for dramatic purposes, is an excellent job at recreating visually the real drama. Sally Field is outstanding, as usual, Sheila Rosenthal is a very cute Mahtob you feel so much like protecting, while Alfred Molina brillantly plays a good father and a horrible monster at the same time. That's the beauty of it. You already know the story ends (if you read the book or heard the story) yet each time you see it, you feel for the characters. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Muslim Monster Movie","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Betty (Sally Field) has come to the Middle East (Iran) with her daughter and native-born husband (Alfred Molina) for a visit with his family. But soon the horrible truth about their 'vacation' surfaces. Betty's husband doesn't intend to bring his family back to America... ever. She may return, he says, but their daughter must stay. In a hostile, war-torn country, where even the slightest misstep can mean death, she makes a desperate bid to escape with her child, according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.This Iranian husband, who reads newspapers at work printed in his own language, doesn't know how much his country has changed? What on EARTH did Ms. Field's character see in this psychopath? Did they cut the scene where someone deposits a giant pea-pod in his Iranian backyard? The relationship between the two principles is totally unbelievable, with Mr. Molina faring the worse. One wonders what American citizens thought of Iranian immigrants after watching this film in 1991. But, it plays (as a monster moody).**** Not Without My Daughter (1/11/91) Brian Gilbert ~ Sally Field, Alfred Molina, Sheila Rosenthal "}{"Title":"An outstanding movie","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An outstanding movie and a true portrayal of the vicious regime of the Ayatollah Khomeini. This story depicts Betty Mahmoody's traumatic experience vividly. How her husband lied to her - trapping her into coming to a trip to Iran then taking her passport and forcing her to stay there against her will. The film portrays how against all odds Betty escaped the tyrannical woman hating regime, with her tiny daughter, Mahtoub. From the minute this film begins viewers cannot take their eyes from the screen. This is every Westerners nightmarebeing stuck in a  backward primitive country where a woman has no rights. We follow Betty through her hazardous journey, hoping, praying she will make it. Sally Field's performance is worthy of an Academy Award. A brilliant realistic portrayal of the cruelties and inhumanity of Islam "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie takes place from 1984-1986. Betty Mahmoody is married to a doctor who was born in Iran but has lived in the US for 20 years. he has always been a loving husband and good father to their daughter. He starts missing his family in Iran and wants to go for a visit. Betty doesn't want to, simply because Iran is not a great place to be at this time, especially for Americans and the way they treat women. Her husband holds the Koran and swears to her that if she agrees to go for 2 weeks, nothing will happen, they will be safe, and they will return home in 2 weeks.  The day before they are to return to America her husband tells her that he has decided that they will remain in Iran. He wants to work as a doctor here where they are needed, and he wants to raise his daughter a Muslim and have her attend Iranian schools. She argues with him, but he tells her his decision has been made and they will be staying. She is angry with him for lying to her and tells him that, but he said if he hadn't done that he never would have gotten her to come. He hits her and says she is his wife and she will do as he says. Soon after that he starts beating her, she is not allowed to use the telephone for any reason, and she is not allowed to leave the house alone and his family reports back to him everything she does. Every time she tries to call her parents back in the USA she is beaten, or sometimes he takes their daughter away for a few days and sends her to stay with other family.   So right away of course she tries to escape Iran. She does manage to speak with her mother for a short time who tells her to go the Swiss Embassy in Tehran. She manages to get there a few times but they aren't able to help her very much. when she does arrive home late, she is usually beaten or punished somehow. They tell her that because her husband is an Iranian citizen, she is his property, as well as her daughter. She could choose to divorce him, but she will lose her daughter, and it is illegal for her to take her daughter and leave the country. So she makes some friends who help her come up with a way to escape. It's dangerous, but she will be able to get someplace where they will help and American woman with a child.   It's really a great movie and Sally Field does an excellent job as always. I cry when I see it because it is so easy to put yourself in Betty's shoes and see how she was tricked into coming to Iran and then was kept hostage there for almost 2 years afterward, never being allowed to speak to her family. It is very heart wrenching, and I recommend checking it out if you have never seen it. "},{"Title":"This is a sickening film.","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is not an accurate portrayal of anything other than racist propaganda. Everyone involved in it should be disgusted with themselves for perpetuating the ignorance of so many who view this film passively without any knowledge of Islam or Iran, accepting this racist construction of a film as Gospel. This film has absolutely nothing to do with Iran or Iranians. This has everything to do with a Hollywood fabrication of Iran and its people. Watch this only to gain an overview of the unjust representations of this film before watching the documentary 'Without My Daughter'.This is a hideous portrayal of Film. Films are there to educate and inform about other worlds, experiences and ideas. This film teaches ignorance, encourages racism and is painful to watch. Do not be as uneducated as the people who were involved in making the film, though, in choosing to ignore it. Now that it has been made, it is important to learn from it. Though that might not be possible while following the narrative of the film, it is if you put it into perspective yourself. We learn that Hollywood endorses and supports this huge depiction of discrimination. We learn that the Western world lacks and is denied any real understanding of life the Middle East... we learn that we have a choice in separating what we believe and know as the truth from the sordid manipulations of the media. "},{"Title":"Not all Americans are ill informed","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" To those that think this movie was UNFAIRWho was it unfair to??? You? Why.....because maybe there is a lot of truth to this story that actually happened and that bothers you? One person pointed out that not all Muslims who practice Islam are peaceful loving individuals just as not all Christians are peaceful people and he made reference to Christians blowing up abortion clinics and shooting doctors. Yes, that happened here in the good old USA but those events are very far and few in between compared to how many so-called Muslims kill innocents for their just cause. If you're going to say something, be full circle...let's not pull punches here. Back to the topic at hand- Her story has happened to many, many women both in the US and a number of other countries. Not all Americans are ignorant to other cultures. I have read the Koran and I know a great deal of Arabs, Persians and Muslims in general and many of their women are treated below them. They are oppressed. They are not to leave the house (in certain countries) without someone with them. They are to keep themselves covered in public. They will get stoned to death if they cheat on their husbands. Yet many husbands have more than 1 wife or lover. But that's FAIR!! RIGHT? These are the facts, you cannot deny them. And if you don't like to hear the truth then blame your own people for making these laws/rules, stop following them and try to evolve with the rest of the humans in this world. Regardless of what religion one chooses, he/she should strive to be a good human being and not hurt anyone. Most wars are started because of religion. I have personally experienced a similar situation and I'm writing a screenplay which will be made into a movie. Whether you agree with the story or not, it doesn't matter because the story will be told just like hers.BOTTOM LINE- WHETHER EVENTS IN A MOVIE ARE TRUE OR FALSE, IT'S THEIR FILM AND THEY CAN TELL IT HOWEVER THEY WANT. IF YOU DON'T LIKE IT, GET OFF YOUR ASS AND MAKE YOUR OWN FILM SO YOU CAN TELL YOUR VERSION. ;) "},{"Title":"Accurate","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie is very accurate to reality. For all of you who haven seen the real documentary, execution of a 16 year old girl please do. She was executed (hung)on charges of adultery. The public persecution of college students further validates my point.The law of the land is dictated by the hard line religious leaders where women have minimum or no rights, openly stated my the the leader of women rights in Iran. She has been beaten and put behind bars for stating her views openly. This further illustrates the point that there is no freedom of speech. Please do your homework and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"It a TRUE story, these things really happen!!!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not just another dumb, naive blond saying this. I've seen several documentaries about the movie, and about other cases where the same thing has happened! You have to open your eyes to the fact that bad things actually happen, and this is one of the really horrible things! Even though it may seem racist its not really, because it's a fact that this happens. Sometimes the mother isn't even brought with to the county the father goes to, he just kidnaps the children. But of course we can't judge all Islamic people on this, it's not about creating a stereotype, we have enough of them already! We just need to be aware of the fact that it's not a fictional story! So if you haven't watched it yet, go rent it! You won't be sorry, I promise!! "},{"Title":"Heartwrenching, Makes you proud to be American!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm writing this comment as a response to a comment made by KKNAI. I think you're comment which is OBVIOUSLY just your opinion is completely ridiculous!! THIS IS A TRUE STORY!! This really happened to an American woman and her child!! How can you say that this type of thing would NEVER happen to a woman over there that did the things she did? IT DID HAPPEN TO HER! The way women are treated over there and in other countries is inhumane thank GOD I am an American!!! This movie portrays a strong American woman and her fight to get herself and her daughter back to the Land of the FREE and Home of the BRAVE!! I think this is an excellent movie and anyone that says anything different and has the nerve to say that things like that don't happen are obviously bigots and believe in treating women like crap!! THANK GOD FOR THE FREEDOMS OF America!!!! "},{"Title":"Racism?","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"18 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was shocked to find that many people did not enjoy this movie. In my opinion, this movie was very thought provoking and poignant, to say the least. How could this movie be racist if it speaks the truth? Remember, this is obviously just a movie. It was designed for entertainment purposes. It shows how an American woman and her daughter live through a traumatic experience.Overall, the movie was very well polished. I agree the point of which the husband seemed to change drastically in a very quick time from a loving man to a cold-hearted brute, but the movie cannot show details as well as actually experiencing them can. If instead people would 'watch' this movie rather than search for every flaw within it, then they too would realize that it indeed is a work of art.Not Without My Daughter was beautifully filmed and the music of Jerry Goldsmith throughout it is a masterpiece. I recommend this movie to those who have a heart and can accept the movie for what it is &#150; an expressive, emotional true story. "},{"Title":"Holds its own","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This moving drama from director Brian Gilbert seems to be more about the recent revolution in Iran rather than the story of a mother desperate to escape her violent husband and get back to the U.S. with her daughter. Both Sally Field and Alfred Molina are in good form as the couple whose lives are turned upside down by the visit to Moody's home country.Not Without My Daughter is at its most effective when portraying the frighteningly fanatical lifestyle of the Iranians. It succeeds in being disturbing, and dramatically holds its own, although it does little more. Also starred Roshan Seth.Sunday, August 11, 1991 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Mahtob Means Moonlight","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just similar to the plot of Enoguh, starring Jennifer Lopez, this film is about an American woman, Betty Mahmoody, with her husband, Moody, and daughter, who goes to Iran to meet her husband's family, since he haven't seen them for a decade. He told her that they'll stay there for about a week but he lied. Now Betty must escape with her daughter back to America.Sure, some people might call it racist for letting these people show how bad the Muslim people are but it's just to make the plot. This film has suspense. It made me held my breaths. It could have been more thrilling than Enough, but it isn't.The acting by Sally Field, Alfred Molina, and Sheila Rosenthal are great. This is like one of those movies where you root for the women to win, while some males may be bummed out (or not).This film is also based on a true story and I can't imagine a woman and her daughter going through this. I can't even imagine the rules in Iran, which tries to make two perspective even instead of making Iran the bad people or vice versa.This thriller is great. The acting are great and it's a great film with suspense. Go see it! "}{"Title":"Well done film about feminism","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The rest of the reviewers are calling this film racist.  It is not racist.  It is feminist; that is, it takes the stance that women deserve the right to be independent, to make their own decisions, to go and act as they wish.  Sorry.  Is that racist?  Most reviewers are Iranian or pro-Islam --- that is, anti-feminists.  That means that they basically feel that women are as low as snakes or pigs and deserve to be treated as same.  Women are not possessions.  Women will not be dictated to.  Women are highly intelligent, sentient beings who can think as they wish.  Period.  Obviously, this concept eludes all the Iranian and pro-Islamic reviewers of this movie.  Sally Field did a WONDERFUL job in this movie and, no, she was not sniveling, and her voice was usually soft and wonderful.  Being assertively independent is not being contentious; it is just standing up for your right as a human being that God loves and wants to, excuse the expression, be all that you can be.  The latter does not include being subservient to men.  Period.  If this bugs you, of course, don't see this film!  It's as simple as that.  Men and women are equal in every way.  Period.  Also, I know many, many Iranians and live in what is called The Persian Gulch, so don't tell me I don't know any Iranians.  In my neighborhood, that's ALL I know.  The difference is, around my neighborhood, they're all Jews, very different from Moslems.  However, there IS a cultural overlay of the woman being inferior.  This is blatant sexism and shows hatred and fear of women and their inherent power as women.  Get over it, guys!  Women ARE powerful, and they will REMAIN powerful!  And, frankly, I know a lot of Iranians, and Moslems, and Jews who even LIKE powerful women!  Good movie.  Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Typical Lifetime TV Movie","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was hoping this film would try to capture some of the atmosphere of post-Revolutionary Iran. But what was I thinking? This is your typical Lifetime woman is victimized by her insane husband/boyfriend/lover but overcomes all odds and triumphs production. There was no real stab at authenticity here (the Iranians speak Arabic instead of Farsi) and no attempt to try and put the viewer over there. Although there are a couple of air raids, and you see these children being collected to be sent off to the war, you never really get the sense that there was a war going on, This is just another whiny movie for overweight homemakers who need a bit of inspiration in their banal lives because their husbands have stopped being intimate with them.  "},{"Title":"Not Without My Daughter","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have just completed 2nd reading of the book. And I hope that, I will be able to see the movie too.....I don't have any words to express it. The book.. The incidences... I accpet that I would have committed suicide in that situation.As its mentioned that author --> Betty and Mahtob, who must be of my age are leaving in USA with some different name. I would love to meet them, but I know its more than impossible.The last few pages, when Amal decides to help them by Turky way till they board the Plane to US, I think it was really something unbelievable.How Betty must have faced the situation, really cant imagine. We are always told by our elders --> BELIEVE IN GOD.. After reading that book, one really should. She had that strong belief to leave that place, thats why only she could reach her final destination.I really don't have words to say anything more about Betty, Mahtob and their escape --- The whole world should know what you had to suffer and how you could escape.HATS OFF TO BETTY --- AND HATS OF TO THEN 6 YEARD OLD MAHTOB.LONG LIVE BETTY, MAHTOB AND PEOPLE WHO HELPED THEM. "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely loves this movie, Sally feild was excellent I watched this movie with my mother when I was a younger, it brings back so many memories and fortifies the idea that a bond between mother and daughter is precious. "},{"Title":"Well!!!","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion this was just great. No, it was not racist nor they were showing anything against Iranians. Well, if an Iranian man is trying to adjust in an different culture, well women should do the same. I totally agree, but that doesn't mean women have to get beaten up, and she can't see her daughter and can't eat with her husband. That is just BS, If Romeo and Juliet, Adam and Eve are made for each other than why can't they. Man didn't even had time to talk 2 his wife, Wife was pushed around by the man's family, common now, this didn't happen to him when he was trying to adjust. A women who is raised in an Democratic nation, since birth, where she has all her rights (same as man) than just imagine how would she adjust. I think this movie is all about a lesson to be learnt, for everyone no matter what culture you follow  "},{"Title":"Islam can be hard on women","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First, I would like to say that this movie pulled me in..  Akin to Midnight Run without the drugs..  they replaced the drugs with subservience.. Overall I thought it was a good movie!If this movie is a true reflection of (Iran's version) Islam, I can't comprehend how any 'supreme being' can allow the total dominance of one human being over another!!  We (as westerners) live (supposedly) in a world of equality and I have a hard time understanding how  anyone can follow a religion that suppresses someone's freedom, to the point of slavery!!This movie hit a cord with me, knowing what has transpired in the last number of years. With religions and beliefs all over the world battling against each other, (Jews/Muslims, Christians/Muslims, Hindus/Muslims, BinLaden/Freeworld)I have nothing against Muslims, I have lots of friends that are Muslims. What I don't understand is how these 'radical' factions get away with what they do, without being castigated from their peers!!Can't we all just get alongCheers TheMovieWatcher..  "},{"Title":"This was interesting, but not very responsibly made","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read Betty Mahmoody's book a long time ago and don't remember much about it, but I found the film vastly inferior to the book.  That's no surprise, though; books are almost always better than their filmed counterparts.I join the others on this website who have decried the depiction of Iranians as uniformly evil and fanatical.  I have never been to the Middle East so cannot speak with absolute authority on the flaws in this film, but one thing I noticed that REALLY made it hard for me to follow the plot was the constant use of Arabic (not Farsi, as would have been accurate) without any subtitles.  It made it hard to understand what was going on.The transformation of Dr. Mahmoody from mild-mannered in the States to a raging Muslim tyrant in Iran was clumsily handled, to say the least.  It was obvious that he was a very torn man -- torn between his understandable desire to be with his birth family and his love for his wife and daughter.  His apparently hairtrigger lapses into violent and abusive behavior were bizarre, to say the least.  In point of fact, a lot of the acting from several of the characters seemed downright forced at times.Finally, I have to say that Betty Mahmoody is not the most sympathetic of characters.  She chose to marry a man from another culture, perhaps believing that he would never wish to return to his homeland.  While I can forgive her the naivete inherent in such a belief, I cannot conscion her apparent conviction that American citizenship confers a carte blanche upon kidnapping.  The film would have been more appropriately titled Not Without OUR Daughter.  Mrs. Mahmoody loved her husband enough to make a baby with him at one time.  Her decision to deprive Mahtob of half a family was, in my opinion, selfish to the core. "},{"Title":"2.5 Stars","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Story of woman (Field) trapped in Iran after traveling to visit her husband's family after the 1979 revolution.  Interesting story is blurred by ethnic and religious stereotypes.  Field is excellent as mother simply trying to return with her daughter to their American way of life.  Her husband, in one of the film's main flaws, is portrayed as a Jekyll and Hyde character one minute loving, the next, a Muslim tyrant. "},{"Title":"Typical whitewashing and dishonest portrayal of a serious situation","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Weak and watered down . Poor editing . The 'Flying Nun' goes to Teheran and plays the demographics of the San Fernando Valley and attempts to portray the union rep marrying a Muslim in 'The Fleeing Nun'  . "},{"Title":"No sympathy in a comedy","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well this was cut from the `Wonderful American woman is victimized by her foreign born husband who turns into jerk first class when he goes back to his native homeland with her and child in tow' mold.  The viewer is made to feel sorry for the little woman and her child as they are trapped in hubbys homeland after they go to visit his family and he then decides to stay which in this case is Iran after the Islamic revolution.  Many of the scenes have some out and out comedy in them, one in particular involves the Sally Field character trying to explain to former Mr Wonderfuls relatives how she feels having been now trapped there against her will and the clan then verbally assaults her in Arabic. It's almost like something out of an old forties comedy involving Arabs.   It becomes hard to have any sympathy for the Field character (Betty) and one finds it very difficult to not say `Well your getting what you deserved, you married this bozo, you went there, what did you expect?'  Then there is the husband who goes from wonderful affectionate loving soul mate and father to violent Arab psychopath in the blink of an eye and goes by the name&#133; Moody!  "}{"Title":"Not as Good as Book, but Still an Okay Movie! Events in Movie/Book may have been Exaggerated or Downright False!","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Before I saw this movie, I read the actual book by Betty Mahmoody. The book was very detailed & fairly intense, so when I saw the movie, I was somewhat disappointed to see the truth in the statement that Movies are Never as Good as the Actual Book Still it was an okay movie, though nothing very great or special.When I first saw this movie, I was still growing up & I thought it was a better movie than I do now, even though I have not seen it again recently, so this opinion is in retrospect.In my opinion, there was a LOT of room for improvement in this movie.First of all, I don't think that Sally Field was a good casting choice for the role of Betty Mahmoody. In this movie, like in some of her other work, Sally majorly overacts, making this particular character come off as a spoiled, whiny, elitist American & precisely the what those in the Middle East & elsewhere in the world detest about America.Now, Alfred Molina, who played Betty's husband Moody, acted very well, but he too was a wrong casting for the role, because he is nothing like the real-life Moody, either in stature, size or appearance, giving viewers a wrong idea of the differences between Betty & Moody. As a result, in the movie, the situation was manipulated and exaggerated towards Betty's point of view, so that viewers will automatically support her, when in reality, there are two sides to every story, including this one - the other side which has not been shown until recently.When I first saw the movie, I was still in my preteens. Because of that I was still somewhat naïve & believed most things, without always verifying it for accuracy and factual basis.So when I read the book, and saw the movie, I immediately believed that what Betty claimed in the book & movie really happened, and I never bothered to question it.Even though a Iranian friend who watched the movie with me one time, said life was not really like that in Iran, and that most Iranian people did not act like that, I was unsure.Then recently, I started Googling, and researching, about Betty Mahmoody. Because her daughter, Mahtob, is just a year or so younger than me and they're originally from the general area that I lived/live in, I felt a sort of connection, and was interested in where they were/are and what's been happening with them, in the years since the movie came out.So I started researching them, and what I found out was eye-opening, and has made me question the truth of the very foundation of the movie and book.First of all, in the book and movie, Moody is portrayed to be this big, strong, powerful guy who physically attacked his wife, Betty and daughter, Mahtob often to the point of injury.In reality, Moody, is a fairly short (smaller than Betty!) soft-spoken guy, who looks like he couldn't harm a flea (and even if he did, couldn't hurt him much!) Betty is nearly double the size/strength of this man, and there is no way that he could physically attack her in any way that could cause the harm that she has described in her book, and movie.Betty's husband Moody, has recently come out with a film of his own side of the story, that was produced by a Swiss production company.In the movie (which I've seen several clips) that shows him as the soft-spoken, gentle, kind man that he probably is who just loves and misses his daughter.Furthermore, Moody has NUMEROUS witnesses, including friends of Betty's, both in Iran AND in America who state that Betty had agreed to relocate to Iran with her husband and daughter willingly, and that she had been given the option of returning to the US anytime, both with and without her daughter Mahtob.I think Betty Mahmoody is just a bitter, spoiled rich American woman, who went to Iran willingly with her husband and daughter, thinking that she would have all the creature comforts available to her in America, and when she found out otherwise, instead of just coming home where she would have to work for her own living, she instead stayed in Iran, so she could be supported by her husband, and live off his money, in relative luxury (read the description in her book of the HUGE mansion as well as the lavish jewelry and clothes that Moody bought her and Mahtob in Iran) Then when her husband asked her to return to America to liquidate their assets so he could have the funds to support her in her exorbitant Americanized lifestyle, she got mad, and ran away, taking their daughter with her.So she turned Mahtob against her father and she came back to the US. But without her sugar daddy around to support her, she found another get-rich-quick scheme by selling the rights to her story.She just played up her role as the poor American woman oppressed by the big mean old brute Iranian husband and government, which the US media just ate up, even in the pre 9/11 world. So by playing victim, Betty has gotten books published and a movie out of the deal which I'm sure has her just about rolling in the bucks now.Meanwhile Moody is an aging, frail, sickly, and lonely, pitiful man who just wants to see his daughter again before he dies. Yet because Betty has brainwashed Mahtob into thinking her father is a cruel, controlling, and violent man, Mahtob and her dad have yet to reunite after years of separation and estrangement.Way to go, Betty Mahmoody. Nice job at destroying your daughter's relationship with her dad over money! "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yes, it IS a great movie. Well-written, well acted, well produced. No one can possibly criticize it as they didn't have to go through what she did. Her life is the basis for this entire plot, and Sally Field and indeed the entire cast was excellent. Nowhere does this movie say that this is how it is 100% of the time -- it's a story told from Betty Mahmoody's experience, her suffering, the people she met, and how she got out. This is proved by how many kind people she met in Iran, and the struggle by some to understand her and want to help her and remain within their culture's teachings. It was very palpable and gave the story more depth, not less. In response to criticisms by Ebert and Canby, an educated person would see the film and take all of the scenes and establishing shots and let their own mind be the judge not feel like the movie is trying to teach anything or show anything other than what this one woman went through. No matter how much time goes by this movie is always gripping and fascinating. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm 15 years old, in the US. I saw the second half of this movie in my History class, as part of learning about the Islamic religion. My teacher said afterwards that this movie is very good, and I agree.However, I know for a fact that it is not completely true, in all actuality. A nice movie, of course, but it would have been better if it had more... Fact... In it.This is Betty's story, told as Betty saw it... And, to be perfectly honest, if I were in her situation, I might not be able to see the good in the country at that time.Overall, I liked the movie as a regular movie- not one that you were supposed to learn from. "},{"Title":"quite good","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie features a superb performance by Sally Fields, who plays Betty Mahmoody, a lady lured to Iran and then trapped there by her husband. As soon as they get there, the husband becomes a born-again Moslem and insists they stay. Betty eventually has to resort to sneaking out of the country across the desert.It is interesting to watch this, because it is based on a true story and to note the cultural differences between the U.S. and Iran. I found it quite good.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is absolutely brilliant and I highly recommend everyone to watch this, and keep watching it every now and again, I have watched this movie heaps of times and never get board with it. Betty and her daughter show such courage and determination along with faith in God to get them out of there, it is good to see God answered their prayers, by helping them to leave Iran and not be separated.It is a good movie in the way it also shows Iran became primitive after the revolution, where as once it had such prospects of going forward.It also shows how a captive can become soft to their capture, as Betty meets another woman who has succumbed to the treatment she is currently going through and now excepts her position and helplessness as normal.It shows you that there are caring people in Iran, who have hope in a better future who look back on good days and hope for the good days to return, who are not happy with the current situation of the country, the man who is instrumental in Betty's escape speaks of how young girls are seen as bridal material just at the age of 9, you see poor young boys being plucked off the streets from a game of what looks like football, who get give plastic keys to heaven and then told to run across mine fields to their deaths, where young boys should be kicking a football they are instead being sacrificed.And finally you come to realize the grave dangers of traveling to a foreign country and the strong and dangerous influence family can have on your spouse, in turn ruining your marriage, bringing lasting pain to the innocent children involved. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT Movie!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I LOVE this movie! It's amazing that I haven't seen it until it came out on cable, but seeing that I was only 4-years old when the movie came out I shouldn't be surprised.This movie is an excellent tale of a woman's plight to escape from her oppressive, abusive, guilt-ridden husband Moody, who tricked her into moving to a country that she feared.Moody is a legitimate Iranian doctor who feels that he has been treated poorly in the US due to being Iranian during a tumultuous time, when the US and Iran were not exactly friendly with one another. He is also guilt-ridden because he hadn't been home for 10 years or lived there for 20 years. So he tricks his wife into going to Iran, under the pretext that it will only be a 2-week vacation when in fact he fully intends to move there, which he does with his wife and their young daughter.Sally Fields plays the role of the wife perfectly! Betty is a woman who didn't want to go to Iran in the first place, but agreed to go under the pretext that it would only be a visit to her husband's family, when in fact it was to be a permanent move. She then does everything she can to escape along with her young daughter Mahtob. She soon learns that leaving without her daughter is easy, but leaving WITH her will be very challenging and dangerous. Being the good mother that she is she refuses to go without her daughter (hence the name of the movie). She eventually gets help from local Iranians who understand her plight and assist her with getting back home to the US, with her daughter.This movie is a TRUE STORY about a woman's plight. During the whole movie we see the two main character's individual internal struggles, how the problems between the US and Iran affected families, both in the US and abroad, and one woman's fight to get back to her homeland.This movie is first and foremost a true story of one woman's fight to get back home. I think a lot of that is missed since there is mentioning of the problems between the US and Iran. There are good Iranians and bad Iranians represented, just as there are good Americans and bad Americans represented.All in all, I LOVE this movie!! "},{"Title":"Welcome to Iran. No Pollution. No Worries. No Cares. No Escape!","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Our story begins in Alpena, Michigan, 1984. Betty Mahmoody lived happily with her husband Moody and their daughter Mahtob. Moody is from Iran. He came to America 20 years ago and works as a doctor at the hospital. Unfortunately, many fellow doctors made cracks about Iranians right in front of him. Moody truly missed his family and his country. Members of his family, Mammal and Nasserine, just had a baby boy. Moody wanted to go see them and he wanted to bring Betty and Mahtob with him. Betty was very reluctant to go to Iran because it was such a wartorn, oppressive, primitive and dangerous country, but Moody swore--on the Holy Koran, that everything would be alright and they would return in 2 weeks tops. Betty agreed and so the family boards a plane to Iran. Little did Betty know that she had just boarded a one-way flight to Hell; Moody's family was waiting to greet them. There was Moody's sister, Ameh Bozorg, and Mammal, Nasserine, Zia, Fereshte, Zoreh, Reza, and Baby Hajji. Downtown Tehran was a very strange place posters of the Ayatollah everywhere, military personnel patrolling the streets and all women wore head coverings. Betty had to wear one too. They stay in Ameh Bozorg's house, but she seemed to hold a grudge towards Moody for an unknown reason; Two weeks quickly passed and Betty was eager to return to America, but then Moody dropped a bomb shell. Two actually first, he was fired from the hospital and second, he said they were not going back and that they were to stay and live in Iran. He wanted Mahtob to become a Muslim. Betty was shocked beyond comprehension. Moody had made up his mind and forced his wife and daughter to stay.Betty's mother back home did all she could to help. She made arrangements for Betty and Mahtob to go to the American Interest section of the Swiss Embassy, since Iran no longer had a U.S. Embassy. It all went smoothly, until Betty met head of the American Interest who told her that traveling home was out of the question. Since Betty married an Iranian, she was now automatically an Iranian citizen and women had no rights in Iran so Betty had no choice but to go home, where Moody beat her and threatened to kill her if she tried that again; After Mahtob's 5th birthday, Betty requests they move out of Ameh Bozorg's house and into their own. It all seemed hopeless for Betty, since Moody kept a violent, watchful eye on her at all times, he only allowed her to go out to shop for food. That's when Betty met a kindly man, Hamid, who let her use his telephone. He and his colleague, Houssein, once they heard about Betty's predicament, offer to help her get out of Iran; Mahtob starts school before much longer and Moody had difficulty finding a job because he lived in America for so long. Iranians are very judgmental; Hamid and Houssein plan a route for Betty and Mahtob to use for escape and upon returning home, Moody beat Betty again, he smacked Mahtob. He threatened to kill and chop up Betty, so she ran. But found she had nowhere to turn, so she had to go back. The next day, that miserable creep grabbed Mahtob, stormed out of the house and locked a screaming Betty in; A few days later, there were severe bombings in the town and that night, Moody and Mahtob return. Seven months later after Mahtob's 6th birthday, Betty learns her father is very ill and so Moody grants her permission to go home to the U.S. to see him. The bad news Mahtob had to stay in Iran. Meanwhile, Hamid arranged travel for Betty on the 29th, but Moody booked Betty a flight for the 26th. And so as soon as Betty and Mahtob could get away, they phoned Hamid and begged him to move back the date. So he did. That night, they began their dangerous, treacherous journey out of Iran and to Turkey. First Betty called Moody and told him where to stick it, then they drive with Hamid's friends out of town and through checkpoints. They had to switch cars numerous times and eventually make it out to the desert. The dry lands. The treacherous mountains. But finally, after a very long, dangerous, windy, stormy journey, Betty and Mahtob find themselves back in civilization. Next stop The U.S. Embassy. That's when Betty sees the most beautiful sight she had seen in a very long time The American flag. Finally, it was all over. They were going home. February, 1986, Betty and Mahtob return home.What can I say about this movie? It's good. It's very well acted. Sally Field was very good, as usual. Alfred Molina plays Moody, and man, he is so convincing I began to hate Molina as much as I hated Moody. So as of now, I detest Alfred Molina! Also in the cast, Sheila Rosenthal as Mahtob, Mony Rey as Ameh Bozorg, Jonathan Cherchi as Mammal, and Sasson Gabai as Hamid. This movie is based on a true story. Betty Mahmoody is a real person and today she helps thousands of trapped women and children in situations similar to hers. You know, this movie makes me really proud to be an American and live in America. I certainly wouldn't want to live in an oppressive, backwards, primitive, hate-filled, screwed-up country like Iran. And they're so religious. I'm not a racist, don't get me wrong, but this movie has taught me a thing or two. I'll never go to Iran. So anyway, if you're in the mood, or Moody, for a great drama and/or a Sally Field film, then check out Not Without My Daughter. It's not for everyone, though. See it at your own risk. I recommend Not Without My Daughter today, and, if you marry a Muslim, this could happen to you.- "},{"Title":"Love heals all wounds","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As late as today, I have watched this movie. I try to read all I can about the situation on the internet, and believe me there is a lot. First I have no kind words for beaters. I read where Betty related that the movie is harsher than the story she told. To that I say, Send all that harsh money to your ex-husband with a note of apology to him and his family. As a Doctor training in a not so nice foreign country, I doubt seriously if Moody made plans to return to his country for good, and leave all the property he managed to acquire. To Matoob, I say, You were young, please don't let your father pass away without hearing from his only child just one time. It is easy to write a letter. Betty, if you were beaten, I am so very sorry, but perhaps you can rest in peace knowing that Dr. Moody is a beaten man in his country. This man married you with two children already, and gave you a beautiful home life and a beautiful daughter. When you weigh the good and the bad, please don't let all your new money lean on the bad. You are now safe, you are wealthy, you have your family, so don't gain property and lose your soul. and let him try to have a nice end to his life. Encourage your daughter to write him. We have horrible parents here in America, but when maturity jumps in, we can tell our children, That is a part of you. Even if parents had been less than parents, lovingly say, I forgive you, and love you, even if we cant be together. It is time to slow your roll on making money off this unknown truth of your situation. You have told your story, grow up, put a little love in your heart, and move on. "},{"Title":"its one woman's experience,","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am quite annoyed at some of the reviews. No one talks about the movie just a bunch of people taking it all so personally. I have never Been there but its important to remember that the world changes everyday. If you go to the City portrayed in this movie, today, you will find its a very different place. ALSO, This movie wasn't an open un biased view of a culture. It was the depiction of one woman's experience. It was written to be her very horrible experience. you are to see it through HER eyes.Thats why when she is locked in a room, you only see out the window,and you only see Moody when he comes by. Thats why when the family looks at her they are whispering about her, and glaring at her. thats what SHE sees. everyone knows that feeling. when people look at you and then you think they are talking about you and wonder what they are saying. then your mind begins to play tricks. those thoughtless glances become glares. People also forget that the movie also portrayed Iranian men and women HELPING Betty get out. I think Sally field AND Alfred Molina did amazing jobs in this movie. it was a great movie! I recommend it. "},{"Title":"What an amazing movie","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" An excellent movie. an exceptional movie. You will become captured in the story and Betty's agony will become your agony. This movie is so well directed. In order to enjoy this movie for the art it is, you must understand that this movie doesn't compare the American and iranian cultures, but instead shows you what living in Iran is like and feels like through the circumstances of Betty and her daughter. Very Powerful movie, and i found truth in the movie's depiction of the iranian culture with the many details they used. You will Love it Get educated! The process of writing this comment through this 10 line minimum is primitive. "}{"Title":"A great movie that must be seen by all","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I sincerely don't understand why this movie has obtained such a low rating. In my opinion, Not Without My Daughter is a great film, a superb drama full of excellent performances and a very credible plot.  This movie also serves a moral purpose we often forget the ordeal of women in other parts of the world and take for granted the privilege of living in the United States, the land of justice and freedom for all.  All I can say after watching this movie is God bless America.  I strongly recommend this movie to all of you. "},{"Title":"Very tense, very well done.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A dark picture of religious fanaticism.  Wonderfully done.  A very unpleasant movie to watch.It's important, however, to remember that this is not a picture of all Islamic culture.  I am not Moslem, but I know that Islam doesn't teach the covering of women or the husband's absolute power over their wives.  And the husband in this movie wasn't representative of any culture - he was portrayed as a psychopathic brute.  Still, philosophy in the hands of the wrong people is evil.All in all I'm really glad I saw this film.  And I wonder why it's been rated so lowly here.  It was extremely well done.  "},{"Title":"An exciting and intriguing look at cultural differences","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a cultural anthropology student, I found this movie very interesting.  It is an insightful look into the Iranian culture from the inside, and through the eyes of a North American woman.  To a woman used to equality between the sexes and normal, everyday freedom to do things like go for a walk without being questioned, being trapped in Iran must have been a horrible shock. Theirculture is very different from ours, and for someone not used to it.....anyway, I can only imagine what she must have been feeling as she tried to escape Iran with her daughter.Sally Field's acting was superb, and the plot, especially since it was based on a true story, was powerful. To anyone interested in the lives of Arab women this century I highly recommend this movie, as well as the book Princess by Jean Sassoon, also a true story.   "},{"Title":"The movie was a very good commentary on how not all cultures are equal.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, first off I must comment on the first post before me. There are reasons why people make generalizations - because, in GENERAL, that is what things are like. It does not mean that there aren't exceptions. There are always exceptions. However, Islam is GENERALLY more violent, and a lot of the more radical sects can be extremely violent.This movie was not racist. Racism says one race is better than another. The movie never even implied that.It DID imply, however, that cultures are different, and some cultures are better than others. For instance, American culture says women have equal rights as men. Iranian culture says otherwise. If you say that women should have equal rights, then you have made a cultural judgment, and have said American culture is better in this respect. It is not racist. You're just being reasonable.As to the movie, I really liked it. It showed how oppressive and deceptive certain beliefs can be. The women in the movie were forced into submission and eventually accepted it. It's a natural human defense mechanism to accept a situation you cannot change as if you had chosen it. Otherwise you can't be happy. Thankfully, Betty was not happy and found a way out.On another note, the movie did portray many Iranians as being helpful. The man who helped her leave never asked for any money (although in the book I think the people who helped her out actually did). Movies always change certain aspects to be more interesting. This one was no different, but it did portrayed Betty's rescuers as being kind and generous. "},{"Title":"Watch with SENSE!","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have just watched this movie of which I have been searching for it for a long time now! They said it's a really good movie! And I second demotion! First, when it was during the Iran-Iraq war, Iran was really a bad place that time, well, obviously because of war, and that's what exactly they are describing here in this movie. Second, Sally Field is one of the best actresses of all times and she portrayed the role very well. She gave justice to the role she portrayed! And that's one of the reason to have a good movie result if it has best actors and actresses playing the role.Third, I'm sure those who commented bad about this movie are 1. Iranians of course who wants to justify that Iran is not that bad place. Again let me reiterate this, it was worst when there was an Iran-Iraq war comparing to now! The country Iran, is now fine, not bad but you can't say it's a heaven either. I've been there last year to attend the wedding of our boss who is an Iranian to an Iranian wife. My boss is pure Iranian but grew up in America, and he speaks like a real American, and now his wife joined him in the US and they are living together there. And it was by the way my boss who told me to look for this movie as he wanted me to watch this for such a long time now. He said it's a very sad movie and he never commented such racism or things like that as he is an educated person! So you see? Again, this is not just a story of an American woman who wants to be a heroin as this is AGAIN Betty Mahmoody's story that happened in a real life!2. People who has Iranian friends or lovers or husbands will surely oppose to this movie! Don't be bitter and don't get mad! This is not your story, this is the story of an American woman who was betrayed by the man she loves who happens to be an Iranian! You just have to feel the story and analyze before giving this such comments! My husband by the way is an Iranian but grew up in the UAE. And I didn't count it that way, as I was feeling the story and the actors/actresses portraying the role are very good. A lot of true stories like this happening all over the world who's marriage is made of cross country culture, that isn't successful due to some obvious reasons, and it's sad though.I think that the movie is a very good movie. Not very great though but it is really good movie!! "},{"Title":"This really happened","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First for those of you that said that this wasn't true. Then how do you know? I know because I went to Iran before. A couple of years ago, I went to Iran to do some research. And what I saw was unhappy. It made me angry to see these wives go threw this. The woman up there cannot sit in the front seat when there husband is driving. I just can't believe it. But when I seen this movie it brought back what I saw. And trust me Betty Mahmoody went threw hell. Yes, it different now because it was a couple of years ago. But as for me I swore to myself to never go back. And don't get me wrong not all of them are mean and hateful. There are those that help others. "},{"Title":"Frightening!!!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In light of the horrific events of September 11th, this film is even more disturbing. The fanaticism, brutality and appalling manner to which Betty (Sally Field) is treated is truly heart breaking. The transformation of Alfred Molina's character from caring, loving husband and Father to oppressive and brutal fanatic is sickening.What is so disturbing is that he believes what he does is right. "},{"Title":"too bad she cant shower.","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" interracial relations have never been so sensual. even when the child was present the screen vomited out sensual...ness.frankly, i felt dirty and had to shower every 47 seconds. unlike betty who was like, man, i suck, and i cant shower. what is with this country. i cant shower without my daughter. washing her body of the sins of the western world. yes. very dirty. and i liked it. this movie gets 10 stars.lets talk about moody. he WAS moody, man, he freaking stole his family. stole them good. they will never see their friends again. but at least they have the embassy. RUN TO ThE EMBASSY. ITS TOO LATE. MOODY HAS THE DAUGHTER.that is truly the essence of this film. but it wasn't really an embassy. it was a brothel. but seriously i think i watched the wrong version of this film.either way i will never trust my husband, especially if he takes me to his home country. i thank the movie for this wisdom. i have resolved to put my daughter out of her misery before my husband steals her. and i shall rest in the gentle embrace of alfred molina. MOLEEEE.ps. moody was a spunk. "},{"Title":"not too bad,all things considered","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" i think this movie was pretty decent.how accurate it is,i have no idea.however,judged strictly on its merits,it's a pretty compelling and engaging movie.i really cared about the characters and the things they had to deal with.it's almost heartbreaking at times,and i did find it hard to watch.but it's also touching.the actors are all very convincing.i thought all their performances were pretty natural.it is also suspenseful and well paced. and you never really know for sure how it will turn out.the movie is Based on a true story,so i guess if you know the background of the real people involved,you know how it will end.i knew nothing of the story before watching the movie.so i just waited as events unfolded.strictly speaking of the movie as a form of entertainment,i think it does a pretty decent job.i realize that it may be hard for some people to judge this movie as a form of entertainment,and that's certainly understandable and fair.for me though, Not Without my Daughter is about a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great story, great book, but not nearly as great a film.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have heard of the story a long time ago and I've read the book. The movie follows it closely but somehow doesn't manage to create the same harrowing atmosphere. Which really is the only criticism I have about the movie, it simply is not atmospheric enough. "}]