[{"Title":"parental relationships in Jungle Fever","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In his opening sequence to Jungle Fever, Spike Lee introduces the pervasive theme of the appropriateness of sex. Through the red haze of a Harlem morning, we are introduced to Flipper and his wife Drew in a very compromising position. Entangled in both the sheets and a moment of passion, the couple begin their morning in copulation, all the while trying desperately not to `wake the baby.' This `baby' could be a child who they've already produced or a child who is potentially in the making.This notion of sex as a means of producing children runs throughout the film. We find that even after Flipper has begun his relationship with Angela Tucci, he would never think of having children with her. Flipper's fear of having mixed (`octoon, quadroon, mulatto') children is very high. We learn that his wife is mixed herself. Her father is white and her mother is black. During the scene in her office, we get a glimpse of the kind of heartache that she has suffered from her skin color, a result of the intermingling of the two races of her parents. This sex-and-its-aftermath theme manifests itself in the dysfunctional parent/child(ren) relationships throughout the film. Angie is tied to her father and two brothers as a sort of domestic slave. Not only does she have to work hard in a distant part of town all day, but she also has to return home to cook for and clean up after her three male family members. She seems to receive no financial or emotional support for her efforts either. This becomes very clear when her father beats her up after learning of her relationship with Flipper. We see a similar relationship develop with Paulie and his father. His father's constant nagging about the number of each of the periodicals that he orders on a daily basis coupled with his lack of gratefulness for the meals that he cooks for him each day drive Paulie mad. Though Paulie's father isn't as physically abusive as Angela's father is, we see his proclivity toward violence we he forces his way into the bathroom and whaps a teary-eyed Paulie on the head with a magazine. Eventually, Paulie is able to stand up to his father, telling him `I'm not your f***ing wife; I'm your son.'The most powerful and destructive parent/child(ren) relationship that unfolds on the screen is that of Flipper's family, including his brother Gator and both of his parents. Lee's choice to introduce the reverend doctor and his wife as parents of Gator first necessarily colors our impression of them as good parents. What type of parents produce a crackhead? Certainly not the same type of parents that produce an upstanding architect, but maybe the type of parents who would rear an interracial adulterer. Other than Drew, who we really never see interact with her child, Gator's mother is the only mother to which we're physically exposed in the text. She loves both of her children and would rather not talk about the problems that exist in their relationships. Instead, she closes her eyes to the truth of Gator's drug habit and hands him money while he does the dances that she likes, and she would rather change the subject at the dinner table than broach the topic of adultery. This approach to parenting doesn't work any better than that of her counterpart. The reverend doctor doesn't ever want to really talk to his kids about their problems without using biblical metaphors. These one-sided diatribes seem to drown out any potential discussions just as much as the wailing of his favorite Mahalia Jackson records. In the end, he must kill his neglected son because he has deteriorated so extensively from crack use. The film's concluding sequence has brought us full circle. The framing of the newspaper landing on Flipper's stoop initially suggests that everything has returned to normal - that Drew has accepted her husband back into her life. Their daughter's smiles and giggles also point to the same conclusion. But we find, as Drew rolls over in bed and tells Flipper he better leave, that the sex is only a temporary fix for a desire for pleasure. The sex will not solve the problems that it has created. In the film's resolution, we see echoes of Paulie's father's former explosion in the bathroom `All they think marriage is for is humping.'The final, seemingly confusing line of the film - `Yo, daddy, I'll suck your big black d*** for $2.' - sums up this theme well. It both mirrors in video and echoes in audio an almost identical part from earlier in the film. When Flipper was walking his daughter to school, a crack whore approaches him with the offer, `I'll suck your d*** for $5.' By the film's end, the price has lowered, the sex has been cheapened, and the whore is addressing Flipper as `daddy.' In this final line, the importance of parent/child relationships is emphatic. Sex, a supposedly physical manifestation of love, often results in a product - a child. This child will then live in a society where sex and love is misguided or undirected altogether.  "},{"Title":"More about sex than race","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is more about sex than race. Lee was quoted in the NYT as follows I hate this whole Hollywood process of breaking down a movie to one sentence, he said. My films don't deal with one theme. They interweave many different things. You have to think. I'm not saying interracial relationships are impossible. Flipper and Angie are not meant to represent every interracial couple in the world. They are meant to represent two people who got together because of sexual mythology instead of love. Then they stay together because they're pushed together. They're outcasts. And since their relationship isn't based on love, when things get tough, they can't weather the storm. Thus at its core this film is a feminist critique of the nature of sexual attraction in contemporary America. These folks are wrong for each other but they both are stereotypically attractive. There is chemistry between them, but no shared values that are the bedrock of a serious relationship. The black stud/ sexy white girl is just one way this could be instantiated.In one sense, this is a serious issue and it is worth exploring. My own misgivings about this film is that Lee's moral seems to be values = good, chemistry = bad, and this strikes me as somewhat simplistic. "},{"Title":"one of those cases where the acting and direction (most of the time) is better than the script","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee's films are consistent in one respect, even for the lesser ones, which is that they're always pressing buttons. In the case of Jungle Fever, it's another work where messages come out more than from a guy on a postal route. But that's perhaps part of the point, where such points come in many forms and sometimes like a barrage. This time, it doesn't completely gel as well as Lee's Do the Right Thing, which also held anger, contemplation, humor, and pathos about city life. But this time it's also a tale of sexual morays, where both white and black sides have their share of racism and prejudices, and at the core is a story of outcasts. The interesting thing then about Jungle Fever is how Lee's own decisions in casting and in the unique way he shoots his subjects and implements a subjective take more often then not trump what comes out in his script. Then again, maybe it's close to being inevitable with how the elements mix, and at the end there are some parts of the film that are the best that Lee's done so far as a filmmaker.Wesley Snipes and Anabella Sciora star as the said 'jungle fever' couple, the man being married with a kid, of all things to a woman who is also light-skinned and with her own 'issues', and the woman having an 'old-fashioned' Italian father. When their affair becomes known to both sides, the costs come out and they both become outcasts. And at the end of all of the points that are made in Jungle Fever by Lee, even through the ones that are pounded and (of the period) quite topical and prominent, this notion of society and culture being the biggest culprit is hard to ignore. This main point is made very well by Lee's script, and even as sometimes the script doesn't have the best dialog or lines a little 'too easy', if that makes any sense, there are many scenes which do support this to the fullest. And as the job of any good director is to cast right, this film is filled with a who's-who's of professionals and character actors.One could go on as to who appears in the film, from Anthony Quinn to Tim Robbins to Ossie Davis to John Turturro, and they all fit their parts and contribute to adding a level of fascination in each. When the less desirable aspects peak in even more, it only adds to what ends up working on screen. Sometimes the script, as mentioned, is a little derivative and trying to touch ALL bases, with a but the film is more often than not alive due to (some of) the music at times. Maybe the most genius pieces of casting were Samuel L. Jackson, in (arguably) one of his very best performances, and Halle Berry. In a sense there are similar points made in the A storyline and the B one, where there is some extra interest in the supporting characters and their connection with the main ones. Jackson and Berry are crack-heads, and outcasts, and to their own degree have the same crap end of the stick as the leads to. Among many scenes where confrontations reach a great emotional intensity, the best comes with Snipes going into the crack-house and seeing just the purest dark side of society, what really does bring people down.In the end, Jungle Fever is one of the Lee movies that is worth seeing, that may prove on a repeat viewing to bring even more thought than previous. It's energetic, somber, occasionally funny and shocking in equal measure. "},{"Title":"This was the era when Spike Lee got as good as he ever got.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee made Jungle Fever in the era when he also made masterpieces like Do the Right Thing and Malcolm X. I will admit that the subject matter here is nothing that we haven't seen many times (an interracial love story), but Lee knows how to do without getting idiotic or manipulating emotions. In this case, African-American Flipper Purify (Wesley Snipes) has an affair with Italian-American co-worker Angela Tucci (Annabella Sciorra), thereby setting off a racially charged chain reaction.A previous reviewer said that Lee throws in so many subplots that the movie gets too confusing. I agree that the various subplots do this to an extent, but I think that Lee mainly wanted to show how people's lives were getting affected by the series of events portrayed. There were some clichés, namely the bigoted Bensonhurst residents, but this is certainly a well done movie. Watch for a young Halle Berry as a crack addict, and I believe that Queen Latifah appears as a waitress. "},{"Title":"Fitfully interesting but lacks a strong point and doesn't hang together all that well","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Flipper Purify is a successful architect with a beautiful wife and a smart young daughter back at his apartment. When he gets a new temp in to work alongside him he is not pleased that she is white but her hard work impresses him. Working late one night, chatting becomes a connection which becomes flirting which becomes sex. Their affair continues even as Flipper quits his job to branch out alone. However his life is thrown into chaos when his wife Drew finds out.The opening credits are catchy and the material is just the sort of racial issue that Spike Lee made his name but somehow the film itself really failed to catch my imagination or hold my attention. The central plot is simple enough but Lee fills it out with characters, debate and a couple of subplots but yet somehow doesn't manage to pull it all together into one compelling film. Of course those that like Spike Lee know that even when he is at his most average he can still make an interesting film. And so it is here because the film does have plenty of interesting scenes but it is the narrative and formulation of his point where it fails to come off. In his defence Lee has written some convincingly real characters with unfortunately real attitudes but by leaving these people mostly unchallenged to deliver their opinions he allows two things to happen. Firstly the film feels like a series of disjointed conversations &#150; most of which are interesting enough to listen to but don't a total film make.Secondly, and more importantly, Lee appears to be in agreement with some of his characters that mixed race relationships are not a good idea. If this is not his opinion then he has done a poor job in putting his thoughts across. If he is in agreement then he has done a poor job in presenting this point in a coherent and convincing fashion. Instead it seems like the racists have won &#150; which is maybe is his point but if so yet again he hasn't done a good job of putting it across. In fact thinking about it, his point probably is that it all isn't worth the effort but, like I say, it isn't very well delivered and a lot of the ideas are half-cooked. The cast make it well worth a look regardless thanks to Lee's usual skill in assembling his actors. Snipes has massively fallen from grace in regards his career and his personal life but here he is pretty good. The material is just a little beyond his range but he does the basics well. Sciorra is better and works well with him. Lee is Lee while McKee is rather wasted with her simplistic race rage. Quinn is a nice touch in support while Turturro is as good as I have come to expect from him. Davis and Dee are good but they exist in another film, albeit the drugs subplot is interesting and both Jackson and Berry are impressive but it doesn't really fit. Lee's direction is his usual style but his use of soundtrack is weak &#150; the tunes themselves are good but he doesn't put them across the film with any reason or sense of meaning.Overall then an fitfully interesting film as is usually the way with Lee but one that failed to come together or deliver a convincing central message. The depressing message that does come across isn't that well made and as a result isn't as thought provoking as it should have been. The casting is interesting though and the performances mostly do as required in the many good individual scenes. Famous but not as good as the names attached would make you hope. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With some interesting ideas about racism, some creative camera-work, and generally solid acting, there is enough in this film to make it worth checking out, albeit not enough to make it a great film. Spike Lee's depiction of a modern society build about racism lacks credibility, as it is hard to believe that the only thing the characters care about is racism-related. Lee's colour scheme hurts the film too, as the hues, in particular the oranges, are very harsh on the eyes, this distracting one from the on screen action. There are also some drug addiction subplots fitted in, to no certain advantage, and despite Terence Blanchard providing a nice multi-style score, it is used rather awkwardly throughout. Plus, there one large unanswered question is Lee endorsing segregation and racism in the film? Believe it or not, in spite of these problems, the film has enough in it for adequate viewing. Seeing Halle Berry in her first big screen appearance is quite interesting, and Queen Latifah makes her debut appearance too as a waitress. It is very well shot, competently acted and it provides some things to think about, even if it is not too great overall stuff. "},{"Title":"New Mood, Lost Groove--Second Take on Jungle Fever","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" New Mood, Lost Groove--Second Take on Jungle FeverJungle Fever (1991)Was life so different 18 years ago that I would think this movie a brilliant if affected romance, and today I find its preachy stiffness clichéd to distraction? If so, why? And when does a lack of realism rise above artifice to become art, and artful directing? I still admire Spike Lee, but with more caveats, more questions.There are internal clues to Lee's choosing style over realism. The highly chromed gun, still hot from the preacher/father archetype killing his son the sweetly selfish druggie archetype, is set squarely on an open Bible. The black lead male, playfully wrestling with the white lead female on top of a car in what seems like a rape out in the street (like they weren't a little bit cautious?), of course leads seconds later to cops acting brutal and protective of the girl, guns pointing at heads, and there is the realization that a biracial affair might be nearly impossible. Snap, like that. It's all artifice. Even the steady flipping and exaggeration of stereotypes in the movie, and the drumbeat of political conversation about race, race and sexual stereotypes, reveals a director with a purpose, and a purpose that overwhelms the drama, the narrative romance.Because this is a romance, plain and simple. And yet surely Spike Lee said to himself at an early stage who needs another routine if well made romantic movie? Even if the two leads are of different color. And so we have a confession (if he ever said this) that he is after something more, and that something more is going to consume the romance. Fair enough. But do we need to be lectured to? Even if we agree, or especially if we agree, that people should love and make love to whoever they want, does it help to have transparent points about textbook injustice constantly scratching at us while wanting to just enjoy all the emotional, interracial conflicts?Well, let's defer for a minute. Because it would frankly be easier to dismiss the movie as a heavy handed polemic failure. Which it is not. It has many moments of both cinematic and theatric brilliance (from a hugely talented cast). I really wanted to get sucked in, and when I sometimes did start to disappear into that world, I was pushed back out. Take the scene with all the women, ostensibly black (or actually black) but of different color skin, talking with great elevation and personality about being of color, and of men wanting women of color (or not), and of them wanting men of color (or not), and really batting the issue around with a kind of grad school but earthy intelligence. Everyone is correct in their own context, and within their character roles they make their points vivid, and sometimes a camera angle or shift from one face to another is elegant and affecting in the best way. But hey, no matter how truly cerebral these women would be in real life, and how well meaning, and how well versed in these issues through life and on paper, would they have this kind of gem of a discussion the way Lee presents it? Unlikely. Or impossible. No, he compressed it into something unreal, something better than real perhaps, built on kernels of reality. We know it represents the truth, not just sociologically but as individuals with complex emotional responses. That's good. That it remains a represented truth lacking narrative transparency is less good, or less easy. We believe, we nod, we assent, and we nod off. Contrivance intrudes and rebuffs.There are lots of high profile movies that live on their un-realism (they are actively non- real), from Night of the Hunter to Kill Bill with West Side Story and every other musical thrown in the middle. Certainly, the first five decades of film history are about stylized worlds that we must read through, suspending our realities, accepting the form. We are not usually made to believe we are watching reality itself. Jungle Fever is not like The Bicycle Thief, not one bit, and that's fine. But then, accepting this (tentatively), we still need to care enough about the movie to watch it through. That is, of the many movie-making tricks for grabbing the viewers and holding them, one or more have to be persuasively in place. As a top-of-the-head counter- example, consider Crash, which a decade after Jungle Fever dealt with some of the same issues in a different kind of city, and in a more lyrical, almost dreamlike way. Crash held me with very few reservations from start to finish. It held me and sometime entranced me even though I knew it was as false and at times as obliquely preachy as Jungle Fever.So I struggled this second and third time, even though I remember loving the movie when it was released. But look at it this way if the movie said things we needed to hear in 1991 and we don't respond to as well now, it might be because we've moved past some of that in 2009. That's what my students say, and so that's a pretty terrific thing. If it means the movie is aging badly, let's wait for another decade to correct itself it once again. "},{"Title":"Really interesting and epic tale that deals with a sensitive subject but maintains other aesthetical qualities.","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lots of hate and not much love is the feeling I get when looking this film up; ironic then that the idea of interracial relationships in 1990s America has much the same stance on the idea &#150; stick to what you know or else people who have long since died will be angry at you, oh and the current parent who hasn't died (the father in both cases) will either threaten to or indeed literally beat you senseless.I don't think Jungle Fever, directed by Spike Lee, is all that bad in fact I found it interesting, engaging and somewhat tragic which means I liked it; I liked it a lot. I think one of the primary reasons this film works is that it achieves something extremely difficult and that's being able to get across a narrative of love, loss and temptation all the time being able to put across and offer opinions on race and ethnicity whilst also being able to merge in a healthy and satisfying amount of humour which, oddly enough, only really comes along when the film is dealing with its 'tragedy' sub-plot involving Gator (Jackson). The idea behind the character is tragic but it is Jackson's presence and approach to the material that makes it humorous a crack addict that turns up at the most inconvenient of times asking for money, often doing a little dance in order to get it; but he does not learn the wrong of his ways and that's the tragic thing.So you see, the fact that Spike Lee has created this universe for all these issues to be digested and be put across all the time keeping you interest with some individual acting performances, good music and a fair amount memorable dialogue moments is extremely impressive &#150; my favourite of which is Spike Lee himself portraying a character who goes up in extremities when he learns of an affair, the fact the wife doesn't know and then that the girl is actually white. Jungle Fever starts out in pretty humorous yet tragic circumstances, echoing the atmosphere to come for the rest of the film; the pre-film titles have road signs displaying things like 'drugs, left; crack, right' which is a damned if you do, damned if you don't idea that works amongst the upbeat music. It's this sort of juxtaposition in visuals that works and challenges the viewer as well as possibly being Lee getting across what life is like in these sorts of places 'No matter where you turn, you cannot escape certain failure'.So, to have the rather oddly named Flipper Purify (Snipes) as an architect who is living a good life with a great job with great prospects with a wonderful wife and kid gives us the sense he is an achiever but he cannot live in a district that is pleasant, so that 'tag' that you never escape the ghetto is present. Likewise, Flipper is a big cheese in his company but he must answer to two white yuppies ahead of him and when things get a little heated, it seems the two white men have defeated the hard working black character. But it is Flipper's own stupidity that sees him go on his journey of hell and self-discovery and all in the name of curiosity which is the film's only real flaw but I cannot hold it too much against it. This is a film in which everybody gets a bite of the cherry; the African-American characters in the film are people who are striving to survive (the credits suggesting the ghetto is a no win place suggests this) doing whatever means necessary no matter how high up you are (crack head or rich architect); Italians are people who perhaps come across as quite needlessly aggressive and yet are the sorts who hold onto values and friendships despite whatever situations arise &#150; they are also people who look out for their sisters.Then there are the women; in what is one of Jungle Fever's more remarkable scenes, a half dozen women sit around and consolidate Drew (McKee) as she comes to terms with the affair. It is remarkable because it shows women have a voice and they are voicing their opinions in a true-to life manner &#150; remarkable that Lee scripts this scene and shoots it not in a voyeuristic manner but one that lets us know how they feel; I wonder how many other films revolving around an male instigated affair would stop to include this scene? Jungle Fever is a film that has heart but it has brains to boot; there is another great scene when Frankie Botz (Badalucco) is being wound up over his girl and he slams people who are Aryan, blaming Hollywood (another Spike Lee scripted dig?) for it but this is right after heart of gold Italian Paulie Carbone (Turturro) points out that Italian's several decades ago who paid the blacks equal wages were hung for doing so; this echoes the overall theme of the film in a single scene, that being that it is the 1990s, things like this happen says Debi Mazar's character and that the disapproving parents should not be too affected by something that supposedly insults tradition.Jungle Fever is not about 'x' is black and shouldn't date 'y' because they're white; if anything it's about the reason to stick with your partner if Flipper was curious as to what 'white' would've been like, surely that echoes compliment to Drew because he doesn't consider he so; even though she has been bullied over the light tone of her skin. Spike Lee has made something here that is epic and intriguing; tragic and yet funny at times. This is a modern piece trying to push out what's wrong and what's right 'stay with partner' is better than 'stay with race' but that doesn't mean you have to choose the latter if you cannot keep the former. "},{"Title":"Judging it again years later","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Jungle Fever for the first time years ago, when it first came out on video. By the movie's end, I was lost. Part of it may have been maturity - I was in junior high - and part of it was that the movie I was sold was not the movie I got. Part of this selling is Stevie Wonder's title song, which frequently finds its way into my tapedeck. And the kind of color-blind love Wonder sings about is not the relationship in this movie. Something I feel now as I felt then was that the film does not let us get close to these people, let us see them in love. Only now do I realize that this is because the film is not about two people in love. When I first saw it, I thought the film was advocating segregation from the other side. Now I realize that it just showing the complexity of issues which come to play when a black person and white person from separatist neighborhoods come together, and mostly how those environments are changed. There are things to overcome, but this relationship will not overcome them. I am still puzzled by the rather large subplot involving Samuel L. Jackson as Wesley Snipes's crackhead brother and by the final shot where Wesley Snipes clutches a crack-whore to himself and screams NO! while the camera rushes from halfway across Harlem to end in a close-up on him. It's indelible - most of what has stuck with me about this movie over time involves this subplot and that shot - but I am still puzzled by its intention in the overall scheme of what the film is trying to say. Something about the endless problems facing black people? "},{"Title":"Interracial Drama","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just by the poster alone, audiences in 1991 were intrigued by Spike Lee's new offering. Just what was it that he had to say about interracial liaisons? The film was scripted specifically for Wesley Snipes as a vehicle for his career. The same year he appeared in 'New Jack City' by Mario Van Peebles, and had come from being beaten to pulp in the back alley of Spike Lee's 'Mo Better Blues' with Denzel Washington by Samuel L. Jackson. The 90's was Wesley Snipes and Denzel Washington's decade, and Spike Lee had capitalised on this to lift their careers to their rightful stature. Wesley plays a middle class interior designer in a professional company whom he feels does not appreciate his input. This is highlighted when he is given an Italian-American secretary who does not carry the same baggage as he does. The irony comes when, after stating that he wants an African-American secretary, he engages in hot sex with her in the office in the same way that Michael Douglas did with Glenn Close in 'Fatal Attraction' and with Sharon Stone in 'Basic Instinct' (fresh from appearing with Forest Whitaker in 'Diary of a Hitman'). I guess Spike Lee was saying that the black man should have the opportunity to ride the white American woman in the same way that Michael Douglas has. In that sense, the interracial liaison worked. But from the argument of probability, it was an unlikely scenario. Everything happened way too quick, and his prejudices of non-African American women no longer carried any weight. Yes, he was curious. We all are. But the juxtaposition of his curiousity and his prejudice appeared unlikely. In Act 2, we explore the relationship between Wesley Snipes and this Italian-American woman. There are shades of repercussions from 'Do the Right Thing' where Spike Lee is almost speaking out about the interaction between the African American and Italian American communities. It becomes less of a race thing than it does a cultural thing, and you can almost be forgiven for feeling that Spike is saying something about the Italian-American community rather than just the white community in general. In Act 3, Wesley's marriage breaks down, he splits up with the Italian-American woman, and decides that the most important thing in his life is his daughter. A much too unsatisfying ending for anybody's tastes, and despite all the adversity that they had to face, one felt that it would be good if they stuck it out together. The theme of 'Jungle Fever' alone does not maintain your interest throughout the film. Like Alfred Hitchcock, Spike Lee enlists the talents of other great artistes such as Stevie Wonder for the score, Anthony Quinn to play the bigot father, Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee to play Snipes's parents, Halle Berry to play the drug addict, and last but not least, the neglected Samuel L. Jackson who gives a cracking performance as a crack head. To look at Samuel L. Jackson you would never guess that he was a university graduate with a slur. He has performed Shakespeare on stage in New York, and a demonstration of his pure acting talent is seen in his portrayal in this film of Snipes's crack head brother. There is nothing commercial and token about what Jackson contributes to this role. He is overlooked as pure talent, but he offers nothing but pure talent. The film, in terms of its concept, stands alone as a self contained film, but the true star of the film is Samuel L. Jackson. Even though Spike wrote the script specifically for Snipes, Melvin Van Peebles does more justice to Snipes by casting him as Nino Brown in 'New Jack City'. The same way that 'Malcolm X' was a vehicle for Denzel Washington at the hand of Spike Lee, 'New Jack City' was a vehicle for Wesley Snipes at the hand of Melvin Van Peebles. Although Samuel L. Jackson did not receive the same level of recognition and exposure as Denzel and Wesley for his contribution to Spike's films, he would have to wait until Quentin Tarantino came along to cast him as the philosophical gangster in 'Pulp Fiction'. "}{"Title":"United Colors of America ...","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee's Jungle Fever is an eye-opening introspection into the limits of that so-called melting pot sold by America as the epitome of tolerance and universalism but contradicted by the statistics and all the racial tension that prevailed in the early 90's. As a social commentary, the movie raises many important issues about interracial relationships in a less politically lauded tone than the iconic Do The Right Thing, which is a wise choice for a movie mostly centered on human relationships.From Stevie Wonder's titular song, Jungle Fever refers to the diagnosis of that strange mutual attraction between two persons from different races. The term strongly implies the idea of a relationship against the Nature's law, if not a sickness, a deviation. And the central couple to deviate is Flipper, an ambitious architect, and Angie, his new secretary. He's Black, she's Italian. He lives in Harlem, she's from Benston Hurst, he's married with one daughter, she has three men, and two too many her father (Frank Vincent), and her two brothers. Angie's doom is that she's young and single enough to be the overprotected sister, but mature enough to take care of the house. Angie dates Paulie, a shy and affable storekeeper (John Turturro) in a relationship that doesn't really ring true. Whatever is obviously lacking, Angie would find it in Flipper.Spike Lee's direction patiently depicts the growing attraction between Flipper and Angie. Interestingly, the first door to a growing intimacy is opened when they break the taboo of races and talk about in the most casual way. And after that, we stop looking at the difference of skins, and pay more attention to the contents of their hearts. So they have sex, and no sex scene is not sugarcoated in Spike Lee's film, not overdone either, but what is Spike Lee's point? To insist that it's only sexual like in adultery, or because of the 'Jungle Fever'? Whatever theory we believe in, the relationship would be wrong, but Lee care less about pleasing us ethically than inviting us to examine the aftermath of that pivotal night where a Black man and a Italian (Caucasian) woman &#x85; did it. And the way the relationship evolves could be perceived as bad writing on the surface, while it's only extremely well written 'bad reactions'. For one thing, the adultery is less condemned than its interracial nature. Flipper's wife, Drew (Lonette McKee) is from a mixed couple, and always feared to be only one step in Flipper's attraction process toward light skinned women, until he'd finally go with a plain Caucasian. Flipper's denial might be sincere but then why did he ask his bosses to only hire African American women? Did he know he would automatically fall in love with a Caucasian? The ambiguity remains and is explicated from a different perspective during a dinner with Flipper's parents played by the veteran actors Ossie Davis, as a fanatic preacher, and Ruby Dee, a loving mother and devoted wife. Flipper's father reminds Angie that white women always sensed an exciting mix of fear and fascination toward Black men and this is what ultimately tarnished the purity of the race, by providing so many mixed ethnicities. While succeeding on the field of disturbing realism, this scene allows us to understand Flipper's background and the amount of pressure he and Angie would endure, Angie almost beaten to death by her 'dishonored' father is then coldly compared to a whore. The couple wouldn't survive this last display of hatred and rejection, and in a very thought-provoking approach from Spike Lee, Flipper, breaks up with Angie with a very calculated arrogance by pretending it has never been love. In a way, he joined the cause of those who pretend it's all about black men seeing that white is right women-wise, and white girls seeing blacks as sexual supermen, Jungle Fever &#x85; again. Flipper uses an obvious carapace to hide his own weaknesses. In many intimate scenes, he's the one lying beneath the shadow, while Angie's face shines under the window's light. She's genuinely in love with him while Flipper opts for a more convenient pragmatism. Again, no one is right or wrong, Flipper have responsibilities and Angie's simply in need of a disinterested love, she's the victim of this relationship, as the one who lost the most, her 'honor', her boyfriend, and the man for which she too the risk to lose everything. The counterpoint of this failed relationship is Paulie's tender and more optimistic romance. Paulie who also grew up with an authoritarian fatherly figure (Anthonny Quinn) and endure the racist pressure of his entourage, but finally decides himself to date Ordyl, the woman who's always so nice to her, regardless of any skin consideration. But Flipper and Angie's relationship is less the core than the starting point of the analytic journey into the myths that surround sex, part-pride, part-doom, total pressure, marked by a great deal of hypocrisy and suspicion, due to the weight of history. Here comes the most poignant subplot involving the crack addiction of Flipper's brother, Gator, Samuel L. Jackson in an Oscar worthy performance. Gator's descent into self-destruction is the emotional pillar of the film allowing us to put Flipper's romance into perspective. There's more to worry about for the Black community, which in quest of its identity is torn between two unacceptable realities degradation or obedience to the white man rules. Is 'Jungle Fever' the first step of that assimilation? The ending is a father's cry of despair for never seeing his daughter falling in that trap anyway. Jungle Fever works less as a romance than as realistic depiction of the racial myths poisoning the society. Through many secondary characters with an impressive level of depth and believability, we realize that most of them defines themselves through their ethnicity &#x85; as pure survival instinct. When the world is a jungle, it can only inspire self-preservation. "},{"Title":"Powerful Message Movie, but I did not like the ending","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Powerful Message Movie, but I did not like the endingSpike Lee has a history of producing pointed, politically evocative films that often spark controversy.  Jungle Fever is no different.  The film is multi-faceted and does not follow one story line but follows the lives of all kinds of different people who are related to each other or know each other somehow.Spike Lee plays Flipper Purify, a black architect who has a nice family and a good job living in Harlem.  He loves to his family and seems to have his like made for him.  Annabella Sciorra plays Angie Tucci, and Italian-American who is recently hired as Flipper's secretary against Flipper's wishes of hiring a white person when he wanted someone black to be his secretary.  She comes from working class Bensonhurst, in Brooklyn and is living with his father and two brothers.  She is under-appreciated for all the work she does around the house.Now here is where the major conflict of the film comes into play  The two people have an affair.  Nothing may have happened with their personal lives but then they told a friend or two and then their friends tell a friend or two and you know.SPOILERThe two families react differently.  The father of Angie attacks her violently.  The wife of Flipper throws all of her husband's stuff out of the window.  Both families make a scene where their neighborhoods know what happen.  What I like about this part of the movie is that there are people that do not approve of the relationship but not all of their friends and family reject them.  The movie shows a relatively open environment but with the standard racism prevalent in New York City.Now if you think this is a movie and that people in New York are not this racist, race is still an issue in New York City.  People will react exactly the way they do in this movie to the mere mention of interracial dating. And while this movie is older now not much has changed in the terms of racial issues.The supporting cast does an excellent job.  The two notable stars are Samuel L. Jackson and Halle Berry.  Jackson plays Flipper's drug addicted brother. Halle Berry plays his girlfriend.  This pair does an excellent job.  They are gritty and they are excellent in their parts.  They are extremely convincing.  I knew some people who had similar problems that acted a lot like these two characters.Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee will astound you in their parts.  Ossie Davis has an incredible monologue that is just too much for mainstream film, and his monologue makes a couple of interesting points.  Again what this movie talks about is too much for mainstream films.  Ossie plays The Good Reverend Doctor Purify, the father of Flipper.  He calls him The Good Reverend Doctor.  The Good Reverend Doctor is extremely religious and I emphasize the word extreme.  Ruby Dee is a caring but naïve mother who doesn't quite understand what Flipper's brother is doing to hurt him.  The final scene with the parents and the brother will shock the hell out of you.  The scene will also show you some of the extreme nature some people of faith take their religion.John Turturro does a standout job as the ex-boyfriend of Angie who is stuck in a bad job around a group of pricks that are racist, mean and very provincial.  Turturro plays a decent and laid back man who is a nice guy but is in a bad situation (like a lot of people I guess)  Turturro does an excellent job.  The people that play his 'friends' Michael Badalucco, (who plays a real a**hole) Joe D'Onofrio and others do a great job in their parts.  That is an excellent aspect of the movie as well.Legendary actor Anthony Quinn has an excellent role as well, but he should have been in the movie more.  That is the thing about this movie there are a lot of people in this movie that are fairly famous but have a small part. Tim Robbins and Brad Dourif are in this movie for a short time as well.SPOILER (rest of review)One of the best scenes in the movie is when Wesley Snipes looks for his mother's TV set after Samuel L. Jackson took it.  What ensues is Snipes going through the crime-ridden streets of New York City and ending up in the Bronx in the 'Taj Mahal.'  It is an amazing look into a world that few of us in middle class America know about.  However I know that if Snipes were that well dressed going through the areas that he did he would have been accosted.I also did not like Lee's message.  Lee essentially said that interracial marriages were results of curiosity and hinted strongly that two people of different races could not fall in love.  I wish Lee would be more optimistic.  I do realize however that interracial dating is still not accepted in supposedly progressive America.  This country has along way to go.The political conversation John Turturro has with the people that hang out in the ice cream shop is quite disturbing.  The conversations they have are quite disturbing but they give you an insight into American culture that few American films have.  They discuss quite a few topics and Lee manages to produce a realistic conversation without the conversation becoming stiff or preachy.It is amazing to see Samuel L. Jackson and Halle Berry, in what are perhaps their breakthrough roles.  They both do great jobs and they show their talents as thespians.  Also the opening credits are quite unique, an interesting way of showing the people involved in the film.  Also listen for Stevie Wonder's hit Jungle Fever, where the phrase was coined in popular culture.This is a great movie.  There are some interesting points this movie brings up.  Lee talks about the things many other films do not talk about.  Lee manages to write produce and star in a movie that is not great but definitely is very good and something I would recommend.  All around a good, disturbing, revealing and funny movie.  Here's to Spike Lee.  "},{"Title":"Before its Time","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before it was socially acceptable and desirable to be with black men,Jungle Fever explores this once taboo topic. Being attracted to black men myself, I find this movie thrilling and exciting. All of the beautiful black actors, and their struggles to share their love with society. If you have ever been as attracted to black guys as me or ever wondered what it would be like to take one fully into you and your heart, this is the film for you. It is a candid look at society and the racism we all face.Spike Lee at his finest and Wesley Snipes is such a physical specimen,its hard not to watch. Again, I highly recommend this movie. Watch with your significant other. "},{"Title":"Brilliant low budget gem","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first appeal for me was the DVD cover, a black hand holding a white hand, this spoke more to me about love than a couple kissing would. But the DVD was selling for $2 in a B grade movie pile, which initially put me off, it occurred to me later after watching this brilliant gem how racist our society is that this could be selling for $2.Having said all this the movie isn't without it's flaws, because of it's obvious low budget, which makes some things look a little fake and therefore affects the realism of the scene, but the irony is it was probably difficult for a black filmmaker like Spike Lee to get funding, so I can't blame him for these flaws. (I wasn't too keen on opening scene, but glad I persevered)Many race movies (possibly made by white people) have simplistic themes, such as whites don't like blacks of course sometimes things are that simple and those movies need to be made too, but seeing a movie made by someone black meant that complexities are raised that would perhaps never occur to white people, eg problems between black people because they perceive another being too light or paradoxically too black. Every relationship is poisoned with paranoia because no one knows if they are genuinely interested in the other or whether their unconscious agenda is what is making them go with someone of a different colour , ie is a black man who wants to date a white woman or light coloured black woman trying to go up in the world, or the reverse does a white person dating a black person just doing it to be exotic or rebel. Even the seemingly societally acceptable relationships eg black with black maybe have an agenda too, maybe they are merely trying to keep the sisterhood/brotherhood together. In the end race has got everyone so mixed up and poisoned that no one really can know if their love is truly genuine or just a reaction to the racist society we live in. This movie gave me a powerful and sad insight into what it must be like to be a black person, in a world where people are classified by colour (although that of course is the other irony that is raised in this movie because if someone's parent is white and the other black what colour do you classify them?) Not that white people don't have their own inter race dating issues, e.g. upper class dates lower class, Irish dates English, Protestant vs Catholic, etc, but it's not the same. Of course Spike Lee is just one black filmmaker so I don't know if other black people agree with him or not, this is why there should be more filmmakers of different races/sex etc, so we get more than one inside perspective. Malcolm X is another movie that affected me deeply, and gave me a different but also powerful insight, more polished movie actually due to obvious bigger budget, but anyway that's a topic for another day.There are a number of themes in this movie, so many in fact that I am just touching the surface, drugs, religion, poverty, and I haven't even talked about the Italian part of it, but surprisingly it all gels and does not seem disjointed, in fact all the themes flow together. There are also issues about what well meaning white people do and how that can actually endanger a black person (e.g. the police scene-this scene made me cry), and that even if a white person/policeman etc is not racist, the problem is black people have to be on their guard because they don't know which ones will be.SPOILER A few people have mentioned that this movie is against inter racial relationships saying stick to your own but I'm not sure it is, after all the point is made that very few of the characters are completely black anyway. And in fact the main characters wife is mixed race. It is clear to me though that Wesley Snipes true love was his wife, although there is some true feeling between him and the Italian girl most of it is curiosity and lust, so yes he should have stayed with his black wife (who is actually half white anyway!). However the movie shows there is a real possibility of real and lasting love in the budding romance between Italian Paulie and the black lady because the first thing he says to her when he asks her out is I find you intelligent before he tells her he also finds her attractive. So his main attraction is based on her mind, not looks (so therefore not her colour) Actually it occurred to me it is very rare that a man ever says to a woman in a movie that he wants to date her because she is intelligent. It's interesting how often people are attracted to different races, because they look exotic, I have pondered if this is essentially racist, because surely attraction should come from personality not the colour of someone's skin, but perhaps it is no less shallow than be attracted to someone because they are pretty. I think also though perceived difference can spark attraction because you grow and become more tolerant from learning about another culture, and dating between races is the ultimate way to do that. On the other hand people you may initially be turned on by the colour of someone's skin, but once you get to know them if there is true compatibility there you really don't notice this after a while because they just become a person that you know you really love because they are a kindred spirit. Actually the irony is the most disappointing thing you can discover from loving someone of a different race is that actually they are just a human being like you and therefore not so excitingly different or exotic after all! "},{"Title":"Paulie and Orin","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jungle Fever focuses on two characters from different ethnic backgrounds who fall prey to forbidden lust/love. Although this is considered a romantic film with racial themes, I believe it was executed poorly. Granted, the main characters endured some bigotry from both eyes of the black/white spectrum due to their unorthodox relationship, however their situation made them both more unlikable to begin with. To explain, I think Flip( Wesley Snipes' character)was an asshole for cheating on his wife. There is no excuse for that. As for Angie,( Annabella Sciorra's character)she was a b!tc# for succumbing to the devil and tasting the forbidden fruit as the good reverend( Flip's dad) would say. I mean, She knew he was married and had a kid. Though without discrimination, they were both unlikable. All in all, it was a decent movie, but I did not care much for the main characters at all. They were too flawed, ordinary and despicable. However, Paulie(played by John Turturro) and Orin(Tyra Ferrell) were far more believable and likable characters. Although they only had about 10-15 minutes of screen time, they shared more chemistry than the main characters throughout the whole film. Minor SPOILERS, At least, Paulie had the balls to stick up for the girl he liked despite the hate he endured from his friends and father while walking to her house. "},{"Title":"Where's the 'fever'?","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The theme of 'forbidden love' is a fascinating one, and will be with us for all time. But the truth is, I felt very little chemistry between Flipper and Angie! Times have changed, thank god, and people are a little more relaxed about relationships between races of all kinds, but when it comes to interracial love relationships there are still certain things that I find arresting and certain things that fail to capture my interest. JUNGLE FEVER is about many things except what the title implies. This is okay, and a few other themes in the film are well explored. Everything except the core concept which gives a title to this film.After all, what is JUNGLE FEVER? What generates or causes it to come about? Is it Eldridge Cleaver's concept of the Super Masculine and Super Feminine? A woman of high social standing granting sexual favor to a man of low social standing because of sexual attraction between them? Or perhaps it's the exact opposite? When you have JUNGLE FEVER what are the signs and symptoms? What should you look out for and what should you avoid? Is it something you are bound to catch no matter how much you strive to resist it? Can you somehow guard against it? How do you catch it and what is the antidote for it? Before the turn of the 21st Century, people did not particularly look to have love relationships outside their race. The passion usually had to be great enough to compel one to cross the color line. For every man or woman there were perhaps a handful of people they would be willing to cross the color line for at the risk of social condemnation. But it was usually understood beforehand that this was a minority or nonconformist choice.Now when it comes to interracial relationships in films there are two things that I find appealing. The first is does the couple in question look physically compatible? Do they look like they belong together despite the physical difference of color? The second is whether or not you can sense magnetism between the couple in question or what people call these days 'chemistry'. Can you sense now or developing within the narrative a sense of 'bonding'? There was much ado about Denzel Washington playing Malcolm X and having his little interracial affair with Kate Vernon playing a blond white woman named Sophia. But when they sat together and spoke no lines you sensed a physical parity between the couple. They were both very good looking people of somewhat similar features and you could reasonably and easily see how they might come together on the basis of physical attraction or magnetism. Later on, in scenes with Angela Bassett playing Betty Shabazz, you also felt physical and emotional parity between Malcolm X and his wife.Between Wesley Snipes playing Flipper and Annabella Sciorra playing Angie I didn't sense any particular physical or emotional parity or when they were in the same space did it feel like they 'belonged' together. Nor did it seem to me either of them was resisting or fighting against catching the 'fever', before finally succumbing to it. It just seemed like Flipper and Angie got to know each other and decided to have casual sex. This is not particularly flattering, but it is as though Angie could have been anybody.Sidney Poitier was in two films where physical parity and emotional parity were either present or in the process of developing. In A PATCH OF BLUE there was some physical parity between the female lead and Sidney and you got the feeling you would not mind seeing them together. There was a certain dignity to them being together despite any social or cultural objections that could be raised or voiced. This was also true in GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER where there was less physical parity, but you felt there was some kind of emotional bond already established between the man and the woman that would brook no interference and could not be revoked simply to meet the approval of others.Most films about interracial relationships swing between the extremes of being too staid or verge upon the pornographic. Both forms have their particular beauty to them. JUNGLE FEVER has a little of both approaches, but is actually more about the reactions of family and friends to this 'odd couple' rather than the intensity of emotions that have somehow bonded them together. "},{"Title":"Superb; my favorite Spike Lee film","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As I was reading through some of the other member reviews here, I decided to respond to arthurpewty's review. At quick glance, and in large part because of the title of the film, this appears to be about Black men wanting White women and White women wanting Black men. And if that's what you think this film is primarily about, then the way the film ends, and the subplot involving the crack-addicted son will be confusing. I actually think that the more definitive message of this film -- one that is explored through a racial theme -- is that lots of families (of all colors) are pretty screwed up. If you look at the film from that perspective, it becomes an ensemble film, rather than a starring film, and it explores how screwed up multiple families are, all tied together in some way.There was a time when I thought that Wesley Snipes would be the reigning Black male actor for some time. This film was my introduction to him, and I was impressed. Then along came White Men Can't Jump and Passenger 57, and Murder At 1600 and several other films that I thought were cementing his future. And then he got way too wrapped up in martial arts and such, and his career fizzled. Unfortunately, he didn't learn to stay diverse in the roles he selected, and so we lost a very actor.This was also my introduction to Annabella Sciorra, whom I also enjoyed very much in What Dreams May Come.As an actor, Spike Lee is nearly irrelevant in this film, but he deserves high praise for his direction. This is probably the only time I have ever been unimpressed with Ossie Davis; he seemed rather wooden here as the reverend who is Wesley's Snipe's father. On the other hand, I rather enjoyed Ruby Dee's performance. Samuel L. Jackson is not an actor I admire, but he was rather good here. I'm not much of a fan of John Turturro, but his performance here was very good (and this may have been the first time I ever really noticed him as an actor). Why did Anthony Quinn take this role? It was beneath him.This is not a perfect film, and it is -- now -- perhaps a tad dated (although the sentiments expressed here still exist in many places by many people). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Racial spooning","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Flipper Purify (Wesley Snipes) is a black architect with growing recognition, aiming at becoming partner at his current firm. Married with child his wife Drew (Lonette McKee) and daughter Vera (Veronica Webb) are seemingly the apple of his eye. When given an assisrant of Italian roots, Angie Tucci (Annabella Sciorra), Flipper initially objects on racial grounds, opting for a black-skinned subordinate. These reservations soon come to pass, when working nights together they soon uncover a growing fascination with each other, despite their differing skin colours. This soon turns into a romance, which crosses racial boundaries, causing a stir in both neighbourhoods and making them outcasts from their families...American film in general still has racial issues. Seeing a mixed couple on screen is a strangely rare occurrence, despite an increase in Afroamerican actors on the front-line. Even when employed the norm is having non-mixed couples, as if to avoid inciting unpopular furore among both sides of the divide. The exceptions to the norm are few and far between, surprisingly most often introduced by non-American directors. Even less widespread is such mixed couples not being the core of the story told - a notable exception is Things We Lost In the Fire by Dane Susanne Bier, where Halle Berry and David Duchovny create a loving couple with race issues never even implied.This speaks volume why Jungle Fever and the issues touched remain poignantly important till this day - the concept of mixed race pairs is so innerly counter-cultural to the American society at large, even more so than in Europe or light years behind the formerly racial South Africa. Spike Lee therefore located a subject mine for a classic movie, which would stay in memory for its breakthrough content. However Spike Lee wouldn't be himself, if he hadn't resorted to some tricks of trade, flashing audiences with subplots, which do nothing but distort the core theme (Flipper's flailing career or an absolutely detrimental story about his brother the narcomaniac). Meanwhile the racial issues themselves get dragged down with overly preachy monologues or dialogues, finally delivering little in terms of a satisfying conclusion. Seemingly afraid of going the mile Spike Lee finally pulls up and offers a screeching happy ending, but somewhere within this feverish mixed racial love the context becomes diluted. Already permeating with an unmistakable style, patchy story lines and venturing camera shots, Spike Lee's trademarks came to fruition, but unfortunately with a movie being a far cry from Do the Right Thing or The 25th Hour, proving to be a director renowned for a very uneven film career. "},{"Title":"Messy and Clumsy","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jungle Fever was a disappointing follow-up to what I consider Spike Lee's two finest films, the celebrated Do The Right Thing and the subtle, underrated Mo' Better Blues, and it turned Lee overnight from one of the most critically acclaimed and promising directors of his generation into the butt of everyone's has-been jokes. With Jungle Fever the hype was too big, the expectations too high, and the ideas too complex to make a solid movie. The highly stylized camera work with its vivid colors, the extroverted acting and the prototypical characters - all of which worked very well for the morality tale of Do The Right Thing - feel clumsy and distracting in Jungle Fever which is a much more realistic story at heart.That doesn't mean Jungle Fever is a bad movie; Spike Lee has some very interesting things to say about racism in modern culture, and it makes for a very thought provoking and even eye-opening experience. Interestingly, while it's often mentioned as the ultimate 'interracial romance' film, this film doesn't really deal with romance; rather, it's about sex, about social norms and family relationships, and about two people who use each other to fulfill their rebellious fantasies and rise against society. Lee refuses to use clichés, or to turn it into a sappy 'love beats all' fairy tale.The big problem is, Lee has so much to say, a lot of it is completely lost. The most obvious example is Samuel L. Johnson's character, which is supposed to say something about family and society, but because it fits so loosely into the rest of the film - and because Jackson's over-the-top acting makes it hard to take him seriously - it feels very forced and out of place. Jackson is just one of several excellent character actors - Frank Vincent, Anthony Quinn, Ossie Davis and others - who deliver performances so intense that it's hard to focus on any of them.The only actors who show any kind of subtlety are the leads - Wesley Snipes and Annabella Sciorra (also Spike Lee himself and the wonderful John Turturro, but their roles are quite small), and their story is the heart of the movie, as well as the only aspect of it to really challenge conventions and say something original. The problem is that once you peel everything else away, you're left with a very thin central story, that just can't hold a film together. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's Best","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to start off by saying that I strongly dislike most of Spike Lee's films. I often disagree with his politics/point of view, and his messages in his films are often too preachy for me. But every time I see Jungle Fever, I think not only is it his best film, it's a phenomenal piece of work, that for whatever reason, is not often talked about among his greatest films. For me, it's kind of like how I think Kevin Smith is a terrible filmmaker, but I think Chasing Amy is very, very good. It kind of makes me wonder for both Jungle Fever and Chasing Amy if Lee and Smith are letting others do more of the work on these. Anyway, the acting and performances in Jungle Fever are of course phenomenal, with Samuel L. Jackson's first big hit as Gator, and Wesley Snipes is also excellent as Flipper. I believe none of these people were famous before this film, with the exception of John Turturro and Spike himself. The sequence where Flipper is searching for a drugged-out Gator with Stevie Wonder's Livin' for the City in the background is one of my favorite scenes across ALL films that I have ever seen. I also think that he and Scorsese have it right with how working class Italians speak/behave...I grew up in an area just like that. Finally, the scene where the black women are all discussing lightness of skin as being more desirable to black men is often a third-rail topic in the black community, so I appreciate Spike's courage in showing this.If you've never seen Jungle Fever yet, do yourself a favor and do so. "}{"Title":"After all these years, this story is never old","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The old story of married man meets single woman at work, the two are attracted to each other and become involved in an affair. But the twist on this typical tale that gives it the timeless relevance is the couple is interracial. Not only are they interracial, they are from very different backgrounds and very different needs which compound the relationship they have fallen into. Talk about It's Complicated!Then Spike Lee lets the story take place in a very racially divided area of a hugely ethnically diverse internationally known city. Weaving into this story addiction issues that pit families against one another and cause communities to crumble. Watching this movie one can easily get caught up in the race against race issue and this be the take away. Yet for me the take away was how does one handle relationships once you peel back the taboo of interracial dating. Two people have a decision to make that is not about skin color. It is the classic story of how does one take responsibility for allowing a spur of the moment impulse to get out of control. "},{"Title":"Jungle Fever has a star packed cast that delivers marvelous performances. Unfortunately, they are wasted on Lee's loosey goosey directing.","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jungle Fever has a star packed cast that delivers marvelous performances. Unfortunately, they are wasted on Lee's loosey goosey directing. Jungle Fever opens with Spike Lee's favorite character of all time, New York. After a plethora of images of street signs, subways, Harlem, and the words Spike Lee we open on a slow motion shot of a newspaper flying through the air...which seems to have no other significance than presenting the words The New York Times! After which we see a sex scene with Flipper played by Wesley Snipes loudly making love with his black wife. Why mention black? Because this is a movie about race, and since Jungle Fever is not gonna put in the effort to tactfully express its theme neither will I. Flipper is an upper-middle class architect working at a firm controlled by two white men. Although putting it in pen and paper that he requests a black secretary instead he is given a young Italian American woman named Angie. Angie lives at home providing the motherly stand in for her very Italian father and brothers. Flipper and Angie, never having been intimate with anyone outside their race (except for Flipper's half Caucasian wife) work late into the evenings and eventually build an attraction to each other which Spike Lee calls Jungle Fever. Thus, their interracial affair begins causing tension to build and explode between a multitude of characters. In addition Flipper also has a crack head brother played by Samuel L Jackson who runs around with his crackhead girlfriend played by Halle Berry looking to score cash from all his bloodlines including his poor mother who can't help but give into her 1st son when he does a little dance. The film's time is split between an assortment of characters who make up a collection of stories on interracial relationships and the ethnic hardships of New York Blacks and Italians. To give an example of how over handed and disjointed the racism is portrayed there is a scene where Flipper and Angie are pretend boxing. Flipper grabs Angie pinning her onto a car when Police officers show up forcing Flipper in a submissive position shoving a gun into his face. Obviously they had misread the situation but with Flipper screaming I'm gonna kill you! with his hands on her neck its understandable why the officers jumped to that conclusion. There's also a scene where Angie's father beats her for having relations with a nigger. Perhaps it's the age of the film and people back then needed racism to be spelled out in a very overt and sensational manner. Jungle Fever is without a center jumping all over the place with extremely poor editing. The editor Samuel Pollard has edited mainly documentaries since, which is fantastic. The further he stays away from narratives the better. I'm trying to figure out how these scenes possibly transitioned into one another in script. I know that Lee likes to do harsh transitions but this film is just ridiculous. Jungle Fever is littered with ueven pacing and scenes that lose their punch because people need to walk in and out of frame. Example Flipper and Angie are being ignored at a restruant because they're interracial then at the end of the scene when Queen Latifah, playing the waitress, walks off there's a 3 second cutaway where two bystanders say She's White!? Mhmm Hmm Jungle Fever is a film that indulgently satisfies itself. You feel ever bit of Lee's directorial manipulation while be beats you over the head with dialogue after dialogue about people's opinion on race & society. In fact there is a four minute scene of 5-6 black women just talking in a room about how about how they are disenfranchised. What is the point of a camera if you're just going to film taking heads? The camera angles and techniques in this film are all over the place in this film. In a scene where Flipper is asking for partner the camera just spins around them for about 3 minutes. I'm sure it was hard technique to film but why do these obtrusive techniques show up randomly throughout the film. I'm wondering if Lee showed up on set and rolled a dice every day. OH look It's a 3, that means today I wanna put me and Wesley on a dolly and we are just gonna do this scene like we're drifting like ghosts. Strange camera techniques like these make me believe that Spike Lee wanted to make an experimental film. On the plus note all the actors are amazing and Spike Lee has a great eye for talent. Samuel Jackson STEALS this movie! Every scene with Jackson is a treasure and I'm sure when he's given his life time achievement award and there showing clips of his work, Jungle Fever will be contained in that reel. This movie is fun to watch to watch for the acting but I would recommend a more contemporary film such as Everday People 2004 if you wanted to see a New York film dealing with race. "},{"Title":"Fever Jolly Good Fellow.","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Someone above made a terrible comment on this, implying that Jungle Fever is, for some reason, hateful towards Christians. It's important to stress that while Spike Lee often comes under fire from all sides for allegedly putting his own views across - be it homophobic, sexist, anti-semitic, or most commonly, racist - this is more a measure of the issues his films cover, and a strange excuse to pick holes in great films, than a genuine argument.No, Jungle Fever is a brilliant film that both answers questions of his critics and raises new ones. With a similar cast to Spike's classic two years previous, Do The Right Thing (which, if you haven't seen, look up or watch), with future stars Samuel L. Jackson and Halle Berry, there's a sense of the familiar. Samuel in particular gives such an incredible performance that at the Cannes Film Festival, a 'Best Supporting Actor' award was created especially for him.For those who have seen Spike's previous work - it's similar to Do The Right Thing, in a way. Most of the characters are characters are hard to warm to the same way as that film, and, overall, it's not as good a film - but it's not the same film. It concerns sexual myths, and somehow managing not to feel tacked on, drugs (critics demanded to know where the drugs were in Do The Right Thing upon release - Spike responded by asking where the drugs were in Oliver Stone's Wall Street, then obliged with Jungle Fever).If you haven't, expect a look at the issue of mixed relationships, tinged with humour and tragedy, and a rather good soundtrack. But come armed with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Unflinching comedy-drama about interracial romance","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Flipper (good performance by Wesley Snipes) is the only black architect at his firm, and he doesn't feel appreciated.  He apparently has a happy marriage (his daughter can hear the sounds coming from her parents' bedroom).  But when he gets a beautiful Italian-American secretary, things start to change.  Angie cooks for her father and brothers but one night she decides to let them fend for themselves, and she and Flipper get a little too friendly.  Make that a LOT too friendly.  One possible reason for her behavior  Angie's brothers mistreat her boyfriend because it seems no one is good enough for their sister.  Imagine what they would do to Flipper if they ever met him now. The rest of the movie focuses primarily on the reactions of various people to interracial romance and on a seemingly irrelevant plot line involving Flipper's crack-addicted brother Gator (another good performance, by Samuel L.Jackson), a real character who starts out funny and later becomes terrifying.  The black women in the movie get together and talk about how they're no longer good enough for black men; Flipper's wife is light-skinned but apparently that wasn't enough any more.  Angie's friends believe a black man coming into their neighborhood would likely get killed for trying to date one of their women.  And one of Angie's friends is disgusted by the whole idea of a black man.  The Italian men discuss a number of different views.  And Flipper's father, a stern minister played well by Ossie Davis, hates the idea of interracial romance because of what it meant in the time of slavery, and he won't change his mind.  Ruby Dee does a good job as Davis' tender wife, who tries to be nicer to her two sons than their father is.  Spike Lee appears, as he usually does in movies he directs, as Flipper's friend Cyrus, and he does well as usual.There is music for just about every taste, ranging from classical to Sinatra to jazz-influenced performances by Stevie Wonder and even contemporary black music.  I'm not sure what it means, but several scenes are filmed in just one color, such as orange or blue (the latter is used when Flipper finds his brother in a hangout for addicts).       The movie starts out entertaining, even funny, but by the end it is just unpleasant.  But it is worthwhile to see, because it teaches us so much. I'm glad I saw an edited version, because the profanity seems like it would have been quite harsh.POSSIBLE SPOILER  Another interracial romance has a little more success.  Angie's boyfriend, after hearing all the negative talk about black women, decides to try going in a new direction.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but a bit dated","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Definitely not one of Spike Lee's best films, and definitely a bit dated after 15 years. But it still holds some interest. It's a whole mishmash of racial issues, of the director and of the actors (many scenes seem to be improvised) dealing with their own thoughts. Often Lee shows his own prejudices. In 1991 at least, it doesn't seem like he thought black people and white people should be involved romantically. When Lee was promoting the film at the time, he implied that people of two different races were only attracted to each other because of stereotypes they had in mind. I think we still have a ways to go, but I think a lot of the barriers that may have been in place in 1991 have crumbled. The two main characters, played by Wesley Snipes and Annabella Sciorra, are fairly weak. I don't think either of them are especially good actors. Snipes has always been rather mediocre. The film is much stronger with its supporting characters. Samuel L. Jackson was much lauded for his performance as a crackhead. He is very good, though I think Lee makes him a bit too humorous at times (though certainly he is downright frightening at others). I also thought John Turturro was excellent as the boyfriend Sciora dumps for Snipes. Honestly, I don't think Turturro can do any wrong. The film ends on the silliest note possible. Still, I rather liked it for the most part. "},{"Title":"Too highly stylized and stereotyped","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jungle Fever is too highly stylized, stereotyped, and comes across as essentially dishonest. Wesley Snipes was wrong for the lead and there was no chemistry between him and Annabella Sciorra. Even though there's plenty of talent in this movie, it's mostly wasted because the parts are reduced to little more than decorative cameos. Also, instead of simply showing racism for the ugly and stupid thing it is, Spike Lee chooses to wave it around like a flag in a most whining and irritating manner. I made it through most of the film but I couldn't quite finish it, and that, for me, rarely happens. "},{"Title":"Lee's screenplay could have used some Acetaminophen","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee has a habit in his films of biting off more issues than he can chew, and his 1991 joint is no exception, providing enough racial, sexual, and social conflicts to fuel any three features. The opening plot hook is an illicit affair between happily married Harlem architect Flipper Purify (not a misprint) and his Italian-American secretary, but other, more urgent problems quickly crowd out the provocative love story, notably an anti-drug subplot involving Flipper's junkie brother (highlighted in the stunning Taj Mahal crack house sequence, easily the most exciting several minutes so far in Spike Lee's filmography). Elsewhere the film lives up to its title, exhibiting the director's weakness for Scorsese-inspired stylistic hyperbole jazzy camera moves; an incessant music score (obscuring several lines of dialogue); and more than one scene of domestic violence rivaling Oliver Stone for histrionic overkill. If nothing else, this is one filmmaker who certainly knows how to grab and hold a viewer's attention. "},{"Title":"Gritty, counter-racist throwdown of blackness","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jungle Fever, the feature film by Spike Lee directly preceding his well-respected biopic Malcolm X, is a whopping statement against drugs and white supremacy. To reference an earlier Lee joint's title, it explores the respective dazes of two African-American brothers - Flipper Purify (Wesley Snipes), who's mesmerized by a white woman's lure, and Gator Purify (Samuel L. Jackson), a crack addict. Lee's thorough investigation of the drugs and race issues is undercut by his inability to write a truly satisfying narrative featuring Flipper and Gator's plot lines.To return to the film's central issue of delusion, its most problematic viewpoint is that of extensive judgment of architect Flipper's affair with his Italian-American secretary, Angie (Annabella Sciorra). Lee's title, Jungle Fever, slyly refers to a psychological haze experienced by some people in interracial relationships. The rub comes in Lee's obvious statement on what Flipper - and perhaps all black men who are involved with white women - want, in the character's name Flipper Purify. Could a more ham-fisted summary be presented in film? In addition, Snipes' character is rebuked for his taste in women repeatedly in the film's diegesis by his father the Good Reverend Doctor Purify (Ossie Davis), by his wife Drew (Lonette McKee), and by a nosy, grating, black waitress played by Queen Latifah, to name a few. So condemning is Lee's treatment of Flipper and Angie's desire for one another, by the film's end, it's rendered as a drug like Gator's crack cocaine. No intrinsic, long-lasting value can be drawn from it.This moral is the film's worst flaw. Technically, it is very accomplished, even if the central romance is empty and unfulfilling. There are several great acting performances, among them Ossie Davis' turn as the Good Reverend; John Turturro as a store clerk who is jilted by Angie and looks for love with an African-American woman; the great Anthony Quinn as the clerk's father who holds onto bigotry as a source of personal identity; Wesley Snipes, towering as he navigates Lee's elaborate story realm; and Samuel L. Jackson as the witty crackhead brother Gator. While on the subject of Jackson, he has revealed that he was actually addicted to crack when he learned he got the role of Gator. The judges at the Cannes Film Festival created a new award specifically to honor Jackson's vivacious acting. Ernest Dickerson functioned well as the film's director of photography, bringing vivid colors to the story. The film's music stays interesting, being a collage of mainly Stevie Wonder, Mahalia Jackson and Frank Sinatra, with a bit of vintage Public Enemy thrown in for good measure.Some words should be allotted to mentioning the film's centerpiece, a subplot sequence wherein Flipper goes looking for his brother and ventures into a den of iniquity called the Taj Mahal. This is a building where hundreds of crackheads go to enjoy crack, trade sex for drugs, etc. Snipes gives a singular effort with the search scenes, backed by a very well-planned soundtrack pick of Stevie Wonder's Livin' For the City. Gator explains to Flipper that the television set Flipper's mother wants has been smoked away. Afterward, Jackson does a superb job of portraying the damned while Flipper treads away, and Halle Berry could be said to do a good job in her first movie role as a crack addict, if a good job constitutes growling lines like Eat me, mother*$#@er! Lee's drug expose should move many - a cinematic uppercut just as sobering as when Drew suggests to Flipper during an argument that white people hate black people because they're not black. Drew's harrowing narrative of being a mixed, light-skinned black woman in a race that is obsessed with color is a tear-jerker. But Lee has no problem summoning powerful scenes. Rather, it's his inability or unwillingness to link his plot lines more cohesively that pulls down the work. As a whole, Jungle Fever remains much less captivating than the sum of its parts. "},{"Title":"Let's talk about Jungle Fever","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a huge fan of Mr. Spike Lee. I find his talent is overlooked by his radicalism. But if you ever study Do the Right Thing, you can see that any man who can act, write and direct such a powerful, provoking, and funny film is genius. I have since then made it a goal to see as many Spike Lee Joints as possible.Jungle Fever is the story of Flipper, a black middle-aged man from Harlem with a large constellation of friends and family. He is frustrated with his job, since he cannot seem to get a raise. At his job he meets Angie, a young Italian intern with a boyfriend and a family of 4 older men she has to take care of. When they meet, it's Jungle Fever. It seems scores of famous actors portray members of either side's family and friends.Jungle Fever is clearly a similar subject to Do the Right Thing, or any of Lee's films. All his films tackle race and one other thing. With He Got Game it's race and sports, with Malcolm X it's race and history, and so on. Jungle Fever is set up to tackle race and sexuality. Obviously this is what Spike enjoys and what he does best.While I was watching this movie, I had hopes that it would become one of my favorites. For a while, it seemed it could. However, the film takes a sudden change when Flipper's brother, Gator (played by a very young Samuel L. Jackson), comes into the picture. Gator is a crack-head who mooches off of his parents (Ossie and Ruby) and is obsessive over getting some dope.From that point on, the film becomes very little about the premise. It seems that from then on the movie is about the dangers of crack. This includes a long scene where Flipper is looking for his brother among a warehouse full of crack-heads, and many more scenes with this, all leading up to a horrible ending.I think what happened was Spike Lee tried to cover sex, drugs, and race into one movie, and though attempts were good, it was not a success. I respect the movie, the music is great, the beginning is excellent, but eventually it drops off. I guess the moral is it should have been two movies. "},{"Title":"point of view.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie really brought to the limelight how the world deals with interracial dating. Snipes has a loving wife and child. Even with that, he manages to befriend and fall for a white woman. I think that he just wanted to experience something different. In my opinion, I would never date outside of my race because I feel comfortable with black women. The latter part of the film shows the evil side of interracial dating. When Sciorra fathers finds out, he mercifully whips her and kicks her out of the house. Snipes's wife banishes him from his home. Both families learn the meaning of stereotyping and try to come to grips with the adversity they face. "}{"Title":"Race relations riffs, idiosyncratic Lee","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee uses a somewhat tawdry interracial affair as a jumping-off point for his idiosyncratic, challenging riffs on race relations in America, especially New York City. But the central relationship (and one of the few authentic ones) in the movie is that between Flipper and his daughter. Successful architect Flipper wants more than anything to keep his daughter from falling into the cruel fate that ruined his crackhead older brother. At the same time, he's caught up in all the complicated, demanding, exhausting business of living in a white man's world. The final scene delivers one answer hold tight to your less fortunate brothers and sisters; shout No! to the cruelties of the world. Taken to one logical extreme this could mean abandoning the dubious dream of checking all the boxes expected for success in a world you haven't made. It might also call more positively on the community as a whole to make a greater effort to help its least successful individuals. Typically, Lee refuses to tie up the ambiguities, including those in the companion story of a young white man who courts a black woman, into a neat Hollywood package. He forces the thoughtful viewer to confront his or her personal contradictions as well as those of the society in which we all live.Lee spins his tales with a sterling cast including Oscar nominee Samuel L. Jackson as Flipper's brother Gator and, making their film debuts, Oscar winners Halle Barry as Gator's ho' and nominee Queen Latifah as a waitress. An often-intrusive music score provides the only false notes here. "},{"Title":"Very realisitic Like most of Spike's Films","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jungle Fever is a great flick! I was kind of young when it first came out in 1991, so I didn't remember it, either that or I've never heard of it before I saw it. When I first saw it on the FX channel, I thought it was some kind of documentary or something because of the camera angles and the people and their dialect. As I thought with Do the Right Thing,  which I also saw on FX. I had no idea that people knew about this movie though!  What spoke to me was how real this film was. It's set in New York, two people, one a white woman and a black man, have forbidden ppaffair which sparks anger with both sides of the color barrier. The conversations the people have seem so realistic. The only thing I thought that bugged me was that maybe the over-exaggerated Italian accents in some white people were a little racist; but I don't know! Maybe that's just me! But anyway, this whole movie is about interacial relationships.It doesn't even seem to be about a white/black thing. I think it suggests that when people lust after another of a different race, it's not because they love the other race, oh no. It's because the racial stereotypes about the other  race. That is basically what Jungle Fever is. It also has a catchy song at the beginning, I'll take you through an excerptI've got jungle fevah She's got jungle fevah We've got jungle fevah We're in loooove She's gone black boy crazy I've gone white girl crazy Ain't no thinkin' maybe We're in looove! You can see it on BRAVO and FX, for those people who have cable.   **** out of **** "},{"Title":"In this movie, Spike Lee shows he knows people","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jungle Fever will make my top 100 easy. It's characters and their relationships are all so true. How does somebody as young as Spike Lee was when he made this movie get so wise? He especially has down the differences between men and women in how they view the world. Flipper's wife says he left her when, in his view, she threw him out. When Flipper says that the woman he was unfaithful with means nothing, it's true as far as he's concerned in the context of his relationship with his wife. But no way can he and his wife communicate these feelings. Women have a world view where everything is relevant to everything else. Men compartmentalize.  "},{"Title":"A Film Only A Master Filmmaker Can Pull Off The Way It's Been Pulled Off","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee is unfortunately judged more based on his political involvement and the sparks that fly sometimes with him and other celebrities. If he were more often judged based on his films, he would be revered. He is truly a master, one of the greatest of all time. He has a way of making the audience face the story and its characters as if the situation were right there in the room with them that hardly any other director has, no matter how brilliant. He has such an uncanny ability for capturing realism in its rawest form, a form somehow linked to his hypnotic cinematic style, which is constantly developing further into something even greater and more innovative. Not only have I never seen a Spike Lee film that I haven't liked, but I have hardly seen any that I wouldn't give a rating of 10 on this site.Jungle Fever is a drama about an interracial love affair between self-centered, hyperconfident married black businessman Snipes and humble, sensitive and prudent white temp secretary from an Italian neighborhood and the effect it has on their respective neighborhoods and social lives. Yet, it blooms into a larger, deeper, more expansive story, as each of its many minor characters branch off into their own story with its own subtle relevance and case in point. Though Jungle Fever has been knocked for making a point about interracial relationships, for every point it makes it has a counterpoint for contrast.The movie has brash, consistent music, a fiery and impassioned visual effect, and another characteristic Spike Lee touch, which is his knack for drawing from his actors intensely real performances, especially Sciorra, whom I always love. "},{"Title":"Powerful Message Movie, but I did not like the ending","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee has a history of producing pointed, politically evocative films that often spark controversy. Jungle Fever is no different. The film is multi-faceted and does not follow one story line but follows the lives of all kinds of different people who are related to each other or know each other somehow. Spike Lee plays Flipper Purify, a black architect who has a nice family and a good job living in Harlem. He loves his family and seems to have his life made for him. Annabella Sciorra plays Angie Tucci, and Italian-American who is recently hired as Flipper's secretary against Flipper's wishes of hiring a white person when he wanted someone black to be his secretary. She comes from working class Bensonhurst, in Brooklyn and is living with his father and two brothers. She is under-appreciated for all the work she does around the house. Now here is where the major conflict of the film comes into play The two people have an affair. Nothing may have happened with their personal lives but then they told a friend or two and then their friends tell a friend or two and you know. SPOILER The two families react differently. The father of Angie attacks her violently. The wife of Flipper throws all of her husband's stuff out of the window. Both families make a scene where their neighborhoods know what happen. What I like about this part of the movie is that there are people that do not approve of the relationship but not all of their friends and family reject them. The movie shows a relatively open environment but with the standard racism prevalent in New York City. Now if you think this is a movie and that people in New York are not this racist, race is still an issue in New York City. People will react exactly the way they do in this movie to the mere mention of interracial dating. And while this movie is older now not much has changed in the terms of racial issues. The supporting cast does an excellent job. The two notable stars are Samuel L. Jackson and Halle Berry. Jackson plays Flipper's drug addicted brother. Halle Berry plays his girlfriend. This pair does an excellent job. They are gritty and they are excellent in their parts. They are extremely convincing. I knew some people who had similar problems that acted a lot like these two characters. Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee will astound you in their parts. Ossie Davis has an incredible monologue that is just too much for mainstream film, and his monologue makes a couple of interesting points. Again what this movie talks about is too much for mainstream films. Ossie plays The Good Reverend Doctor Purify, the father of Flipper. He calls him The Good Reverend Doctor. The Good Reverend Doctor is extremely religious and I emphasize the word extreme. Ruby Dee is a caring but naïve mother who doesn't quite understand what Flipper's brother is doing to hurt him. The final scene with the parents and the brother will shock the hell out of you. The scene will also show you some of the extreme nature some people of faith take their religion. John Turturro does a standout job as the ex-boyfriend of Angie who is stuck in a bad job around a group of people that are racist, mean and very provincial. Turturro plays a decent and laid back man who is a nice guy but is in a bad situation (like a lot of people I guess) Turturro does an excellent job. The people that play his 'friends' Michael Badalucco, (who plays a real a**hole) Joe D'Onofrio and others do a great job in their parts. That is an excellent aspect of the movie as well. Legendary actor Anthony Quinn has an excellent role as well, but he should have been in the movie more. That is the thing about this movie there are a lot of people in this movie that are fairly famous but have a small part.> Tim Robbins and Brad Dourif are in this movie for a short time as well. SPOILER (rest of review) One of the best scenes in the movie is when Wesley Snipes looks for his mother's TV set after Samuel L. Jackson took it. What ensues is Snipes going through the crime-ridden streets of New York City and ending up in the Bronx in the 'Taj Mahal.' It is an amazing look into a world that few of us in middle class America know about. However I know that if Snipes were that well dressed going through the areas that he did he would have been accosted. I also did not like Lee's message. Lee essentially said that interracial marriages were results of curiosity and hinted strongly that two people of different races could not fall in love. I wish Lee would be more optimistic. I do realize however that interracial dating is still not accepted in supposedly progressive America. This country has along way to go. The political conversation John Turturro has with the people that hang out in the ice cream shop is quite disturbing. The conversations they have are quite disturbing but they give you an insight into American culture that few American films have. They discuss quite a few topics and Lee manages to produce a realistic conversation without the conversation becoming stiff or preachy. It is amazing to see Samuel L. Jackson and Halle Berry, in what are perhaps their breakthrough roles. They both do great jobs and they show their talents as thespians. Also the opening credits are quite unique, an interesting way of showing the people involved in the film. Also listen for Stevie Wonder's hit Jungle Fever, where the phrase was coined in popular culture. This is a great movie. There are some interesting points this movie brings up. Lee talks about the things many other films do not talk about. Lee manages to write produce and star in a movie that is not great but definitely is very good and something I would recommend. All around a good, disturbing, revealing and funny movie. Here's to Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"Raises questions","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Spike Lee, I really do. He forces people to take a look at social situations as more than culture and things people do. He's more along the lines of why do we do what we do? His films have a distinct black voice, but provides angles from other ethnicities as well, I love that about him. He's not particularly one-sided about anything. I've always heard about this movie growing up, but never have I seen it. Well, BET decided it was time I should and showed it last Friday. I liked the way it was directed, but something about the film puzzles me. They went through all that without ever really having a yen for each other? He destroyed his marriage over a curiosity? I guess that's life, but it still unnerves me and doesn't flow with the film. Added to that, Flipper is/was staunchly pro-black, but I guess that's to show that even someone like him could dip to the other side. It was obviously a social issue of the early 90's and why successful black men decide it's time to trade up when they've made it. Apparently they think it's ok if they have enough money and that the world has changed enough that people will allow it. Personally, nothing has changed in some 40 odd years for a black men to think America's ok with him dating a white woman. Kobe's case has proved that and so did the scene where they were playing around and wrestling and someone called the cops on him cuz they thought he was raping her. Black men need to understand that the history of romantic race relations is this White women were put on a pedestal as the epitome of beauty, desire, and purity. Black people were always the antithesis of that, but white men could jump back and forth as they pleased with no detriment to their character. Even in 2004, that mentality has a hard time going away. I liked that Flipper's father in the movie expounded upon that. Things haven't changed that much and Spike took that and ran with it to show it visually. The acting was very good for this film, because they didn't necessarily have to be, but they were great. The movie was clear, the music was cleverly applied in the right places. The scene with the women arguing about what it does to them to see black men with white women was brilliant. It seems quasi-feminist at the same time. It just has every approach and I love it. Great movie! "},{"Title":"THE MUSICAL SCORE","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that the importance of music in Spike Lee's films, especially this one, is not always appreciated. Some viewers apparently regard the scores as obtrusive and perhaps detracting from his films. I think not.In Jungle, the music in the scene between Gator and his mother, where the good reverend comes upon Gator trying to wring some money from his mother, is especially forceful. Lee slowly cranks up the volume as the tension increases until one almost screams for someone to turn it down. In another scene, Sinatra is almost thrown in your face. "},{"Title":"contentious film. overzealous film-maker.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In shortSpike Lee clearly has a lot on his mind. He's thinking about racism color-ism, media and hegemony, consumerism and capitalism, religion, sexism, 'hetero-sexism', politics of the drug war etc etc...That level of consciousness on is own is great. I think it is a blessing that more and more people are choosing to critically examine fundamental aspects of our daily lives; the silent and invisible forces that govern our societies. However, just because Lee is making contentious films does not make him a good film-maker.What comes across in Jungle Fever is a superficial understanding of these socio-political forces. This is largely the result of two main failuresfirstly, Lee is simply trying too hard. He seems to be desperately trying to accommodate every political/social statement he can think of into the 90mins. And as such, the end result seems confused and irresolute as he allows himself no time to develop characters that can fully embody the ideas he hopes to present. And so he exhausts stereotypes and we are left with rushed testimonies and very loaded dialogs. The end result is very staged and unrealistic.Secondly, by attempting to make statements about such a wide variety of societal functions, he appears to have no concrete or original interpretation of the social/political issues presented. What comes across is a puddle of regurgitated non-sense. You feel that he bought an elementary level sociology text book and spewed out all 500 pages.These are highly problematic features because the artistry of film is sacrificed and the work is transformed into a loudspeaker for the voice of the voice of the filmmaker. He is unable to distance himself from the work, and allow it to speak for itself.It functions neither as a piece of art nor a sound political argument.Although I still do appreciate Lee bringing up these important issues, I must sayTwo thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Lee Once Again Shows His Bigotry","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"23 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Spike Lee is famous for making films pointing out racism. In many of films, such Do The Right Thing, most of the white people are all brutal racists. In this movie, interracial marriage is the subject, with racism once again being the entire issue.What Lee does, however, is once again demonstrate his bigotry against Christianity. It's amazing the double standards that exist in the film world. If Lee or anyone else ever produced this kind of bias against another group he would be vilified, but Christians? Hey, it's open season on them.Ossie Davis, a reverend in this film, shoots his son and then puts the smoldering gun down on top of his Bible. They zoom in on that for another closeup just in case you missed it. Hey, folks, here's another Bible reader and look what he''s like! Lee does this sort of thing in just about every movie he makes.He shows the same hatred when dealing with race relations. Who could argue with portraying racism as an evil thing? However, Lee perpetuates it in this film as he has in his other films. His obvious bitterness toward white people doesn't help the situation. It only adds fuel to the fire. Hey, Spike start doing the right thing and leave your prejudices in the closet. Better yet, get over it.This is too bad because the subject matter could have made for a thought- provoking film if it had been done with objectivity and intelligence. "},{"Title":"In True Spike Form!  --*SPOILERS*--","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a big Spike Lee fan and I like almost all the movies that he does. I don't care for what people have to say about him being a racist or whatever, because those things don'tmatter to me. I wish people would get past that stuff and when they watch his movies just take them for what they are instead of bringing what his outside feelings are into his films because he does make some really great movies. I love Jungle Fever and it is one of my favorites next to School Days, and Bamboozled. I think this movie really speaks to the way people feel on this subject. It makes you aware that wether you condone it or not that there is a lot more to this subject than just being a Black/White issue. I think that the Ossie Davis's speech at the dinner table was excellent and was what really made me want to keep coming back to this movie and watch it again and again. I also, think that scene where all the women were togther in Snipes wifes house talking about what they think of interracial dating was a powerful scene because it gave light all sides and hit almost every view.The only troubling thing about this movie to me was how Snipes character was so willing to jepoardize his family for some white woman and go through all of what he went trough knowing that it could never be anything more than what it was because he made it clear when she told the cops that he was her boyfriend that he never wanted that to get out. And maybe it's because I am not a man where I can't see how someone in their right mind would go through all of that for some curiosity. However, but in being a woman I can't understand why she took him back so easily after he had gotten all of that out of his system. I mean he threw away their family for an affair and she takes him back because he says he is done with it. I would have made that man suffer.also like the whole story of Gator and the family as well. I thought that this made a great contrast to the interracial thing by addressing much bigger problems that are also going on in the world. The part when the father shoots Gator rang a lot like what had happened between Marvin Gaye and his father with his whole drug problem. The ending of this movie went great with the normal Spike Lee end by giving us all a wake up call and telling us that these things must stop. I know that some people are confused as to what he was trying to say and that was simply that we need to help get rid of this drug problem. That is also, what he was trying to tell his daughter when we were first introduced to Halle Berry's character is that we need to end this and it starts with our youth and educating them. I think this movie is great and gives great insight to how and why people feel the way they do about interracial dating. Plus, it also gives you insight to others views and why they also feel the way they do. Spike makes no one opinion better than the other in this movie you have to decide for yourself and that is why I like Spike. He gives you all sides and lets you take your own stance! Go see this movie!  "}{"Title":"I'm a crackhead!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always been a fan of Spike Lee ever I seen his best film to date, Do The Right Thing. So I had to see this the main reason being was to see Samuel L Jackson's performance as the crackhead Gator. By far this is the best thing about the film. Although the film features a great cast of Lee's regulars and a realistic storyline, Jackson's performance is exceptional. This is the film that started his career so if you are a Sam Jackson fan and you haven't seen it you are missing his best performance since Pulp Fiction. Even though the film is a little too long watch it because it is a great film about race toned down with some comedic moments. Watch out for Halle Berry's debut playing the drug addict Vivian. "},{"Title":"Too Much Fever In the Wrong Jungle","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure why Spike Lee made this train wreck of a movie and conned poor Stevie Wonder into eternally pairing his beautiful music with this theatrical mess. I also resent the way he uses profanity as a part of the normal prose of professional Blacks. The abuse of his hold on ethnic movie goers is a shame. Scenes which seem to be contrived out the blue and have nothing to do with the theme or sub themes, play as if some college kid wrote this. I especially detest the ludicrous scene where the two leads are playfully sparring for no reason at all and the cops come and rough up Snipes. The overacting of the leads makes one feel as if Spike has no respect for his viewers or he has no clue what a movie is all about. The final scene appears to be thrown in to justify the use of a sledge hammer to tack a point in. This movie also supports the myth that all people of culture use the F-word in casual conversation. I am hoping he will realize that the rest of his movies are in the same pool as this one where he is not growing as a film maker. I think his union with Scorcesee in Clockers was a wise move. He should stick to making documentaries like the Four Little Colored Girls. Shock movies do not an Oscar make. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's fever","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie highly praised by critics when it was launched in 1991, I think that Jungle Fever is a correct movie that alternates qualities and faults.As far as the assets are concerned well you can quote two main qualities. From one hand, the directing which is of a perfect quality and it seems that Spike Lee has a preference for travelings because it is this device that he uses the most to shoot his movie. On another hand, a dazzling performance from all the actors with a special mention to John Turturro and Anthony Quinn, even if both have only minor roles.But there are also faults in Lee's opus and it resides in the script. At first sight, we deal with a trite love affair between a man (Wesley Snipes) and his secretary (Annabella Sciorra) (how many times have we seen this situation in movies?). But there's a little detail that makes all the difference the secretary is white and the man is black. Due to a different color of skin, a lot of people around them view this love in an unfavorable light.  By writing such a story, Spike Lee obviously wanted to broach and denounce racism, a topic that has often been at the core of his movies, as Do the right thing (1989) testifies. With Jungle Fever, we can say that he reached his goal but he even went over the top. Indeed, the topic of racism is present in too many sequences and it gives an impression of overloading. Due to this, it is hard for Spike Lee to sustain the interest.Moreover, Lee's intention wasn't only to denounce racism, but also prejudice, drug, intolerance. But these 2 last things haven't really got a common point with the plot. As a consequence, the movie includes a quite important number of useless digressions.In the long run, Jungle Fever is a very talkative and demonstrative movie and in which a lot of characters are stereotyped. Nevertheless, it remains a brave movie from a brave director.      "},{"Title":"A sad, haunting and electrifying film that should be a wake up call for those wishing to end RACISM!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched Jungle Fever, it got me thinking about the views of many people warring with each other over the difference of color and why many families maintain their own cultures rather than integrating as one. .. . I think not!For me it demonstrates that Spike Lee was portraying a very cynical and depressing outlook of two people from different backgrounds coming together with events increasing from bad to worse and many minorities choosing to reject such a matter rather than accepting a change.Performances were a real turn out for me in this one. Okay I know it might sound tiresome considering the cameo appearances that Spike Lee contributes to the film's well established casting credibility, but I have to say the film belongs to both Wesley Snipes and the unavoidable Samuel L. Jackson (can't wait to see him in Star Wars II Attack of the Clones). Playing two brothers, one of whom is a young successful designer who's relationship with Italian American assistant Annabella Sciorra causes the main issue of the film's debate. And the other an older sibling who's life revolves around drug taking and stealing.The problem for me to take in to account is that many agree that inter-racial relationships cause bitter arguments and distrust between certain race cultures. Although it can be lightened up with a sense of humor it did leave a sour taste as to whether people will eventually change their point of views towards integrating than separating?I'm just happy to know that many stars such as Snipes, Jackson and Halle Berry (yes that's right she plays a drug addict alongside cool man Jackson), have managed to sustain such a highly demanding careers for the many roles given to them then and now. I just hope that many other directors can help turn out the same success for their stars as much Spike Lee did for his. "},{"Title":"4/5.Mostly because of the acting!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was tired of Samuel L. Jackson, I mean he´s in almost all the new Hollywood action/war films.But I was really impressed by his acting in this film.Even if the direction by Lee and the music by Stevie Wonder is great I think I like it mostly because of the acting.Stars likeWesley Snipes,Samuel L. Jackson,John Turturro, Ossie Davis,Ruby Dee and even Anthony Quinn in a small role.4/5 "},{"Title":"Only for open-minded viewers...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently rented JUNGLE FEVER out of curiosity because I've seen almost all of Spike's films except this one. I have to say that I was extremely impressed at how real this movie is. If another director was to tackle this premise they would probably stick to the central relationship and little else. Yet Spike elaborates on many other relationships outside the central one, including family, friends, and community. There are so many complex plot levels at play that will keep you watching like it's a soap opera. A soap opera that is a heart-bruising urban drama. Sometimes Spike lets his political & social agendas get the best of him, but here he keeps them restrained. This way you get a better look at both sides of the coin and the result is reality at its best(and sometimes worst!). Wesley Snipes and Annabella Sciora give great performances as the doomed lovers. But the most credit I think is due to Samuel L. Jackson & Halle Berry for turning in shocking performances as two crack-addicts. Ultimately the film ends on an idealized note that might not be true to life, yet is still satisfying. The film is only for open-minded viewers yet some of you narrow-minded folk are well represented in the film. Basically, for those of you who enjoy dark, reality dramas you won't want to miss it. And if you enjoy it, I also recommend HE GOT GAME & SUMMER OF SAM as well. "},{"Title":"idiotic","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Who in their right mind plays a lyrical song at the same time they are portraying an emotional scene between two people? When Flipper confronts his wronged wife in the dressing room, the song sung with lyrical content is as loud as the dialog, so one can hear neither, diluting any emotional impact the scene may have had. The scenes of Annabella getting beaten by her father with his fists, a lamp and then a belt was so cartoonish as to be absurd. This entire movie is a cartoon, the rampant prejudice against whites is literally astounding. The discussion by the black women after flipper's wife finds out he has cheated on her with a white woman - as if it were a discussion by an oxford debating team, is ridiculous. The rampant racism might be possible to endure, but the soundtrack and the sound mixing during this 'movie' is too much. It was a technically poorly made movie. There is no understanding of the basic craft of movie making, the sound track, the editing and the desperate attempt of great actors trying to keep this movie afloat. I actually felt sorry for Anthony Quinn, wondering why he had accepted a role in this flick - his appearance in this is painful. This is the first movie I have seen by this director and it will be my last. "},{"Title":"A lot of people has got the WRONG idea...","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Jungle fever is pretty good, however I dont think its a good mirror on todays sociaty or even the 90's.I DONT like the term interracial dating or talk about diffrent races. All that talk belongs back in the days of slavery. A person is of the race HUMAN no matter what his colour is! Because of USA's awfull history, the Black/white issues have always been strong and complex. But its 2004! That people are still talking about races is sad. There is only one race, HUMAN.There is A LOT of man and womans who have diffrent colour who are together and they have never felt even 1% of the problems that are shown in the movie jungle fever.I think some people are MAKING it a big issue. For gods sake we are all the same!  "},{"Title":"Spike's most personal fil for me","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jungle Fever is a film about interacial dating, black romance, fathers &sons and many other deep issues. The film hit home for me because as a black man who has dated so many white girls. It opened my eyes to a lot of things. I realized that love sees no color and iif you love someone color doesn't matter. Samuel L.Jackson desevered a Oscar Nod for his role as Gator the crack head. Spike delivers once again. "},{"Title":"What a load of garbage","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have walked out of very few movies before they end, but I couldn't finish this piece of garbage. This was the biggest load of racism trying to pass as legitimate film since Birth of a Nation. The characters were little more than cardboard cutouts. I don't see how any actor would want their name associated with this film. Lee must have better things to do that put out garbage like this. I know that I and anyone with a brain have better things to do.... like watching paint dry. I wish that someone would make a film about interracial relationships that dealt with the topic realistically. There is a lot more depth to this subject the shallow ranting of a bitter director like Lee. "}{"Title":"Ok, one correction","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, any true fan of Spike Lee *or* Sam Jackson would know Sam was in Lee's School Daze, which came several years before Jungle Fever.Now that we've cleared that up....GREAT movie.  A little hard to take at times, and I'm also a little confused about the subplots.   But well worth watching again and again. "},{"Title":"Actor not listed in credits","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe that Danny Aiello had a brief part in this film. He played in a scene where the father of the main supporting actress, was outraged at the fact that his daughter was in love with a black man. She ended up leaving the house in tears from an emotional and explosive father-daughter conflict.Danny was also featured, but in a major role, in another one of Spike's films, Do the right thing. I can see why Spike picked Danny as he is a very talented actor.This film was another piece of excellent work by Spike Lee.  "},{"Title":"A truly distrubing movie that you can only get from independent movies","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee has a history of producing pointed, politically evocative films that often spark controversy. Jungle Fever is no different. The film is multi-faceted and does not follow one story line but follows the lives of all kinds of different people who are related to each other or know each other somehow.Spike Lee plays Flipper Purify, a black architect who has a nice family and a good job living in Harlem. He loves his family and seems to have his life made for him. Annabella Sciorra plays Angie Tucci, and Italian-American who is recently hired as Flipper's secretary against Flipper's wishes of hiring a white person when he wanted someone black to be his secretary. She comes from working class Bensonhurst, in Brooklyn and is living with his father and two brothers. She is under-appreciated for all the work she does around the house.Now here is where the major conflict of the film comes into play The two people have an affair. Nothing may have happened with their personal lives but then they told a friend or two and then their friends tell a friend or two and you know.SPOILER The father of Angie attacks her violently. The wife of Flipper throws all of her husband's stuff out of the window. Both families make a scene where their neighborhoods know what happen. What I like about this part of the movie is that there are people that do not approve of the relationship but not all of their friends and family reject them. What is sad about this movie is that it is accurate.  Racism is still prevalent in this country even if people do not realize it.  While I believe things are getting better this country still has a long way to go.  People will react exactly the way they do in this movie to the mere mention of interracial dating. And while this movie is a little older now it is hard to say if attitudes have changed at all.The supporting cast does an excellent job. The two notable stars are Samuel L. Jackson and Halle Berry. Jackson plays Flipper's drug addicted brother. Halle Berry plays his girlfriend. This pair does an excellent job. They are extremely convincing. I knew some people who had similar problems that acted a lot like these two characters.Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee will astound you in their parts. Ossie Davis has an incredible monologue that is just too much for mainstream film, makes a couple of interesting points. Ossie plays The Good Reverend Doctor Purify, the father of Flipper. He calls him The Good Reverend Doctor. The Good Reverend Doctor is extremely religious and I emphasize the word extreme. Ruby Dee is a caring but naïve mother who doesn't quite understand what Flipper's brother is doing to hurt him. The final scene with the parents and the brother will shock the hell out of you. The scene will also show you some of the extreme nature some people of faith take their religion.John Turturro does a standout job as the ex-boyfriend of Angie who is stuck in a bad job around a group of people that are racist, mean and very provincial. Turturro plays a decent and laid back man who is a nice guy but is in a bad situation (like a lot of people I guess) Turturro does an excellent job. The people that play his 'friends' Michael Badalucco, (who plays a real a**hole) Joe D'Onofrio and others do a great job in their parts. Legendary actor Anthony Quinn has an excellent role as well, but he should have been in the movie more. That is the thing about this movie there are a lot of people in this movie that are fairly famous but have a small part. Tim Robbins and Brad Dourif are in this movie for a short time as well.SPOILER (rest of review)One of the best scenes in the movie is when Wesley Snipes looks for his mother's TV set after Samuel L. Jackson took it. What ensues is Snipes going through the crime-ridden streets of New York City and ending up in the Bronx in the 'Taj Mahal.' It is an amazing look into a world that few of us in middle class America know about. However I know that if Snipes were that well dressed going through the areas that he did he would have been accosted at some level.I also did not like Lee's message. Lee essentially said that interracial marriages were results of curiosity and hinted strongly that two people of different races could not fall in love. I wish Lee would be more optimistic. I do realize however that interracial dating is still not accepted in supposedly progressive America. The political conversation John Turturro has with the people that hang out in the ice cream shop is quite disturbing, but they give you an insight into American culture that few American films have. They discuss quite a few topics and Lee manages to produce a realistic conversation without the conversation becoming stiff or preachy.  Also the opening credits are quite unique, an interesting way of showing the people involved in the film. Also listen for Stevie Wonder's hit Jungle Fever, where the phrase was coined in popular culture.This is a great movie. There are some interesting points this movie brings up. Lee talks about the things many other films do not talk about. Lee manages to write produce and star in a movie that is is very good and something I would recommend. All around a good, disturbing, revealing and funny movie. Here's to Spike Lee.   "},{"Title":"I Smoked It !","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quality and touching film with a stand out performance from Samuel L Jackson & John Turturro. Explores the complexities of interacial relationships from many angles. One of my personal favourites. "}]