[{"Title":"A Beautiful, Heartbreaking Film","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"61 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Man in the Moon is a beautifully realistic look at life through the eyes of an adolescent. Director Robert Mulligan magically re-creates screenwriter Jenny Wingfield's autobiography of her childhood with gorgeous cinematography and a haunting, lyrical musical score. This film hits home as one of the most powerful and emotionally affecting films in recent times.This film is incredible, all the acting first rate, especially Sam Waterston and an astonishing performance by Reese Witherspoon in her film debut. You will feel every emotion as this life changing summer in 1957 on the Trant family farm comes to a conclusion.The Man in the Moon was a limited release in 1991, and you will love the fact that most of you're family and friends will probably have never heard of it. Buy this dvd and enjoy 100 minutes of pure poetic art. This film is truely the essence of filmaking at its finest. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"51 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perfect movies are rare.  Even my favorite films tend to have flaws - Rear Window looks a little stagey at times, Chris Elliot's character in Groundhog Day doesn't work, the music score in Best Years of Our Lives is too cheesy, the beginning of Nights of Cabiria is a little too slow - but this film is perfectly executed from start to finish. The script is brilliant, the acting is superb all around (although Reese Witherspoon and Sam Waterston are amazing, the whole cast shines), the directing and the photography are inspired, and the music score is touching without being intrusive (like some Miramax scores that are too manipulative).  Every sad moment is truly moving, every light moment makes me smile. This truly is one of the best films I have ever seen and I wish there were more films like it. I am glad that Reese Witherspoon has gone on to stardom after this film, but I am sorry to see that her recent movies are so much more escapist and silly than this serious film which is about real people, real feelings and real problems.  Brilliant!  A must-see.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I doubt I would have ever rented the film, it looked too much like just a teenage love story. However, a friend who's taste I respect, recommended it. I thought the film was excellent. The Man in The Moon is one of those rare movies that gets it right. A warm and tender story of a family, and growing up, without being maudlin. It was the first time I'd seen Reese Witherspoon, and she was indeed impressive. You knew she had something special about her, like seeing a very young Elizabeth Taylor, in an old MGM movie. This film is idealized, yet honest. Many of us grow up with both joys and some pain, and there is  an unexpected twist, that when it hits -- it hits  hard.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Coming Of Age Film","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A 14 year old girl develops her first serious crush on the 17 year old boy that lives near by, while simultaneously trying to overcome her feelings of inadequacy in comparison to her older sister. That is the simple premise of this beautiful, poetic coming of age film from Director Robert Mulligan. Mulligan is famous for previously directing Summer of '42 in 1971 and To Kill A Mockingbird in 1962, two giants of the coming of age genre. Here he directs newcomers in the principal roles Reese Witherspoon, in her film debut, as the 14 year old girl; Emily Warfield, as the older sister; Jason London, as Court, the 17 year old boy. Reese Witherspoon is astonishingly good in her film debut, displaying every emotion that a 14 year old girl feels in experiencing young love and hurt, never striking a false note. Warfield and London are both equally good as well. The film accurately depicts each adolescent's thoughts or feelings in regard to love with heartfelt sensitivity, never crossing over into maudlin excess even once. Kudos to the autobiographical screenplay from Jenny Wingfield; this is one of the very few films about young love that is honest and consistent in tone without being emotionally dishonest or sensationalist. The music is wonderfully simple, accentuating the tone and mood from scene to scene, but never becoming intrusive. The beautiful cinematography is by famed horror director Freddie Francis, who was in his 70's when this was shot. Tess Harper and Sam Waterston play the girls' parents with dead aim accuracy for 1957, caring, strict, and emotionally simple. Gail Strickland is good also as the boy's mother. There are feelings to sort out, lessons to learn, and truths to face in this sweet-natured film that packs an emotional wallop. To date, this is Robert Mulligan's last film. This is one of the very best films of 1991. **** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Touching drama about first love.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon plays Dani, a young country girl that falls madly in love with the new 17 year old neighbor, Court, played by Jason London. Court tries his best to make Dani realize that the difference in their ages would make a love relationship improbable. Soon the nubile charm of Dani starts winning over Court's will. Next enters the meeting of Dani's older sister, played by Emily Warfield, and the beginning of a short lived love/jealousy problem.Tess Harper and Sam Waterston round out the cast. This is a fresh, free spirited; but heartbreaking drama that touches down deep. Feel free to cry. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking Story About First Love","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dani(Reese Witherspoon) has always been very close with her older sister Maureen(Emily Warfield) until they both start falling in love with their neighbor Court(Jason London). But it is not after a terrible tragedy strikes that the two sisters realize that nothing can keep them apart and that their love for each other will never fade away.This was truly a heartbreaking story about first love. Probably the most painful story about young love that I have ever seen. All the acting is amazing and Reese Witherspoon gives a great performance in her first movie. I would give The Man in the Moon 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I watched this movie I began to feel very nostalgic. As a child growing up in a rural area I felt as if I was a kid again! The swimming pond (it's called a tank in Central Texas), the running through the countryside like a wild free spirit! The story was very believable and I totally lost it and cried toward the end. Through the pain we go through in life...life goes on and there can be forgiveness.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good film.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Man In The Moon is a pretty good movie.  It is very touching at times and is very well done in all respects.  I wouldn't say the film was terribly original, but what is these days?The cast members all did a great job with their respective roles.  I really enjoyed seeing Reese Witherspoon at such a young age, and does quite a good job.  Jason London does a fine job as well.  And the only other person I recognized was Sam Waterston, who did a fantastic job with his role.  I really liked Sam's character (Matthew Trant) a lot.  At times he seemed to be the kind of father you dread, but in the end you really like his character.  The rest of the cast was very good as well.If you're into touching movies about growing up and dealing with what life throws at you, then you ought to watch this film.  I'd suggest reading the plot synopsis and if that sounds like something you'd be interested in, then go for it.  Anyhow, hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"beautiful love triangle story","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's the kind of love story that I do enjoy watching. And mostly, it's for two reasons. One, it concentrates of young people, VERY young people. People who are still in their teens and are experiencing love for the first time, or at least think they are. All of us have been there in our lives and The Man in the Moon is a magnificent reflection upon our memories, maybe adding on a few more details and enhancing it further than any of us have experienced. The second reason is that is a love triangle. And I do believe that as teens, it's the most dramatic. And the story is so well developed that you believe the characters could really be in love, or are just so new to love that they just strongly believe they are and after a tragedy or so occurs, will believe it for the rest of their lives.The cast of The Man in the Moon is full of great talented names. It stars Sam Waterston, who is truly a versatile actor, well capable of playing tough district attorneys as well as strict, yet caring and wise fathers as in this film. Also there is Tess Harper, Jason London, and a young, young Reese Witherspoon. You look at the young, talented actress as she is at age fourteen and you think that about ten years down the road, she's going to win the Academy Award. All members of the cast pull off great performances and with the dialogue of the compelling screenplay, they are enhanced into looking like real people in real situations. As if it all really happened. This the kind of movie that I would like to see come out more often. Love story or not. I would love to see films that make everything look real and is not phony or disbelievable in any way. "},{"Title":"Little Big Movie","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a generic coming-of-age story -- think The Member of the Wedding, Summer of '42, A Summer Place, even Little Women -- and there are moments where Mulligan might have omitted the soupy music, not used slow-motion, or played down the golden-lit prettiness of the setting. Otherwise, it's done with rare emotional perfect-pitch. Nothing's forced, every line has feeling, and the pacing is just right. Even the below-A-list casting helps Bigger movie stars with more recognizable personalities might have overwhelmed the material. In particular, Witherspoon is excellent Her line readings are fresh and original, and her body language is just right for a gawky, hoydenish 14-year-old on the eve of womanhood. Waterston is also very fine, even if he has to spend much of the movie climbing in and out of the family truck.One senses that the film's makers were aware of its unpromising commercial prospects -- no big stars, no big car crashes, no special effects -- and consciously decided to make the best possible movie, box office be damned. It's intimate and honest, and it sticks to the ribs. If you find yourself misting up at the end, you don't have to feel you've been duped. "}{"Title":"The moment between childhood and adulthood . . . painful . . . beautiful . . .  and perfect!","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That magical moment in life, that point between the beautiful innocence of childhood, and the confusing whirlwind that marks adulthood . . . this is what this movie is all about. Danni (wonderfully played by Reese Witherspoon) is right at that moment in life when the movie starts. She swoons over Elvis, playing his records and wishfully thinking about love. Maureen her sister will soon be off to college, has no trouble with attracting boys, is beautiful, and seems to have it all figured out although she doesn't. She dates a local loser whos father is also after her, and just wishes she could find a decent boy and be swept off her feet. Danni like most young teenagers wishes she could be anyone else but herself because most teenagers think that who they are just isn't good enough. She wants to be Maureen but doesn't see that she is beautiful herself.The moment adulthood begins to intrude itself upon her life is when she meets Court Foster for the first time. Court whos father has recently died has moved to their old farm to work it with his mother and two younger brothers. He has been thrust responsibility when he should be having fun. On one particular hot day he goes to the pond and jumps in only to find Danni skinny dipping. They yell and argue and Danni leaves. But they see each other a day later when Courts mother is invited to Danni's to visit old friends(Danni's Parents). Danni becomes attracted to Court, and Court to Danni. She is a tomboy and is spunky, has attitude and says whats on her mind. Court is 17 and Danni 14 and he knows it but they continue to grow closer with their days at the pond between Court working the farm. By the time Court kisses her one day, Danni is smitten. Danni's father tells her to invite Court to the house and he does. but things are uncomfortable for Court on his sort of date. The silence though is broken by his meeting with Maureen who has yet to see Court. One look between the two and its all over. The looks of pain and defeat on Danni's face are both beautiful in their trueness to life and painful at the same time. The rest of the movie I will not tell but the movie has more to it than a relationship between a boy and two sisters.The greatness of the movie is in its depiction of lifes moments both beautiful and painful and the relationship between two sisters whose love is tested by both a boy that they love, and the pain they must endure both together and individually. Danni eventually marks her entrance into the world when she sees that the world is unfair, painful, and maybe even a little less hopeful than when the movie started. Few movies can truly capture the wonder of childhood and the pain of adulthood so perfectly. This movie has since the first time I watched it stuck in my mind. Its in the my Top 100 movie list and deservedly so. I only wish more movies like this were made, because if so . . . my faith in Hollywood would be a lot better. "},{"Title":"Everyone who's lived in a rural area should watch this film. **spoiler**","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not only is this movie a great film for basic cinematography (screenplay, acting, setting, etc.) but also for it's realism.  This movie could take place in any farm or rural setting.  It makes no difference if the movie takes place in Louisiana or if it would take place in Kansas.  The story and the messages it includes would remain the same.  This movie shows family values and connections for an older audience, while at the same time it shows youthful behavior for the younger viewers.  Everyone who watches this will walk away with something having touched them personally, I know I did. The ending hits way too close to home for me not to burst into tears every time I watch it.  The ending stresses the importance of farm safety, and everyone who has ever worked on a farm needs to see this film.  Not paying attention and carelessness gets you into dangerous situations. "},{"Title":"Great movie, great soundtrack","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie by chance, get curious by the trailer on TV. I like when I discover movies like this, little, tender stories about ordinary people. Even if the end is tragic, The Man in the Moon has some funny moments, especially in the first characterization of Dani, with her innocent and pure love affair with Court. It's really a beautiful, moving love story with 3 high points the performance of Reese Witherspoon, who maintained her promises in the world of cinema, the beautiful cinematography by the Old Lion Freddie Francis and the fantastic score by James Newton Howard, which is really the soul of the movie. His themes (which deserved an Oscar nomination) are so intimate and lyric that it seems they had transformed the screenplay in music. "},{"Title":"Superb Family Film -- One of the best ever made","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This coming of age film deals with the experiences of two young girls, Dani and Maureen, as they learn about life and love one fateful summer.Directed by Robert Mulligan, famous for his superb work in To Kill a Mockingbird, the film never hits a false note. All the acting is superb. As Dani, Reese Witherspoon makes a stunning film debut. Watching this beautifully photographed and superbly directed and edited film, I felt like I was looking through a window to reality, rather than watching a movie.I have watched this movie at least 5 times, and can honestly say that it is one of the single best movies ever made about being young, being in love, and going through the feelings, challenges, and changes of young adulthood. Families with children between 10 and 15 should watch it together, and use it as a discussion piece, as it raises a number of issues about sibling rivalry, how to deal with being in love, the responsibilities of a parent, etc. "},{"Title":"Good Beginning, terrible ending.","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie started out great, but the ending completely ruined it for me. It wasn't that I would have liked for Dani and Court to end up together, because I realize that is unrealistic, but the fact that they chose to throw the two of them into a romantic triangle with Dani's older sister, have Court completely and inexplicably shun Danielle, and have Court and Maureen claim to love each other after only TWO DAYS of knowing each other completely, and I mean, COMPLETELY ruined this movie. You can guess that it was Court's confusion over being interested in someone so young as Dani despite his resistance was the reason for his odd and annoying behavior towards Dani after he'd met her sister, but that is never explained. Not even in a way where you can know something for sure without it being spoken. It was frustrating and obnoxious. I also feel like his death was a complete cop out. The minute Dani finds out that Court was with her sister, he is killed my a tractor (which is oddly hilarious and makes for good poetic justice, in my opinion), and the two are never able to confront the relationship between them and how it had been tarnished. So much felt unfinished with this movie and not in a well, that's life sort of way, it was more of a wait, huh, what just happened??? kind of way. I also hated the how Maureen's grief over the boy she had known and loved for two days was made out to be more important and significant that Dani's. It literally made no sense to me. This movie had great potential in the beginning, but the way it ended just sucked to me. Overall, I didn't feel like it was a complete waste of time, but it did disappoint me greatly. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Lovely Coming Of Age Tale","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie as a teenager and immediately identified with Reese Witherspoon's portrayal of Dani Trant, a 14-year-old tomboy in rural Louisiana circa 1957. She feels that she will never be as beautiful as her older sister, Maureen (a now rarely seen Emily Warfield), and feeling out of place in terms of her conservative Baptist upbringing. Then seventeen year old Court Foster (Jason London), the son of her mother's close friend (Gail Strickland) moves in next door, Dani experiences her first crush, while Court enjoys her company, and willful spirit. Dani succeeds in getting her first kiss from him, but as soon as he sees Maureen, he falls head over heels for her, leaving Dani behind. The sisters' close bond is fractured severely by the rivalry that erupts, which only deepens when Court dies in a tragic accident. The girls then are made to realize how much they need each other.Sam Waterson and Tess Harper are just perfect as the loving parents, trying to balance their daughters' individuality, at the same time trying to keep the family together. The beautiful cinematography, and the wonderful soundtrack featuring Elvis Presley, The Platters and many more contribute wonderfully to the film's atmosphere of a simpler time.A touching coming-of-age film with a timeless message. "},{"Title":"a tear jerker!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Loved the film!  This was my first glimpse at both Reese Witherspoon and Jason London, both of which are two of my favorites.  Must say that no matter how many times I've seen this movie I can't help but tear up.  One of those movies that should become a classic for all. "},{"Title":"A heartbreaker, but a great heartbreaker!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is so much of worth in this movie that it is hard to know where to begin with praise.  Let me begin by expressing my admiration for a perfect portrayal by Reese Witherspoon.  That her performance stands out in the excellent cast is praise indeed.  Robert Mulligan has seldom disappointed those of us who have admired his work.  Every frame of The Man in the Moon is evidence of film making at its best.   "},{"Title":"Caution boredom ahead","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A little movie with a little story about little people doing little things. The Man in the Moon is another coming-of-age film, in which two farmer's daughters and sisters fall in love with the new-neighboring- hillbillyesh teen, the little girl obtaining nothing more than a mild kiss and lots of frustration and uncalled verbal abuse from the relationship while the older one makes love with him and begins to fancy about an early wedding. This state of things goes on until the kid has the unfortunate luck of being accidentally run-down and chopped to death by his own plough while trying to recover, without first stopping the engine and without pulling down from the vehicle, a rusty hat he had previously left hanging from a branch of a bush growing beside the crop field he's working on. Then, the two sisters must overcome the sore rivalry they had felt into as a product of being in love with the same and now dead kid, both of them knowing about it. Finally, they put aside all grudge between them and rediscover their sisterly love. The end. Add to the later a subplot about a gravid mother falling into her belly and then being hospitalized, and finally recovering and having her healthy fourth daughter (instead of the boy his husband was expecting for, which, as we learn in the movie, is the only reason the couple is going through it again). That's it, there you have it. Child Reese Witherspoon saves the movie from being a total boredom, but, hey, expect no miracles here not even she can save it from being a simple (and a very simple one) boredom. "},{"Title":"Story itself (topics) and final scene (SPOILERS)","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie itself is really good! The story contains a lot of interesting topics that maybe should have been developed in a different way (as the love of younger girl for an older boy). The final scene is what (in my opinion) ruined the whole movie, and that's why i haven't give it a 10 or a 9. The fact that Court creates a fight between the sisters should be the beginning of a big part of the story, not an episode that is developed in the last 20 minutes or something, that concludes itself with the death of the young man and the resolution in 5 minutes of the sisters' fight. Maybe to not introduce this final part or to put it in advance was going to be the best choice. "}{"Title":"A Nice Little Gem","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A nice little gem. Every word of it. It is a small picture and it was nice. There ! Idyllic country scene and superb cinematography makes this movie very watchable. It is amazing that Witherspoon probably did her finest dramatic work the first time out. From the first look on, Witherspoon's Danny was absorbing and real. You could understand her. Perhaps you have a niece that went through similar experience, perhaps you were her in your adolescent years. Fine example of art imitating life. Jason London, the subject of her adolescent love, was also excellent in his role. Sam Waterston as the father in rural town showed perfect nuance of characters in that era. The only miscast was Tess Harper,who was wooden. It might not be her fault as there were hardly any lines written for her role even though it was a woman's screenplay. Overall very touching and we got the resolution we expect in the end. "},{"Title":"A Very Fitting Movie Debut For Reese Witherspoon","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know this movie was made over 20 years ago but it is still a movie everyone can watch and enjoy This was Reese Witherspoon's movie debut and could arguably be her best performance to date, even though her superb performance in 'Walk The Line' was certainly deserving of the Oscar she won We must neither forget all the other movies she has made, notably the two 'Legally Blonde' movies She made this movie when she was 14/15 and her superb acting ability was plain to see from the outset SPOILER BEGINS Reese plays Dani Trant an adolescent teenage tomboy who falls in love with a boy a few years older than herself, Court Foster, played by Jason London. She got her first kiss from him.Unfortunately for Dani she has an older sister, Maureen, played by Emily Warfield and when Maureen and Court meet it is love at first sight Although this obviously caused a rift between the two sisters and was possibly going to tear them apart forever, events took a tragic turn when Court was killed in a tractor accident From this tragedy eventually Dani and Maureen managed to find a way to heal their differences SPOILER ENDS The script was extremely tastefully written and an ideal baptism on the silver screen for Reese The acting on everyones part was wonderful, but Rees Witherspoon I must say did steal the show The direction by Robert Mulligan was excellent and the setting of the movie was also very well thought out.I give this movie a 9 rating and would thoroughly recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Little gem of a Movie","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not a big story, but it packs a punch. Story about two sisters, and a boy in late '50s countryside farm. Dani (Rheese Whetherspoon) has an older sister who's smart, and beautiful. One day she meets Court (Jason London) , a young man who was recently hired at her father's farm at her property's river while she was swimming au natural. First she doesn't like his brash demeanor, but slowly warms up to him. Then her sister starts to take interest in him too.I've never seen Rheese Whetherspoon so beautiful. This was her early career masterpiece. The movie is shot beautifully. Every scene is vivid, and worth the watch just for the beauty of the countryside scenery.IMO Court had no business playing the two sisters, although it was probably unintentional on his part. Teenage hormones takes the story for the ride. In the end it had a price on him.Stick to the first girl that loves you seems to be the message of this movie. I would have loved to see the two go off on to a bright future. "},{"Title":"First love, first hurt, that's life!","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reese Witherspoon makes her film debut in The Man in the Moon. Reese plays Daniel Trant, a 14 year-old country girl who would rather be out in the neighbor's than doing chores in the house. In the pond, she meets a new neighbor named Court(Jason London) who at first couldn't stand each other. But on the way to accompany him to the grocery store, they seem to get along pretty well. Meanwhile, Dani's sister Maureen(Emily Warfield) has a boyfriend of her own who happens to come on way too strong to her. Both Dani and Maureen share a bond that could never be broken. Especially, when gets advice on how to kiss. Court and Dani are getting along better, but somehow, there are some heated issues brewing between them. During a late night swim, a storm breaks, and Dani's mother goes looking for her. She would trip, and fall on her stomach. She is pregnant with her fourth child. Only suffered a head injury, the baby is fine. Court would later take interest in Maureen. Following making love, he goes out in the field, only to get injured in a farming accident. Hurt by both, Dani resent her sister. Court later dies from his injuries, and Dani is too angry to comfort her sister. Her father said that they'll be sisters for life no matter what. And he told Dani if she's still mad she should dig a hole and cover herself with the dirt. Cause staying mad at Maureen won't bring Court back. So it's best to bury the anger. And the bond is back. First love is always going to be awkward from some, this movie helps how to understand, and to show forgiveness to others. Very helpful I shall say. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Best Ever","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie of Reese's alongside Penelope,& Rendition. She was only 14-15 in this film, and it was her first movie ever. Bet she had no idea what her career would turn out to be. It is hard to find this at stores and rental places. Family Video won't have it, but you can find it at places like Shopko & Kmart. You need to watch this especially if you are a Reese fan. Reese plays Dani Trant who falls in love with Court,an old family friend, who is older than her. They don't start off to well, but soon make it to that first kiss. After awhile, Dani's sister Maureen meets Court she starts to like him and he has the same feelings for her. After a very tragic event occurs with Court the sisters grieve alone, Maureen wants Dani to comfort her but Dani is to upset to help her betraying sister.In the end the sisters say their apologies and think of the 'Man In The Moon'. "},{"Title":"A romantic story about first love","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time about a year ago and it´s been with me ever since. It´s a wonderful story about growing up and learning to love. It tells the story of first love in two different ways. At the same time it´s a story about friendship, forgivnes and love between two sisters. I love this movie and it makes me cry every time i see it. The movie is charming and very touching and when you see it you really feel that you know the persons in the movie. A word that would describe this movie best is love because the movie is about love told in a very realistic way but still very romantic. I recomend it to everyone and hope that everyone will see it because it´s a really great movie. "},{"Title":"quite real, quite sad (minor spoilers)","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard good things about this film and was, you guessed it, a bit disappointed. Reese Witherspoon is as promised surprisingly good, surprisingly confident, at a young age; really all the (small) cast are quite solid, in their simple 50s American setting. The reason I didn't rate this film higher is mainly that towards the end, the grief shown by the older sister didn't seem so real and this pulled me out of the film a bit. Perhaps we are expected to fill in the plot, or perhaps the film needed to be a bit longer. Maureen's character is quite underdeveloped I think. It is understandable that Dani (Reese W., the younger) would be traumatised and angry, but why is her sister shown to be more upset? Because she's a few years older?  Hasn't the end rather undermined the rest of the film? The pacing of the movie makes it seem that Maureen and Court have only just met, when he gets tractored (warning this scene is surprisingly brutal, in retrospect it seems like it might have been trying to shock a bit. well it works!). It depends what you want - if you want the girls' happy story of young love that it seems like you're going to get, you're in for a surprise. Man in the Moon is both quaint and dreamy and a harsh coming of age film &#150; a rather awkward combination? I liked the character of Court though, I can see what girls watching this might be watching. And I loved that they had the courage to both let him hurt the younger sister (most men would, most films wouldn't) and get killed.7/10 on my pretty harsh ratings scale. For some reason I found Jason London on a tractor funny. "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie had some great acting and setting, I would of really liked this movie if not for the last half hour. The characters of Court and Maureen were terrible people, yet by the end of the movie we're supposed to ignore that and feel sorry for them. Court was the worst, he was really friendly to Dani and all, they kissed, and they seemed like a cute couple, yet, the moment he laid eyes on Maureen he completely ignored Dani throughout the rest of the film. I would of liked the movie a lot better if Dani never forgave Maureen, Maureen said she cared for Dani yet didn't care enough to do something so low and not even tell her. This movie has a lot of things working for it, but I hate how the characters are handled. "},{"Title":"Explosion of emotions in reserved persons...  Great movie!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There must be something romantic in American farms, and it is probably forever lost, so American directors return to that ambiance whenever they want to make real, human, touching romantic dramas that won't be Hanks-Ryan romanced comedies, big tragedies like 'Autumn in New York' or dark urban exploring of human soul like 'Eyes Wide Shut'. In Europe we can't understand it, because most parts of Europe don't have so wide plains which leave small communities so far from the world that whatever happens people stay leaning on each other. Austrians place their lost-time romantic dramas on Habsburg castles and no one but aristocrats can feel them, Swedish directors find romance far north and these dramas are hard as the life there is, Italians like to return in their childhood villages where everyone is shouting or talking endlessly and no one listens, Czechs have their communist history as fetish that makes them cry deep inside even when things look so amusing. But American farm dramas are so full of emotions that can so easily be misunderstood by modern audience as soapy, maudlin, false sentimental. The emotions are never too open, people are almost as reserved as Swedish, but not because strict rules forbid them to show what they feel (as among monarchs). They just follow the rules inherited from their grandparents, and they are too isolated to change quickly. A tractor, or one Elvis record is most they can afford, either because of culture, lack of money or tradition.These movies can seem hopelessly romantic and (as some call it) chick-movies, but female directors don't touch the subject. It is the world where man, a father of the family, still rules, and wives can only support him and, sometimes, but hiding from him, support their children when fathers becomes too strict. And, what seems to be most odious for feminist directors, these women don't seem to be unhappy.Remember 'River', 'Amber Waves', 'Days Of Heaven, 'Places In Heart', maybe even 'Shadrach', or 'Tender Mercies'... Most of these movies don't have villains or even unkind characters except in small roles. Sometimes they exist only to make things a little harder, but the life is hard enough itself. You have floods or droughts, diseases or accidents, and you don't need a single murderer, dealer or even an attorney to make your life bitter and a story dynamic. In 'Man In The Moon' you can hardly remember a character that's not as good as you'd like your parents, sisters, friends, or even yourself to be. They may make mistakes, you may sometimes think they could've done better, but be honest wouldn't you do the same (or even worse?).All these movies go rather slow like those wide American plain rivers, each small event, each birth, wedding, illness is a quake for whole community. If you don't know the plot of 'Man In The Moon' you won't be able to predict much. The first half of the movie is almost a light coming-to-age comedy, if not placed in such environment and inter-family relations, more similar to a French movie. The tragic event isn't announced even by music as it usually is. If you don't always have a spare bag full of tears it's (thank God and authors) not a film to make you cry all the time, but if you have any emotions in yourself, be prepared to have them touched.I wrote more than a few lines against modern US movies. This movie shows me that even in 90's something so human can be done. I'll pray for writers and directors like these to live and work as long as possible, because I don't see younger ones who would keep following their paths. "},{"Title":"A Very Special Movie","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Man in the Moon is a very special movie that I've held close to my heart. I remember seeing it in the theater when I was only 12. The movie perfectly captures the human experience between 2 sisters who whose love for each other is temporarily compromised by the passion they share for a boy. The boy inevitably falls for the older sister who's similar in age and the younger is left heartbroken and betrayed. Yet there was so much more. The transcending quality of this movie is that it captures so many perspectives and experiences from other characters who share in this summertime drama. It captures the loving father who's must help his daughters reconcile after the boys tragic death. The older mother who in her youth also experienced what it was like to be 1 of 2 girls that a boy had to choose whom to love. Her historical perspective from this past experience proved that 2 women can still be good friends after the choice is made, and this message foreshadows her daughters experience too. And lastly it captures the experience for a teenage boy who must take care if his mother, and younger brothers after his father suddenly dies. As he juggles his overwhelming adult responsibilities he tries to maintain a mere friendship with a younger girl who personally feels much more. The overwhelming love he feels for the older sister is conflicted by his guilt in knowing that his friend will ultimately feel betrayed. There are many aspects of this movie that one can appreciate. The movie wasn't predictable and I was surprised by several turns that it took. Best of all, I personally think that what makes this movie magical is how at the ending there is no clear antagonist, or protagonist. In real life one is loved by many and also hated by others. A simple minded movie would lead one to believe that a villain always remains a bad person forever. However, real life is much more complex. When a story patiently captures each characters perspective it transcends at that point to more closely resembling real-life. I think each person who watches this movie will take away something a little different from it. In my youth I identified best with the young girl because I too was not chosen by someone who I cared deeply for. Later as an adult I identify much more with the father. I only wish more people gave this timeless work the attention it truly deserves. "}{"Title":"An absolutely wonderful and often deeply moving film concerning young love, unrequited love and sisterhood","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in Louisiana during the summer of 1957, this is an absolutely wonderful and often deeply moving film concerning young love, unrequited love and sisterhood. Far from being the best years of your life, your teenage years can be the longest, the most confusing and sometimes the most difficult years of your life. The perfect script by Jenny Wingfield is beautifully written and almost painfully authentic in depicting that. There is not a false note in the entire film and the characters always seem like real people. The title refers to the two sisters' practice of telling their problems to the Man in the Moon when they were little girls and their wish that life was still that simple. The direction by Robert Mulligan, in his final film, is fantastic. He was perhaps the best possible choice to handle this material, given that he previously directed two other excellent period coming of age dramas To Kill a Mockingbird (my second favourite film of all time) and Summer of '42.In her first film appearance, Reese Witherspoon gives a brilliant performance as Dani Trant, a 14-year-old tomboy who discovers the pain of growing up. She is so wonderfully natural. Witherspoon was 14 herself at the time that the film was made and I think that this added to the realism of the film. Dani is fiercely intelligent, tough, brave, headstrong and independent but she is not as grown up as she thinks she is, as is the case with most people her age. Although she initially dislikes her 17-year-old neighbour Court Foster - played in a great performance by the underrated Jason London - as he kicked her out of the previously abandoned pond on his property, he soon becomes the subject of her first proper crush, even displacing her beloved Elvis Presley in her affections. Dani likes to act as if she knows it all but she has no experience when it comes to boys and seeks the advice of her 17-year-old sister Maureen, played very well by Emily Warfield, on how to kiss a boy. Maureen has a very idealistic view of love and previously told her date - and attempted date rapist - Billy Sanders that it should be beautiful. The sisters have a very close relationship and the two tell each other everything. Well, almost.Over time, Dani and Court become very good friends and she falls in love with him. He even gives her her first kiss in a lovely little scene by the pond. However, when he meets Maureen, they hit it off immediately and Dani is extremely hurt, particularly since Court becomes very distant. As a loving older sister, Maureen is concerned that Dani may have gotten the wrong idea from Court, who insists that the two of them were only real close buddies instead of boyfriend and girlfriend. When you're talking about 14 and 17, a three year age gap can seem like a lifetime and the film does a superb job in this respect. Court and Maureen eventually fall in love. Their happiness is short-lived, however, as Court is killed in a terrible farming accident. Both girls are understandably extremely upset by his death. Dani continues to blame Maureen for stealing Court and refuses to even look at her after the funeral. At the instigation of their father, however, Dani puts it behind them and comforts Maureen at Court's grave, thereby re-establishing and perhaps even strengthening their very close bond.In one of his trademark quiet, dignified and deeply charismatic performances, Sam Waterston is brilliant as Dani and Maureen's father Matthew Trant. The girls have had a strict upbringing but, unlike in lesser, poorly written films, this is because their father loves them and wants to protect them as opposed to merely being an ass because it says so in the script. He is the sort of father who does not say a great deal but, when he does, it is worth listening to. One of the film's most upsetting moments features Matthew hitting Dani with his belt. He did so as she went out after dark to go swimming with Court, which led to her very worried and very pregnant mother Abigail to trip over a tree-stump and be hospitalised with a concussion. He is filled with remorse afterwards and he fears that he may have permanently damaged his relationship with Dani. However, after several days, she forgives him and tells him that she does not blame him for doing so as he was upset and angry. Hitting children is always a tricky issue to deal with on screen but I think that the film dealt with it in the best way possible. Abigail's injuries may have been the reason for Matthew's behaviour but they are not an excuse for it as such behaviour is inexcusable. The film is too well written to say something this blatantly unsubtle outright but this is communicated through the characters' dialogue and interactions. I am convinced that Matthew will never raise a hand to one of his children again and will regret hitting Dani for the rest of his life. The film also features very good performances from Tess Harper as the likewise strict but loving Abigail, Gail Strickland as Court's mother Marie, Bentley Mitchum (Robert's grandson) as Billy Sanders and Ernie Lively as his incredibly pervy father Will Sanders.Overall, this is a fantastic film which treats its subject matter with a great deal of sensitivity, seriousness and respect. While it is set in the Deep South in the 1950s, its themes are universal and the general thrust of the storyline would have probably remained the same if it had been set in any time or place or made in any language for that matter. I have never related to another coming of age story involving girls as much as I related to this one. "},{"Title":"Growing Pains","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Robert Mulligan's final film, The Man in the Moon stars Reese Witherspoon as Dani Trant, a fourteen year old girl living in 1950s Louisiana. Stuck in a familiar coming-of-age plot, Dani spends one summer learning about love, life and loss. Fittingly for Mulligan's swansong, the film opens and closes with Dani and her sister gazing up at the night sky, pondering issues of fate, faith and mortality. Maybe life's not supposed to make sense, they decide.Bouyed by a delightful Reese Witherspoon, The Man in the Moon boasts a number of fine moments. Unfortunately the film relies heavily on several ridiculously over-the-top sequences (a kid is mauled by a tractor, a woman suffers a miscarriage after falling on her stomach etc), Mulligan resorting to shock-tactics which clash awkwardly with what is otherwise a pleasantly low-key film. Co-starring Emily Warfield and Jason London.7.5/10 &#x96; See The Wackness and Spirit of the Beehive. "},{"Title":"If This is a Chick Flick, Sign Me Up","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No need to recap the plot. Hard to believe Witherspoon started out as a walk-on in a demanding movie like this (IMDB Trivia). Somehow, she got what amounts to the lead and does beautifully. I guess the proverbial lightning struck in her favor. Anyway, it's a sensitively told story benefiting greatly from Louisiana settings and rural hardship. I love Dad's dirty old truck and those Elvis sounds of my youth. The pace may be slow, but it's poetically crafted, along with an excellent musical score. The slow pans are also well chosen and underscore that prevailing interior mood. Note, for example, how the pool's texture is used to reflect those moods. As I see it, Dani's coming of age means breaking down the barrier between her and older sister Maureen. The breakthrough hinges on learning the value of empathy. The latter's a typically adult emotion and requires seeing beyond oneself into the greater world of maybe the man in the moon, as the movie might have it. Expressing this amounts to Dani's passage into budding adulthood. True, Maureen's been pretty unfeeling toward Dani as they compete for the same boy. As a result, they both have to discover what they share, instead of how they compete. What a fine slice of cinematic art the movie is, as it merges visuals with storyline. All in all, the results are a tribute to everyone involved, and should not be passed up. "},{"Title":"One Word, GREAT!","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was the first time I saw Reese Witherspoon's performance.. and bang!!! It was amazing! And I knew It, that she'd be a big star someday.. well now, with an Oscar in her hand... I guess my guts were right.. And about this movie.. LOVE it !!! I even bought the laser disc version of it (dvds weren't there yet). Later that i knew, that this movie was the first movie of Reese Witherspoon too. Not many actors would give such a golden performance in their first time.So I got nothing more to say except that the story, the actors' performances and the soundtracks, they're all g.r.e.a.t !Let's sing.. I would spend my whole life through, loving you, just loving you..... "},{"Title":"A good movie, but one that could have been great.","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For its first 80 minutes, The Man in the Moon plays as a handsome, simply woven tale of family life in rural Louisiana, seen primarily through the eyes of two sisters. For its last 25 minutes, it plays out a pointless consequence of manufactured conflict that takes a potentially great film and disappointingly dispatches it as little more than one-off melodrama and an unsatisfying resolution.Along with Tess Harper as matriarch Abigail, Sam Waterston shows his under-appreciated versatility as Matthew Trant, the stern, hard-working father of Dani, played with extraordinary aplomb by then-newcomer Reese Witherspoon, and her older sister Maureen, played by Emily Warfield. Maureen is looking toward college, while Dani tries hard to convince the world she isn't still a kid at the ripe age of 14. The conflict ensues when the recently widowed friend of Trant's moves into the adjacent farm along with her 17-year-old son, Cort, who catches Dani's eye as her first youthful love. On the one hand, Moon draws a nicely articulated tale of 50's era family life, yet interrupts the tale with manufactured interruptions of tragic shadow that seem only to serve the purpose of...interrupting the tale and force the drama, as if the writers don't truly trust the material they've developed. Individually, the performances are authentic and on the mark, even if the story often isn't. Despite the story flaws, Man in the Moon is a good work. It's just so frustrating to realize that a truly great work was but a stone's throw away. "},{"Title":"a story of a young coming-of-age girl worth watching at least twice","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" my heart is pounding while I write this review .my first love as a young girl imagines and fall for a boy who in turn is a victim of age affected romance. many scenes struck my mind like I was living my life back in my adolescence - don't know what to do in the 1st love. a girl's perspective along a boy's is seen in a perfect way. sometime words don't describe the feelings .same is the condition with me. I say innocent love is supreme. Love should be happening without any external factor.But it is life and nothing perfect can occur here.OK now I am being 2 emotional. "},{"Title":"Man In Moon","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the Best Movies Made I love it watch it over and over again. I've Read Most of your Reviews On Dani, Maureen and Court Triangle I will say some of it was wrong some felt rite and left two sisters Bruised . When I first watched this movie I always said at the end I would love to have saw them come back as women and well what you've all said here n see a what goes around comes around erupt. I loved this movie It would have been nice to have saw a part two to see them grown up and to come back n see the twin brothers look like court a nice reprise or just to see if Dani and Maureen worked it out. I was not ready for the movie to be done at the end I wanted more is why this movie gets ten stars for me it was heartbreaking, fun ,joyful, tender and Memorable.. "},{"Title":"I'm afraid nothing's ever gonna make sense again.","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film debut of 14-year-old Reese Witherspoon. Certainly the best young actress of that time. She would go on to win an Oscar some 15 years later with Walk the Line.I can't get over how young Sam Waterson (Law & Order) looks. He and Tess Harper are the parents of teenage girls. He is strict, but loving. They really seem to be real parents of teens. He comes through at the right time when things look hopeless.Dani (Witherspoon) has a crush on Court (Jason London). Coming of age comes early in Louisiana. Unfortunately, Court hasn't met her older sister Maureen (Emily Warfield).Things never leave the realm of the believable, and this was a beautiful story accompanied by a great music by Elvis and The Platters. "},{"Title":"An exquisite tone poem of first love","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An exquisite tone poem of first love and its many complications, The Man in the Moon is a portrait of the relationship between Dani, a 14-year-old Reece Witherspoon, and 17-year-old Court Foster (Jason London). It is as true to life as any young relationship I've ever seen on screen, full of both immeasurable joy and unspeakable sadness, the stuff of life.Dani and her sister Maureen (Emily Warfield), a few years older, are being raised on an isolated farm in the 1950s in rural Louisiana by their caring but demanding parents played by father Sam Waterston and Tess Harper, the girls mother who is the ninth month of pregnancy. The sisters, who are close and share each other's secrets, both fall in love with Court and it is the younger sister who feels the pain. When an unforeseen event occurs, however, there is enough hurt to go around for a long time before the thought of forgiveness can even be entertained. The Man in the Moon is a very restrained film, yet its simple beauty will always hold a special place for me. "},{"Title":"I was Upset about Love not the tragedy","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this on netflix the other night and i kind of was glad I read about the movie before i watched it so I had an idea what direction the film went in. Its a coming of age film about growing up and love. This movie has little Reese Witherspoon in her first movie role - who does an amazing job as Danni , she was great everything about her ! She fit the part and fit in with the cast wonderfully . So did Jason London as Court it was great seeing them two bond and have feelings for one another. The relationship changes goes up and down throughout the whole film ( this was shown swell ! ) Im not going to spoil what happens but I will say that for me , The movie was sad not were i cried during the movie but just the next day my stomach and head felt upset by it. I would also say read the plot before you see this movie because it will help you deal with what happens. The film made me smile / laugh / feel upset and intrigued me. Everyone was a teenager at some point who had a first crush that felt like it never ended - Witherspoon shined I mean before this movie i kinda just saw her as a pretty face however she had skills and deserves credit !! I have to watch more of her films to see if she continues her skills !!! I will never forget her as Danni = the only little note i would say is i agree with some people that Danni and Court should have had a better ending rather then Court and her sister. "}{"Title":"Side Branch of Splendor in the Grass and This Property is Condemned","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nice movie if one leaves aside the picture-perfect characters in this family of squeaky clean members Ideal mother, perfect father, excellent daughters, noble boyfriend, all of them with perfect manners, living in an idyllic environment, with admirable neighbors, friends and pets (and weather!).Maybe people like them exists, lucky them.Under those premises the film is excellent and very pleasant to watch.After all, not seeing awful characters on the screen is quite a change!! And maybe that disoriented me and had that first reaction, but now, thinking it over, it wouldn't be a bad thing to live among people with those straight and noble principles. Nice living.Very well interpreted, all actors splendid in their roles, good direction, excellent photography and editing and good final resolution for the storyline. "},{"Title":"growing up in 1950s Louisiana","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Mulligan's final film looks at a teenage girl's coming-of-age in rural Louisiana in 1957. Dani Trant (Reese Witherspoon in her debut) falls for a boy (Jason London) whose family has just moved in nearby, but he also has the hots for Dani's sister Maureen (Emily Warfield). Something's going to have to result from this.I wouldn't call this a chick flick. The main focus is the effect that Dani's crush on Court has on her relationship with her family, and her realization that she might not be quite the right age for a serious relationship. Or if she is, then she'll have to take responsibility for the unintended consequences of her actions. It's a very different look at the south than Mulligan had taken earlier with To Kill a Mockingbird (which everyone should see).The Man in the Moon isn't a great movie, but still a thought-provoking look at what it must have been like for a 14-year-old girl in the south in the 1950s. Also starring Sam Waterston, Tess Harper and Gail Strickland.That song in the opening scene was a real surprise I had just heard another version of it in a YouTube video! "},{"Title":"A peek at preteen naivety and summer romance","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film holds a special memory for me, watching this movie over a decade ago was not my choice, however it was able to remain clear in my mind until I viewed it this past April. I was grateful for the imagery that returned me to my aunt's house and to the tender age of 11. It was my aunt who told me to give it a chance as it probably had a moral rather than spending time watching a tall tale feature with no significance and for this I am truly grateful. So I'm calling out all those young cats, bloods, bieliebers, and supervisors give a film like this a chance! It will calm you down and transport you to a simpler era where romance was an art and children obeyed their parents. "},{"Title":"Light Hearted Story About Life Lessons in Love","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There isn't really a lot to the overall plot of this story. There is no great force of good conquering evil or anything like that. It is a simple story about young girl & her family on their ranch set in 50's. The story's merit doesn't lie so much in the plot as it does in the essence of the film. There was a deep rooted feel of innocence and country life that could bring back childhood memories for anyone who grew up a carefree kid. This was Reece Witherspoon's first movie and she did an amazing job! She portrayed an innocent rural girl who learns about boys the hard way and she was so believable! This movie is a bit more of a chick flick than what I typically like, but it is well made, drama worth seeing. "},{"Title":"old-fashioned, in the best way","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two teenage sisters growing up in rural Louisiana during the 1950s engage in a bittersweet romantic rivalry Marie is the pretty, popular one; fourteen-year old Danielle is the tomboy rebel; and both develop a crush on the farm boy next door, with tragic results. The story deals with a lot of familiar coming-of-age issues (first love, first heartbreak and so forth), but Jennie Wingfield's screenplay needs several scenes to get past some clumsy expository dialogue. Otherwise the film is a modest little gem having more than its share of privileged moments, with a lot of the credit going to the sharp cinematography of old pro Freddie Francis and to newcomer Reese Witherspoon's standout performance as young Danielle. Producer Mark Rydell gives the film a halo of virtue similar to his popular 'On Golden Pond', but without the expected cornball fluff and sledgehammer sentiment. Call it old-fashioned, but it's old-fashioned in a way that recalls the movies made before Hollywood became just another Madison Avenue subsidiary. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must start off by saying, I was not looking forward to watching this movie. I really don't like Reese Witherspoon and I only got this movie because it was suggested to me through Netflix. This however, quickly changed. I am a teenage girl and I couldn't help but feel giddy in certain scenes of the movie. One cannot help but notice the AMAZING chemistry between Reese Witherspoon and Jeremy London. It is intense and I believe, the reason why the movie is so good. It's believable. As the last person wrote, nothing feels forced in this movie. I am very glad I watched this movie and I would definitely recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"The dreams of adolescence","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Late 60s. A small farm in Louisiana. There, amid the incomparable scent of nature and the quiet dark of night, two beautiful girls, one 14 and one aged 17, welcomed the poetic recall his mother's advice When all is confused, tell Mr. Moon  Along with his parents and a small arms sister, Danielle and Maureen are to spend a quiet life. Little is recreated with his idol Elvis Presley, and Maureen feeds his desire to excel and marriage. With small, but precise details, the qualified director Robert Mulligan succeeds admirably recreate a family atmosphere, full of love and harmony. A home with pillars so firm that no event, however hard it is, get cracking.Mulligan drives the story with great skill. Raise a conflict that sanity prevails, the threads of fate are designed with full sobriety. And finally, we have the joy of having been reflected a beautiful lesson of love. Adolescent romanticism that seemed buried in the cinema thanks to the ease and banality of new directors, is reborn in THE MAN IN THE MOON with all its grandeur and fascination, thanks to the force and the human depth of the director who gave the cinema before To Kill a Mockingbird, Summer of '42 and Blood Brothers, movies that have already reserved a good spot in the annals of cinema.Is not the first time a cinematographic work assumes the intricacies of the love triangle. We would say better, which is one of the reefs that more hammer blows he had received from the filmmakers.Except that most have ended up empty-handed... or hopelessly deadlocked. But we have also seen art, with capital letter, in films like Sunrise by Friedrich W. Murnau, Casablanca by Michael Curtiz, White Nights by Luchino Visconti... and THE MAN IN THE MOON by Robert Mulligan. And what makes the difference is palpable talent, committed to the dignity, life and art.If you know a little more love, ask the man on the moon. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Coming of Age Movie","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reese Witherspooon's first movie. Loved it. The plot and the acting was top notch. You are emotionally involved with the characters. In my opinion, a must see.After watching this movie you will see why Reese Witherspoon's acting career has been so successful. The other cast members do a great job also. The movie flows extremely well. There is not a boring moment in the whole picture. The Man in the Moon's length is just right. As I said earlier, I think this movie was excellent. I have seen it numerous times, and have enjoyed every one of the viewings. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story and acting","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I checked this out as an impulse when browsing through the movie store and couldn't have been any more pleasantly surprised! My mom and I watched this film together, and we thoroughly enjoyed it. It isn't the typical chick-flick with a sappy love story and tears all the way through, but it definitely touches a nerve in the twist at the end. It's an ending where, although unexpected and tragic, the movie's overall effect is not harmed by it. I think Reese Witherspoon was a great actress even in this film, her debut, and this is definitely worth watching! I didn't recognize many of the supporting actors, but they all play their important supporting roles well. The Man in the Moon is such an believable story about a young teenager falling in love for the first time. Most women can definitely relate to everything-from Witherspoon's words, her subtle glances, and her not so subtle emotions (raging like the typical teenage girl). While she's playing a character confused about love, she does not come across as silly and immature, which was much appreciated considering many movies today. "},{"Title":"such a good movie","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i must say this movie is truly amazing and heartwarming. Reese Witherspoon is so charming and Jason London's not so bad either! it is so sweet watching Dani fall in love and it breaks my heart and yet warms my heart at the same time watching Court fall in love with Maureen. however it is even sweeter watching how much he cares for Dani. I must admit though i did kind of want him to fall for Dani in the end. it is just so cute watching her fall for him i did not want her to get her heart broken so badly. but the biggest tragedy i have ever seen occurred in this movie. watching him die made me cry for a whole day. i just could not believe it. however never a more loving relationship has been shown in a movie then Maureen and Dani. they really can make it through anything. i am giving this movie a 9 because i didn't want Court to die but it was still one of the most amazing movies i have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Unsatisfying characters & plot","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I like romances. Here's what I liked the scenery (I got the feel of living in rural Louisiana, and that was great); and Matt's good, fatherly words to Dani on the boat were worth the movie. Here's where the movie failed me. Though I love Sam Waterston, I'm a northerner who's now lived in the South for 14 years, and see here and elsewhere that when northerners (Sam's from Boston) try to play Southerners, they get so much wrong, which Sam does. I like his fatherly role, but his style, mannerisms, and accent are just out of place as a Louisiana dad. If I were a Southerner, I'd feel very poorly represented. Sometimes the writing was just bad, with characters saying things way too philosophy of life-ish. They were little monologues that were out of place. Lastly, with the writing, characters are sometimes having all this emotion one way or the other when all that wouldn't be possible to have built up in the character in the short time frame that the storyline proposes. There's betrayal in the movie that is simply accepted by all the characters (but one), so the person wronged is never given any sense of consolation or true apology. That left me wanting. Maureen's character was flat--in the end, I needed some kind of character growth (realizations) in her that the writer(s) never delivered. That was disappointing. "},{"Title":"A cinematic treasure for your library","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Had never heard of The Man in the Moon until seeing it last evening on THIS HDTV channel. Look, my taste is like any others', eclectic. My favorites run from Blue Velvet to Dr. Strangelove to The Ghost and Mrs. Muir thru The Wizard of Oz and The Loved One, Eraserhead, repo man, and The Spy Within.The Man in the Moon is superbly made, a gentle hearted, joyous and tragic film, beautifully filmed, one in which the actors truly live in the moment rather than act. This sweet tale shortly will be in our private library. This beautiful story of life in a far finer era in rural Louisiana literally transports you to its pastoral setting.It's hard to remain stoic during the film's last moments, particularly when the young girl the extent of her older sister's heart searing private pain and forgives all.Rather than spoil the enjoyment or bore you to sobs with my dull prose, will end now with this suggestion from one who enjoys films which speak from the heart to ours.If you purchase no other film, please, purchase the Man in the Moon. This moving story is one you'll enjoy reliving time and again. It is a joy and a gem, a film all too scarce in this world of hardening hearts.The simple virtues evinced in Man in the Moon are a joy to behold.Paul Vincent ZecchinoManasota Key, Florida05 April, 2009 "},{"Title":"The Man In The Moon","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was a very good movie. It would have been nice to have seen a little more into the movie about the 2 sisters knowing about each liking the same boy before he was killed off. I'm sure if the movie had been done this way there would have been a very different ending, that's why this made this move such a good movie. It shows that no matter what happens in your life with your siblings that you can always get thru it and that if it's 2 sisters dealing with a boy, (the same boy) that working thru the pain and hurt makes things to seem better and easier to work out between the 2 of them. It's nice to see love stories that have a terrible thing to happen in someone's life that you can still get thru it become even closer after its over. I really enjoyed watching this movie, and I still do now when it comes on. I seem to find myself watching it every time it comes on. It would have been nice if there would have been a part 2 for this movie, maybe having the older sister to come up and have his baby, this would really have made a great finish to the story since he died, this way it would keep him alive even though he's dead. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Reminiscent Movie","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was very well done. Taking place in the mid 1950's, everything looked accurate to me. It was well cast and believable. I don't usually care much for this type of movie, because they just don't have any depth, but I felt this movie delved in to the characters and you could feel how they felt, you got to really know them and care about them. It did take me back to my youth and let me reminiscent about a more innocent time. This movie could be enjoyed by both male and female and by all age groups. After the movie was over I wished there was a part two. I wanted to know what happened to Dani and her family. This movie is bound to be a classic. If you haven't seen it you should try to catch it when it is on TV or rent it... "},{"Title":"An Emotionally-Charged Coming of Age Drama","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE MAN IN THE MOON is a warm and moving coming of age drama centering around a farming family in the 1950's. The main story follows a 14-year old girl (Reese Witherspoon) who develops a crush on a 17-year old neighbor (Jason London) who ends up falling for her older sister (Emily Warfield) and how an unexpected tragedy alters this family's dynamics forever. The 1950's are lovingly evoked here and the screenplay gives you characters you come to care about almost immediately. Witherspoon already begins to show the Oscar-winning talent she would develop in this early role and London makes a charming leading man. Warfield lends a quiet maturity to the role of the older sister that is effective as well. Kudos to Sam Waterston and Tess Harper who play the girls' parents and Gail Strickland, who plays London's mom. I was unexpectedly moved by this quiet and affecting drama that stirs up strong emotions and gives deeper meaning to the phrase family ties. "},{"Title":"A great coming of age movie","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Reese Witherspoon first outing on the big screen was a memorable one. She appears like a fresh scrubbed face tween slight and stringy, but undeniably Reese.I have always liked her as an actor, and had no idea she started this young with her career, go figure. I actually gained some respect for Reese to know who she was so early on. I say that because whenever I have watched her perform, the characters thus far, in each portrayal she also seemed to have her own persona that lived with that character, quite nicely in fact.Anyway, my first film experience with Reese was the Little Red Riding Hood parody Reese did with Kiefer Sutherland, somehow I assumed that was her first time up at bat Not so, well done Reese "},{"Title":"Incredible...must see...touching to all ages","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Really...and incredible film that though isn't very popular...extremely touching and almost life altering...was for me at least.Definitely worth seeing and buying .....Added to my favorite movie list....it's number one now....This is a very touching movie that all people should see..The Man in the Moon.....we'll it's just incredible. It's now my favorite movie and I only saw it today and I'd recommend it to anyone above 15 as long as you're somewhat mature......If you don't really try to feel the characters emotions then you'll never get the true meaning and value of this movie....But it really is incredible....just watch it because it'll alter the way some people look at life....worth seeing 5/5 "},{"Title":"Every 14 year old girl's movie","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has so many wonderful elements to it! The debut performance of Reese Witherspoon is, of course, marvelous, but so too is her chemistry with Jason London. The score is remarkable, breezy and pure. James Newton Howard enhances the quality of any film he composes for tenfold. He also seems to have a knack for lost-days-of-youth movies, be sure to catch his score for the recent Peter Pan and the haunting Gothic music of The Village. I first saw this film at about 13 or 14 and now I don't just cry at the ending, I shed a tear or two for the nostalgia. Show this movie to your daughters. It will end up becoming a lifetime comfort film. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE...best i have seen in a long time","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Man in the Moon is a great movie.  Its a great story, and the actors show their extreme talent at acting.  This story will touch you and it will bring back memories of your first love. Also a great ending.  It couldnt of been better, and they could not have picked better actors to do the job. Reese does a great job playing Dani and reminds me of myself, since I am 14. Jason does a great job too with showing how he cares for both Maureen and Dani.  The producer shows the sweet hospitality of people from the south and how close they are.  A few tear jerker moments.....but not too mushy or girlie for guys to see.  There are also some great old Fords show in it! An over all great movie!  "},{"Title":"Good to watch with your teen daughter!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watched this with my 13 yr old, and it sparked great conversations about love and boys and girls. Reese was really great, as everyone has already said. Made me hope she'll do something other than goofy comedy again soon. She has a lot to offer. In this film she says a lot with her eyes and face. "}{"Title":"Incredibly rich coming of age story.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *slight spoilers*This has been one of my favourite movies for years. It is intelligent, poignant and amazingly well acted by all. You see Reese Witherspoon in her first starring role as the tom boy Dani, who is experiencing falling in love for the first time. Witherspoon does this insanely well, making many of us relate completely with how hard young girls fall and what it is like to experience that first heart break. Other newcomers sparkle in this, Emily Warfield plays Maureen, Dani's older sister- who unlike her sister experiences what she feels is true love, which helps her make sense of the confusing world that she is about to be thrown into at she grows up. Jason London is the boy that they both fall in love with, he does a well done job of portraying a charismatic young man, who is confused between his feelings for Dani and his love for Maureen. Maureen and Dani's parents are amazing, especially Sam Waterson (tv's law and order), he makes you love him, because he has genuine love for all of the women in his life. There is one moment between Waterson and Witherspoon that is totally heartbreaking, they showcase their father/daughter relationships in this film beautifully.  The relationships are what make this film the masterpiece that I feel that it is, they are realistic, heartbreaking  and powerful. It is truly the saddest movie ever made (has a shocking twist) and it is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"One of the best coming of age films ever!!!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Reese Witherspoon's first (and I still think her best) movie. Watching her play Danny when she was just 14 and totally new to acting, you can see the talent she showed in her later movies. The movie is  a simple coming of age story but told with a truth that is not found in too many other movies.  The director was also responsible for To Kill a Mockingbird, a coming of age classic.  The interaction between Danny and her father (Sam Waterston) is  in my opinion the highlight of the film.  The scene in the truck with Witherspoon and Waterston never fails to choke me up and bring a tear to my eye, and the final scene of Danny and her father fishing is how we would all like to remember our parents talking to us. The film looks beautiful (esp. on DVD) and the score by James Newton Howard evokes a time and place (lazy summer days). I highly recommend this film if you are at all a Reese Witherspoon fan certainly, but mostly because for bringing back memories of growing up there are few films better. "},{"Title":"Lovely and heartfelt","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most charming movies I've seen in some time.  The acting was believable and I think everyone can relate to the theme of young love, loss and the strong bonds of family.  I highly recommend The Man In The Moon. "},{"Title":"Sam Waterston shines in this film!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a great look at a simpler time, and very real feelings and relationships. Watch it to see how fine an actress Reese Witherspoon is from the very beginning. The whole film is beautifully done, with fine, natural performances from everyone, but the core of the film is supported by Sam Waterston, who says so much without many words. You can see almost every thought he has, even though he's from that stoic generation that isn't supposed to reveal your true softer feelings. I felt that all the relationships within this story rang very true and I highly recommend this film, especially to families. "},{"Title":"A favorite of mine.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie at least a dozen times, and I've cried every time. The acting is not the best you'll ever see, but it's good enough to pull you into this beautiful and tragic story.  The story of two sisters, one who can't wait to grow up, the other grown up and not sure where to go now, in love with the same boy is simple and real, and will touch your heart.  At least it did mine. "},{"Title":"The best movie you haven't seen","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went out of my way to see this movie in the theater....and i am so glad that i did. Reese Witherspoon's debut performance as a strong-willed 14 year old country girl, in my opinion, still remains her strongest (Pleasantville being next in line). Sam Waterson plays such a perfect father in this movie. the father-daughter relationship between him and danny (witherspoon) is played so perfectly (the scene where he embraces daniel by the truck will bring me to tears everytime).While being somewhat of a tragedy, this movie is really about the importance of family. A great movie for sisters to watch. I wish Resse Witherspoon would make more movies like this, my fear is that she is being kind of type-cast into slutty bad girl roles. she is capable of so much more, just rent this movie and watch her shine.  "},{"Title":"Strong Ensemble Cast Makes This Film a Delight to Watch","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Strong performances from an ensemble cast featuring Sam Waterson, Tess Harper, Reese Witherspoon, Jason London and Emily Warfield, carry off this bittersweet tale, that could easily have become cloying and tawdry.The rural setting and the depiction of farm life in the simpler times of the 50's, early 60's might dredge up images of the Walton's 20 years hence.  The only thing these two programs have in common are the setting and farm life.  An intriguing tale that keeps the viewer's interest from beginning to end. Sam Waterson, is stand out as the strong father figure, and Tess Harper nails it as the mother of the 4 girls.  Reese Witherspoon, as Dani Trent, has a very large part in this film, and it is her portrayal of a young girl's first experience of puppy love with Court (Jason London), that makes this film so watchable.Jason London, as a young man torn, could easily have been hated, but his handling of the character, only makes Court more endearing.After watching this film and realizing the talents of Ms. Witherspoon at such a young age, I wonder why we don't see her in more of the meaty roles among actresses in her age range.  Casting directors take heed and make use of this talented actress.The same can be said for Jason London.  What was once a promising career, has become a foot note on Party of Five.  Don't let this talent languish.... Jason obviously has the goods, let's hope that we the audience are treated to the likes of Reese and Jason in upcoming films. "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Man in the Moon is a sweet and heartwrenching look at first love through the eyes of a 14 year girl in the South.  When I first saw this film, I was astonished by the performance of first time actress Reece Witherspoon.  My reaction was she's going to be a great actress, and she's going to be a stunner.Boy was I right or what! "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Sad","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago one night when I was sick, and I have to say that it made me sicker...not because it was bad, i gave it a 10, but because it hit so close to home, and it was a sad movie. I recommend it to people who love movies about those childhood crushes and heartaches. "},{"Title":"This movie is basic, simple and powerfully hits an emotional raw nerve.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is an urban legend that no movie has ever had the word perfect used more often in film reviews as is used in professional reviews of THE MAN IN THE MOON. If this is true, it is for very good reason.This movie hits raw nerve after raw nerve -- yet in every way it is a simple movie with a simple story.The images found in THE MAN IN THE MOON are unforgettable. Seeing the joyful body language radiating from Reese Whitherspoon as she walks from an old truck truck to inside a store in an otherwise uneventful scene is certainly such a moment. The body language itself becomes an event that powerfully fuels later drama. It is one scene (of many) when non-English speaking people of most all ages and cultures, not only understand what is happening, but can FEEL it. Be warned, THE MAN IN THE MOON will bring tears to the eyes just by thinking of the story long after it is viewed. The film is very well made and holds up well to frequent viewings. Simple perfection. THE MAN IN THE MOON is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"As Close to Perfection...","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In describing The Man in the Moon, Roger Ebert frequently uses words such as &#145;purity' and &#145;perfection'&#133;His review could not be more glowing, and could not be more appropriate.A beautiful story of coming-of-age, the film follows the emergence of  Dani Trant (Reese Witherspoon) on her family farm in a small country town in the 1950s. Her relationship with the world, her closeness and the importance of family, are tested in this beautifully photographed tale.Whether male or female, 16-60, The Man in the Moon will carry you off in the way only a wonderful movie can&#133;leaving you much the better for your having shared the vision of all the talented people involved with its creation.  "},{"Title":"I think that my comments really complement the truth and pureness of the movie.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Your first love is definitely something that does not go unforgotten. Yet some of the memories do fade away, you still remember exactly how you felt after they first kissed you. Well Man in the Moon will take you right back to the time where he took you in his arms and made you feel like you were walking on cloud nine. This movie is phenomenal, there is not only love , this movie will take you on the trip of your childhood. Tears and laughter, grief and pain Reese Witherspoon will stop your heart in a beat. It's a definite must see if you love the innocence and purity of a childhood that goes unforgotten. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree at first I thought this was going to be about a chick flick, but it actually has a great story about young love blended in with a story about a boy helping his mother.I own this movie on video and several friends have commented on enjoying it as well.  "},{"Title":"A touching, heartbreaking movie that is beautifully filmed.","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a relatively hard nosed person, I thought this movie was going to be another sloppy chick flick. I was way off! This film is capable of moving you very deeply if you've ever had a crush or been mixed up about any emotion as you were growing up. Beautifully filmed and acted, The Man in the Moon will rivet you to the screen and make you think afterwards as well. I think the ending to this movie had a bigger effect on me than any other I have seen in the 90's. Watch this movie if you love nostalgia, young love and you're not afraid to cry a little. "},{"Title":"What An Extraordinary Debut For Reese Witherspoon!","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are a few actors---actually very few-----who make such an indelible impression on you the very first time you see them on the screen that it is quite easy to predict future stardom for them.When we saw Lee Remick in her first film, A Face in the Crowd (1957), it was obvious that she had plenty of star power and would become a major film performer. The same thing can be said about George C. Scott, who in his very early breakthrough movie, Anatomy of a Murder (1959), stole the picture from veteran James Stewart and that same Lee Remick! And who would deny that Diane Lane's very first role as the early adolescent Juliet in A Little Romance (1979)---yet another variation on an attempt to stage the Shakespeare story in a modern setting----proved that she was an actor who would have a long and memorable career---which continues to this day.This leads us to Reese Witherspoon in The Man in the Moon. The film is lovely, touching, nostalgic, romantic, heartbreaking, sentimental and wonderful! But it is primarily a treasure because of the way it captures one of our great contemporary actors in a role (her first---at age 15 when the film was released!) that is astonishing in its range, depth and believability. As the story unfolds, you cannot separate Witherspoon from the young woman she is portraying----that's how natural and true she was in this part. Sure---we should give credit to Director Robert Mulligan for some of this accomplishment---but most of it seems to draw from Witherspoon's own deep well of amazing talent.Witherspoon's career has been hugely successful----and it's really just begun. She will continue to impress us with her ability while she matures as a performer. But Witherspoon will likely never again have the opportunity to present us with a special moment in time so realistically---with such force and conviction---as she did in The Man in the Moon. Her Dani is extraordinary! "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a fantastic film. it was different from what i expected. its the story of sisterly love and what family means. two sisters that share everything with each other and the man in the moon, suddenly become dstant when a young boy moves in next door. the younger sister falls in love with him and they become very close untill things start to happen between him and the older sister. they become much in love and plan to tell thier families until things turn for the worst. this film has a great feel good factor and it is also a tear jerker, just missed out on being a classic 80s movie!9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Oops!  Jim Carrey wasn't in this one","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It didn't take long for me to realize this was not the Andy Kaufman biography.  But this turned out to be worth seeing anyway. In the rural South in the 1950s, 14-year-old Dani is a tomboy who is about to discover boys.  Her father Matthew wants to go fishing on Sundays, while her mother Abigail insists the family go to church. She wants to go skinny-dipping at the Foster pond as soon as she gets home, though.  Only she's not alone  there's a boy there.Dani's sister Maureen is about to leave for Duke University. Her father is very strict, and when a boy comes to take her to a dance, the father gives the boy the third degree. There is good reason for concern, but not necessarily what one might think.Abigail reunites with her old friend Marie after many years.  If circumstances had been different, Marie would have married Matthew, and Abigail would have married the man Marie just lost because the man had a dangerous job.  Marie has three sons, while Abigail is pregnant with what may be daughter no. 4 (or maybe there will finally be a son).This movie is best when Dani is with the boy she likes, and there is also a funny scene where Maureen explains kissing to Dani.  There is a lot of comedy, but also a near tragedy and a tragedy.  I would have been happier without the more serious of these events, but what it did for the relationship between Dani and Maureen made the terrible event more worthwhile.The credits said 'introducing Reese Witherspoon'.  Still, she did a wonderful job, and showed that she had a lot of potential.  And she had a great smile.  I thought most of the leading actors did a good job.Overall, it was worth seeing.  I just wish the ending had been handled differently, in a way that could have still been effective. "},{"Title":"The essence of storytelling at it's finest - in any genre.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a tricky job to give this outstanding, `unknown', `little' film the praise it justly deserves because my own first reaction to such accolades is usually skepticism. That's o.k. Be skeptical &#150; just see this film.`The Man in the Moon' is the essence of storytelling at it's finest &#150; in any genre. It's a landmark example of why we need to tell stories and why we need to witness them we need to see, hear and celebrate the basic truths of life with everyone else.Read all the glowing reviews for this quiet little masterpiece. Then notice that the majority of them are written by GUYS. A `chick flick' par excellence on first glance.Roger Ebert's review is probably the most revealing.Last weekend I re-rented `Legally Blonde' just to revel in the sheer glee of Reese's tour-de-force performance. I put up with a basically lame movie a second time because she makes everything else in that film an afterthought. That's what got me hunting for other stuff she's done and that's how I discovered `The Man in the Moon' &#150; her first film.According to a recent interview, she auditioned for an extra part in the film and the director was so impressed with her that he cast her in the lead role. At 14.All the glowing reviews you read here should clue you into the wonderful buried treasure you're about to discover.Like I said, it's o.k. to be skeptical &#150; just see this film. Then recommend it to everyone you know.  "},{"Title":"Really a joy to see.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Working on this picture was not as great an experience as watching the movie.  The cast and crew were great to be around, but the chiggers, torrential rainstorms, hot and humid weather, etc. did little to assure us that this was going to be the great movie that it turned out to be.  Few people know that this was based on a true story, and filmed on location in the town where most of the real-life action occured.  Mulligan once again turns out another masterpiece.  I'm very disappointed that this one didn't get the recognition that it deserves. "},{"Title":"Very nicely done","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a die-hard film buff, I'm much harder to please that most. Man in the Moon is original, and very well acted. Witherspoon (15 at the time, playing a 14yo) in particular was pure enjoyment to watch -- she was convincing and engaging at the same time.MITM has three main plot turns, one (both sisters fall for the guy) took me by surprise, another was painfully obvious, and the last predictable before it happens -- but getting 33% past me is pretty good.At 108 minutes, I feel the film is too short. Both sisters could stand more development, particularly since the movie is primarily about their relationship.This film has kind of the same feel and themes as My Girl, but the acting and story line are much better. The content in my opinion is probably suitable for ages 12 and up, making it a strong candidate for family viewing. "}{"Title":"A Mixed Bag","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you can suspend disbelief and/or ignore reality, this is a reasonably decent film. While the acting is uneven, there is some really good work here, especially from Reese Witherspoon, who shows that she had it from a young age. She simply steals every scene she's in. But that's also a downside -- she by far outshines everyone else in the movie, including putting all those faux-Southern accents to shame with her authentic Tennessee drawl.While the story does a credible job of engaging the viewer, it runs roughshod over any semblance of reality. The viewer is expected to believe that in the 1950s American South, a respectable family would have been perfectly sanguine about their 14-year-old daughter regularly heading off unsupervised to the swimming hole with the 17-year-old boy next door. There is a token scene where Mr. Trant, seeing Dani upset, demands to know if Court tried anything with her. Finding out that he didn't, dear ol' Dad seems content to let his daughter continue going to the swimming hole till that no-account boy makes his move. Later, Mr. Trant even leaves the lovebirds at the house alone (albeit for what he thought would be a short time).Sorry, but it's simply impossible to believe that any of this would have happened... at least not in the sort of family depicted here. And no way would the kids have been so relaxed about getting caught in a compromising position, such as when Court strips down and goes skinny-dipping with Dani. Neither do the kids seem shy about sex, as when Maureen's first boyfriend tries to get it on with her under a tree right by the roadside. By the time Maureen and Court finally go for a roll in the hay, they do it on the edge of the field Court has been plowing where anyone could walk up on them (Court's mother shows up to deliver his lunch only minutes later). It's hard to imagine such conduct being realistic in many places even today, much less fifty years ago in the conservative South.While the story is supposedly based on someone's actual memoirs, one can not help believing that truth was tossed to the curb somewhere along the way. Such lazy storytelling is inexcusable and almost completely ruins the emotional impact of the film. I gave it five stars for watchability and for the redeeming aspects of the story, but this could have been a much better movie in the hands of more competent writers and filmmakers. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just loved this movie, no other word could possibly describe it.  The emotions in this movie are really intense, I've never cried harder at a movie, and got so involved in the characters. This is definitely one of my all time favorites!!!!! "},{"Title":"A tale not of this world","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The coming-of-age of a 14-year-old girl in rural mid-western 50s rendered solely as sexual awakening which for a woman in this movie's world is typical. Men are depicted as psychotics barely able to restrain their aggressiveness. I don't think that the people in America are really like that. Thy just wouldn't be viable. The story's turnings are so melodramatic I couldn't help but laugh aloud. "},{"Title":"100% chick flick, not the top of the genre, but does what it's supposed to","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i don't have any problem with the glowing reviews for this movie, except the one which claims outright that it's not a chick flick, for that it most *definitely* is.if you are a fan of the genre, or not a fan, but not totally turned off by them, the reviews do a good job of telling you what you're in for, and you should give it a shot.but it is a 100% chick flick, and those of us who don't voluntary sit through chick flicks should be appropriately warned. admitting my personal bias against chick flicks, i will admit that some transcend the genre or combine with other genres to make a great movie, but i don't think this is one of them.reese witherspoon does put in a good performance and it is interesting to see the star of 'cruel intentions' as just a kid (like seeing reruns of 'family ties' and mike fox when he was much younger), but the rest of the cast seems to be just 'mailing it in' in this film, and while adequate, none stand out (not even sam waterston). "},{"Title":"early Witherspoon star power","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's summer of 1957 rural Louisiana. Dani Trant (Reese Witherspoon) is a 14 year old Elvis fan. She's close to her older sister Maureen who is going to Duke in the fall. She has a younger sister Missy and her mother Abigail (Tess Harper) is pregnant with the fourth. Her father Matthew (Sam Waterston) is eager for a son. While skinny dipping at the Foster's place, Dani encounters 17 year old Court Foster (Jason London) whose family just returned to their property.Reese Witherspoon delivers quite a precocious performance. Her star power is evident even at such a young age. She plays off of Jason London very well who is fully into his boyish charms. The drawback is Emily Warfield who plays Maureen. She doesn't have the same star power and it shows. This coming-of-age story is touching bittersweet like a sunny summer day followed by a stormy night. I love all the conflicted teen girl thought process and first love struggles. It could have gone soft at the end but instead it takes an even darker turn. I do wish that Maureen is played by a more powerful actress. In the end, the sisters' relationship is the center of the movie. "},{"Title":"This is a crucifixion story.","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A young man named Court is loved by everyone. His painful bloody death brings everyone closer. You can find other symbols and allusions throughout the movie. Whether predictable or not, and irrespective of ecclesiastical beliefs, this is a moving story, full of milieu and sensuality.One other thing, someone mentioned that his fate was so quick that it didn't seem plausible. But the elements for this are set up subtly. Note what his mom says about bringing his lunch out to the field. Note how he is holding the steering wheel and his gloves. He is sweaty and operating dangerous equipment. To this day, tractors are pretty dangerous. "},{"Title":"When children outgrow talking to the man in the moon","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When the carefree life of a 14 year old girl is stirred by the feelings of first love, she has reached an age where the man in the moon may no longer be able to give her all of the answers to her increasing questions. Her attempts to befriend a 17 year old boy lead to obvious complications, as both know that it would be impossible for them to be dating. When the boy and the girl's older sister meet, it is love at first sight for both. With guilty feelings of betraying the little sister, the lovers meet secretly.The tragic ending is predictable, but necessary to bring across the message of family ties. Children may outgrow taking their problems to the man in the moon, but they can always talk to their sisters, brothers, etc. Close family bonds never break, no matter how difficult life may get. "},{"Title":"Really brilliant coming of age story","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am fifteen years old, and I have probably seen this film 20 or so times, but it truly never gets old. The acting is superb, and Reese Witherspoon is absolutely unforgettable. She is charming, perfectly naive, and all together brilliant as Dani Trant.The story sets out during one summer in 1950's rural Louisiana, where fourteen year old tomboy Danielle Dani Trant lives with her father, her pregnant mother, and her two sisters, Maureen, 18, and Missy, 3. Dani feels jealous of Maureen, a beautiful brain who will be off to college in the fall. Suddenly, seventeen year old Court Foster moves next door with his mother, an old friend of the Trants, and his younger twin brothers. Dani is immediately smitten with Court, who is handsome and charming, and soon falls in love with him. Court feels affection for Dani, but cannot bring himself to be with her because of their age difference. He tries to be friends with her, but this is not easy because she is so far gone in love with him. Unfortunately for Dani, Court falls for Maureen, and soon, Dani is heartbroken and angry. The two girls become rivals as the both vie for Court's affection.With a wonderful cast, openly, heart-wrenchingly honest dialogue, and all the charm of being young, The Man in the Moon is an amazingly done coming of age story for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and poignant love story  that touches the heart, with a charming story, and incredible performances, Reese steals the show!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful and poignant love story, that touches the heart, with a charming story and incredible performances, Reese steals the show!. All the characters are wonderful, and this is extremely underrated as well, plus Reese Witherspoon is simply incredible in this!. All the characters are extremely likable, and it will leave you thinking for a bit after you are done watching it, plus the ending is extremely sad but so incredibly well done. I had been searching for this movie for a while, since I'm huge Reese fan, and wanted to see some of her work as a child actress, and lucky for me it was in the rental section, and I must say I wasn't disappointed, plus it's extremely well made and written as well. I really loved the bond between the two sisters Reese (Danni) and Emily Warfield (Maureen), and Reese and Jason London(Court) made a really cute couple, and shared good chemistry, plus this should be even higher then the 7.4 rating it gets on this site!. It was unpredictable throughout, and Reese may have given the best performance from a child I have ever seen! plus the music is excellent.For a pretty much unknown cast for the most part back then, they performed extraordinarily well, and it had some really good dialog as well, plus Reese is just so adorable in this film. I especially liked the setting, and the scenes where Reese and Jason London were swimming in the pond together, were very cute and amusing, plus Sam Waterston has a lot of great scenes as the intimidating but very likable father!. This is one of Reese's most underrated movies, and there are a lot of moments that will really make you smile,plus one of my favorite moments in the film is when after Dani gets her 1st kiss, the next day she leans up beside Court, and puts a kiss expression on her face, as I thought that was really adorable, plus it had some great humorous moments as well!. I could tell from this movie that Reese was heading for super stardom eventually, as I rank this was some of her other top performances, plus while you may hate Maureen, at times, it won't last long, because you know it's not her fault, with what happened to Dani and Court.I hated it when the dad beat Reese with his belt buckle, thankfully he came to his senses, and the scenery is quite beautiful as well, plus it's a shame that this grossed over only two million at the Box office. You will really feel for the characters, and I loved how the family had such a wonderful bond, as they looked very close, plus I loved the conversation between Dani and Maureen at the end. This is a beautiful and poignant love story, that touches the heart, with a charming story and incredible performances, Reese steals the show, and if you haven't seen it, please do so immediately, you shouldn't regret it if you like love stories!.The Direction is outstanding!. Robert Mulligna does an outstanding job here, with excellent camera work, good angles and keeping the film at an extremely fast pace.The Acting is incredible!. Reese Witherspoon is amazing as always and is incredible here, she is so incredibly cute, extremely likable, completely stole the show, had great chemistry with Jason London, and even thought this was her 1st movie, she looked like a true pro, that's how good she was, I also loved her perkiness and spunk as well, as this has to be one of the best debuts from an actress I have ever seen! (Reese rules!!!!!!!!!!). Jason London is excellent here as Court, he was rather goofy, but very likable, he also had great chemistry with Reese, I dug him lots. Emily Warfield is fantastic as Dani's sister, she was very pretty, and likable, and shared a good bond with Reese, I liked her lots, where is she now?. Sam Waterston is superb as the strict but caring father, he is a good character actor, I liked him. Tess Harper did what she had to do well as the Mom, I liked her too. Gail Strickland is adequate here, as Court's mom but didn't have much to do. Rest of the cast do fine.Overall if you haven't seen it do so immediately you won't regret it, as I encourage all Reese fans to see this!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Perfect Handling of Delicate Subject","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just stumbled on this movie a few years ago and was captivated by it. The subject of a 14 year old girl and her 17 year old sister being in love with the same 17 year old boy and him having the same feelings (at times) for them could have been really creepy and or clumsy. It was not. It felt right.Reese Witherspoon was 15 when this movie was released and I was amazed at how good an actress she was at that age. Having been born in the 1950's and spending time in rural Texas, so much of the movie looked authentic, from the sleeping porches, the ice cream maker (I cranked one of those too and then got a brain freeze from eating it), and other things.I think most people who watch this movie will remember it for a long time and value the memories. "}{"Title":"The Man In The Moon w/ Jason London and Reese Witherspoon","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I do not normally enjoy (or even watch) love stories but this one really moved me. I fall in love with Jason London again every time I see it (8 times so far) and I always still weep when the tragedy happens (and I NEVER cry). Reese's efforts and natural abilities always make me believe that the story is real. The casting was flawless and all of the actors and actresses in this one should have won awards (in my opinion). Even the setting honestly reminds me of a wonderful, simpler time when I was growing up in the foot-hills in PA on a farm and we would go swimming in the pond, play in the woods, haul water from springs, and we grew most of our own food. I would suggest this little gem to anyone who has a heart, and my hat is off to the entire cast and crew - especially Jason London, who is now in my heart forever. "},{"Title":"The Man in the Moon","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well as you know my name is Ignacio Daniel Cordova Arellano. Iam eighteen and I speak some English. But for me it is interesting to give my opinion. Well I saw the film on TV in COSMOPOLITAN. I am a really fanatic of Reese Witherspoon because of their beauty. FIRS, I like the history in general because it reminds me the love (in this case the love of Dani to Court) that we feel to other person that you get in well with. I really cry when I see that the boy dies I couldn't understand it. But well it was really interesting. I would be happy if the boy (court) could fall in love with Dani and no much with the sister. But the director of the film wanted the tale like that. a drama "},{"Title":"Powerful, as well as gentle","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This story involves two sisters,one(Dani just coming of age), and Maureen who was a few years older, who have a crush on the same boy.I felt sorry for both girls, because the boy in question was more attracted to the older girl, and it hurt her feelings to know she was hurting Danis feelings.The story ends in tragedy, and this gives the girls a reason to reconcile, and show their love for one another.This is a very intense, and powerful movie, and deals with sibling rivalry, and should be seen by almost anyone who has kids or siblings. I forgot to mention that this story takes place on a farm in Alabama, and there is some beautiful scenery. Including the beautiful Reece Witherspoon who plays Dani. "},{"Title":"One of the best American made coming of age films.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just loved the setting of this film and the very real cultural standards for that time period. I think this is one of Reese W.'s best films... her best is Election.This film and the Australian film Flirting I would highly recommend to young teenagers.   "},{"Title":"Witherspoon shines in this touching drama","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Man in the Moon is a well-acted, painfully realistic story about a young girl growing up in Louisiana in the 1950s.  It focuses on the life of Dani Trant (Reese Witherspoon), a 14-year-old who falls in love for the first time.  The film does a good job at portraying the harsh life lessons that Dani faces, as well as how she learns from those experiences to become a better person.The entire cast puts in some very fine performances, but Witherspoon is the one who really stands out here.  In her first film role, she displays a remarkable on-screen presence, as well as a natural talent for acting.  She is the main reason why I cared so much about what happened to her character, and why I could understand her feelings of both happiness and sorrow.  Even in this early role, Reese displays many of the qualities that would later make her a star.The Man in the Moon is a drama that is very moving, yet it is not overly sentimental.  It is definitely a film that I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Court should of ended up with Danny!!!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OMG I loved this movie! Even though I really think Court should of ended up with Danny. The ending was harsh though! I think Court should of realized he was truly in love with Danny, not her sister. That would of made the story better. But Court shouldn't of died, he should of realized he was great friends with Danny, then blow off the older sister. Even though Danny and Court were in a three year age difference, I don't think this should effect their relationship. When Court was with Danny he was such a nice guy. But when he got with her older sister, he ended up trashy and he ignored Danny after that too! What a rip off! But I'm glad the sisters made up. Overall Reese Witherspoon was wonderful,like all of the other characters. They filmed it in a great place, and I loved when Danny ran through the fields helplessly because she looked so happy after she kissed Court! "},{"Title":"Glimpsing a star","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's Dec 2004 and I've just seen THE MAN IN THE MOON for the first time. If I had seen it when it first came out, I would have said, That little girl (Reese Witherspoon) is gonna be a star!It's the type of gentle story that Robert Mulligan specializes in life and love in a southern rural household sometime in the past (this was set in the late 1950s). It's amazing to think that he's from the Bronx.While this story lacks the originality and depth that would have made it a great film, Mulligan and the cast give it enough to satisfy the gentle souls in the audience. Special mention should go to Sam Waterston, Gail Strickland and Ernie Lively. Jason London and pretty Emily Warfield -- they're very pleasant. In the end, however, it's the stunning work of the precocious Reese Witherspoon that makes this movie for me. "},{"Title":"Break out the Kleenex!","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though you could just look at this film as a sweet, old-fashioned tear-jerker, it's more than that. Its sensitivity reminds me of greats like To Kill A Mockingbird. The tears it invokes are well-earned after introducing memorable characters and involving the viewer in their lives. And it's beautifully shot and scored.The performances are wonderful, all-around. I saw this before Reese Witherspoon was a star, and had a feeling she would grow up to be the success that she has. It's a mystery why her co-star, Emily Warfield, didn't find the same notoriety.Whether you're in the mood for a good cry, or just looking for a very good movie, I highly recommend THE MAN IN THE MOON.   "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Romantic Films Ever Made!!!!!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw The Man In The Moon for the first time i fell head over heels in love with it. I saw the trailer of it on my sisters film Manniquen on the move and i didn't rent it until two years after! First off its great to own the first film Reese Witherspoon is in and to also know i have a film with Jason London in it! To me at a youngish age i had fallen in love for the first time when i saw this film because Jason London was in it (Court Foster) I thought he was so gorgeous and his caracter is so cute and makes you fall in love with him more! Reese is a very good actress and it shows off in this film. The part that gets me the most is when Court falls off the tractor and gets killed. It doesn't matter how many times i saw it i still cant stop crying!! I give this 10/10 totally NO spoilers and i recomend anyone who plans on watching it sit beside a box of tissues!!!!!  "},{"Title":"I was in for a surprise...","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was at Blockbuster the other day and I'd wanted to rent Man ON the Moon, and it turns out I got Man IN the Moon instead, it had been right behind the Man ON the Moon case. When I got home I figured that the word IN on the title on the case was a spelling error or something, but when I started to watch it, I knew I'd rented the wrong movie, and checked by watching the trailer for it to see if I really wanted to go on seeing it. Judging by the trailer, I was hesitant to watch the movie, but I did, and it's actually one of my favorite movies now. This movie gave me a whole new respect for Reese Witherspoon, and all the other performances were really great. I'm glad I grabbed this one instead of Man ON the Moon, or I'd probably have never seen this. "}{"Title":"One of the best teen flicks","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had seen this movie on cable and have to say this is one movie that has completely surpassed my expectations. The story is simple, the acting brilliant especially that of Reese. Although the title made me think of a space movie, I am glad I had switched on the tube to see it. "},{"Title":"You remember, when we were young, momma would tell us when things get all mixed up all you had to do is tell the Man In The Moon, and he'll sort it out while you sleep. <Maureen and Dani","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  NO SPOILERS HERE - Introducing Reese Witherspoon.  Without her, the film would have only been average, I suspect. This was her first film, and if I had actually seen it in 1991, might have commented, This young actress is going to be a star.  Well, she's become one. She really carries this film. It is set in rural Louisiana, in the 50s, and the movie starts with Elvis' Loving You playing in the background. This is Dani's favorite song, she is 14 and anxious to find out what it's like to be loved by someone.I was 14 in the 50s, and grew up in rural Louisiana. Dani and her family could have been one of our neighbors. It was summer, the windows were open at night, and the two teen-age daughters slept on the screened-in back porch. This is the way it was, a simpler time before everyone had air-conditioning, and when you had little fear that a stranger would intrude. This is a touching story of two sisters, one a tomboy who is just budding out and the other in full bloom and beautiful, having a fancy for the same 17-year-old boy. The filming is beautiful, the acting just right, the background music not intrusive. I rate it 8 of 10. I own the DVD. While it is only ProLogic sound, and the extras are limited to the theatrical trailer, the sound and video transfer are first rate. It is a budget DVD, $10 or less at most outlets, and a fine one to own, if for no other reason than to have Reese Witherspoon's first film. "},{"Title":"Ahhhh...young love!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very good film which takes a nostalgic look at rural life in the 50's. The focal point of the movie was a 14 year old girl and her lovesick mooning over an older boy. Sounds corny, but was so well written that it kept my attention all the way. Lots of excellent acting, and great dialogue made for a very enjoyable 2 hours. Loved it.  "},{"Title":"Oh How Syrupy","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A cutesy fourteen-year-old girl, played by Reese Witherspoon, learns about relationships and loss in rural 1950s Louisiana. It's yet another drippy coming-of-age story.The little girl here is precocious and eager. Having her as the protagonist will most assuredly appeal to viewers who want to see the world through her eyes. But I don't. I found her annoying.The script's setup is way too long. The inciting incident doesn't occur until 42 minutes into the film. As such, for the first thirty minutes or more, one wonders if this story is leading anywhere. A lot of filler consumes the first forty minutes.In addition, the Louisiana setting is wasted. There's nothing in the story that requires the film be set in the American South. It could just as easily have been set in the rural areas of New England or the American West.Moreover, neither the story concept nor the themes of first love and sibling rivalry is original. The story has absolutely nothing new to offer. In short, I don't know why this film was even made.The film does contain some convincing and detailed production design. And the acting of the adults is generally credible. That's about the best I can say.The Man In The Moon will appeal to kids, especially those at the prepubescent age, and to adults who are sentimental or like films dealing with soppy family values. These viewers would likely summarize the film as touching. But I found the story schmaltzy, unoriginal, fairly pointless, and way too syrupy for my taste. "},{"Title":"I cannot agree with the glowing reviews below","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That is not to say that I hated this movie.  There is nothing really wrong with it but it did not move me, emotionally or intellectually.  I thought all the acting was great and while it had too many by-the-numbers plot points, that didn't bother me either. I don't want to bad-mouth a sweet little movie like this, so I will just say nothing else, other than it was great to hear Elvis on the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie on HBO many many many years ago... it touched me so much that I never forgot it.I hate Dani's sister! Maureen should have stuck with She's my sister. She was going off to college anyway so why go after a guy her sister likes. SKANK! Court was horrible to Dani after he met Maureen.Every time I was this move I cry my eyes out and its not when Court dies.If the ending was different I might would have liked it. Or if Court would have just left Maureen alone. Oh well, can't make every movie have a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Today this film wouldn't be made","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Today with religious activists, this film wouldn't be made because it is portraying a much older boy 17/18 JUST kissing a girl who is 14. The film says 14 anyone watching assumes she really is about 12 or 13 visually by her physical development. Conservatism today associates any romantic touching between these ages, as molesting the innocence of the younger person. And having the the older romantic party arrested, charged and convicted and place on some predator database.My oh my what has happened to pragmatic America? Remember the 1978 Pretty Baby with preteen Brooke Shields. What has changed in 20+ years? My family all watched it and my girls and boys 8-15 love it and found it memorable. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought the movie was great but they made the older sister seem like a jerk for stealing him from Danny!!!( this may be cause we're danny's age ) ) but other word it was really good and he was REALLY HOT (even though he;s like 34 right now!) LOL++ the nudity wasn't that bad people it was like for a second and if you have a problem with it then you shouldn't have watched it because it says right on the box that there is brief nudity! SO READ!!!!!!!!!!! - Then we won't have these problems!!! But I definitely think people should see this movie. It's sooo good!! But one downside to the movie was that they had the sister and Court make out which was kind of stupid on their part and REALLY MEAN TO DANNY so in a way Court and the sister got what they were asking for when Court died (even though that was a little harsh but...) "},{"Title":"Great filmmaking","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this film on television (July 2004).   Wonderful locations - Filmed in Louisiana This is a wonderful piece of filmmaking.   Great casting, direction and photography.  The entire cast and crew should be proud. For me, there were only two slightly predictable moments, however... the storytelling is excellent. A period piece that stays true to it's time (no hip dialogue). Clothing, vehicles, props were all right on. I highly recommend this motion picture.  "},{"Title":"Great but so sad.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie was great. But it was just so sad what happened to court (which i may add, is a total cutey). The older sister and him had only met and they were already saying they were in love...How could she do that to her sister who she 'cares' about so much. But it was so sweet how he was dani's first kiss. But then not so sweet how he just blew her off afterwards..Ohwell, i still think it was a great movie. "}{"Title":"OK","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A slightly better than average coming of age film which shows up on TV from time to time. You can see a young Reese Witherspoon in one of her first movies as the lonely and lovelorn younger sister. She's not exactly in the same acting league with certain other child actresses who survived to play adult roles, such as Kirsten Dunst and Drew Barrymore, but what the hey. I am sure there are plenty of Reese Witherspoon fans out there. The tractor death scene is horrific and will stick with you long after the film is over. "},{"Title":"excellent movie!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was totally awesome! I usually never cry at movies. But this movie really meant something to me! I felt like I had been through the kind of love that Dani was experiencing! The ending of this movie hit me like nothing else i know i cried for days! It was a very well written story and the actors were excellent! "},{"Title":"**Spoiler Warning** Man in the bushes","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie in the beginning, Emily Warfield and Reese Witherspoon and the new guy had a cute innocent teen love triangle. Then all of a sudden out of the blue, there's an explicit sex scene between tractor guy and Emily in the bushes while on break from plowing. Nothing wrong with that Emily Warfield is really hot, and I'd like to see her in more stuff. However, after the loving, back to plowing, uh-oh, I left my hat on the bush, plow boy reaches for it, falls off the tractor, oh no the disk blades, chop chop.  It's supposed to be tragic but it had me rolling. This ending is just about as bad as the Robbie Benson's come uppance in Ice Castles. Why they have to have these things, out of the blue, or out of the bushes in this case I have yet to see. "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick the guys are going to need a hanky for","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film fits the stereotype of the classic Chick Flick in every way. Don't get me wrong though, real men aren't afraid to watch a Chick Flick or to get caught with a tear in their eye over it.  A real tear jerker about first love and great loss.  I don't like to give away too much in describing films to those who haven't seen them so just go rent this one and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Great, Sentimental, Well acted","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon (Pleasantville) in her first film.  Syrupy tear jerker about a thirteen year old girl's first love who happens to fall in love with her older sister.  A three hanky chick flick!  Real men aren't afraid to watch chick flicks! "},{"Title":"Tender Story with Terrific Acting and Directing","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Man in the Moon, The (1991) **** (out of 4) Set during 1957, this tender coming-of-age movie is without question one of the best of its kind due to some wonderful direction and performances. The film centers around 13-year-old Dani (Reese Witherspoon) who falls in love with her 17-year-old neighbor Court (Jason London) but soon he finds himself falling for Dani's older sister (Emily Warfield). While this isn't the first coming-of-age film to deal with some sort of love triangle, I do feel it's one of the best due in large part to a very tender story and the masterful direction by Mulligan. The screenplay certainly isn't 100% original and there were so many moments where the film could have fallen flat on its face but Mulligan's direction handles everything so perfectly that you can feel and believe everything you're seeing. I won't give away the ending but so many movies would have tried the same thing and I'd say that the over whelming majority of them would have failed. You could say it would be a miracle to make the ending work but the miracle is this movie and it pulls it off in such a loving way that you can't help but sit through the end credits and really soak in everything you've seen. The screenplay does a terrific job at showing love through the eyes of a 13-year-old girl who feels she's just starting to get life and yet she doesn't realize all the mean tricks it can throw at you. The movie does a marvelous job at getting the setting just right and an even better job because the thing plays out like a poem that doesn't hit a wrong note. Another factor that really brings the story to life are the wonderful performances, which are some of the best you're going to see. Sam Waterson and Tess Harper are perfect as the parents who find themselves dealing with their girls growing up. London has never been better in his career but he's pitch-perfect in the role of Court and the chemistry he has with the sisters really adds another dimension to the picture. Warfield is so soft in the picture that you really can't help but fall in love with her. As terrific as everyone is there's no question that the movie belongs to Witherspoon in the film that would really launch her and separate her from so many of the young actresses at the time. Witherspoon really owns this character and makes her one of the most memorable young female roles in recent memory. There's no doubt that once you see this film you're not going to forget this character and the young actress has to go through a lot of emotions and various ranges and yet she pulls all of them off perfectly. The chemistry between her and London is so great that you have no problem feeling and understanding what they're going through. The nice score by James Newton Howard and great cinematography by Freddie Francis just add to the greatness of the picture. THE MAN IN THE MOON might seem like your typical coming-of-age flick but it's so much more thanks to the unforgettable performances and direction. "},{"Title":"i am watchin this now","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i am watching this movie as i am typing this. as soon as i saw reese witherspoon i came on here to find out more info about this movie i didn't know she was in. i thought it was great and very realistic about a 14 yr olds coming of age feelings. although i thought it was extremly rude of court to treat dani that way after he met her sister.i am glad they didn't end up hooked up together obviously he woulds done it sooner than later.well seeing i know he dies from reading the posts and it seems all down hill from the moment he saw maureen i think now is a good time to switch the channel.its bad enuff he did that to her but her own sister?thats not what i would do to a family member no matter how old they were.guess it may be better it ended the way it did before he caused more heartache.I bet the girls father woulda put him in his place had he known what was going on.he seemed that way.well i am not watchin the end,think i'll go rent a sappy love story i can cry and feel good about crying lol.maybe a newer reese movie like sweet home alabama. "},{"Title":"Neat little drama, but nothing special","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie begins with the Trant family, with the daughters Danielle (a young Reese Witherspoon) and Maureen in the middle. As all teenage girls, they think and dream about boys. Then, one day, a fine specimen in the form of Court Foster comes to live nearby with his mother. And the drama unfolds...Down movie tries to be upbeat at times, but has loads of tearjerking moments. There isn't really anything wrong with it, it's just..., well, nothing special really. Acting, photography, directing (Mulligans last film)... excellent. But it just won't stick (with me anyway)...5/10. "},{"Title":"may contain some little spoilers.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked the beginning of the film but not the second part as much. I was thinking towards the beginning of a relationship starting between Danni and court and it was some what coming together and they throw her sister in. I thought they should have made it more about Danni and court and not her sister. I wish they would remake it and do that but I doubt they will. I thought they should have given another character for Maureen for her to love. It seemed like Maureen got everything and Danny was always stuck with nothing. I hope someone tried to remake this and make it good. I was actually starting to relate to this I am around that age and understand but they made Danny feel like crap. Not once something bad happen to Maureen. Danny my heart went out to her and the one thing she loved Maureen got that too. Someone just please remake it the way it should have probably been. "}]