[{"Title":"Why does everyone hate this film?","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"423 out of 571 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I, personally, cannot understand why so many people have left negative comments about this film. When it was released, many of us were young children and we all enjoyed it, but now that we are older, too many people are pointing out the bad jokes and mistakes and clichés that they have found. The point is, this is a children's film, and we didn't see those mistakes when we were children because it's designed that way. Even so, people fail to see deeper into certain aspects of the film. Peter Pan was meant to be 'the boy who never grew up', so to have a tale of his adult life and to show how he forgot Neverland is a special and unique take on the story, one that won't be forgotten.There have also been many complaints about the scene where Tink becomes human-size and expresses some kind of love for Peter. Although she is not a human per se, she can have human feelings, so why would she not love him? As the original story tells, she is often jealous of other womens' affections towards him, and this film just extrapolates on that theme a little.There have been comments about the 'father-who-is-so-busy-and-can't-go-to-the-game' cliché. Well, here's news for you. It's cliché because it happens all the time, and it's a truth! Some parents are just too busy to care. Lastly, too many people are moaning that Hook was too comical to be the bad guy. Well, this is a kids film and if he wasn't a little bit cheery-in-a-maniac sort of way, you'd have parents complaining that their kids were scared.The main thing about this film is that it is really good, but it IS designed for children, and adults who go back and watch it years later, then suddenly spot loads of mistakes are just ruining it for themselves and others. "},{"Title":"Brings Back Childhood Memories!","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"72 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Right, I can understand that Spielberg's previous achievements had set the bar really high, but by no means does this make 'Hook' a flop. The story is what is so appealing to a young audience and a mature audience for that matter. The sensitive undertones of such a celebrated story spark much joy and heartfelt moments. The 'what if' factor of the whole story is really adventurous, and the fact that this story stems from the original is brilliant. Its a story of love,family and identity. All three elements resonate with a lot of audiences. From a visual standpoint Spielberg triumphs again! And i don't understand why people beg to differ! For the purpose of entertaining young audiences, it fulfills the intention and more. I must say however, the film owes 50% of its credit to John Williams. His absolutely stunning score supports the story's tenderness. The flying sequence is so thrilling that it literally makes me get up and want to levitate! The performances are equally stunning and convincing, Robin Williams encompasses both his comedic and dramatic skills towards a full blooded performance. Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins are superb....really really astonishing. This film has to be one of Spielberg's most overlooked and underrated films of all time. It holds so much promise and warmth that every time I sit back and soak up the high-flying adventure it sends shivers down my spine. I recently watched it after so many years of it lost in my memory that I felt like I had visited a historical landmark..its placed within a treasured set of memories on my part. I cant express how moving this film is, its just enthralling in every sense of the word..the construction of the story is very clever and realistic - from a child's point of view. Really guys hold the cynicism and unlock you imaginations and appreciate this work of cinematic art. "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman can easily can get you hooked","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"81 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a spin off of the classic tale of Peter Pan, you ever wonder what life would have been like for Peter Pan if he had grown up? If he had kids, a wife, and a career as a lawyer? Not very much, but it happens here in Spielberg's tale of the boy who never wanted to grow up. Hook is a pretty good film, it was definitely very imaginative and creative story wise. The sets and actors were absolutely perfect for this film; did you know that Michael Jackson originally wanted to play the role of Peter? Pretty creepy, huh? But Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman were so great together, I really enjoyed their performances. But the only actress I questioned was Julia Roberts as Tink, I'm not so sure if she was the best choice for the role. But that's just me, while the story seemed to drag on a bit, it was actually pretty good.Peter is a bit of a grown up who just can't seem to have fun in life, he misses his son's baseball games, doesn't spend much time with the family, and is always focused on work. But when he and his wife visit England with their kids to see Wendy, the lady who raised Peter when he was an orphan, his kids are kidnapped by Captain James Hook who wants to challenge Peter, but when Tink takes Peter back to Neverland, he needs major convincing that he is Peter Pan and is given three days to do so to get back his children. The Lost Boys try their best to make Peter bang-or-aign once again with them and that he'll get his kids back while learning the importance of youth.Hook is over all a good film that I would recommend to people. It's not at all a bad film, it has good drama in it along with great comedy. Most people love the dinner scene between Peter and Rufio, mine is Captain Hook explaining to Peter's kids why parents don't love children. Dustin's delivery of I want to potty, I want a cookie was just so perfect and funny. This is a good family film that I think you'll like, it's just an honest film with a fun story.6/10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I try to make it a point to watch this movie at least once a year, or when I feel myself getting too cynical. This is because if you are looking for fun movie that really does pull at the kid inside you, then this is definitely it.Robin Williams is just the right kind of goofy for my tastes, and makes an excellent Pan. Captain Hook was perfectly fit by Dustin Hoffman. I could have done without Julia Roberts as Tink. Actually, I can do without Julia Roberts all together. But Bob Hoskins made a great Smee. (I like to watch this and Who Framed Roger Rabbit, back-to-back) Anyways, I watch this movie once a year because the message of the movie, and the reason people watch it, warrants that. A movie where the message is to never lose sight of your inner child. Imagination. Belief in magical creatures. Sword fighting with pirates. All of these things that I'm sure you did as a child, as I did.As far as I'm concerned, all of the people who have written bad reviews for this movie, saying things like The characters weren't believable, and Spielberg tried to answer a question that didn't need an answer have lost sight of the kid in themselves, have become pirates, and should have their hands fed to crocodiles. It's a movie. A family movie. One that needs to appeal to both children and adults, which is a difficult task, to be successful. And I believe that this movie succeeds at that very well. "},{"Title":"you naysayers miss the whole point","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"84 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" as is typical of reviews of most films at IMDb, 20% or so find films reviewed here as being bad. Hook is no different. I never tire of seeing this film. Sure Spielberg gives us his take on the story and the what ifs abound, and there are imperfections. so what else is new about film-making?do you see any films on this website that got a 10? NO!no one film will EVER please everyone who watched it. so what's the point of giving your opinion? it obviously won't change the film. your opinion warns others to stay away from this film. don't waste your time blah blah blah.point of my diatribe? take the wonderful parts and acting and visuals and music and whatever aspects of the film you like, and ENJOY THEM.there are wonderful bits and pieces of Hook, and whole scenes, and the notion that people can change and try to make life better for those they may have hurt, and so on.this film, if you have a heart, and some of you don't, speaks to that heart and moves it and makes you thankful for those in your life who really do need you.am i a sentimentalist? so what if I am! get over it. and get a life. "},{"Title":"Pan Is Back","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Purportedly Steven Spielberg is not happy with the end product of Hook. I'm at a loss to know why because I think it's an absolutely charming fantasy, using his own peculiar take on the Peter Pan story and extending it.Robin Williams as Peter Banning is a hard driving lawyer with a wife and two children Caroline Goodall, Charlie Korsmo and Amber Scott respectively. He was an orphan kid who married the granddaughter of Wendy Darling who was Sir James M. Barrie's inspiration for the Peter Pan tale.But it's all real, Robin Williams doesn't know he's Peter Pan who left Never Never Land for reasons you'll discover in the film. But he left one nasty enemy there in Captain Hook and Hook captures his children to lure him back to Never Never Land where Hook can take vengeance upon him.Spielberg got some great performances out of his cast which also includes Julia Roberts as the elfin Tinkerbell and Maggie Smith as the aged Wendy. But stealing the film completely in one bravura performance is Dustin Hoffman. Captain Hook is one of those fabulous roles where the actor can just feast on the scenery and can just go to town with it. It's a role that it is impossible to overact in. I doubt if Dustin Hoffman ever enjoyed himself more in making a film.Hook got five Oscar nominations in the technical categories, but sad to say did not win anything in 1991. I'm surprised that one of Arnold Schwarzenegger's Terminator films beat Hook out for Best Visual Effects, this one is clearly superior in that department if anything.Robin Williams has his innings as well, trying to remember his past as Peter Pan and get back into Pan like behavior to defeat Captain Hook. As to why he left Never Never Land in the first place. Let's just say he took one too many trips outside his domain and something happened to him that happens to all young men at some point.Hook is a great piece of family entertainment from Steven Spielberg and Dustin Hoffman's fans will really enjoy it. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was 10 years old when I first saw this movie (and I was born in 1993), and it was one of my favorites. The 90's had a lot of very great movies, and I had to watch movies when I reached an age where I'd understand them. At 10 years old, I began to watch movie after movie to catch up to my older sister. Hook has many talented actors in it, and the plot was very good. The action scenes were very well done, the pirates were incredibly detailed in their clothes, and the whole island brought me back to the world of wonder that is Never Never Land. The Disney movie of it was what led me to watch this one, and because I watched the Disney one, it made me love this one even more. Sure, there are some of you who say it could have been better, and in some ways, I do agree, but for what they had to work with, I say it was a spectacular adventure. "},{"Title":"9/10 for Dustin Hoffman's performance alone.","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a fantastic classic movie of a classic fairy tale.The sets are amazing (none of this green screen crap!)The acting is fantastic. Dustin Hoffman, Maggie Smith, Robin Williams, and Charlie Korsmo do an especially good job.The adaptation is written very well. Instead of the boy who can't grow up, it's the man who's forgotten how to have fun, and be in the moment, like a child.The IMDb rating is way off. How the hell does Pitch Perfect, and rubbish like that do better? How? Because either this site is full of morons with no taste, or the world is, or more likely both...All negativeness aside, this is a great movie, if you haven't scene it, you're missing out. "},{"Title":"A defending note","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sometimes you have to accept that you are the minority. I didn't find Casino Royale to be the ultimate 007 movie and I didn't think Batman Begins was the ultimate Batman movie. I think the Star Wars prequels deserve more credit and what people so viciously hated about Jar-Jar I will just never understand. But it's OK. I accept that. In these cases it's simply just a matter of taste. You don't agree with me, I don't agree with you? It's not the end of the world.There are however other times when you feel that you have seen an entirely different movie than others have. And as some movies like 2001 or Blade Runner were torn apart or frowned upon when they first came, they have grown into classics later on. Why? My guess is misconceptions and pre-set expectations.Now, I can't stop anybody from hating Steven Spielberg's Hook if they want to. But I think it's appropriate to raise my voice a little, in talking about what kind of a movie it actually is.First of all, it's always been clear to me that Hook isn't that much of a story of Peter Pan as it is a story of Peter Banning or, if you want to get far fetched, perhaps Spielberg himself. Peter Banning has no respect and takes no interest in his children; thematically, this is defined by the way he consistently denies their world as REAL. By their world, I mean the world of a child, the world of games, stories, action and adventure. Be it baseball, school plays, drawings, bedtime storytelling or indoor games, Peter Banning does not comprehend this world as a very real world - but it is real to his children, it's actually their only real world, since the adult world leaves no place for them.Now, the movie is all about Peter Banning finding respect for his children and understanding their world as real. In the movie, he becomes forced to do this. At first he is hooked, if you will, by the very real notion that his children have been kidnapped. That naturally catches his attention, and naturally to him, nothing could be more frightening or real. His motivation here is to simply bring back his children, but as it turns out he will have to totally enter the children's play-world and play, accepting their world as real.To make it entirely clear that the children's world IS REAL, the movie literary crosses the line between fantasy and reality and Tinkerbell arrives to Peter Banning. The movie suggests that he not only will have to play that he is Peter Pan, he undoubtedly IS Peter Pan and cannot get away from it. He is hereby forced into play. This continues when he arrives at Neverneverland. Again, he cannot escape this world and in my mind this world is not so much JM Barrie's creation as it is a realm that essentially embodies child's play in general. It's like locking a bad parent into a playground, forcing him to spend time with the children in there. Because Neverneverland IS all play and fun. The lost boys PLAY that they are the lost boys, the pirates PLAY that they are pirates, Dustin Hoffman is obviously PLAYING that he is Captain Hook and as much as Peter Banning has to be forced into actually being Peter Pan in order to force him into taking it seriously, he eventually also PLAYS that he is Peter Pan. The theme of adults not seeing their children, or taking their world as real, is common in Spielberg's films. Remember Drew Barrymore in E.T, suggesting that maybe grown-ups can't see E.T and later on, Dee Wallace's mother is in the very same room as E.T but can't seem to notice him, since she is not interested in hearing any stories about men from the moon, that is to say she doesn't take it for real. There is a thematically identical scene in Hook where Peter is served the empty plates with food that he cannot see until he understands that the play is all for real. It's the scene that most people remember from the movie, even those who don't like it, and I don't think it's any coincidence.This theme about believing and seeing children's fantasy world as REAL, is sprinkled all through the movie in just about every scene from beginning to end. But to underline that this movie essentially is about a man who will have to take his kids seriously, and not so much a movie where Peter Pan actually goes back to Neverneverland, the movie's final sequences have Peter Banning waking up by a Peter Pan-like statue, suggesting that perhaps it was all just a drunken dream. Note that I am not saying it was, because the movie clearly states that the events have taken place within the reality of the movie, it's not a it was all just a dream-ending, but the scene clearly points out that it doesn't really matter if it was all make-believe nor not, because in the eyes of a child, make-believe is just as real as the real world. Actually, the last line of the movie is To live would be an awfully big adventure so I think Spielberg is also suggesting that grown-ups too need to think of their life as something a little more romantic and adventurous.All in all, I think the movie has flaws and all, that's not what this comment is about, but I haven't seen these points anywhere so I figured I post my views. Hook is first and foremost not a What if?-story, and not a story of the adult Peter Pan. Yes it's what happens in the movie, but it's not what the movie is all about.Bangerang. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"43 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" All of you that are leaving comments are probably old farts that didn't grow up with this movie. This movie is a awesome fairy tale. It is a classic and probably my most favorite movie of all time. Very creative storyline. Its about Peter Pan forgetting his past and saving his kids. Robin Williams did a incredible job in this movie. I saw people dressed up as Rufio at every year at college parties. this movie was made 17 years ago and its considered a classic. I've never meet anyone that doesn't like it. So if you haven't seen it then go watch it! It has everyone one from the cartoon, like Wendy, peter pan, hook, the lost boys, tinker bell. And a new character Rufio!!! "}{"Title":"Never forget your inner child","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Back in 1994 when I was 10 this was a favourite of mine, I even had all the action figures. As I got older I never really thought much of it until the other day when I decided to watch it just for the hell of it. Now as an older person with more understanding all I can say is that this is one of the most amazing films ever. There were points in the film where I even started weeping and getting emotional.Hook tells a great story about A grumpy lawyer named Peter Banning who takes life too serious who has forgotten about his childhood as Peter Pan. Captain Hook kidnaps his children and takes them to Neverland to lure him in for one last battle, the only chance he has of saving them is to remember his forgotten past as Peter Pan and do battle with Captain Hook. The film is a huge reminder that I should always keep in touch with my inner child and never let go.Acting wise Robin Williams brings his A game as does Dustin Hoffman, Bob Hoskins and the rest, Julia Roberts is in it too but she's nothing to write home about.If you've never seen it then you should watch it, whether your a child or adult it doesn't matter, the film is one of the best adventure tales ever. If you've not seen it for a long time then re-watch it because like me it is a great reminder of how I was back when I was 10 and even helped me find my less cynical side.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I first came to IMDb to look up this movie, I was very surprised at all the negative criticism and backlash that it had generated. I had watched the movie when it came out and found it very pleasant and enjoyable and, re-watching it again just recently, I still found it a very good movie The movie's strong points to me are the scenery and design, the storyline, the music and the quality of acting by most of the cast. These factors combined ensure that the movie for the most part lives up to its potential and remains intriguing, gripping and heartwarming throughout. It has all the hallmarks of a successful Spielberg production and the movie is all the more better for itRobin Williams's performance as Peter Pan/Peter Banning is very good in both his roles as a professional businessman too busy for his children andas the reincarnation of Peter Pan later on in the movie. I do understand where many critics are coming from when they say that he has a propensity to go over the top in his acting during some parts of themovie but he's good at portraying both a serious and funny side and I think that makes him the perfect choice for this role. Dustin Hoffman and Bob Smee are both delightful in their roles as the evil villains and Maggie Smith does a great job as Wendy.There are some points on which I agree with the critics. Julia Roberts was a horrible choice to play Tinkerbell. I found her annoying from the start and she failed to give the character the charm and depth that it needed to succeed. The Lost Boys were terrible -they came across as bratty, overindulged hoodlums rather than young, innocent, mischievous children and it was quite impossible to feel any empathy with or them -they were good actors but badly written characters Nevertheless, despite these flaws, this is still a worthwhile and enjoyable movie that I think young children will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good Set Design, But Very Superficial","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) kidnaps his children, an adult Peter Pan (Robin Williams) must return to Neverland and reclaim his youthful spirit in order to challenge his old enemy.This film is a bit divisive, with some loving it and others not being very impressed. Indeed, the makeup, costumes and set design are top-notch. Some of the dialogue is pretty funny, particularly when Pan and Rufio get into a match of insults. And Dustin Hoffman really becomes Hook (Bob Hoskins is even more attached to Smee.) The overall story, although clever, tends to fall flat at times, with an overly predictable arc with more than just a dollop of sentimentality. Maybe one should not be too hard on the picture, but... "},{"Title":"Why is this a bad movie? Why is this even a mediocre movie?","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm not one of the people fortunate enough to catch this in the theaters. I am, however, one of the people who loudly objects to the negative critical response to this film.Peter Pan growing up is a wonderfully refreshing concept and saying it adds nothing to the Peter Pan mythos confuses me to no end. The beautiful practical sets would never have come to pass in an age where Spielberg and Lucas have gone crazy with the CGI and accusing them of being cartoony is rather superfluous seeing as Peter Pan's not exactly known for its realism. The actors all turn in decent performances, the best being Robin William's uptight Peter Banning and childlike Peter Pan, Dustin Hoffman's deliciously evil Captain Hook, and Bob Hoskins. Nothing to say about Bob Hoskins; if he's on screen, he's giving it his all.I deduct points from the film do to the third act with the war, not because the Lost Boys use incredibly implausible weapons to fight the pirates but because Peter stops being savvy about Hook, there's a rather unnecessary dark moment during an otherwise cartoony climax, and about a half dozen inconsistencies appear in the span of five minutes. But, other than that, Hook is a brilliant film and its Rotten rating on Rotten Tomatoes is simply a travesty, for not only is it a heartfelt Spielberg experience, but when the movie wants to be funny, it's REALLY funny. Listen not to the critics unless they are Jim Sterling or Doug Walker, because this film is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Love it !","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Love the cast first of all. From Maggie Smith a goddess in my eyes to Dustin Hoffman and Robin William to a strange inclusion of Phil Collins. They all fit in well together so well. A magical story of Hook which take me into a wonderful fantasy land of what kids should dream about. This superb production should not be pulled down, for it is essentially a children's film but I love it. My kids thinks I am a big kid but I don't care. Julia Roberts as Tinks id Fab ! I am not the biggest fan of Robin Williams but I do like his portrayal of Peter Pan.A magical movie for the entire family.Granny included !! "},{"Title":"Yes... Spielberg made it...  AND IT WAS GREAT!!","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I absolutely love Hook. I can't find any part of this movie that I don't like. I don't understand the negative reviews. Yes, this is a kids movie.I'm 18 years old now and that would be prime age to hate a kids movie, yet I love it as much as I did as a youngster.This is a unique take on the Peter Pan story and it proposes an interesting question; What if Peter Pan grew up? From there the movie takes you on a great mystical adventure in Neverland of Peter Pan re-finding himself and his youthful spirit, remembering his past, and rescuing his kids from the sinister Captain Hook. It is a wonderful story.The casting of Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman was great. Bob Hoskins is perfect for the role of Hook's right hand man Smee. John Williams of course conducts a masterful score. The child actors play their part very well. Steven Spielberg made this movie people, I don't see why you need to compare this movie's success to say 'Jaws' or 'ET'. Because Spielberg makes many great movies I understand that he has set a standard for himself, but just because this movie wasn't groundbreaking doesn't make it bad. It is a great movie in my opinion.This is my favorite movie of all time. I give it 10/10 without any reservations. "},{"Title":"Peter Pan grew up.","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is a continuation of the classic tale of the boy who wouldn't grow up, Peter Pan. Here, the infamous Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) kidnaps the children of Peter Banning (Robin Williams) and takes them to Neverland. Banning must regain his youthful spirit as Peter Pan and return to Neverland to reunite with his old gang, including Tinker Bell (Julia Roberts), and rescue his children.It's a pretty good story filled with unending adventures and spectacular sceneries of the magical Neverland what is filled with colorful characters, played by a group of fun-loving, bratty but loyal boys. Hoffman played Hook brilliantly, perfect for the part, as did Bob Hoskins in his Mr. Smee role. Comedic and quirky Williams was a good choice to play the grown-up Peter Pan; it was fun seeing his character looking bizarre and confused in Neverland, forgetting his roots and adventures with the Lost Boys in the magical place. And, Julia Roberts played a good Tinkerbell and she had some touching chemistry with Williams' character.Although it's not Disney, this movie does capture the magic and essence of the original animated classic Peter Pan from Disney. There are plenty of action and adventure to enjoy, but with some filler scenes that dragged the movie somewhat towards the middle. It's a nice one for the entire family, but I think it's better fit for the younger ones due to its juvenile and whimsical nature.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Rip Robin Williams you will be surly missed","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I loved this film when I was younger and nothing has changed about that, even though I'm now 22! Now Robin Williams has died I felt like the world came crashing down on me I couldn't believe he had gone so I had to rewatch hook and remember Robin as he was, a great actor.Robin Williams is, as always, brilliant. He's hilarious and I think he makes a great Peter Pan - definitely one of my favourite portrayals. He plays the grown-up Peter fantastically, as a man who has forgotten all about Neverland and his life before growing up. Once he returns to the magical world and finally remembers, his take on Peter was wonderful to watch. Who'd of thought Robin Williams in tights would have been so cool? I loved the lost boys in this. They were so dependent on Peter and had clearly missed him so much and the ending when he left again just ripped my heart out. They were also so funny (BANGARANG) when they were 'training' Peter to become himself again (the dinner scene was just awesome). Also Ru-fi-ooooooooooooooo.Dustin Hoffman as Hook was just splendid. He's such a great actor and I've learned to expect nothing better than AWESOME from him. And he delivered. Hook is perfectly creepy but also kind of strangely likable.The puns in this movie provide a lot of laughs (perhaps more now, watching as an adult see the dinner scene when Peter and Rufio get into an argument) and the film is just a joy to watch throughout.Okay, so it's not a completely Oscar-worthy masterpiece. But it's a film that will keep you entertained throughout and get you back in touch with your childish side, something we all need once in a while. In my opinion, it's a must-see for anyone who's a fan of Williams or, you know, fun. RIP Robin Williams "},{"Title":"An enchanting film that will make you believe again","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a 1991 movie based on the 1955 Disney movie Peter Pan only this time Peter Pan is NOW a grown up man who works in a marketing place,but when Hook takes his children,he must try and remember who he was before he grew up into a man and to take down Captain Hook(Dustin Hoffman)by returning to NeverLand with Tinkerbell(played by Julia Roberts). But can he remember who he is and find his inner child at heart?Overall this movie is very entertaining and no matter what Robin William film I see his actually a very good actor. I seen him in Aladdin,Mrs Doubtfire,Flubber,Bicentennial Man,License To Wed(Bad film btw),Robots,Jack,Jumanji,Night At The Museum franchise to name a few. If you are a fan of Robin Williams than check it out. Overall its one of my fav movies as a kid and I was glad to buy this on DVD and watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"The perfect adventure for kids and adults!","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!! I really don't understand the bad reviews and why people dislike this. I grew up watching this and I became attached to it. This film deserves better than the ratings now. The cast is good; Dustin Hoffman was a goofy Captain Hook but a good one; Robin Williams is brilliant as always and clearly enjoys his character; Julia Roberts is gorgeous and has nice legs. But the chief point why this movie was so great was because the music. John Williams is amazing! If you watch the movie and listen to the soundtrack you'll understand why this man is a god. Spielberg and Williams have done it again! The set is well constructed and realistic, the costumes are well-made, the the concept is original and excellent!This film is brilliant for both kids and adults! Brilliant I say! BRILLIANT!Screw you, Jeremy Sumpter's Peter Pan! "}{"Title":"Hopeless","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was probably intended exclusively as a 'kids' movie by Big Stevie, and perhaps should not therefore be critically judged by adults. Nevertheless; the story of Peter Pan was so beguilingly written that it has appealed to all ages.But not 'Hook'. This crass, dismal, predictable, shallow effort seems to be expressly intended for just such an audience of spoilt, fat, junk-food addictive brats as those who feature in it.An almost unrecognisable Dustin Hoffman plays the titular Captain of the story, Bob Hoskins is Smee, the first mate. They make a rumbustious effort to bring 'fun' into an idea that was doomed from the outset. The biggest mistake of all was to script Mr Lachrimosity Williams in the role of a grown-up-and-passed-it Peter Pan. This part was absolutely made for Whacko Jacko.The script is cringeworthy, the sight-gags silly and predictable. Big Stevie's attempt at modernisation with 'street cred' is enough to pucker the most self-respecting sphincter.Quite simply; it's a junk movie aimed at the junk-food, junk-entertainment, junk-education generation. To see kids 'entertained' by this wretched tripe is enough to make me grieve for childhood.See that your kids read the book - instead. "},{"Title":"Grow up Peter","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When you look at the cast and director involved in Hook you would think it will be an amazing family film inspired by J.M Barrie's classic book. Sadly while the idea of a grown up Peter Pan is a good one the film ends up being overly long, dull and oddly for Spielburg, lacking in charm.Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman are good in their roles and drag the quality of the film up a notch purely because they seem to be having such a good time making it. Robin Williams as Peter Pan - that's perfect casting.However the film spends too long setting up its concept and is full of overly long and dull scenes. The 1990's style lost boys are annoying and dated and the less said about Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell the better.Hook is a nice idea, it's just not fully realised in practice. "},{"Title":"Pan the Avenger is Back. An under rated Classic.","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a classic film. I remember reading about the roubles they had while filming it. and when it was released the film was given such bad reviewed/ And sadly it didn't do too well at the box office. When I first saw it I had rented it on a VHS Tape and after I watched it I read Terry Brooks novelization. and I thought why does every one hate this film. I thought it was marvelous. And Fun. The film was fun. You can't take it seriously because really it is a tale of Peter Pan. Peter Grew up despite his promise never to. And He has two kids. Who are Kidnapped by Captain James Hook. Peter has to remember how to become Peter Pan. The fun here is in the journey. And fun it is. There is action. comedy . Drama. and most of all a great story. I think Hook is a film that failed at the box office and became a hit after it's release on VHS and it became a classic after DVD and Blu Ray. Hook is the family film. I loved it from the first time I saw it. to the last time I saw it. and I'll always love it. It has every thing I'll ever need in a movie. "},{"Title":"Plot holes and all, Hook has enough entertainment value for me to consider it a guilty pleasure","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Once upon a time, there was a well-known story we all grew up with in some way or form named Peter Pan. It was about a boy who never grew up named Peter Pan who took three kids named Wendy, John, and Michael to a magical place called Never Land. Think of Never Land as the ultimate vacation place almost exclusively for kids. It's a place where mermaids and pirates roam the seas, kids can do battle with pirates and Indians on land or by sea, and any grand kids' adventure you could think of can easily be found. Peter Pan's allies on the land include a trouble making fairy named Tinker Bell and a group of uncivilized children known as the Lost Boys. With their assistance, Peter Pan defeats, but not kills, his most dangerous opponent Captain Hook. Then he returns the three kids back home to London and they all live happily ever after. Once upon a time, a film by renowned director Steven Spielberg titled Hook (1991) was created. It told the story of what happened if Peter Pan did grow up. And the story they came up with is as such. Peter Pan (Robin Williams), now named Peter Banning, is a successful lawyer who is having trouble connecting with his children due to constant broken promises and absences. The last straw comes when Peter is unable to attend his son's baseball game. The family goes to London to visit their grandmother Wendy Darling (Maggie Smith) to support the expansion of her orphanage. That night while the parents attend a ceremony for the orphanage, the kids are kidnapped with a note left behind by a Captain Hook. When Wendy tells him that Peter is indeed the real Peter Pan, Peter is naturally in disbelief. Later that night, Tinker Bell (Julia Roberts) appears, knocks him unconscious, and takes him to Never Land. When he awakens, Peter discovers that his children are indeed under the captivity of Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) and that they will remain so until Peter accepts Hook's challenge to a duel. But seeing that grown-up Peter is completely out of shape in this world, Tinker Bell intervenes with Captain Hook and she is granted three days to prepare him for the duel. While Peter is being trained by Tinker Bell and the Lost Boys and regaining the erased memories of his childhood, Hook attempts turning Peter's own children against him so that they'll stay in Never Land permanently. Now I have to admit that the premise itself is actually pretty interesting. I know in my review of the TV series Once Upon a Time I've gone on record of saying that I'm not into revisions of well- known stories at all. But with said, I thought it was very smart to make Peter the exact opposite of what he used to be in his childhood a busy father with little tolerance for childish behavior. It's especially smart in that this is the last person that you'd think was Peter Pan. If I were to summarize Hook in a nutshell, it would be that it has the settings and characters of Peter Pan, but the story and moral of Mary Poppins in a way. Its moral being that embracing the playfulness of childhood when you're a parent is an important way to connect more with your kids, and also actually being there for your children. And while the moral isn't executed that strongly, its heart is in the right place. Robin Williams was well cast in this role with his switching back and forth between the strict father and the child-at- heart. Also inspired casting is Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook. Remember his evil laugh when he comes up with a plan to force Peter's kids to hate their dad? I'm sure I'm not the only one cracking up alongside Captain Hook. The best thing Hoffman does with his role is capture the hilarity and over-the-top nature of Captain Hook as depicted in the Disney picture without screwing it up. Lying within Hook however are some numerous and major plot holes. The most significant one of all is when Captain Hook fails to kill grown-up Peter Pan upon discovering he can't fly even though Hook swears he's going to kill him anyway. Now why would Hook let an opportunity such as this sneak through the cracks so easily? If he's doing it out of a moral code or rule that the citizens of Never Land use with their battles, an explanation regarding what it is was never given to us. I mean there's no way he'd be that generous with Peter by agreeing to Tinker Bell's offer in the first place. For that matter, why did Hook consider her trustworthy to keep such a promise? Isn't she supposed to be on the side of the Lost Boys as opposed to Never Land's #1 referee? This plot hole is made even larger in the film's climax which I won't reveal or talk about since it would ruin the experience for the few who haven't seen it yet. Bottom line Captain Hook blew a great opportunity while his opponent was down. The subplot involving Hook trying to manipulate Peter's children into joining his crew is a very clever idea. It takes advantage of Peter's current status and hits him where it hurts the most. I'm split on the film's set designs since effort was clearly put into it and yet Captain Hook's ship never sails in the film. Not one time does it go off to sea and I have no idea why. Ultimately, Hook isn't the best project brought to us by Steven Spielberg. But give the film this much credit, it had some clever plot details weaved into the mix, the dilemma grown- up Peter undergoes is new, and Williams and Hoffman give it all they got. That's enough for me to consider Hook a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Not a perfect film, but certainly a heartfelt one","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook (1991) is an uneven movie. The plot has many holes, Dustin Hoffman is a bit embarrassing to watch at times, and sometimes it is overly sentimental. However, this is a movie which does have its heart in the right place and I think the good things overpower all of the movie's flaws.After Robin Williams' untimely passing, I was drawn to this film again. He really gives one of his best performances here, one which I must admit I like better than any other he ever did. He perfectly captures Peter's midlife slump and his return to youthful joy with great skill. He gets to show off his comedic and dramatic acting chops, the full spectrum of his great talent. It makes me sorely miss him all the more.I know this movie is not for everyone, but I think many will enjoy it, especially Williams' fans. "},{"Title":"Hook update","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook was one of my most watched movies in 1991.Then I forgot about that until the Nostalgia Critic gave this a review.In this version Peter Pan is a lawyer, and are having a family.But, soon the lawyer is taken to Neverland as Hook takes his kids.There in Neverland modern Peter must show that he really is the good old Peter Pan.At last Peter Pan must face the villain after trainings and flashbacks.This ends in a lengthy duel where Hook ends up being taken by the crocodile.The effects, music and sound are super.Beside the at times corny 1990's look it's grand.Don't Waste any time, and try to find this movie in a store with used DVD.9/10 "},{"Title":"Why the long face guys?","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is one of the films I grew up loving as a child and is one of the only films from that part in my life in which I can still watch and enjoy. So I was very surprised when I saw how low rated it was on this website. Robin Williams is fantastic as always bringing a rather wooden portrayal of Peter Pan (but soon cheers up!), however Dustin Hoffman delivers the performance of the production as Hook, the villainous, but very camp Captain Hook. The Peter Pan in this feature works better than in any Peter Pan film I have seen to date, in the aspect that audience has to warm to him. Whereas in pretty much every other 'Pan' film I have seen the boy in rags has been a bit of an annoyance.In this case, I believe IMDb are wrong in rating this film so low. But of course we are all entitled to our opinion and this is mine. '*sighs* 6.4......' "},{"Title":"What If The Boy Who Never Grew Up...Did?","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" That, in a nutshell, is the story of this film.Many years have passed since Peter Pan took Wendy Darling (Maggie Smith) on annual trips to his magical home of Neverland. Wendy is very old now, having cared for orphans during the decades. Among her former charges is corporate lawyer Peter Banning (Robin Williams), married to Wendy's granddaughter Moira (Caroline Goodall). However, Peter's obsession with his work is rapidly destroying relations with his two kids, Jack (Charlie Korsmo) and Maggie (Amber Scott). One Christmas, Peter and his family journey to London, where Wendy will be honored for her charity work...but disaster soon strikes, with Jack and Maggie missing. The only clue left behind is a letter pinned to the door by a dagger, signed Jas Hook, Captain.With no options left, Wendy tries reminding Peter about his past, but he dismisses her as crazy...until an old friend spirits him away for an amazing journey. To save his kids, Peter must not just fight Hook, but embrace the childhood he'd long since forgotten.I was 11 years old when this film came out, and I've seen it more times than I can remember. With an all-star cast, a fresh take on the popular myth, music by iconic composer John Williams, and Steven Spielberg at the helm, this is a must for any fan of film, literature, or both. "},{"Title":"Imagination is everything... To this day, this film moves me like no other!","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My first review to complete my profile and launch IMDBPRO...An never ending story... Growing up with this film and watching it from the age of 3 I was inspired, not only is the story magical I still use lesson's learnt from it in everyday life.Although I cannot fly The power of dreams and 'happy thought's' despite some negative situations in life, are so important.RIP... Robin Williams, thank you for the timeless performance I hope I will never 'grow old' as you said it's important to keep the 'magic' it never ends. Your honesty on screen and genius in comedy throughout this role and many more, Popeye, Aladdin, Jumanji, flubba, Mrs Doubhtfire and Bicentennial Man to name a few most defiantly brought happiness to the world and my life. Reflecting back now I can see why I am pursuing Acting/Directing, I was always method acting and practicing voices from a young age stemming from your influence.Although I thought acting/performing through school wasn't for me as I was all for the banter and the lad's, I wish I didn't want to be different or the only lad.But you only realise when you find yourself and your purpose, that if you enjoy what you do in life it's not like work.You can give back or move people, I volunteered in India immersing myself in an unknown culture with new and exciting people. I met friends, shared incredible moments but most of all we used the power of performance in a drama about 'women empowerment' bridging the gap between two classes of society through art.This is what Steven Spielberg clearly does throughout this film, he captivates you and makes you want to believe even when there is doubt.After my life changing experience I started acting, I landed a lead role in a music video for a company based in Manchester called Video Ink. Whilst not in shot or on screen I was actively aiding people's performances, little did I know I was naturally Directing I clicked with the super lad's Adam and Oliver. They offered me an internship as 1st A.d directing music videos for TV Broadcast.I can now appreciate the finer details and work that go into a production, into directing and bringing to life the best performance.Ultimately 'Spielberg' I am following in your footsteps, that I thankyou for. I have an eye for film and story telling in front and behind the camera, from your influential pieces I am climbing my own ladder to greatness.I know direct, and I am often D.O.P for promotional videos and I am making a documentary called 'FIGHTING DEMONS' about conquering adversity in life despite your situation. This is a twisted tale about my brother Jon who has a different mother and his anger issues through having an difficult upbringing.I also act and had the honor to work with the very talented 'Bob Hoskins' RIP... On a British film called Outside Bet, he took the time after filming to grab a picture and have a brief chat in his dressing room. Although his character is of 'Smee' he also helped mold me as a creative person through the power of emotion. Thank you to Dustin Hoffman as 'Hook', and Julia Roberts as 'Tinkerbell' both amazing professionals.To conclude, this film still has so much importance to me to this day and will always be my favourite movie until I die...I thank all the cast and crew for helping me realise a journey, see you on the red carpet sometime soon... Thanks again Steven for the unbelievable film 'HOOK 1991' WATCH IT TODAY AND IT WILL HELP NOT ONLY YOUR CHILDREN BUT YOURSELF, FILM SHOULD HELP PEOPLE THROUGH STORY.Yours sincerely Matthew James Edge @MJEDG3 "},{"Title":"Hook - Brilliant and ahead of its time.","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Brilliant. I have watched this several times since its release and I realise why it had so much negative press when it first came out... it was simply too far ahead of its time. In my opinion this movie is something of a masterpiece, glorious tongue in cheek brilliance, super performances and some powerful serious moments. Glorious to look at. I love this movie... oddly perhaps because the original story of Peter Pan bores me senseless and I'm SO grateful that someone breathed some LIFE into it!For all the reviewers who looked askance at Hook, I say that perhaps you've been hit with the same syndrome as Peter who forgot. "}{"Title":"Pretty Good But Dragged In Middle","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I enjoyed Hook a lot; Dustin Hoffman and Julia Roberts really stood out in this film.My only complaint is that there was too much silly playing between the lost boys and Peter in the middle of the film, and I feel that this became rather monotonous. I would have liked to see more interaction between Peter Pan and Captain Hook, and also more screen time for the Captain Hook character generally.Also, Neverland is supposed to have pirates and Indians in it, and there WERE a LOT of pirates. But I never once saw an Indian.Maggie Smith was a fine actress and it is always great to see her on screen.I thought that the end of the film, with the old man flying out of the house, was kind of nutty and really unnecessary, a la the all-too literal ending of Cocoon, in which the senior citizens are shown flying away in an alien spaceship.My problems with this movie, though, are minor, and I generally consider this a very good fantasy film for kids and adults--at least those of us who never quite grew up--alike. "},{"Title":"The critics personify the exact message of this film.","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sad to say, if you didn't watch this flick growing up, you'll never understand just how important it is. I fear that the critics scratched their heads a lot trying to deconstruct the film and squeeze it through their many paradigms. Forget logic. Simply Forget. Use this film as a vessel to escape- leave the world behind. Or stay planted and simply connect with yourself- your inner child perhaps. There are several moments in this film where you will be called to question where you are currently in your life. It's an emotional roller coaster that offers so many levels of thought, reflections and imaginative freedom. The more you are willing to lend yourself to the film the more you'll get out of it. Think of the critic's reviews like multiple choice questions rather than an essay. And I'll say it again, this film was a gift to us kids of the 90s- just for us, not to win any awards or stars for that matter. You simply can not measure magic, nor translate it into tiny pixels that are the rating stars. "},{"Title":"Kline would be able to sell it","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember this film well. It has been maybe 20 years since the last time I watched it. The first time I rented it, the second time I caught it on telly. What I remember the best is the rage I felt because of lack of comedy in it and even more because of underlining politically correct family messages and wishful thinking.The reason I expected comedy back then was Robin Williams. My expectations were based on hype about that guy. At the time he was praised as the comedic genius. Only now I realize that I never liked neither him nor any of the films he starred in. He might in fact be the main reason why Hook turned out such a lousy effort.Other things in it didn't click all that well, too. I've been going through the reviews and the critics mostly got it right. The script is pretty bad. Dustin Hoffman looks tired. Julia Roberts is wasted. Bob Hoskins is irritating. The direction is more concentrated on special effects than on coherent storytelling. The effects themselves often scream second unit and are way too obvious to serve the story.What critics were wrong about is the premise. Having Peter Pan grow up is not sacrilege. Granted, it's a high concept, and as such can easily backfire and make for a boring movie, but I see nothing bad with the idea itself. It is in fact what attracted me to give it a try, since I like cynical takes on common lore.It's just that it required a much smarter development to work. And most of all, in case of this high concept, it required a convincing actor in the starring role. To make us believe Peter Pan can really grow up, the actor has to have something of a devilish boyish charm to him. The producers obviously knew it and had Kevin Kline attached to the project. Unfortunately he had to drop out, and it's a damn shame because, judging by his then looks and body of work, it seems to me he was perfect for the role.Robin Williams, the replacement, has a different type of charm. He's a retarded goofball. That's his thing. You can see it in his other movies and you can see it here. He's just playing Robin Williams doing his thing. When you look closely you'll notice that he hasn't got the knack for physical comedy. He seems too slow and sloppy for that. He also makes much of his detestable gum-faced, smirky-eyed grimaces. That might have worked in Popeye but it's horrible in Hook.With someone else on board, other bad things in the film might have been more tolerable. Or not. Hammy moralizing towards the end would have been less hammy but it would still require a much better script to not appear forced. The main point in this movie, the point that occupies Steven Spielberg in his other movies as well, is the family. Or a broken family. The turning point for the story is when the protagonist realizes that his children are his happy thought and the source of his magic. That would have been far more convincing had those children of his had any significant script time by that point. Since they were nothing more than props, while Lost Boys took the spotlight, one has to ask Why?. It was well established that Peter Pan hardly ever notices his own flesh and blood. Why are they so important all of the sudden, without proper build-up?And why is the film titled Hook? "},{"Title":"Hooked!","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook (1991) Dir Steven Spielberg / Cast Robin Williams, Dustin Hoffman, Julia Roberts, Bob Hoskins, Maggie Smith This is a version of the classic tale that positions it all into the future where Robin Williams is a grown up Peter Pan. He is married, has two young children, and a job that has consumed him so much that it erases his memories of Neverland. Captain Hook hasn't forgotten him and to ensure that, he kidnaps his two children. Enter pixie Tinker Bell who carries him off in his sleep and he awakens in Neverland. Steven Spielberg takes the fairy tale and throws it into an adult world and he is backed with top notch special effects. Williams is the ideal casting for an adult Pan who ventures to Neverland to confront Hook and rescue his children. He goes through awkward training where one's imagination is key. Dustin Hoffman embodies the intimidating dominance of Hook whose very presence evokes fear. Julia Roberts plays off the spirited nature of Tinker Bell who steers Peter in the right direction. Bob Hoskins plays Hook's head henchmen whose advice to him is to play it up to Peter's children in an attempt to win them over thus using that against him. Maggie Smith plays the elderly version of Wendy who was the teenage girl in the Disney classic. While this update may be too scary for really young children, older children and adults will enjoy getting hooked on it. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Spielberg Delivers A Competent Family Adventure, But Misses Out On Crafting Something Truly Special","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The pieces were in place for Hook to be a Kubrick-esque, once-in-a-lifetime film. The myth of Peter Pan, an all-star cast, world class director Steven Spielberg at the helm, and an utterly fascinating story promised a unique and haunting modern fairytale. Unfortunately, this potential was not realized. Instead Spielberg delivers a kid-friendly adventure tale. It's competent, and there's even some real fun to be had, but one can't help but think what might have been.The premise of Hook is a great one. Simply put, an adult Peter Pan, played by Robin Williams, has become a typical yuppie businessman, abandoning his days of adventuring for the hustle and bustle of modern day America. On a trip to London to visit Grandma Wendy, Peter's children are kidnapped by none other than Captain Hook. Peter is then compelled to return to Neverland; a Neverland that has moved on without him, to retrieve his children. This setup is undoubtedly interesting. An adult Peter Pan returning to Neverland presents a number of potentially enthralling ideas about the nature of youth, childhood, and adult disenchantment. There's also a chance to explore the Peter Pan mythology in a serious, adult manner. However, while the first part of the film does have a slightly sinister mood, Spielberg and company abandon these potential themes in favor of a typical family adventure. Once Robin Williams' Peter Pan arrives in Neverland, we don't see anything that we haven't seen before in countless other family films and Saturday morning cartoons. That's not to say that Spielberg mishandles the adventure. As always, he directs well, but he does nothing special with the story at all.Hook can boast a few great aspects. The cast is nothing less than superb. Robin Williams is the perfect man to play the boy who never grew up as an adult. He's natural as an inattentive father and delightfully charming as a man rediscovering his youth. On the other side, as Captain Hook, Dustin Hoffman makes a great villain for the film, even if he isn't totally committed to the role. The rest of the cast including Bob Hoskins as Hook's sniveling sidekick Smee, and Maggie Smith as Wendy are great fun to watch. The other saving grace of Hook is the production design. The sets are huge and detailed, the costumes are bold and colorful, and the overall look of the film has a unique heightened reality quality to it. The film does tend to take on a muted, reddish haze, but overall, it has a great look to it.When it's all said and done, Hook succeeds as a simple family adventure. It's fun, charming, and great to look at. Where Hook disappoints is in its safety. Spielberg takes no chances with the fascinating premise, missing out on an opportunity to craft something truly special. It's a fine piece of kid friendly entertainment, but it could've been a haunting exploration of the human psyche set within the mythology of Peter Pan.58/100 "},{"Title":"Watched the film Hook last night because my roommate's girlfriend had never seen it.","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Not sure how she felt about it but here are my thoughts The film was heavily biased towards children. Curious if Michael Jackson ever publicly offered his opinion on the movie. Dustin Hoffman killed it. Not sure why Hook was so fancy compared to the other pirates. Maybe he was an aristocrat? He seemed to be well educated. Felt like Robin Williams put his hands on his hips too much once his character became fully Peter Pan. Julia Roberts was aight as tinkerbell. Tbh they should have gotten someone less overtly sexually attractive but maybe I'm out of line here. Weird when Robin Williams said she had nice legs. Weird when Robin Williams said a lot of things. Like in the scene where the lost boys are pretending to eat dinner and there's no food there and he says Gandhi ate more than this! Not sure if that was supposed to be a line for the adults in the audience or what but it was a dud and I hated it. Carrie Fisher ghostwrote part of this script, apparently. I wonder if that was her contribution.The scene where tinkerbell becomes full sized and tries to get with Peter Pan was strange to me because she didn't have a pixie cut and wasn't acting impishly. She also wasn't wearing a burlap sack anymore. Disconcerting. Anyway. Oh yes, and the part where they put the pirate who doubted that Hook could steal Peter Pan's kids in the boo box and drop the scorpions in. That was Glenn Close for some reason? Pretty cool. Wonder if Carrie Fisher had anything to do with that. All in all, a pretty dope film, especially if you enjoy big sets. There's no computer animation in this movie. Spielberg didn't figure out how to do that until Jurassic Park, I guess. Rufio was a baller though. I imagine Michael Jackson related strongly to his character. I wonder what happened to that actor? (Not interested enough to actually google it.) He had a lot of potential, too bad he died. Justified killing off Hook, since he murdered a cool kid, but the way they got rid of him didn't make any sense by the way. The giant crocodile falls on Hook and he disappears into it's mouth? I thought the crocodile was dead? Whatever. The whole point is for Peter Pan to save his son and he just keeps talking about his son all the time BUT HE'S GOT A DAUGHTER TOO and she's like a toddler. At the end he's gone through all the trouble to fight for his boy and then his daughter runs up all happy screaming daddy! and it's like, well, pretty cool that she was able to take care of herself lol.Anyway, I wouldn't recommend watching this movie unless your roommate's girlfriend hasn't seen it. You should probably watch something else. Like Schindler's List, which I might watch tomorrow. "},{"Title":"It's fun but definitely has areas of question","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The ability to make sequels to famous movies have been done but have proved to be quite a time consuming task. Even if the end result is lukewarm like Tron Legacy (2010) or beyond expectation like Terminator 2 Judgement Day (1991), the amount of investment put into these types of cases take much longer to bring to fruition than your typical Hollywood cranked out every other year sequel. Unless the producers have a strategically laid out plan that goes beyond a couple years like Marvel Studios, the wait for how long it would take to make such a follow-up is unpredictable. The Terminator (1984) sequel came 7 years later while the Tron (1982) sequel arrived 28 years later, so it's hard to say. Take Walt Disney's Peter Pan (1953) animated feature. An actual animated sequel wasn't made until 49 years later but only on home video. Yes, it is a sequel but surely not something the studio probably put several decades into.Taking this live-action sequel into account is a whole different ball of wax. Unlike most sequels, this continuation of Peter Pan takes place several years after the events of Peter Pan (1953). Here viewers will see an older civilized Peter Pan (Robin Williams) during the modern day, married to the granddaughter of Wendy (Maggie Smith) from the original Disney classic. It is here that Pan and family travels to see Wendy in the same house the original took place in. Unbeknownst to them, Capt. James Hook (Dustin Hoffman) returns from Neverland and captures Pan's children Jack (Charlie Korsmo) and Maggie (Amber Scott), thus forcing Pan to return to a place he once forgotten. Directed by Steven Spielberg along with writing by Malia Scotch Marmo and James V. Hart, this sequel has its moments that don't all add up but it does have several fun parts as well. The best element to the writing are the characters and its overall message to its audience. Every actor that is shown on screen plays their roles well and even match the same attitude and tone of the 1953 animated feature.The actor who looked like he had the most fun was Dustin Hoffman who had numerous scenes that were quite comical. Hook still has a fear of clocks because of that pesky crocodile, we all remember that. Complimenting Hook is his partner Smee (Bob Hoskins) who sounds a lot like Jason Statham in this role. Nonetheless, Hoskins has a number of comical moments as well. The biggest subplot is the relationship between Pan and Jack. Charlie Korsmo best known for playing the kid in Dick Tracy (1990) is able to act in his role with more dialog this time. For Robin Williams, it is the transformation of his character of what he currently is back to what he once was. For that, the main idea is that no matter how old you get, it's important to never fully grow up and to live a little. For that reason alone, watching the transition of Peter Pan finding his old self is worth the watch. Plus like every Robin Williams performance, there's a bit of humor for everyone. There's also a bit of surprise casting, which include cameos from Jimmy Buffett, Tony Burton, Glenn Close and a couple others.What doesn't work in the movie's screenplay are its pacing at which scenes move, unexplained continuity and minor subplots. The running time to this movie is 2 hours and 20 minutes - approximately clocking in as your typical Michael Bay time (minus the explosions) and after everything is said and done, it feels as if some cutting could have been made. There are some scenes where for example when Peter Pan reunites with the lost boys, feels drawn out for too long a time. Mind you this is just meeting them not working with them. For continuity, it's not bad in all places like the homages made to the original but when it comes to knowledge some things don't make sense. Do characters that live in Neverland really have the power of the all seeing eye? Or do they just carry a magic crystal ball with them wherever they go? In some ways they seem more omnipotent that usual. Even a main character asks this question and no clear answer is given.The other issue is a minor subplot dealing with Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) and Peter Pan. I'm pretty sure it was noticeable in the original that their was some kind of romantic tension between Tink and any other female that wanted to spend time with Pan, but there's one scene where Tinkerbell just comes straight out and kisses Pan and its never addressed again. Okay,...weird. Anything else used in the film however was well made. The special/practical effects for 1991 look well meshed with the live-action and cinematography. Dean Cundey who was director of photography got nice looking landscape shots along with beautiful matte paintings, which look great. As for music, legendary John Williams composed the score. Although the main theme is not as highly memorable as his Superman (1978), Star Wars (1977) or Jurassic Park (1993) motifs, the music is still lively and entertaining. There is one track though that takes place at a baseball field and it sounds like it belongs to The Peanuts. Odd.For 2 and a half-hour movie, it certainly feels like there was unnecessary padding. That and it has continuity issues and an unfinished subplot. However, other than that the actors perform well, the music sounds good, the cinematography is in large scale and the main message of never growing up is always something to keep in mind. "},{"Title":"A Underrated Classic...","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Smart Fun and funny 'Hook' tells the story of an older Peter Pan who goes back in Neverland in order to save his children from Captain Hook. Directed By Steven Spielberg and full of amazing performances by everyone but mostly Robbin Williams, Dustin Hoffman, Julia Roberts and Maggie Smith. Hook received negative reviews by Rotten Tomatoes mostly and i wonder if the site is controlled by idiots Hook is a classic and for sure better than any other version of Peter Pan it will make you laugh and cry it is the best Peter Pan movie ever Robbin Williams will always be Pan, Dustin Hoffman will always be Hook and Julia Roberts will always be Tinkerbell. If you haven't seen it i recommend it for you to see it it's amazing. "},{"Title":"Joyful Magic !","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Anyone who who doesn't like, love or get this film is way to analytical and mental about the experience.This a joyful film, that while using the framework of Peter Pan, is not a representation of the Adventures of Peter Pan and doesn't need to be.From my perspective ,having not been overly familiar with Pan's original adventures, the film is a masterpiece, as I had no expectation's or self created imaginings of Peter Pan to compare it with.Just let go of your mental contortions and distractions and let this gem warm your heart. "},{"Title":"Why does everyone hate this wonderful magical enchanting movie? The Master of Film's most Magical Masterpiece!","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After the most underrated film of his career Always The Master of Film wanted to answer the question on everyone's mind What if Peter Pan grew up? The Master of Film has made one of his most magical movies about hope magic faith and forgiveness Wonderful family entertainment really wonderful magical escapism from the real world just enchanting magical entertainment really heartfelt and sentimental not a bad film at all the performances are wonderfully enchanting Robin Williams's performance is one of magic and faith and all goodhearted beliefs Julia Roberts does a amazing job as Tinkerbell really fun and care free Dustin Hoffman gives a camp fun entertaining portrayal of Hook not too bad! The direction is a outstanding example of how to direct a fantasy of pure wonder and enchantment pure magic in every sense of the word the sequences in Neverland are wonderfully magical and enlightening really magical and special for me because it brings me right back to my childhood immediately so magical! The score by John Williams is outstanding and Oscar Winning in my opinion! I love the melodic identifications for all the main characters John Williams absolutely hit the nail on the head as to what was required and needed for each character it is the greatest Score John Williams has ever composed for a film just perfection I love the themes for Peter Hook Granny Wendy The Children Tinkerbell Smee Neverland The Lost Boys The memory theme it all fits perfectly just wonderfully powerful in the memory scene simple delicate piano plays Peter's music simple but effective Tinkerbell's theme simple and played on magical bells Christmas like in it's melodic presentation just stunning some of the musical presentations and moments are heartbreakingly unforgettable and more poignant now that Robin Williams is no longer with us the Remembering Childhood music in Particular I want to cry every time I hear Remembering Childhood John's music follows the whole film It is heartbreakingly beautiful really tear jerking at the end Farewell Neverland tears flow through me every time Tinkerbell's enchanting music is so touching and magical John Williams adored this film I feel his true magic came through on this film and it is the greatest score ever composed for a film ever! I adore this film so much I really feel a sense of poignancy now that Robin is now no longer with us just feels tragic watching this again coincidentally for the first time since Robin's death awful and very difficult but still an unforgettable film but very poignant you can not hate this film now knowing Robin is no longer with us just heartbreaking! Thank you Steven Spielberg and John Williams for the most magical collaboration of your careers Rest in Peace Robin Williams you are now in Neverland! "}{"Title":"Total schmaltzfest","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A total schmaltzfest. I get that Barrie's play was basically a children's story, but even so, it is a bit heavy on the melodrama. Let's face it, I am not in the demographic niche that they were going for. It was a bit poignant seeing Robin Williams' performance in light of his recent suicide. In spite of the criticism of Julia Roberts' performance, I thought she was quite good, whether she was an on-the-set diva or not. Dustin Hoffman was terrible. It looked clear that he thought that the material was beneath him, and he was right. Too bad they couldn't have gotten, say, Al Pacino, who loves to chew the scenery in whatever role he finds himself. Even though I recall liking this film twenty years ago, I did not care for it last week. "},{"Title":"I Remember Hearing Hook Laughing","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" We all miss one of the most famous actors ever, Robin Williams. Of all the movies he's done, this movie while definitely not the most memorable, as the most memorable movie is probably Mrs. Doubtfire, it's definitely one of his more memorable movies. Robin Williams does great in this movie as Petter Banning/Petter Pan with both his serious and comedic abilities. I'd say this is a movie everybody should watch at least once in their life. It's not one of my favorite movies, but it is still somewhat entertaining to watch. What makes this movie great, well it is directed by one of our favorite directors who always makes movies entertaining, Steven Spielberg. Spielberg naturally knows how to direct movies to make them really good. What else is good about this movie, the music from the movie is really good. I like the song we hear at the beginning of the movie, Banning Back At Home, that's relaxing pleasant music to listen to. What else makes this movie good, for one this movie is from the early '90s, so I forget where but I read something about this on the internet recently, of Spielberg talking about how the set for Neverland was made from natural things, real life things where if it were done today, it would have been all CGI. They did a great job showing Neverland, I mean it can be annoying when everything is digital, and sometimes they can make the set from art and some natural things in life which they do for this movie. What else is also great about this movie, well the characters in the movie seem to have the right parts. We like seeing Robin Williams as Peter Pan, Dustin Hoffman as Hook, Bob Hoskins as Smee, Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell, and Maggie Smith as Wendy. They all play their parts well. There are also numerous pirates in this movie that act like pirates, and we even see beautiful mermaids in this movie, but just in one scene. The Lost Boys, while not the ones we are familiar with in the novel or from the original story do a great job playing the Lost Boys, showing their feelings toward a grown up Peter Pan. Basically, these characters are all good to make the fictional Neverland, a real place again without CGI effects. It has lots of comedic humor and is fast paced. It's a beautiful movie to watch that will remind us of our childhood. This movie is frequently on ABC Family. My parents still have an old VHS tape of this movie. About watching it on VHS, I can remember once watching it on VHS at a friends house when I was 12 years old with a couple of people. Going along with my title for this review, I remember how it was like towards the end of the movie, I forget what scene it might have been the end credits. But, in a scene Hook wasn't in the few of us watching all of a sudden heard Hook laughing, I mean like a switch in the audio from what was happening to a quick evil laugh from Hook. We thought it was weird, and since then I'm not too sure what it was, and this would be better for a topic in the questions section below for IMDb. But, yeah we have it on VHS without the same thing, so I'm not sure if it was just some kind of problem with their video, or if somebody recorded Hook laughing and put it in the video as a prank. It's funny thinking about it, and also a little creepy to have heard Hook's laugh in a scene he wasn't in. If that laugh was recorded and added, I can't even remember what scene with Hook in it where that laugh would have been from, where somebody just added that recorded laugh from an earlier scene to have it voice over in a scene he wasn't in. Oh well, I thought about sharing that memory. In all, I'd give this movie an 8/10. They do a good job with the effects and story. There's just something about it, I can't explain what it is that keeps me from giving this movie a 9 or 10. It did well, but didn't get the best reviews and I thought I read somewhere that Steven Spielberg was a little disappointed with this movie. "},{"Title":"I'm pretty hooked on watching this movie. It's alright.","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) kidnaps his children, an adult Peter Pan (Robin Williams) must return to Neverland and reclaim his youthful spirit in order to save his children & challenge his old enemy. Hook, line, and tinker. Some people might not think its Barrie good but I think it's alright for a children film. Directed by Steven Spielberg, the movie ask the question, most people never thought before; what if Peter Pan grew up? This movie look like a sequel to the Disney's 1953 animated movie version of the novel J.M Barrie's 1911 novel Peter and Wendy. Still, it has some of the mature elements of the original novel, which was more geared toward adults than children. It digs deep into the psychological of Puer aeternus AKA Pan syndrome. Like Wendy in the original novel, the modern day, Peter Pan learns the bad side of never growing up, when he learn that due to his neglect, his relationship with both Wendy and Tinker Bell went soured. He was never able to witness the joys of adulthood. When he does choose to grow up, his quest for success, often came with the price of his family feeling neglected. It's nice to see the one-dimensional Peter Pan, have a character arch, here. The movie tells why it's so important, to grow up, but not too fast that you lose your inner child. The collision between responsibility and eternal boyhood is a great conflict. Not surprisingly, those portions of the film that involve Peter Banning and his family are considered the most genuine heart-felt and emotional affecting aspects of Hook. You really felt for him, when Captain Hook brainwash his child, in thinking that he can be a better father than Peter Pan. I love the clock breaking scene. The troubled relationship between Peter and his son echoed Spielberg's relationship with his father and you see it in this film. Robin Williams is great in the lead role. You would never think of him, as a Peter Pan character, but he tries his hardest to look and play the part. I just really glad, they never gave the role to pop singer, Michael Jackson, a over obsessed fan, because he doesn't have the acting range that can show that conflict. He never truly understood the reasons of growing up. Jackson was disappointed that he wasn't able to play the role on screen that supposedly he tried to put a voodoo curse on Spielberg. Talk about somebody needs to grow up. Another great memorable performance is that of Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook in one of his best performances, ever. He has the right balance of villainous. Even supporting characters like Dante Basco as Rufio, Bob Hoskins as Smee & Maggie Smith as Wendy were amazing in the roles. Julia Roberts as Tinker Hell is questionable. She has that sweetheart look, but lacks the jealous and deceiving nature of Tinker Bell of the original novel. She was hard to work with. It's weird to see cameos like Phil Collins, Gwyneth Paltrow, Glenn Close, David Crosby, George Lucas, and Carrie Fischer, but it didn't hurt the film. While Hook look pretty epic, Hook was shot almost entirely on sound stages rather than real life locations. It gave that felt of the early 1930s fantasy Golden Age of Pirates movies. The set designs were pretty good, despite it looking kinda unrealistic and cheap. I love the whole Pirate ship set. It's a bit weird, that Tinker Bell drop Peter Pan off here in the beginning of the film than the Lost Boys tree. It's like dropping off, a deer in a wolves den. I guess, she was indeed deceiving. I like, how Hook can't find the Lost Boys hideout, despite its being clear, that it's the tree, anyways. There were so misguide attempts to get 1990s children, watching this film. I found it a bit weird, for the majority of the Lost Boys act like children of the 1990s, than turn of the Century children. I didn't know, the 1900s had Basketball, Mohawk hairstyles and skate boards. I kinda wish that Michael and John from the original book made an appearance, but it does makes sense why they weren't there. The action is a hit and a miss. I know, it's a children movie, but why is the Lost Boys fighting the Pirates in such non-lethal ways with Eggs and pies? Children do die here, yet they're fighting them as if it's a fantasy kid friendly Home Alone corny style action. Despite that, the sword fights, the movie does have, are pretty good. The music is another good, about the film. John Williams's music is beautiful to listen to. The movie does have some stupid over the top whimsical music clichés moments like a child singing badly in the moonlight. She's no American Tail, Tanya. The movie does other stupid moments like the imagination food scene. Yes, children, rather than search for food, just imagine food, so you don't starve. Some stupid plot-holes things are hard to overlook like how a baby grown up to be 12 years old in Neverland despite the place, being a place, where nobody grows old. It's also seem odd, that the Pirates knows everything about Peter Pan's life after he left Neverland, but still shock to see him as an adult. I guess, there were a lot of foreshadowing; since there were lots of Hook symbolism. I like how the voice of the plane captain in the beginning was indeed Dustin Hoffman, and the trash sweeper in the end, could be Smee. Its Easter eggs like this that make it, a good re-watch value. Overall People either love or hate this movie. Personally, I love it. I will say it, it was a great nostalgia family film that could need a little bit more work. Compare to other live action sequels to animated movies. It's a lot better than them. If you haven't seen it, check it out. Bangarang! "},{"Title":"Will get the Whole Family Smiling,","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a brilliant movie with a very well developed storyline and an outstanding cast.The movie gave me great joy and wonder all the way through,Robin Williams was perfect casting as Peter Pan as he has a childlike sensibility but can also deliver more dramatic acting when it is needed,Dustin Hoffman also did a great job as Captain Hook,it seemed like a strange choice to me but he really became the character,this is certainly the best acting I've seen in a Peter Pan film.Steven Spielberg did a great job making this movie,the sets are absolutely beautiful,if it was made just a few years later this would have been mostly special effects,but luckily it didn't and this movie is all props and real locations which makes it look some much better and you can see the hard work everyone put in to this film.The only casting choice I didn't appreciate was Julia Roberts,I think she's a brilliant actress but she just didn't seem interested in playing Tinkerbell and didn't get sucked in to the childlike wonder of this film like everyone else clearly did.Very underrated film,I don't see why it gets treated so harshly,I loved Hook from start to finish and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good family film. After his kids are taken away by Captain Hook,Peter Banning must return to Neverland and become Peter Pan once again in order to save his children. Best Perfornance Robin Williams Worst Performance Julia Roberts "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook allow me to set the stage for you. All of the fancy characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. There are gentle fisticuffs back and forth with those who claim to work for justice. The trains of righteousness can't be stopped and their movement brings about reactive forces in the people they affect. Great costumes and dialog move it all along in Hook. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do, however, drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so you know what? I can accept them. A gem. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The tale of a grown-up Peter Pan (Williams) who has forgotten his childhood past and must return to Neverland and reclaim his youthful spirit in order to save his kidnapped children (Korsmo and Scott) from Captain Hook (Hoffman). You can call it a sequel to Barrie's 1911 novel PETER AND WENDY, but the genius of this particular story is all contained within this film, from the spot-on cast to the sets of Sony Pictures Studios bringing Neverland to screen in live-action, this movie is magical to anyone who grew up in the 1990s despite critics' panning. And while not every element from PETER AND WENDY can make it into this movie (despite being 144 minutes), there are many wonderful references to them nonetheless (such as John, Michael and Tiger Lily).***½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Second Star to the Right...","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've always loved the story of Peter Pan! From the humble beginnings of the character as a pan-flute playing satyr to other transformations and interpretations including the film Hook! I love the idea of staying forever young... one of the main themes that has stayed with Pan since he was first invented. I myself try to maintain a kid at heart approach to living life - it keeps me happy and youngish - and, maybe, that's why I've always loved the story of Peter Pan.And Captain Hook... what can I say about him? A villain that I love and hate at the exact same time! Quite an interesting pirate that could learn a lot about love, life and laughter from Peter Pan.This is a great family film but even those of us who are single and/or childless can still enjoy this interpretation of the story.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Bad Ending Ruins This Film for Me","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film, shown often on cable, is one of those movies I can't watch because I know that one of the lost boys gets killed viciously near the end, by Capt. Hook. Other movies that I can't stand are Sophie's Choice (I hate the ending) and Lost in Space (Dr. Smith becomes a giant mutated bug). If I ever end up in Hell I would expect to see all 3 of these films, along with the Bette Davis 1930's musical Reckless (she attempts to sing and dance-and can't), for all eternity. That would be torture, indeed. This film has so much going for it. Dustin Hoffman is deliciously wicked as Capt. Hook. Robin Williams is great as an all-grown up Peter Pan. Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell is sexy and terrific and has a real thing for Peter. If only that one unexpected scene wasn't there. It even seems out-of-place. View instead the underrated and often overlooked live-action English-made Peter Pan (2003). That film is magical! "},{"Title":"Hook! Hook! Hook!","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Ah, Hook. This is one of those movies you either love or you hate. I love it, and honestly like it better than the actual story of Peter Pan, or other spins on it like Finding Neverland. But, let's see why Hook is near and dear to many hearts, and hated by others.Peter Pan (Robin Williams) has grown up into Peter Banning, a man who has no memory of being Peter Pan, and is a workaholic who is cold to his wife and children. But when his wife Moira (Caroline Goodall) insists they take a trip back to England to visit her Granny Wendy (Maggie Smith) he gives in, despite his crippling fear of flying. But when Peter, Moira and Granny go to a ceremony in Wendy's honor, their children Jack (Charlie Korsmo) and Maggie (Amber Scott) are kidnapped by Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman). While the logical Peter calls the police, Wendy tries to remind him of his youth&#x97;but he thinks she's lost it until Tinkerbelle (Julia Roberts) comes in the night to take him back to Neverland. While there, Tinkerbelle and the Lost Boys must help Peter remember who he is, teach him to fight, and help him get Jack and Maggie back home.It's been said many times that Spielberg considered this movie a failure, but I really don't understand why. It captures the innocence and adventure of the original Barrie story, and gives a new spin on it by questioning what it means to grow up, as well having a cat's in the cradle vibe to it. The sets, wardrobe and look of the characters in Neverland are hit and miss. Some things look very fake, others look really cool. However, it is clear was the film was made in the 90s. Dustin Hoffman is amazing as Hook, and I also loved Robin Williams as Peter Pan and Charlie Kosmo as Jack. The lost boys like Rufio, Thud Butt, and Pockets were interesting and unique. I also think all the actors fit their characters, except Julia Roberts. I might be pulling some thoughts off The Nostalgia Critic but Julia Roberts was way too&#x85;sweet in her role of Tinkerbelle. In the days of Fairy Hollow and other Tinkerbelle popularity, people often forget that Tinkerbelle in the Barrie story (and even the 1950's Disney film!) is often jealous, vindictive, and downright mean. There was NO trace of that personality or allusion to her past indiscretions in this performance. If anything she just weirdly comes off as a friend zoned character who is still sadly in love with a man she can never have. However, plenty of scenes and characters are just epic and unforgettable. How can you not love the make-believe feast scene? Or the Run Home Jack scene? This is a great film for kids and the kid in all of us. Although you might want to fast forward through the boo box scene if there are kids under 7 in the room. "},{"Title":"A Lively Entertainer!","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Hook' is a lively entertainer, that still has it's own charm. Directed by none-other-than Steven Spielberg, 'Hook' acts as a sequel to Peter Pan's original adventures, and comes up a winner, in it's own way.'Hook' Synopsis When Captain Hook kidnaps his children, an adult Peter Pan must return to Neverland and reclaim his youthful spirit in order to challenge his old enemy.Spielberg's Take on Peter Pan, is childlike & very imaginative. Also, bringing in a Middle-Aged Peter Pan & a Older Captain Hook, not only adds freshness to their legendary rivalry, but also a certain amount of inquisitiveness. His Direction, like always, is gorgeous. James V. Hart & Malia Scotch Marmo's Screenplay, is mostly engaging & lively. However, the first 30-minutes, are not really effective. Cinematography & Editing, are fine. Art Design & Visual Effects, are stunning. Performance-Wise Robin Williams is lovable as Peter Pan. Dustin Hoffman performs superbly as the Captain Hook. Julia Roberts as Tinker Bell, does fairly well. Bob Hoskins as Hook's henchman, Smee, is excellent. Maggie Smith as Wendy Darling is believable. All The Kids deliver decently. On the whole, 'Hook' isn't a masterpiece, but throughly entertaining nonetheless. Watch It! "}{"Title":"Everything looks real. You want to jump through the screen and fly with them.","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Tick Tock Tick Tock hum Who is afraid of this noise? The great Capitan James Hook (Dustin Hoffman). He is lonely and misses his rival Peter Pan. Peter is all grown up with a wife and two children living a normal life. When he goes to London to visit Wendy who found him a family when he had none, Hook steals his children. Peter has forgotten all about Neverland. Tinker Bell (Julia Roberts) who still adores Peter Pan comes to the rescue and flies him back to Neverland. He cannot fly anymore because he has forgotten how. Hook is sadly disappointed to find that Peter is all grown up and has forgotten how to play, much less fight. Tinker Bell has three days to get Peter Pan back in shape. He has been gone a long time and the Lost Boys have a new leader Rufio. They do not believe that Robin Williams is Pan the Man. My favorite scene was the food fight. It was funny and a great idea. In order to have food you have to imagine what you want to eat, and there it is. If you lose your imagination, you will just be hungry. I love the mermaids. They look so real. Tinker Bell is my favorite character because she is the cutest pixie ever. She is small, could fly and has an adorable house. Captain Hook is the best I have ever seen. He is funny yet has a mean streak. Snead (Bob Hoskins) the Captain's assistant is played perfectly and Hook would be no where without him. Steven Spielberg makes another movie which has me laughing, crying and cheering. There are the coolest sets. The great pirate ship, the Lost Boys hideout and Tinker Bell's space are all done with great detail. Everything looks real and I wanted to jump through the screen and learn how to fly and live there for a while. It looks like I always imagined it would. Second star to the right and fly on until morning. The costume designers and make-up artists are outstanding. They do a believable job of making all characters look perfect. Is Peter Pan ever going to remember how to fly so he can rescue his children from the pirates? Yes, there are a lot of pirates. Children and adults of all ages will love this movie. The age range is 6 and up. I give this movie 5 twinkling stars because it brought a cartoon I love and made it real. Morgan Bertsch, age 8, KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. "},{"Title":"Very nice reimagining.","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is a so-so actor. He's been in great movies like Aladdin and Jumanji, but also bad ones such as Man of the Year. But he did a good job here, alongside Dustin Hoffman, who is one of my favorite actors. Hoffman reminded me a lot of his character in Stranger Than Fiction, mostly due to his awesome voice. I wasn't that big a fan of Julia Roberts, but I can't think of anyone who would've been better.As for the movie itself, it's really long for a kid's movie, and the whole Tinkerbell love affair was rather disturbing. (Also, did nobody else freak out when Peter went from being in love with Wendy to being in love with her daughter?) It's imaginative and fun though, and that's what's important. It didn't capture my interests like it did when I was younger but it's still a good film. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Inspiring Films Ever Made","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am surprised and honestly a bit appalled that anyone would write a negative review for Hook. In my opinion, this film is nothing less than a masterpiece and one of Spielberg's finest moments. Hook transfixed me as a child like few other films, but what impressed me even more was that when I came back after many years and watched it in my late twenties, it had lost none of it's power, charm or effect.This film is a fantasy come to life, with great visual effects, exotic locales, dreamy wish-fulfillment and so forth. And the cast is fantastic. (I don't even mind Julia Roberts) But the real strength of this film is how beautifully moving it is. It has great heart. Maybe the reason that I can still relate to it as an adult is that it's about things that never leave us, but which we sometimes have to rediscover. Family, joy, imagination. It's stood the test of time remarkably well.To restate, I am not saying that this an on-the-whole decent film that deserves better than to be dismissed; I am saying that this is one of the very best films that has ever been made, whether it is viewed as children's programming or as timeless fable for all ages. It's absolutely wonderful. "},{"Title":"I love Peter Pan","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love Peter Pan which is probably why I hated this movie. I am not going to sit here and nitpick and bash all the tiny mistakes in the movie or point out all the small flaws because those were not by far the worst part of this movie. I'll start with the good points of this movie...The acting wasn't bad and the characters played their designed rolls well. The costumes and settings were well designed and used. That was about all I found good about this movie.... The whole idea of Peter Pan is that he NEVER GROWS UP. This movie goes against EVERYTHING Peter Pan stands for! He is the boy who never grows up so to have him grow up and forget Neverland his HOME for his entire childhood. I do not believe that should ever be done. This movie takes all of the splendor and happiness out of who Peter Pan is and what he stands for. He loved Neverland and his lost boys and tinkerbell way too much to ever leave them to be a grown up...yes he loved Wendy and I can see why she could have been the only reason for him to grow up...but still he doesn't he chooses to stay in Neverland and be a boy. I was just disappointed in the concept of this movie. If you loved it that is your own opinion and you are entitled to it. But this just wasn't the movie for me. "},{"Title":"Sugary and trite","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Steven Spielberg's misconceived panto is a glutinous mixture of tiresome platitudes, phony visual effects and tacky plastic sets. The concept - that Peter Pan has grown up and is now a lawyer who needs to reconnect with his inner child in order to save his kids from the clutches of Captain Hook - might have seemed like a good idea to the writers, but they couldn't find a way of making it work. Robin Williams is worth watching as the adult Peter and Dustin Hoffman's having fun as Hook, and between them they just about make this clag watchable. Julia Roberts, meanwhile, embarrasses herself as Tinkerbell. A film like this needs to be magical and charming, not a clumsy and overbearing lump based around Spielberg's dog-tired neglectful father theme, coated in John Williams' sickly and intrusive score, and thudding to an end with a hopelessly fumbled finale. "},{"Title":"Give this movie another chance","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I loved peter pan 1 a 2 as a kid I found them quit wonderful funny and good I Herod about the live action film which is called Hook starring Robin as older Peter Pan and my favorite character Captain Hook and Mr Smee This movie by the way has to be one of those underrated films like The love bug A goofy movie short circuit and All dogs go to heaven 1 and 2 I mean to say is what the hell is wrong with this film I mean it was a such a good movie it was funny charming and pretty sad. The story is about Peter now older with a family who is too busy too spend to with his family and Hook steals his kids and trys to make them his own children but Peter ends up saving them from him and Hook gets eaten by the Tick Tock crocodile who Hook killed but came back to life and eats him at the end. This movie is just wonderful and quit underrated its nice to see the return of are favorite characters from the cartoon come back All in All a really good movie you should give it another chance trust me its not that bad its really good so come on give it a try for once and you will find it wonderful I give this movie a 10 out of 10 very good. "},{"Title":"No-one can get it right all the time","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook presents us with the interesting and unusual phenomenon of Spielberg not getting it right.The idea is great - an adult Peter Pan, having eliminated the very notion of Neverland from his mind, has his children kidnapped by Captain Hook and has to return to Neverland where he rediscovers the childhood he had deliberately abandoned.And there is much to like about the film, not least of which are Dustin Hoffman's mannered Hook, and Maggie Smith's frail and aged Wendy.But when mistakes are made - and there are a number here - boy, are they whoppers! There are two huge casting mistakes among the principals. Julia Roberts is an absolutely awful Tinkerbell. Tinkerbell is a fairy, for heaven's sake. It's difficult to think of anyone more rooted in the real world than Julia Roberts, the least fairy-like actress I can think of (and whoever thought it would be a good idea to have a wincingly cloying scene of barely restrained loveydoveyness between Peter and Tinkerbell at the same size, should be locked up with no chance of ever getting near a word processor ever again. Preferably hide the pencils, too, just in case).And, I hate to say it, because I understand why it looked good on paper, Robin Williams is pretty awful too. If anything, Williams plays it too straight. I believe his uptight adult business man with not enough time for his kids, but I never believed his rejuvenated Pan.The Lost Boys don't convince, particularly the cockatoo-haired punk leader.The special effects fall in a clumsy halfway house between dream-like sheer fantasy and real life, and the set-bound interiors are too busy. The whole thing has a garish cast to it as if someone turned up the colour intensity on the TV.A misfire and, in Spielberg's filmography, only 1941 is a poorer effort. "},{"Title":"Just watched this movie for the first time in 18 years.","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was in first grade when I saw it for my birthday and I remember liking it then. I thought it was funny, scary and full of action. But I am grown up now and it really struck a cord in me for some reason. It felt like a whole new movie with so much emotion. Yes, it's a great kid's movie but I can't explain why it's more emotional as an adult, Spielberg got some genuine performances out of everyone and the only thing that felt familiar was the amazing John Williams score. I remembered all the melodies somehow.As for the story, you really feel that there's lots at stake, sure there may be plot holes or whatever but I don't care, this movie is a BRAVE new re-imagining of the legend.Also Dustin Hoffman is still as intimidating as I remember him. In one scene he has this hilarious dramatic plea for attention where he pretends that he's going to commit suicide. I didn't understand it 18 years ago but it sure as hell is funny now!This movie is so worth watching if you're looking for a family movie and have kids of your own now. "},{"Title":"Skip it and watch the Disney version","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If there's one classic that I think has the most potential to be a masterpiece, Peter Pan is it. Disney did an admirable job with their animated adaption, and Dave Barry and Ridley Pearson have written a marvelous book series about Peter Pan. Hook, unfortunately, isn't nearly as good as it should be. It's silly premise, lack of comedy, and long length this a considerably lesser Pan-tale. Peter Banning has long since forgotten his childhood as Peter Pan, and is now a middle-aged lawyer who puts work before family (and is severely afraid of heights to boot). But when his kids, Jack and Maggie, are kidnapped by Captain James Hook, Peter is forced to remember his life at Neverland, and learn to best Hook and save his children. One of Hook's many problems is that it's a children's movie. Much of Hook will only appeal to the younger crowd, and the extensive running time (nearly two and a half hours) and it's slow, crawling pace will leave most children bored out of their minds. The action is extremely minimal until the end, in which a battle against the pirates and the Lost Boys ensues, which mostly consists of dull slapstick. The humor is also extremely childish. It seems most everything in Hook is geared toward the youngest of children. Yet, as I just mentioned, it has an ominously long run time, which diminishes the film's audience to, well, no one. It's such a shame too, because Hook might've been a decent film. There was a lot in Hook that I loved, and had Hook played it's cards right, this could've been the Peter Pan film I've been waiting for. Alas, the few elements of Hook that I enjoyed are vastly overshadowed by it's many flaws. The premise is awkward, and even a bit confusing. The awkwardness is mostly due to the fact that Peter Pan is a middle-aged lawyer. Talk about shattering your childhood dreams. No one wants to see Peter Pan as an adult. His naive perspective of life and staying young is part of what made Pan so appealing in the first place. With Pan being all grown up, much of what made him such a lovable character is gone. One rather tasteless scene that's worth pointing out occurs during Pan's dinner with the Lost Boys in which a rather grotesque and childish series of name calling occurs. In addition to names like Mucus Muncher and Zit Popper, there are many others not worth repeating. As sorry as I feel for those who watched this scene (including myself), I am much more sorry for the actors that had to memorize these obscene names, as well as the writers who had to come up with them. The score by the consistently incredible John Williams is perhaps a bit under-par. It's not bad, but it's not quite as good as William's other scores. The score isn't playful enough, nor is it grand enough. Compared to William's other film scores, it's a bit of a disappointment, but it's still mostly solid. The acting is something of a mixed bag. No one does a poor job at acting, but there are problems, regardless. Robin Williams plays Peter Pan. This is a problem as Peter Pan is no longer a boy, he is now a man. This is a completely different version of Pan, so the actor needs to leave a completely new imprint. Unfortunately, Robin Williams is too big a star for this part, so instead of remembering Peter Pan as a confused and loving father, we remember him as Robin Williams. Dustin Hoffman, on the other hand, blends excellently as Hook. When we see Hook, we don't see Hoffman. I'm sure the wig and makeup helped, but Hoffman is considerably less recognizable then Robin Williams, which makes his role much better. Hook, as a character, is already one of the better parts of the film, with his subtle elements of satire and humor, and this is aided even further by Hoffman's performance. Julia Roberts, on the other hand is severely miscast as Tinker Bell. Most other actors do decent, yet not outstanding jobs, though Bob Hoskins performs amusingly as Hook's assistant, Smee. This different take on Peter Pan fails to find an audience. It's too long for kids, too slow and devoid of action for teens, and too childish for adults. I wanted to like Hook, but it misses the mark as an action film, a comedy, and a family film. It tries to be too much, and it ends up being nothing at all. "},{"Title":"The boy who finally grew up","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook has been one of my favorite movies ever since I first saw it 10 years ago. I love the magical aspect of the movie and of course Robin Williams. Hook (1991) acts as a sequel to Peter Pan. The movie answers many questions we may have. What would have happened if Peter grew up? What type of job would he get? Would he have a family? Director Steven Spielberg puts a clever twist on the old classic Disney cartoon, Peter Pan, and makes it new again for so many. Peter Banning (Robin Williams) is a grumpy lawyer who lives his life too seriously to remember he used to be the famous Peter Pan. Peter, his wife Moira, and their children Jack and Maggie, take a trip to London to visit Granny Wendy (Maggie Smith). While in London, Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) kidnaps Jack and Maggie and takes them to Neverland. With the help of Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) Peter goes to Neverland. The problem is Peter doesn't remember anything about Neverland. He is lead to the lost boys who try to help him remember who he really is, Peter Pan. With the help of the lost boys and Tinkerbell, Peter is able to defeat Captain Hook and save his kids. The new character, Rufio, took over for Pan after he left Neverland and has been leading the lost boys ever since. Hook also references another classic fairy tale. Peter's children were named Jack and Maggie for a reason. Jack and Maggie are the English translations of the German names Hansel and Gretel. Just like Hansel and Gretel, Jack and Maggie are taken away from their family. The movie teaches us to really appreciate everything as if we are kids again. The film is a reminder that we should keep in touch of our inner child and never let go. The acting by Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman is incredible as always as well as most of the cast. Robin plays a great contrast between playing a serious character and the playful childlike character we have come to expect of him. Dustin Hoffman really got into his character Hook. He was on set for two months before he started shooting just so he could get into character. My only complaint is maybe Julia Roberts wasn't the best choice for the part, though she and Robin do have a few good moments together. Not only were the actors outstanding, so was the music by John Williams. It really draws you into the story. Spielberg did in this movie as he does in all his movies. His use of imagination and creativity makes you want to walk into the screen and become a part of the world he has created. The dinner scene where Peter starts to remember who he is, the lost boys use their imagination and pretend they are eating real food when there is actually nothing there. Once Peter starts to use his imagination, a banquet of food appears on the table. This is one particular scene that makes you want to be a part of the movie. Like all movies this one too has its flaws. It is a little slow paced at some points and has a few plot holes. There are numerous continuity issues. Also in a few shots you can see a crew member or camera reflection or even lights hanging down on the sound stage. Spielberg even said he was not happy with the final turn out of the movie. He said that if the movie was made today, the design of Neverland may be more to his liking. Though it is not a Disney film, it does capture the magic of Disney and the magic of the original Disney cartoon. It is full of action and adventure and a whole lot of fantasy. It is just an overall fun movie. If you are a fan of Robin Williams, Steven Spielberg, or Peter Pan, I really recommend this movie. Even if the before doesn't apply to you, despite its flaws, it is still a very enjoyable movie for everyone. Bangerang. "}{"Title":"'Hook' Reviewed","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Great film from my childhood, when I was 11 I wrote this in script format and cast school pupils in roles as a school play (that never came to fruition!) I think it was just an excuse to watch it over and over again and memorise it! A dream cast of the late great Robin Williams who is perfect as a grown up Peter Pan, the brilliant Dustin Hoffman is Hook, Julia Roberts is gorgeous as Tinkerbell the fairy and another late actor Bob Hoskins plays Hook's mischievous sidekick Smee. Directed by Steven Spielberg with John Williams scoring the music...it's all perfect! Maybe if I were to nitpick, it's a bit long winded at over two hours long and I've never quite accepted how Hook is destroyed - eaten by a dead, stuffed giant crocodile, but when we're dealing with flying humans, fairies and pirates I guess there are films where you've just got to switch off and go with it. I'm sure most people reading this have already seen 'Hook' so I won't bore you with my scene by scene account on what happens. If you've not seen it, Peter pan is now an adult (Robin Williams) forced to return to Neverland after Captain Hook kidnaps Hook's kids, and remember who he is and learn to fight the evil one handed Captain all over again. The slanging match at the Lost Boys' dinner table is a classic scene, and look out for a cameo from Phil Collins as the Police Inspector after the kids have been kidnapped! "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Peter Pan has become Peter Banning (Robin Williams), a 40-year-old mergers and acquisitions lawyer with a permanent scowl on his face and a cellular phone in his belt. Banning has lost any memory of being Peter Pan, and he is also in danger of losing his wife Moira (Caroline Goodall) and two children, Jack (Charlie Korsmo) and Maggie (Amber Scott). Peter and his family travel to London to visit Granny Wendy (Maggie Smith) who recalls Peter's lost youth and asks him, Peter, dear, don't you know who you are? With Peter's children asleep in the same bedroom where the original Peter Pan story began, there is a blinding flash. Peter comes into the room to discover a note from Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman), informing Peter that he has kidnapped his children. Granny Wendy now tells him who he really is and encourages him to re-discover his happy thoughts, transform himself into the Peter Pan of the past, and go rescue his children. With the encouragement of Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts), Peter recalls the birth of his son and once again takes wing. Then it's off to Never Land to rescue his kids "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie for both kids and adults to enjoy equally!!!","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Current rating while writing this review is 6.7 I CANNOT BELIEVE THIS!!! There are literally a lot more movies way worse than this movie that scored higher. People really have no taste in film anymore.This movie is a classic! This is a TRUE family movie! Not the junk they seem to just throw together for a quick buck now a days. This rating clearly does this movie no justice. Acting was just great, it wasn't annoying, not really over acting, and it just felt like it was put together right! This movie will entertain you til the end, and its not obvious how it will all end either.It's just so sad that Robin Williams died. He did a superb job on this one. It's also really sad that some people hated this movie. Some critics clearly have no business in movie reviews. It's just a shame they don't make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"pure  delight","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" more than a movie it is a total show. not only impressive but touching for the admirable science to remind the childhood memories and for the art to be , in special manner, a film for entire family. sure, for great actors the expectations are not small but in this case the virtue is to have the right sound for the perfect music. not the costumes, the performance or atmosphere are special but the joy , the tension, the inspired tone for create a realistic story , realism who represents result of fantastic. it is not easy to define it. because it is, in essence, a kind of delight but not as extraordinary movie but as remember, with precise delicacy , the soul of an age, the values who defines life, the humor who has the freshness of first experiences of a young man. all is wonderful. and useful. so, pure delight. and, maybe, little more. "},{"Title":"Your Childhood Will Love You For Giving It This Movie","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's hard to believe that 'Hook' the film based on Sir Barrie's amazing Peter Pan story is over twenty years old now. I found it on beloved LoveFilm one Sunday night when I was at a loose end and in need of distraction... And what a movie to provide it!Peter Pan eventually found love back in London England in the form of Wendy's granddaughter Moira. But Captain Hook, stuck back in Neverland forever fighting off the Lost Boys and Indians, has not forgotten or forgiven, and kidnaps the now very-grown-up, business-orientated Peter's often-overlooked kids, holding them as leverage for Pan's assured return so Hook can have the final war with him and the Lost Boys he's been gearing up for for years. Peter returns with the help of Tink but, has completely forgotten everything, including his own real identity over the course of the years in which he's been in the Real World. So both sides start to prepare for a fight to the death, prepared to do anything to gain an advantage...Robin Williams makes a convincing Pan, who has literally given up his wild youthful days and forgotten all about them, needing to be put through rigorous tests before he can remember and do what is needed of him. With such a role and how it has been written, one needs to balance the comedy with the more serious moments with gravitas and, proving even here that he's not just a comic actor, Williams strikes it very right!Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins make a wonderfully formidable and naturally funny team as Captain Hook and Smee, bouncing off each other splendidly (and probably with a good pinch of ad-lib) in several scenes. It's hard to believe it actually is Hoffman under all those eyebrows, but with his usual Method style, completely throws himself into the role and is unidentifiable within it. (As a fellow actor, I'm in awe of when actors can do this)A lot of the kid actors in it as well are quite obviously having the time of their lives and hold a good performance despite their young years. Maggie Smith is on top form, as per, as Wendy, as is Caroline Goodall, most recently seen as the bitchy Duchess Cecily in The White Queen (who'd have thought it???)It is a wonderfully feel-good movie, even with the short but hard- hitting death scene (no spoilers here, me laddie!) The added touch of making Neverland a young kids paradise to live in, complete with proper treehouse with a built in skate park, weapons which fire eggs and rotten tomatoes and a real Us vs. Grown-ups feel to it, makes one feel both nostalgic for one's own childhood and proves very endearing in the overall feel of the film, without being overly twee. We also see a very endearing take on where Peter Pan may originally have come from, which is never really touched upon in the book (if memory serves). The more tender moments are of course needed in such scripts, coming in the form of realizations of what life's important moments are and should be. These softer moments are also very reminiscent of Barrie's writing style, where happiness is mixed with reflective sorrow, proving almost surprisingly shocking. It completely takes you back to being a kid, its overall message being it's okay to get older, but you don't necessarily have to give up being a kid. "},{"Title":"You know, I like it.","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Looking through the reviews I see so many people with 1 star reports, giving reviews with large, multi-syllable words. What do you think you are doing here? You clearly watched the movie with the clear intention of criticizing it from an intellectual standpoint. The absolute truth is that is wrong. This is a movie of feeling on a whim. It is not to provide some existentialist analysis. The first time I saw this, I was probably about three. I still feel as good watching it now as I did then. That is the true testament to it's good job. Sure, it has a lot cheesy and cliché moments, but those are only undertones to the film as a whole, which feels like an adventure that belongs in Disney land.The bottom line is If you didn't like the movie, it is because you didn't want to.Just let yourself enjoy it. It will do that well, as long as you let it. "},{"Title":"Return to Innocence","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Baby boomer navel gazing. Peter Pan all grown up into a money obsessed corporate whore.Robin Williams plays Pan, leaving behind his green leotards for a suit, tie & hilariously obsolete cell phone, brokering deals and sealing mergers instead of dueling pirates and gliding through the night skies of Victorian London. The boy who vowed never to grow up finally joined all us hard bitten realists in the Real World- 'when I became a man I put away childish things'. The boy wonder rejected paradise and sold out to the Man for the standard wife, kids, mortgage and white picket fence. So far so yuppie.On a visit to Gramma Wendy's (yes that Wendy) Peter's workaholic ways alienate his own rug rats who are abducted by Pete's old nemesis- Captain James Hook (Dustin Hoffman). Wendy pleads with Peter, who's amnesia of his fantastic past remains total even in the face of his brood's kidnapping, even when tinker bell herself (always annoying Julia Roberts) snatches up her old partner-in-crime back to Never-Never land where he has three days, with the help of the rag tag retinue of Lost boys, to get in touch with his inner child and revive the old magic if he ever hopes to rescue his estranged offspring from the dastardly clutches of El Capitan and his merry band of ruffians. I saw HOOK in the theater during its initial run and then on video years after. It's a childhood favorite but only recently did a fresh hit let me appreciate some of the unspoken stuff going on in this lesser Spielberg joint. It predates the Dino majesty of JURASSIC PARK and the circle-jerk holocaust chic of SCHINDLER'S LIST. For a guy who's as much as admitted he felt like Peter Pan himself in not wanting to grow up, Spielberg's damage is his entire generations'. The 'most spoiled in the history of the world' they're often called. That it should recast its own midlife crisis in such whimsical terms makes for a colorful children's matinée.HOOKS addresses the age old struggle between the boundless energy of youth, the heavy, magic bereft existence of the modern adult world (which has only grown more desperate and cruel in the years since) and the gaping gulf that separates them. Peter has to recapture his sandbox days and learn to play with the other boys again if he wants his own kids back. The part where he finally achieves total recall, going inside and remembering all he gave up for worldly success hits like a scallywag's cannonball. What's that line from BREAKFAST CLUB? 'When you grow up your heart dies'&#x85;In that split second of remembrance, all the weighty years instantly lift from Peter's shoulders, light as a feather again and literally sailing through the clouds like no time has passed. Not something I could fully grok emotionally when I watched as a kid but which made me bloody tear up this time round. Spielberg- as much as I despise his happy meal movie mentality- is best with stuff like this. Nowadays he insists at sitting at the grown up table, taking on projects out of his depth to prove what a great artiste he is. Of his vaunted WW2 flicks, I still think EM-PIRE OF THE SUN, the one with a child lead is best.Peter's task in HOOK lies in bridging some sort of connection between his cold detached intellect and the plugged-in heart centeredness of youth, a balance between which the end of the film shows he's achieved. The Pirates and Hook represent the self centered corruption of the latter and the lost boys the effortless, live-in-the-moment timelessness of the former, where age is bypassed completely in never ending play. Peter can only fly, became unburdened of time and memory by holding onto one thought and ceasing the mindless babble and memories of his over-sized adult brain. Only then does he regain his wings and become the one true Pan. Learning is just remembering what you've forgotten.The MTV-lite Lost boys are a lot of fun too. It makes me wonder what a truly dark, anarchistic, punk rock version of Peter Pan would be like, one with a hard R and a director with real ballz. The elaborate textures of the sumptuous production design is already half way there; this new Never land is a candy colored visual riot but it's still strictly kiddy wave-length. Maybe something along the lines of William Burrough's WILD BOYS though rainbow jockstraps and roller-skates, guerrilla warfare and group fertility rites VS the leviathan of soulless corporate buccaneers a bright neon cavalcade of perversions and wonders&#x85;surely someone else has thought of this? "},{"Title":"To live would be an awfully big adventure........","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Peter Pan has grown up to be a cut-throat merger and acquisitions lawyer, and is married to Wendy's granddaughter. Captain Hook kidnaps his children, so Peter returns to Never Land with Tinkerbell. With the help of her and the Lost Boys, he must remember how to be young again in order to save his children by battling with Captain Hook once more......Seeing this in the cinema as a fourteen year old, I was truly blown away by just good the film was. Just getting into films, it was a rarity for Spielberg to get something wrong, and with Williams in the lead, I was quite confused as to why it was so poorly received.Twenty years on, after introducing my daughter to it, it's easy to see why. The film starts off really well, Williams is great as the grouchy dad, and Spielberg definitely has the golden touch in the first act.But as soon as Peter reaches never land and meets the lost boys, the film turns into a bloated mess, and you crave for Hoffman to get back on screen quickly.The films at least thirty minutes too long, and this should have been trimmed down during the second act, as this seems to go on forever and ever.The film does pick up at the final act, but it's a long time coming, but it just about redeems itself.Saying that, the cast are excellent, and the film still looks as good and fresh today as it did back then.So all in all, it's a good film, just really saggy and boring in the middle.The lost boys should have stayed that way.. "},{"Title":"Hook Has Its Ups And Downs","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a fantasy film that stars Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook, Robin Williams as Peter Pan/Peter Banning, Julia Roberts as Tinker Bell, Bob Hoskins as Smee, Maggie Smith as Granny Wendy, Caroline Goodall as Moira Banning, and Charlie Korsmo as Jack Banning. The film is based on the novel Peter and Wendy by J. M. Barrie and acts as a sequel to those adventures, focusing on a grown-up Peter Pan who has forgotten his childhood. Now known as Peter Banning, he is a successful corporate lawyer with a wife and two children. Hook kidnaps his children, and Peter must return to Neverland and reclaim his youthful spirit in order to challenge his old enemy.It was written by James V. Hart and Malia Scotch Marmo; and directed by Steven Spielberg.Spielberg's deeply flawed but sporadically fun update of the Peter Pan legend is entertaining. The visual contrast between the adult Pan's bustling outside world and the insulated fantasy of Neverland is striking, but his ideas about the politically correct in their ethnic diversity, energetic on skateboards are contrived and cheapening. On the plus side, the story's theme about adults finding their innocence again through their children is very touching. "},{"Title":"A movie about finding your lost childhood","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The minute I saw the Amblin Entertainment logo at the beginning of the film I said to myself, not another Spielburg film. Still, can't really blame myself as I knew that Hook was a kids type movie and I should have expected it, though I did not realise it. Okay, I don't detest Speilburg films per se, rather I just find that they are generally not in my style. They do have some strong themes, but generally I see that they could have been much more powerful with a few modifications - and I am considering Saving Private Ryan at this point in time.The main comment with this movie is does Spielburg follow the advice that he seem to force through this film? The major theme here is that if we have kids, we should not only allow them to be children, but as parents, we should not let our professional life get in the way of the quality time we spend with our kids, or we may find that we quickly lose them.The bible instructs children to honour their parents, but it also instructs parents to love their children. This means that as parents we should not only raise our children appropriately, but we should be there for them when they need us, and we should encourage them in what they want to do. Having never had kids (except for those that I was able to give back at the end of the day) I cannot comprehend the difficulties of parenthood nor can I contemplate how to avoid the mistakes that my parent's made - and that is what we inherently try to do. My mother is constantly trying to shower us with love and affection, because she never received any from her mother.I would say I digress, but I do not, because childhood is the important part of this film. Not only does it instruct us to be there for our children, it also encourages us not to deny our childish side - the side were we simply forget that we are mature adults and have fun, and there are many ways we do that. I roleplay and play computer games. This is because we simply cannot live without fun.Hook is about Peter Pan when he has grown up. I assume that everybody knows who Peter Pan is, but the thing that I must mention is that he refused to grow up - that is until he visited Wendy one day and fell in love with Moira. He then shed his past and grew up to marry her. Now, many years later, he returns to London to be confronted with his old adversary Hook. The problem is that Peter has forgotten everything, and has three days to remember who he was so that he may confront the evil Captain Hook.The movie divides people into the lost children and the pirates. The pirates are the grown ups, and Peter is considered a pirate as he not only has forgotten who he was, but he has shed the idea of boyhood and considers himself an adult. Not only that, he refuses to let his children be children. In the end, he must confront his childhood and return to it, so that he may bring his children back to him.The thing that struck me with this movie is the sets - it is as if Spielburg returned to the glory days of film when everything was filmed on a set, and they were exquisite. I remember seeing the opening to Hans Christian Anderson and was stunned as to how beautiful this opening set was. If anything, Spielburg should be applauded for this. "}{"Title":"Thank you for believing","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook I used to watch this movie all the time when I was little. I hadn't seen it for probably 12 years when I saw it on TV and decided to watch it. I really can't think of another time in my life where I have been flooded with memories. For all these years, I've had all these images floating around my head and I had no idea where they came from, and then I watched this movie and I found that they were all from it. I must have watched it a hundred times when I was a tiny tot, haha.All right, to the review. This is a Steven Spielberg film following a grown-up Peter Pan, who works as a lawyer and completely forgot about his life in Neverland. He is pushed back into his childhood when Captain Hook, hungry for a rematch, kidnaps his kids and holds them ransom. I think it's a really cute, original idea. I never wondered anything beyond the Peter Pan fairytale, so it was cool to see someone else's vision of what happened.It's a movie aimed to be another Spielberg blockbuster; therefore, it's full of jokes designed to satisfy a large audience and overflowing with enough cheesiness to make your tears taste like Gouda. It tries to appeal to a large audience, and that's it's biggest downfall, I think. It seems like the only funny jokes are the ones where it didn't seem like they were trying to get you to laugh. I liked that though, I love hidden gold.The actors were pretty good. I didn't hate Williams' character. I didn't like him so much either, but I didn't feel the same way I did about him in RV. Most of the child actors were awful, but I don't mean for that to sound as bad as it does. Usually I can't stand child actors, usually I think they all suck, but some of the Lost Boys were adorable and acted like real kids, instead of cute little robots. I laughed a lot during this movie, and most of the time it was because of those little boys. They're funny.I'm certainly not saying this is the best movie ever, or Spielberg's gem, but it has a special quality to it that I'm not sure I can describe. It has all the qualities of a movie I'd hate, but somehow I love it. Why is that? Just nostalgia? I don't know. Maybe it's the message, maybe it captures my hatred of becoming an adult and losing all powers of imagination. I love the moral of the film, it's cheesy, yes, but delicious. I hate to sound like a sentimental grandma, but I feel like this film contains a lot of that movie magic that makes cinema so special. It's a cute movie, it's a feel-good thing. It's full of creativity and happiness, family and love. Nice things. I'm definitely gonna buy it some day and watch it with my kids over and over. I love it. I recommend it. ) "},{"Title":"Don't' Believe the Hate","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There may be a little bit of bias in my review, since this was my favorite movie as a child, but I don't see this film as being bad in any way. When I found out later in life that this film was largely panned (pun not intended, but now noticed) by critics and viewed by Spielburg as a disappointment, I was pretty shocked. So I decided that maybe it would be a good idea to revisit this film and see if it (or perhaps I) had aged to the point where Hook would no longer be enjoyable to me.I will admit, the movie has its fair share of flaws the writing can be sketchy, the acting of the lost boys and Julia Roberts is poor in places, some of the effects look corny now, etc. However, there is so much more here to love that overshadows all of that. The performances of Robin Williams (who isn't as goofy here as one would expect), Bob Hoskins, and especially Dustin Hoffman as Hook are truly believable. The way certain scenes are shot are brilliant in the way the blend with the amazing music provided by John Williams. Standouts are the kidnapping scene near the beginning and the scene in the snowy park near the statue after Peter has returned from Neverland. And the story is consistently entertaining and touching while throwing in themes such as the inevitability of growing up and the importance of loved ones.Now I realize that the ones who hate this movie are just like Peter before his transformation. They're cynical old pirates who drink too much and can't enjoy a film that makes them rethink the lives they've chosen. "},{"Title":"Without Spielberg good movies would not exist","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" To be fair, while I love Hook, I can understand why people hate it, because while I love it, Hook does have it's fair share of flaws but how can you have a bad movie when Steven Spielberg is the director? He is the greatest director of all time in my opinion. At times the movie does drag but it's a charming, heart-warming, family flick that entertained lots of people, while those who like Hook say, it's not one of Spielberg's best, I disagree, I consider it to be one of his best. The story was great, the acting was amazing, I mean seriously, Robin Williams? That guy is a great actor. Aladdin, Good Will Hunting, Runaway Vacation, honestly this guy is a brilliant actor. Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook? Perfect decision. The issues of father-son relationships, learning how to behave, those issues could not usually work in a movie, but this one did it very subtle. This movie mixes action, adventure, drama, and a little comedy to go along with it. If you haven't seen Hook, check it out, pick a side and see what either you've have been missing or glad you've been missing. Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"An amazing movie with few caveats","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've seen this movie many times. And I am never ceased to be amazed at the complex but enjoyable version that this movie portrays. It is quite different from the classical version of Peter Pan. This movie starts and ends in quasi-modern times. I always enjoy the quick and quippy narratives. With a taste of old English, but not so much that you lose the meaning of the characters. I do think that the children did a great job of playing their parts from Jack and Maggie to all of the Lost Boys. Bob Hoskins was great. As was Robin Williams and last but not least Dustin Hoffman. The pirates has some notable figures. I particularly liked the Boo Box scene. Another memorable scene was when Maggie realized who her dad was. If you haven't seen this movie you will miss both an exciting and well versed version of this old classic. Well worth the time to see. "},{"Title":"Ah, good form exactly, Spielberg!","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Ever since I was a little kid, Hook has held the #1 spot as my favorite film of all time. I figured then, that I'd take this moment to finally flesh out the reasons why Spielberg's critically, well... criticized film has held my interest for so long.First off, going in, one has to understand that this is foremost a children's movie. That said, the adult themes introduced (ie. parental neglect, childhood rebellion, suicide, murder, revenge, forbidden love, etc.) all add a mature quality that takes this film a step above, say, Disney's hokey rendition of the Peter Pan story. Painting Peter as an adult, unaware of his origins, lost in a world of politics and material things (he's a lawyer, in essence a pirate by society's standards), ultimately makes him the polar opposite of his childhood self, thus necessitating the greatest change possible of the character by the end of the narrative. And giving him kids with whom he's all but estranged, but must travel to Neverland and face his past in order to rescue? Brilliant.Secondly, the setting. Some might call it corny, others might call it fake and contrived... I think that the feeling you get when you enter the world of Neverland for the first time isn't far from the feeling you get walking into a large theater. With set pieces hanging, and props laid out, and lights casting shadows onto decorated walls. You know it's artificial, but there's a certain magic about it because of that. Peter Pan was originally written as a play, and having Neverland mirror a stage set brings the enchanting story of Peter Pan back to its foundation. Everything from the Lost Boys' tree to Captain Hook's ship gives that same synthetic impression of a dreamlike world imitating reality. Which, in principle, is what Neverland was from the beginning.Also, how can I not talk about the casting? Robin Williams stars as Peter Pan, and he's not only at the top of his comedic game here, but he's nearly at the top of his career. In the early nineties, his name was synonymous with laughter, and children knew his face like they know Ben Stiller's now. He was ultimately a boy who wouldn't grow up. The perfect man to play Pan's adult self. And Captain Hook? Dustin Hoffman personifies Peter's nemesis perfectly. No other portrayal of the villainous Neverlander has been so spot on. The dark humor inherent in his performance is captivating and real, and leaves me shivering now the way it left me shivering when I was six. 'Pretty Woman' Julia Roberts even steals the show and adds a romantic tension that we feel just beneath the surface... giving Neverland a taboo sexiness that we've never really experienced before.Finally... and I'm sure I missed dozens of minor elements that make this film what it is, but it would be nothing without the incredible score by John Williams. He captures every possible tone of this film with brilliant complexity. From the title screen to the epic Hook versus Pan battle at the movie's climax, the entire musical composition is like a living organism. Breathing along with the action of the film in perfect rhythm.So yeah. That's why this movie is so awesome. And yes, I've seen all other versions of Peter Pan, and I've read the original script Peter Pan, or the Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up by author J.M. Barrie, and I have to say that Hook does the original source material the most justice in every way. "},{"Title":"A Peter Pan Sequel","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I thought this movie was VERY interesting, picking up where Peter Pan left off. At one point in the movie Wendy is reading from the actual Peter Pan book that J.M. Barrie wrote. I'm wondering if J.M. Barrie had anything to do with the writing of this movie as well. Even though this movie has a message that fathers should spend more time with their family, it doesn't really get in the way. The movie is still adventurous and actually gives you the feeling that Neverland is a real place. I really like the scene where they have the imaginary feast. When Peter actually sees the food in front of him, it really is wonderful. I think that scene pretty much sums up this whole movie. I swear, if J.M. Barrie didn't write this, I'd like to know who did. They must have been pretty darn talented, because this movie is great. I think it's as good or better than any of the Peter Pan films, including the animated Disney one, and classic animated Disney films are tough to beat. The lost boys in Hook are a lot more wild than the VERY tame lost boys in the animated film, and I think it gives Hook an added sense of realism. This film has a great musical score too. Obviously, since it's by John Williams. Although John Williams did do the score for Daddy-o also, which wasn't all that great. Robin Williams delivers another great performance that'll entertain adults and kids alike. The man has talent, even if in this movie he's old and overweight. I would call Hook a must-see family film. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but it made me want to be a Lost Boy, and that is a glorious feeling","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As an adaptation of a very English fairy tale, it is perhaps rather poor.As a children's fantasy film taking inspiration from one of the finest fairy tales of the 20th century, it is somewhat gloriously goofy fun.I admit that Robin Williams is nowhere near the picture of Peter Pan I would've ever had, or would've ever liked to have. But as Peter Banning, the way the character is written for this film, he's just likable and naturally funny enough to make the best of a mediocre script.Julia Roberts...well, yes, she was terribly miscast, bless her soul.But Dustin Hoffman....yes it is over-the-top, yes it is hammy, and oh boy, is it fun to watch him. He embodied Captain Hook so fully that neither I nor my parents recognised it was him for the first time we saw it. Deliciously evil, his menace feels real while never becoming horrifying. And his scenes with Bob Hoskins as Smee feature some truly clever (and funny) dialogue.The music by John Williams is simple and repetitive, but very catchy and thrilling. It does the job quite well, and is used wisely such that I never got tired of it.I am grateful that this is not the only film made about Peter Pan. For the direction Spielberg chose to take this, he did it well enough that I have a grand time at every viewing. There is a certain magic about it that makes one smile and want to be a Lost Boy.....it is only in small part the magic of Peter Pan (which is generally much diminished due to all the Hollywood-Americanized touches), but mostly due to Spielberg's magic. It may not be the best magic for a Peter Pan story, but it is a considerable one all the same. "},{"Title":"Great Movie Underrated","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As previous reviewers have said, this movie has been underrated, in my opinion. How could you not love a movie with so much imagination and emotion. To me, this is the best pirate movie I have ever seen. Dustin Hoffman has been the best Captain Hook by far making you hate and love the character at the same time. The sword fights were put together wonderfully, and no matter how much you see this film, there is still a little kid that comes from inside of you each time you see Neverland. If you haven't seen the movie, I would recommend for those who have a taste for imagination, if you still don't like the film, then at least you gave it a try. "},{"Title":"Who could NOT love this?","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Who can not fall in love with such a crazy masterpiece? Not I and here's why! The story starts off with a grown up Peter Pan (Robin Williams) who, now a lawyer and family man, doesn't seem to get along with his children very well and often tells them to grow up. As the story progresses you meet up with the lovely Wendy Darling (Maggie Smith) who exclaims 'Peter, you've become a pirate.' Later on when Wendy goes to a celebration for her work on looking after children, fostering them, Peter's children are kidnapped by the evil Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman). Later on meeting up with the mischievous Tinker Bell (Julia Roberts), she takes him to Neverland where he once came from and gets in to all sorts of trouble, especially when he needs to prove to his replacement Rufio (Dante Basco) that he IS 'The Pan' so that he can get an army - The Lostboys - to defeat Captain Hook and save his children.It's a wonderful tale and I won't spoil it all by saying everything that happens. That is up to you to find out as you watch the movie, and be prepared for one of the most amusing lines of the film How did you manage to fit into those smashing tights again? "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook seems to be a love it or hate it film. And I bet that there are some people who hate the film they will say that the only reason people love the film is because they're looking at it through nostalgia goggles. That they only like it because they liked it when they were younger. Well I loved it, or at least really enjoyed it, and I didn't see it when I was younger. I didn't watch it until I was eighteen years old, and I liked it a lot. Maybe it's because I'm a Spielberg fan-boy? Well I wasn't that big a fan of Amistad, Minority Report, Catch me if You Can, and I will fully admit that 1941 sucked.Now this movie wasn't perfect, there are quite a few plot holes, like how Peter keeps growing up despite being in Neverland, the place where you're never supposed to age. I don't really like the beginning, I just find it so mean spirited that I hate watching it. Some may not like that Tinkerbell can talk, I didn't mind this. And some also feel that it get's way too smaultsy. Personally I think it has a nice balance, but at some points, yeah, it can be trying a little too hard.Robin Williams and the lost boys are all funny and likable, but by far the best parts of the movie are the ones with Captain Hook and Smee, Dustin Hoffman and Anthony Hopkins are absolutely hilarious, and their plan to steal Peter's children away from him is a great villainous scheme. I heard that Spielberg was on autopilot with this one, which I can't agree with. In my opinion the set designs, makeup, and overall scope and feel of the movie showed that Spielberg really loved working on this movie. Most of the special effects hold up well too after 21 years, I could tell how most of them were done, but they still look pretty good, most of them at least. And I really like this story, how Peter must find his inner child and yet can still be an adult. And how Hook tries to ruin Pan physically and emotionally by stealing his child.Hook certainly doesn't rank up there with Jurassic Park, E.T. or Close Encounters, but it's a very enjoyable, very well made, movie with great, funny characters. And remember, I don't have any nostalgia for this film. "}{"Title":"Overproduced and chaotic, a misfire from Spielberg","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A surprisingly misfire by Spielberg. The normally solid directer loses control of the film which feels over-produced and chaotic. Robin Williams has a few nice lines and Dustin Hoffman is practically unrecognizable is a nicely evil performance as Captain Hook. However, too much seems to be happening in the film. The film's energy level sags at times. The kids occasionally annoy and I found their acting rather weak. Maggie Smith and Bob Hoskins are wasted in small throw-away parts. While the film isn't as bad as Spielberg's 1941, it is mediocre and eminently forgettable.Overall 4/10 "},{"Title":"Overlong but hugely enjoyable fantasy adventure.","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was actually worried when I saw the casting for Hook, but I watched it anyway. It is enjoyable, but I've seen better. Robin Williams is very likable and surprisingly good, but I personally wouldn't have picked him for Peter. Kevin Kline would have been a better choice. Julia Roberts is okay as Tinkerbell, but she has been better. Stealing the show, in a wonderfully pantomime performance as Captain Hook, is an unrecognisable Dustin Hoffmann, believe it or not. His performance was that good, that I was appalled that it wasn't nominated. He's not the first actor to be seriously robbed of an award.Morgan Freeman in Shawshank Redemption? Tim Curry in Legend and It? John Hurt in The Elephant Man? Bob Hoskins was amiable, and the music by John Williams was very good, but not his best score. The plot is simple but well-told, if marred by overlong and unnecessary sequences with the Lost Boys that were sadly poorly handled. The film's main merit, aside from Hoffmann's performance is the art direction, beautiful sets and lovely costumes, particularly the brief underwater scene with the mermaids. The part with Maggie singing on the boat deck was heart-rending, and the scene where Peter suddenly remembers everything was touching. Above all, every scene with Hook and Smee was extremely entertaining. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed it very much, but the film lacked magic. All in all, a slightly disappointing but fun and under-appreciated film, that is a 7/10 from me. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Fun, More Fun Than What I Thought!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Steven Spielberg adds a twist on his take of the classic Peter Pan story, where an adult Peter Pan, one who has completely forgotten his time in Neverland, has to return to his past to fight Captain Hook and rescue his abducted children.Ever since Hook was first released, the critics have tore up the film. And I have their respect, as its their opinion. But being a fan of Spielberg's work and one that has never watched the film before until now, I was quite surprised that I actually enjoyed this film. Sure it's not as great as some of Spielberg's other films, such as Jaws and Raiders of the Lost Ark, but that doesn't mean it's a bad film.I'm guessing the film is criticized mostly for Julia Robert's performance as Tinker Bell (definitely a massive miscast), and there was that one awful scene where she ends up turning into a human. Yeah that was just plain awful. Didn't care too much for The Lost Boys either. Most of them seemed to be rather annoying and obnoxious rather than fun and rebellious like in other versions of the past. Oh and the pacing was also a bit of a pain as well. But the film was still quite a bit of fun. Other than Julia Roberts, the rest of the performances were great. Bob Hoskins as Smee? Great as it sounds!!! Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook? While not completely menacing, still fun to enjoy? What about Robin Williams as Peter Pan? To me, he pretty much sums up why I liked the film. Williams uses what he does best, which is his comedy, and just has the most fun I've seen him in a film, and that's why Hook is such a fun film. Spielberg's direction of the classic story is highly original, the visuals are decently passable, the comedy was fun, John Williams score is adventurously awesome, and I enjoyed the energetic performances. It's cheesy and sometimes painfully awful, but I have to admit it was fun. "},{"Title":"The Perfect movie.","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was shocked at the low rating of this movie. For me, although not nearly my favorite picture, it is the complete, perfect movie. There are so many cute little references to the earlier stories of Peter Pan and one of the key themes which appeals to me is Fatherhood, which is an obvious extension of the original which is largely concerned with Motherhood. I love the character development in this movie. Not only in transforming captain Hook into a genuinely fearful villain rather than the traditional coward as seen in the Disney cartoon, but in that we see Peter finding the correct balance between growing up and staying young. The score is instantly recognizable and consolidates the movie as an epic. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's Hardwarming Peter Pan Phenomenon","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" when it comes to Spielberg Films, This timeless family comedy starring Dustin Hoffman, Robin Williams & Julia Roberts really touched my heart. Sometimes i truly wish this were the top-grossing film of 1991. Taking place a few years after Pan has technically left Neverland, he has entirely forgot about his Happy Neverland Life and has became a Father of 2 working as a governmental lawyer and Wendy Darling's Granddaughter as his wife, But ever since Hook (Dustin Hoffman) Steals his children, he must find a way to win them back by learning how to fly and remembering as much of Neverland as possible! He remembers being a baby who got lost but quickly went to Neverland with Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) And then after that, he arrived home and felt replaced, but quickly joined Wendy Darling! Years passed and Wendy grew too old to fly, That was when he first saw Mora and he deeply fell in love with her! Years later, His first Child 'Jack' Was born...AND ANOTHER THING Was Mora a Beatles Fan? o_O "},{"Title":"Man In The Mirror","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have always felt like Peter Pan. It's been very hard for me to grow up. &#x96; Steven SpielbergSpielberg is a tycoon, like Rockefeller. &#x96; Federico FelliniSigmund Freud was a kinky guy. He believed storytelling to be a child's way of dealing with certain anxieties, most of which had to do with sexual difference and dependence. For Freud, the act of creating fantasies stem from unconscious fears and desires, the earliest ones being as follows the fear of abandonment by, and desire for unity with, the mother or father, the fear of castration, the fear of being devoured by the mother, and the desire for illicit viewing (often of parental coitus).All of Spielberg's films are themselves rooted in infantile desire and the unsuccessful resolution of the Oedipus complex. But not only does Spielberg leave the Oedipus complex unresolved, but he actively evades and negates it, the extreme real world result of which are various neuroses (or bizarre stuff like incest). A grotesquely messed up guy like Michael Jackson (who reportedly had severe daddy issues, determined to please an abusive father) embodies all the clichés of this, and indeed Jackson himself was set to star in Spielberg's Hook, until he had an alleged falling out with the director.Hook follows the same basic plot line as all of Spielberg's films. Whether it be Duel, in which a father defeats an evil truck in order to restore his masculinity in the eyes of his wife and kids, Jurassic Park, in which bachelor Sam Neil kicks dinosaur butt and becomes a surrogate daddy, Close Encounters and ET, in which alien toys assuage various abandonment issues, or Spielberg's historical films, in which daddy becomes the nation state, the Big Other, belief in which, like Tom Cruise in War of The Worlds, is naively restored despite past national transgressions, Spielberg's films all rehash the same plot that of a father battling fantasy monsters (pirates, trucks, Nazis/Germans/slave-traders, dinosaurs, aliens etc) in order to restore paternal responsibility. The films do not celebrate childhood, so much as they use the image of the child to recuperate a longed-for, wholly mythic, masculine authority. As this is what is known as a reverse Oedipism &#x96; conventional Oedipism involves the son destroying the symbolic father and taking his place in a misguided belief that the father bars the subject from some intangible pleasure, let alone holds any authority at all - the audience is, by necessity, always positioned as a willingly accepting child. Sometimes this plot is approached from the eyes of the parent and sometimes from the child, but in each case the Spielberg story is the same. Because these plots always use fantasies to palliate or avoid rather than confront their traumas, Spielberg's neuroses are never resolved and tend to be repeated from film to film.Whether it be Freud's Oedipal complex, or the modern reinterpretation by thinkers like Lacan, the conventional view is that the complex is something everyone goes through before maturation (though in real life, people rarely escape it). In Spielberg's case, however, you get something else. Anxiety typically springs from our fear of the cultural Super-Ego (the Law) and under the latter's influence is fostered our own masochism and servitude. What Spielberg's films do, though, is deny the erotic attachment between the two poles (and the fact that the repressive super ego is always internalised by us), thereby evading the Oedipal conflict. So whilst all of Spielberg's films unconsciously enjoy tormenting kids, slaughtering blacks, Jews, soldiers, sharks, and salivating over dinosaur bites and mass murdering aliens, Hook is the only one in which the child actually admits this. The only one where the kid/audience admits that Daddy is bad news. And so we watch as a son promptly takes the position of his father and uses his newfound authority to become a mean pirate who wants nothing other than to kill kids and destroy daddy, thereby claiming authority for himself and wiping out all pretenders to the throne. Of course this is magically resolved by the film's end, daddy and son learning to hug and the status quo restored, but before the film's climax we get all kinds of psycho-sexual freakishness, incest, pseudo-paedophilia and creepy romances. In a way, Hook is Spielberg's Dorian Gray portrait. Like Jackson's face (Jackson wasn't trying to look white, he was trying to look like Disney's Peter Pan), it's the freaky truth behind his art. And so much of Hook's narrative contains men moaning about lost marbles, talk of Peter Pan penis envy and sexy fairies fawning over grown men. Even weirder, the film's paternal hero (Peter Pan, played by Robin Williams) may be the nebbish, bespectacled face of a kinder masculinity, but he's a total sex magnet, lusted over by his symbolic sister, mother, daughter and grandmother. That's right, whatever daddy says, goes. Indeed, whenever he isn't goofing around, Peter is being desired by his mother (Tinkerbell, who raised Peter as a baby then watched him grow up, all the while wanting to get into his sexy diapers) and grandmother (Peter's wife's grandmother), the latter passively allowing Peter to hook up with her thirteen year old grandchild, Moira, who is also a sister figure because granny also happens to be Peter's mommy. Family values? Hell no. This is the work of a smooth criminal. For Spielberg, like Jackson, Neverland isn't where we celebrate childhood, it's where we all line up to suck on daddy's...5/10 &#x96; Poor set design (nothing seems to exist outside the boundaries of Spielberg's sound-stages) and cringe-inducing comedy ruin what is otherwise an excellent idea. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Loved Hook","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" All of you that are leaving comments are probably old farts that didn't grow up with this movie. This movie is a awesome fairy tale. It is a classic and probably my most favorite movie of all time. Very creative storyline. Its about Peter Pan forgetting his past and saving his kids. Robin Williams did a incredible job in this movie. I saw people dressed up as Rufio at every year at college parties. this movie was made 17 years ago and its considered a classic. I've never meet anyone that doesn't like it. So if you haven't seen it then go watch it! It has everyone one from the cartoon, like Wendy, peter pan, hook, the lost boys, tinker bell. And a new character Rufio!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated Spielberg","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Many seem to hate Hook and specially most film critics, one I read stated he could not stand this film. It sure has quite a few flaws and doesn't hold up to many perhaps most of Spielberg's other movies. Even with the many problems I still feel Hey it's not that bad! Actually I don't think it's bad at all, sure could have been better but it's still very good entertainment. Steven Spielbergs forgotten grain of gold. I really like the idea of Peter Pan growing up and forgetting everything, very interesting take on the tale. The movie starts out great feeling mysterious and dark toned. The cast is not entirely satisfying. I agree with most that Julia Roberts is really miss cast as Tinker Bell and I think Robin Williams is not the perfect choice as Pan but he works, Dame Maggie Smith is great as always but she isn't in the film much. The villains make the greatest performances Dustin Hoffman steals the show from the hero and Bob Hoskins is brilliant as Smee. When the film gets to Neverland is when a little dubious feeling sets in. What is meant to be an fantasy island looks way to much as a big set, not convincing. The lost boys are OK even though they don't make the best impression and performance throughout the film. This Neverland tale is very different from the original Disney most know, feels like something else completely. Even if I really like the idea of the story the execution of it has many problems. For a big production the plot has a ridiculous lot things that don't make much sense. Many obvious plot holes (why is Peter sleeping in the snow at the end when the kids flew into the house?) but also some major ones (Why does he grow to like a teenager if Ting took him to Neverland when he was a baby?). Much of the dialogue is very cheesy(My Jack?) but still the overly sentimental stuff(I wish I had a dad like you) doesn't ruin much for me at least. The plot could have been carried out more successfully but deep within the story has some pretty sentimental points that work well. The action scenes are fun to watch even much of them also are pretty dumb like that the pirates attack Pan one at a time, still it's superb entertainment and the sword fights has a nicely working theatre feel to them. The film has it fun parts but I think it has more of a sad tone to most of it and specially at the end(Peter leaves Neverland forever). The story is definitively not wooden or empty rather the opposite it has heart and like stated earlier even an emotional depth. John Williams fantastic music greatly contributes, he is absolutely one of the best composers and for Hook he is just as good as usual. Some have said they liked this film when they were young but realised it was pretty weak when they grew older. Not so with me I feel just as joyed as I used to after seeing it. A feel-good film for everyone young, older and family. Is this a film that you either hate or love? Maybe some would say that but I don't and I admit it has many mistakes but still I like Hook.Hook has many misses and could have been more successful in more than one or two ways. If one looks at Spielberg's entire filmography it's among the weaker ones but it doesn't mean that it's not any good. For me Hook is somewhat of a classic.Peter, don't you know who you are? Some may think so but doesn't matter for me 6/10. "},{"Title":"more than a good film for children","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm sorry to say this is one of the best Spielberg movies ever. Personally I prefer his fantasy to his true life dramas because his flare for melodrama is more at place and the great story teller that he always is can really shine through. But I want to make some other points here. This is more than a story of bad parenting, and more than a simple retelling of Peter Pan. It's a story of what it means to grow up and how hard it is to be a grown up and still remember what it feels like to be a child. It's also a story about the realness of the imagination, as the film shows it more than once and ultimately proves when it doesn't sum it all up as a dream - this would've been a real cliché, if it did choose the easy way and called it all a dream - it didn't. It does dwell on some cliché situations but those are being told with an original twist and with a fresh attitude. No it's not perfect, at moments it does become a bit too melodramatic, but the superb acting by most of the actors involved compensates. And I simply love it "},{"Title":"Good Film unexpected content","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Good film that captures the imagination, liked this as a child and bought it recently for my kids to watch, but I was surprised when there was some content not mentioned in the parental advisory section. ... slight spoiler... After being knocked off Hook's boat Peter was underwater and several mermaids passed him air mouth to mouth, of course Peter quite enjoys this, and later on Tinkerbell (who becomes large) kisses Peter on the lips. Most might not think this a problem but I would not have let my children watch this film had I known this was going to be in it. Apart from these it is great family entertainment. "}{"Title":"Could have been one of Spielberg's best.","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" HOOK (1991), Steven Spielberg's sequel-tale of J.M. Barrie's Peter Pan story opens fantastically and for the first 40+ minutes it's absolutely one of his most enjoyable films. Then, something happens - we leave the real world for Neverland and meet a great Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook, so far so good, but already in Neverland we sense that things are falling apart. The story looses its magic, it's mystery and excitement, and although there are many famous actors around, few makes much impact apart from Hoffman, Charlie Korsmo (as Peter Pan's son) and Robin Williams, which I think does one of his best performances. The emotional aspect of the film is at times very capturing, and one can sense that Spielberg is quite personal throughout with his strong will in children and everything they symbolize and represent. I think it's sad that the film doesn't end on the high note it begins, and so we're left with only a partially good film. "},{"Title":"Fun family entertainment","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" You know you're not really Peter Pan, don't you? This is only a dream. When you wake up, you'll just be Peter Banning - a cold, selfish man who drinks too much, is obsessed with success, and runs and hides from his wife and children! What if Peter Pan left Neverland and grew up? That is the premise behind Hook, when Captain Hook kidnaps the now adult Peter Pan's children and takes them back to Neverland. Peter must go back to Neverland to rescue them, but he doesn't remember how to be a kid which makes defeating, or even fighting, the dastardly Captain Hook difficult in that fantasy world.There is a lot to be said about the importance of family in this movie and the relationship between a father and his children. And there are some jokes that will be understood better by those of us who are already adults. But my children also really enjoyed this movie-they found it funny and never found it boring.It has a lot of action, colorful bright sets, wonderful performances by Dustin Hoffman (Captain Hook), Bob Hoskins (Smee) and Robin Williams (Peter Pan) and a fun tone that makes this enjoyable for the whole family.I've watched this many times and like it more every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Hook Is For Schnooks! (Just Kidding)","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well, movie fans, if this one isn't a stupid idea for a flick, then I don't know what is.Get this - Peter Pan, the eternal boy, grows up and becomes, of all things, a slimy, Manhattan lawyer.Yuck! What a despicable premise for a movie-plot.HOOK could have only come out of the self-satisfied head of Steven Spielberg, one of America's most idiotic and over-rated directors, ever.The children portrayed in this flick actually made my skin crawl. Yes, they were that insufferable and obnoxious.According to this flick - Steven Spielberg is the self-appointed expert on rearing children. And, this joker says that mothers need only to be themselves. Yeah. That's OK. Mothers aren't required to do anything else, but, just that - Be mothers.But, on the other hand - Fathers must transcend beyond just being mere fathers. They must do cartwheels and, literally, turn into Peter Pan (just like Robin Williams did) before they can be allowed to gain acceptance from their snooty, little brats.It's the truth. If you pay real close attention to HOOK's unbelievably biased story it clearly defines the role of each parent in this ridiculous manner.And, with that in mind - I think that Spielberg should take a good, firm grip of HOOK, and shove it right up his keister. Who the hell does he think he is? - Him and his failed marriage to Amy Irving. "},{"Title":"Horribly fake sets, and Spielberg killed Peter Pan","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Peter Pan (Robin Williams) had returned to the real world, married to Wendy's granddaughter, and became a father too busy for his kids. One night Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) kidnaps his children, and Peter must return to Neverland with Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts). With the help of her and the Lost Boys, he remembers how to be Peter Pan again in order to battle Captain Hook and save his kids.The sets are big, interior, and artificial. Spielberg uses all his powers to make a big production out of it. He pours all his years of movie-making skills into this. But the magic is all gone. Although it makes a great Vegas hotel decoration.But Spielberg's biggest sin is making Peter Pan grow up. He's the boy who never grows up. Apparently Spielberg missed that part of the mythology. Are we watching his psychotherapy session here? Is Spielberg the real Peter Pan? Is he rediscovering his childhood? Too deep. Too deep.The same can be said about Robin Williams. Is he trying to reclaim his childhood after getting clean from drugs? Again too deep. Too deep. The joy is just gone. Peter Pan starts off grumpy and we have to watch him find the joy that's missing. Why is joy so much work? "},{"Title":"A disappointment, but quite an interesting one.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My Take A profound disappointment from Spielberg that does have its savory moments.After a big disappointment in his below-average remake ALWAYS, Spielberg gives us yet another, this time with twice the budget. HOOK, released a year or so after ALWAYS, is Spielberg's big budget disappointment packed with some astonishing special effects, imaginative settings, colorful costumes, a big cast and a helluva budget. Unfortunately, its also bogged down by a half-baked story and potential that is never really fulfilled. Although bubbly and colorful, we're expecting more from a $70 million-worth production. Actually, with its elaborate settings and appealing charms, I actually loved HOOK as a kid. But after seeing it again one night, after all these years, HOOK hasn't aged real well. For a movie directed by one of the most reliable men at Hollywood, HOOK is quite a disappointment. Though sometimes, the imagination that went to the production design and special effects are noteworthy.Peter Pan has grown up. Now Peter Banning (Robin Williams) married, successful, and a workaholic, Peter is no intention, or even memory at all, about his past as The Boy who Never Grew Up. But when his kids are kidnapped by his old nemesis, the evil Capt. James Hook (Dustin Hoffman, serving up a loaf of ham), Peter has no choice but to head back to Neverland, be sprayed again by Pixie dust, courtesy of his old friend Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts, slightly uncomfortable), and reclaim his forgotten destiny. The story seemed fine on paper, and I actually like how the story is. It's how it goes that isn't very good. In addition to Spielberg's decline on overdone slapstick humor (the film does cost a lot, so why not spend it?), they also throw in a band of annoying, screaming Lost Boys who look more like they escaped from an audition from a GOONIES sequel. Other than that, Spielberg doesn't have much control on a few scenes, which are either tedious (when the film requires the characters to talk) or downright overcooked (the boys tormenting Pan with all sort of pie-on-the-face mayhem).HOOK, however, earns points for the creativity and imagination devoted on special effects, costumes and set designs. The environments at Neverland couldn't have been more faithful to pages from a storybook. John Williams also deserves some credit for composing a dazzling score (including a sentimental song titled When You're Alone). But considering the potential that went into production, we could have expected something more.Rating **1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"one of the lost boys on youtube!!","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hey everyone, ya know that lost boy that spit out the candle before yelling good nite, Neverland? well, i found him on youtube. I has a channel where he video blogs (vlogs) and he uploads new videos regularly. here is the linkhttp//www.youtube.com/user/Dinomy199185you should go watch some of his videos he is actually pretty funny.He does these random thots videos where he says a bunch of random silly quotes. Also, i guess he plays drums in a band.He looks just like he did in the movie, just older, i recognized him right away. "},{"Title":"the impossible Neverland finally made possible...","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Everyone by now knows the famous story of Peter Pan, the story of a boy who never grew up and learned how to fly that has traveled worldwide and that has never stopped enchanting the hearts of millions around the globe. It has been considered now a literary masterpiece thanks to the great James Matthew Barrie. But somehow the classic tale, even as a kid and even with Disney's magical touch, never attracted me all that much, and I have found out why that is. The reason is that Neverland has always seemed to me as too good to be true. Peter Pan flew, he never grew up, never went to school or had any particular troubles the likes of which life seems to offer, he plays around all day long with the Lost Boys, was friend with Indians and admired by Mermaids and in his free time he had even more fun fighting off Pirates. He never even worried about food, water, sickness, loneliness, hygiene, wild and dangerous animals, criminals or anything else. Neverland to me has always seemed like a Utopia that was too good to be true and an inevitable life that will head eventually towards boredom. Even in the various adaptations made from the tales of Peter Pan we always see it as a too perfect utopia that can be ridiculously surreal, rather it be a winter movie, a Disney animation, a TV series or a stage show. But all that changed when one man decided to ask himself a rather curious question that is the main theme of this movie What if Peter Pan grew up? The apparently immortal boy completely isolated from real life would suddenly realize that his eternal dream would eventually bring him to an inevitable wakening tot he real world that was full of imperfections, but that would bring also it's benefits if played well. The man in consideration is none other than one of the biggest fans of the Peter Pan genre, the legendary director Steven Spielberg. Spielberg finally brought the Flying boy's adventures to an end, but this time with a big twist in Peter Pan's life that's probably more human and realistic than we ever dared dream of. Spielberg's Hook tells us what really happened to the great Peter Pan. He has left Neverland, returning to Earth from the clouds to be able to live a real life filled with something that has always been missing in him love. And so he remained there on Earth for many years, going to school, finding a job, getting married and even having kids of his own... completely losing his memory of Neverland. That is until Hook learns of his whereabouts and decides to kidnap his children, forcing Peter to return to the distant island and try to remember his true origins and, in the process, learn to be a better father. None other than Spielberg could've accomplished such a task in such a tender way. He finally turned Neverland, the impossible and surreal island into a very realistic and possible one where everyone, even doubtful adults, can escape to. Aside from Spielberg's supreme directing and wonderfully emotional touch in this film, it's success also goes to the rest of the cast and crew To Robin Williams who prorated the once flying boy and turning him into his greatest nightmare, an Adult, only to make him open his eyes again to who he truly was and is. Robin Williams is my favorite actor, and he's the perfect role for this character thanks to his great acting, his real inner childishness and his wonderful expressions of great delicacy and emotion. To Dustin Hoffman, who brought to life the fearsome Captain James Hook, Peter Pan's eternal enemy, with an unrecognizable makeup that hides his true features and with a great acting that reflects the mind of the most famous fictional pirate of the last century. To Julia Roberts, for turning into the most famous and loved fairy of them all -Tinkerbell- giving her a good heart instead of just showing her off as the usual spoiled brat who tries to mess everything up when she sees her precious Peter in the hands of another. To Maggie Smith, for showing that everyone, even the ones we remember as always young, grows up and becomes old, but doesn't necessarily mean that it is a bad thing. She has portrayed a perfect version of the lovable Wendy Moira Angela Darling who lived a full life without any regrets and who one day will rest forever, but in an eternal peace that is one of the rarest things at the end of life. A true example to follow. And finally to John Williams, who with his musical talent has given the background of the emotions of the characters in such a perfect way that can give at long last the chance for everyone to feel like Peter inside. This movie is one for anyone and everyone to watch, seniors especially, for it has began a hundred years ago to when they where young and could feel the magic of the classic Peter Pan story, and has developed now into an ending that can satisfy us all and make them return to their childish selves one more time and see through this movie what their life has been like before one day going to the next big adventure after life, which is either the bright light up ahead at the end of the tunnel... or the second star to the right that goes straight on 'till morning... "},{"Title":"James Barrie would hate this film","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" One of the main points that Barrie stresses in his Peter Pan is that childhood is a special time, but eventually there comes a time when everyone (except for Peter Pan) has to stop being a child and assume the responsibilities of adulthood. At the end of Barrie's play, Wendy cannot return to Neverland, even though she would like to, because Neverland is reserved for children.This film is typical of the selfishness of many in the Boomer generation. They steal the specialness of childhood from their children by refusing to give it up themselves.Barrie would have hated this abomination. "},{"Title":"Another of my stonking blunders","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Seduced by the low, low price, I quickly glanced at the cast list, and chucked this DVD (dud?) into the supermarket trolley, without checking out the rest of it. I saw it said Hook, but I knew it wouldn't be the malingerer from Zulu, so it had to be the other one, the Captain. Anyway, after slotting the disc into place, and starting to watch it, I fairly soon had this funny feeling. No credit list? Why was that? Precious. Funny, I thought. Funny. Then an unpleasant sense of overly twee schmaltz began to overwhelm me, along with mounting unease and confusion, of an infantile nature. What was this about? Where were the celebrity stars, Hoffman, Hoskins, Roberts? Why had Maggie Smith, a much greater actress, spookily materialised out of the dark at the top of the stairs? After about 15 minutes of nothing very much happening, and slowly, I started to fast forward, seeking escape from this increasingly incoherent mess. It got worse and worse. Hoskins and Hoffman did nothing for this disaster. But I've always felt there was something fairly cute about Roberts, in spite of her two-mode facial expressions, and over-worked sidelong glances.It wasn't enough. What a ghastly muddle! What a blithering load of astounding silliness, fake sentiment, aimless plotting! Brainless, feckless, pointless. The Neverland sets were hideously over-furnished. Could have been the Island of Dr Moreau. Was that a Polynesian Maori from Hawaii, pretending to be a skate-boarding Red Indian? Had that Obese Boy been lifted out of something by Dickens? Interminable sludge. The height of inanity. Whoever heard of an English housekeeper called Liza --- with a zee? Ugh. Baseball ? Huh? Huh? Finally the end credits rolled, and everything became clear directed by Steven Spielberg! No mystery here. Close Encounters, ET had consisted of nothing much except interminable doses of murky atmosphere. This was the same, only worse. Let us not mention that risible Looking for Soldier Kelly. Kubrick once said, according to another reviewer, that some film-makers adapt stories without understanding them. The pot blackens the kettle! Neither of these two directors understands anything, except how to rake in silver dollars. Hype, Hype, Hurrah! "},{"Title":"There is no worse film ever made; Would that it never existed.","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It physically nauseates me to watch this grotesque horror of cinematography. What puts the bowel movement icing on the cake is that it was nominated for several awards and actually won two of them. More than any other film in existence, this film proves the inherent disease of bad taste running rampant in what we call 'Hollywood'. There has been no more unpardonably bad film ever made. J.M Barrie, author of the eternally classic Peter Pan, will be spinning in his grave until this catastrophe of bad ideas is wiped from human memory. I'd give 'Hook' a negative star rating if it would cause this fetid celluloid abomination to be sucked into a black hole and deleted from time. Watching 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' would be a relief.... You get the idea. ;-D "}{"Title":"Definitely a Spielberg misfire","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"15 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Everyone seems to agree that Hook was one of Steven Spielberg's great disappointments. It was a reasonable hit after the financial failure of Always, but it was unanimously critically savaged. Even now, 16 years later, and unlike some of Spielberg's less regarded films, people's opinions of it remain unchanged.When Spielberg has his eye on the ball, he can be a fantastic filmmaker. Duel and Jaws were gruelling experiences that left one physically and mentally drained. Terrific entertainment! And when Spielberg concentrates on more sentimental stories, they can be incredibly tender like Schindler's List and AI. But if he indulges child-like sentiment too much, he turns out overrated mush like ET. And Hook.Hook is more flawed than any other Spielberg film. Yes it does ask the intriguing question, what if Peter Pan grew up? But the way the film answers it simply doesn't work. There's a clumsiness to its storytelling, and bar a few genuinely exhilarating moments here and there, much of Spielberg's usual magic is sadly absent.The grown up Peter Pan, now Peter Banning, and played by Robin Williams is a ruthless corporate raider. In a bizarre twist, Peter has become a modern day pirate. He has little time for his wife Moira, and even less time for his children Jack and Maggie. When he visits London for Christmas, Wendy (Maggie Smith) is not the young lady she once was. And she's devastated to learn Peter's not what he used to be either. All the child like innocence and youthful exuberance he once had have all but vanished over the years.But he must get it back. Because Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) has just kidnapped Jack and Maggie, and with the aid of Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) and the Lost Boys, Peter must rediscover his long forgotten past, and become Peter Pan once more.I think the reason why Hook is such an abject failure is because Spielberg's need for mawkish sentiment really goes into overdrive here. There are all the usual Spielberg trademarks. The inattentive father. Carefully calculated emotional cues. And most importantly, the idea of the fantastical coming into contact with the ordinary. But really, nothing comes off. I was so disappointed with the film. Robin Williams is certainly impish enough. But he only falls into the usual woolly headed sludge that would become his trademark in the 90s. Hook was just for starters.Dustin Hoffman is much too pantomimic and theatrical as Captain Hook. He adopts a perfect Etonian accent, and looks every inch the character, but never elevates it to threatening status. Even if he looks like he's having the most fun. Julia Roberts is horribly miscast as Tinkerbell. The Disney version had more screen appeal and she never even had to say a word. The miniaturised Roberts struts around the set with giant size fairy wings on her back not doing much of anything else. And her American accent quickly grates. At least Bob Hoskins makes for an entertaining Smee. His scenes with Hoffman are fun, so I suppose the film isn't a total waste.Roger Ebert thought the Lost Boys looked like they'd walked off the set of Oliver!, and as I was watching the film, I was thinking the same thing. Spielberg is usually reliable for getting good performances out of children, but this time there are just too many to take into account. They're skateboarding(!) and foodfights are frankly just boring.And I thought the film wasted Maggie Smith. Such a fantastic actress as her should not be shelved aside. The idea of an elderly Wendy is a fascinating one, but it doesn't even try to explore it. Hook sadly underutilises one of Hollywood's greatest unsung actresses.But the biggest disappointment of all is Never-Never Land itself. I was expecting an extraordinary fantastical wonderland. What we get instead is a curiously stagebound setting. NeverLand looks exactly like the set that it is. And the special effects are well below the high standards of Spielberg. Obvious back-projections. Flat surroundings. Spielberg must really have been having an off-day when he made Hook.There are a few moments that show some of Spielberg's magical touch. I loved the scene when Peter rediscovers himself as Peter Pan. Its quite well written and ends in a haunting epiphany. Its just a shame that it takes so long building up to it. Still, the scenes of Peter soaring through the sky are wonderful, and makes your heart truly sing. Its the one genuine triumphal act of the entire film.But the rest of the film seldom flies as high. Hook is too juvenile for its own good, and the journey from Peter Banning to Peter Pan is much too long. Even the climax feels too wound up to make any kind of impact. An utter disappointment. Spielberg's worst film of the 90s. "},{"Title":"A Big, Awful Adventure","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"32 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Why is this film so awful? It's the highest of high concept - 'Peter Pan grows up' - but because a film is high concept, it doesn't necessarily mean it's bad. Maybe it's just coincidence, then, that 'Hook' is so dreadful. It's hard to think of a movie so chronically misguided, but it's easy to see how it got the greenlight, given the tried and tested material and the talent involved.Peter Pan has grown up. Not only that, he's moved to the USA and become a corporate raider, obsessed with the bottom line to such an extent that he neglects his family. But Neverland, and Hook himself, are still out there somewhere, and Hook is still smarting for revenge. So he kidnaps the adult Peter's kids, and takes them back to Neverland in the hope of provoking Peter into a definitive conflict. Peter's soft and middle aged now, he fears he's not worthy of his kids, and it takes concerted action (plus most of the films running time) by Tinkerbell and the Lost Boys to spur him on to his former greatness.In précis, it doesn't sound too bad. But everything about it is wrong. Peter has, in a sense, become Mr Darling, but the script writers seem completely unaware of this. They're content to spin out the tritest of confrontations between Peter and Hook. The very fact that Mr Darling and Hook are actually the same character shows the ambiguity and sophistication present in the original but totally lacking here. Peter is the good guy, so he must win. Hook is the bad guy, and so must do bad things and loose. And that's basically it.This is not really a kid's film at all. It's a bitter, cynical film made by men who get through the day on numerous cups of coffee and cigarettes, complaining about their divorce and their wife's new boyfriend. When Hook kidnaps Peter's kids, Peter looks on enviously as Hook tries to make himself into their father. Peter is afraid he's a terrible father, in fact he is a terrible father, and this film is a hardened cynic's version of the warm, sentimental films that hardened cynic probably loved as a kid.Why does Hook try to become a father to the children? Because the plot says he must. Why does Peter not remember his life as Peter Pan? Because the plot says he must not. If Peter does not remember Neverland, why is it that he's still in touch with Wendy, and that Wendy has 'saved' generations of lost boys? Why do they have a tribute to her? Not because these elements have a cohesive unity that adds up to something resembling a story, but because the scriptwriters have decided it must be so.The physical production is equally terrible. It's only right and proper that Neverland should not look 'real'. It should be a fantasy, unobtainable, but did it have to look so purposefully designed and constructed? It makes the real, and generally derided, Disneyland look charming in comparison.Then there are the performances. It's easy to criticise Robin Williams, but when he faces up to Hook with the words 'Dark and sinister man, have at thee', it's laughable. Williams might as well be reading a road sign for all the passion he brings to it. In addition, there's nothing dark or sinister about Hook, as played by Dustin Hoffman. You only have to look at Jason Isaacs as Hook in PJ Hogan's version, to realise how anaemic Hoffman is. Julia Roberts plays Tinkerbell, and she's OK, but she has nothing to do - nothing. Then there's Bob Hoskins, as Smee. He's an exhausting screen presence, horribly out of place here, and utterly lacking in charm.A couple of elements are OK. The transition which uses the device of Peter kissing the mermaids is a clever way of moving from one scene to the next, and then there's Maggie Smith as Wendy. Death might have been an awfully big adventure for Peter Pan, but for this film, it would be a mercy.***Update 12 August 2014***I take back what I said about Robin Williams.I was wrong. "},{"Title":"Total destruction of the myth..why we hate it!","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"109 out of 240 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Imagine Nemo and The Little Mermaid years later out of the water and walking with legs? Imagine a re-make of Beauty and The Beast where the Beauty is an ugly old hag and the kind hearted beast slaps her around? How about Snow Black and the 7 Tall Basketball players? Or the Lone Ranger without his mask and shooting Copper Bullets? Cinderella instead of losing her glass slipper loses her wig? Imagine an episode of Harry Potter where he really has no magical powers but you find out he has only been using smoke and mirrors... Have you got those firmly in your minds? Now imagine the myth of a boy who NEVER grows up. He Lives in Neverland where no one grows up...and he is now grown up? Spielberg is lower than the pond slime where the Frog Prince lives for ever making this movie. Avoid it at all cost.. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is really great.  Robin Williams gives a marvelous performance as the workaholic father who slowly begins to remember who he really is.  Towards the beginning of the movie, when Peter Banning's son tells Granny Wendy that his dad is a corporate raider, she has a great line  Why Peter, you've become a pirate.I'm not sure why some folks hate this movie so much they seem downright angry about it, but I think it is a sweet, well-told fairy tale, fit for the whole family to watch.  (Smaller children may find the scenes where Peter's two children are kidnapped a little frightening.)Dustin Hoffman plays Capt. Hook to the hilt, and seems to have a lot of fun doing so.One of my favorite moments in the movie is when Rufio challenges Peter Banning (who still hasn't remembered that he is Peter Pan).  One of the smaller lost boys walks over to Robin Williams, who kneels down in front of him.  The boy then starts to touch his face, pushing the wrinkles aside, if you will, and then his eyes light up and he says, It is you.  Very sweet and captivating.My only complaints with this movie are the unnecessary death of one of the characters (I won't say who), Julia Roberts is out of place, and the ending was a little off.  But despite these minor problems it is still a great movie to watch over and over again.  Kudos to Steven Speilberg and Robin Williams! "},{"Title":"I never would have guessed that Steven Spielberg could produce such juvenility","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"15 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I wish this film wasn't directed by Spielberg. I wish the music wasn't done by John Williams. And I wish so many big-name actors (Robin Williams, Dustin Hoffman, Maggie Smith, Julia Roberts) weren't in these roles. This movie was a real bomb, dissatisfying in every way possible.First off, the plot was so contrived , I was practically in tears while watching it. It was like a Peter Pan fan fiction written by a particularly stupid group of giggly seventh graders. A father who's too busy to spend time with his family, who suddenly finds himself going through highly fantastical and unrealistic circumstances which eventually lead to a happy family circle? How many times have we seen that before? Too many bleeping times to count. I found it especially annoying at the end when Robin William's character had to go crazy just to show us how happy and changed he was. Really, I'm spoiling nothing here, because you've seen this kind of tripe in films since you were old enough to stare at the movie screen.Then there was the overblown, over-budgeted nonsense of the whole thing. The lavish sets and special effects are painfully obvious, but the whole story is so juvenile that nothing good ever comes of them. All it does is make us realize just how much wasted effort went into this mess. Oh, and speaking of the sets, there were some true what the bleeping bleep? moments going on in the movie. I'm not talking about the countless clichés involving family breakup and family reunion, etc. I'm talking about Tinkerbell turning big and kissing Peter Pan. I'm talking about those friggin fraggin skateboards. Ideas that make you want to line up the movie crew and execute them for being so stupid.Okay, I love John Williams with all my heart (Harry Potter, orchestrations for Fiddler on the Roof, Star Wars, Indiana Jones, etc.). I thought his music for this movie could be moderately good, were it simply separated from the movie entirely and played by itself. HOWEVER, he decided that it was necessary to score each and every moment of this movie. And he went full-out on the pretentious show-off stuff. Sure, those violins racing up and down the scales have become quite an idiosyncrasy for John Williams (who doesn't remember those strings whizzing merrily all over the place as Harry Potter goes to get the mail in the first Harry Potter movie?). But, unlike Harry Potter, these orchestral tricks weren't subtle. They were loud, glaring, and simply EVERYWHERE. Every single scene was dominated by the music, it seemed, as if John Williams had spent the last ten years locked up and in desperate need of an energy outlet. Poor guy--I felt his heart wasn't in it; he seemed to just go through the motions. Why did he waste his talent on this movie? That's the real frustrating part--all the talent wasted. I've already mentioned the names above. But I'll focus on Spielberg's involvement. I love most of his stuff (Raiders of the Lost Ark, Minority Report, Schindler's List, Munich, to name a few). But Hook was like a sweet tooth that's had too much sugar rotten to the core. How could Spielberg torture his audience with such childlike garbage? I correct myself not even children should be watching this. They can watch Wizard of Oz and Finding Nemo and other such fantasies without having their intelligence insulted.Ah, now we come upon the juvenility of the whole spectacle. It was bad, folks. Ugly, ugly, ugly. It was so bad that all sorts of aberrant desires popped into my head. I longed for Jack to side with Captain Hook and STAY sided with him (instead of inevitably turning back to his dad in the end)--denounce his family and break poor Peter Pan's heart in two. I longed Tinkerbell and Peter Pan to start an illicit affair and do all sorts of nasty acts of infidelity. I longed for Spielberg to dish out some of his Saving Private Ryan gore during the (horribly fake) battle scenes. I longed for ANYTHING that could possibly make this movie less purposefully-innocuous than it is. I longed for some deus ex machina to come in and turn the whole movie into some sick joke, seeing as such an intervention could only make it better. Huh, at least then the movie might have been entertaining.After all this complaint, I don't know why I'm still giving Hook a 2/10. Maybe because I see the effort, even if it was wasted. Maybe because this movie can serve as an example of how even the best filmmakers can go wrong. Hey, if that's the case, it's not totally useless after all. "},{"Title":"Awful beyond words","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"129 out of 285 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Some movies, like Steven Spielberg's Hook are so mind numbingly bad, you find yourself asking, Why on Earth did they make this piece of junk? The answer is simple. They're made so the next time your best friend comes up to you and says, Boy, I just saw the worst movie ever! You can say, Oh yeah...have you seen Hook? All kidding aside this is a perfectly dreadful, awful film and a betrayal of everything James Barrie's Peter Pan is about. It is a concept film in the worst sense of the word. If Director Spielberg and his collaborators had simply taken the time to actually read the story, (now there's a concept) and understand some of it's most basic themes, they might have ditched the silly, What if Peter Pan grew up? concept and made a decent straightforward film of the book. Actually it was Spielberg who needed to grow up. If he had he would have realized Peter Pan would never grow up, and leave Never Land to have a family and a job. The very premise makes a travesty and mockery of Barrie. After all he did write, All children grow up, except for one... Spielberg with his yuppie sensibility, his I want everything and more and I want it now! mentality wants us to believe that we can always have Never Land and we can have it anytime we want. Like ordering a cheeseburger at McDonalds. And that's just what this dud is, a McDonald's cheeseburger, slapped together without thought or care and slickly packaged in a bright yellow wrapper. It is only when you take a bite that you realize there is no substance there. The poignancy of the Peter Pan story is that as adults we can NEVER return to Never Land. To paraphrase Barrie, We may sometimes hear the waves breaking on its shores, but we can never return. It is this wistful sense of loss, the sad but necessary surrendering of innocence for the greater and ultimately more satisfying experience of life beyond childhood that gives the work it's enduring power. In the film this most essential theme is thrown out.Was there ever so much money thrown at a film to so little effect? Was there ever so much talent in front of the camera put to so little use? Dustin Hoffman, usually one of our finest actors is simply lost at sea as Hook. His attempt at a British accent is embarrassing, and worse as the Captain of the Jolly Roger he exudes all the danger and threat of a French poodle on steroids. Some actor should avoid costume roles at all cost and Hoffman is one of them. He simply hasn't got a clue. Robin Williams as Peter is beneath contempt. Has there ever been a performer in the history of cinema who wants so desperately to be liked, who works so hard for audience sympathy? Spielberg should have told him, Robin, stop working so hard, the audience is already on your side! With his mincing grimaces he reminds you of Jerry Lewis on a bad day. Bob Hoskins, another fine actor is totally wasted as Smee, while the less said about Julia Roberts as Tinker Bell the better, except perhaps that her performance is bad enough to make you not believe in fairies. Stanley Kubrick once ventured the opinion that the problem with many filmmakers attempting to adapt works of literature to the screen is they want to do so without fully understanding them first. While Hook is not a literal adaptation of Peter Pan, it does clearly demonstrate a complete lack of understanding of the character and the work from which he is derived when everything that Peter stands for is sacrificed for the sake of a gimmicky concept. Avoid this turkey and check out P.J. Hogan's recent version. Now that is Peter Pan in all his adolescent glory. "},{"Title":"Film of my childhood!","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Ever since I saw this movie as a child I've been hooked. No pun intended of course. My mom tells me that the minute this movie came on VHS I forced her to by it for me then proceeded to watch it every single day. Still to this day I love this movie, and I know it will be one of the movies I show my children. There's just something so magical about this film, it gets me every time. )I just love the idea that Peter Pan, the boy who will never grow up, does grow up and turns into everything he once hated. The characters are engaging, the music beautiful, and the message timeless. We can all learn a thing or two about keeping our childhood spirit from this very amazing film. "},{"Title":"Peter Pan meets a McDonald's commercial...","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"25 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Steven Spielberg's distinctly nonmagical rendering of J.M. Barrie's tale of Peter Pan, the flying, fun-loving boy who battled pirates and never grew up, casts Robin Williams as a crotchety adult who discovers his true origin as Pan. He returns to his island home and eventually takes on old nemesis Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) after his own children are kidnapped. Strained family 'product', with Williams in the unenviable position of playing Peter Pan like an amnesiac. Never Never Land, with its multi-racial Lost Boys, looks rather shoddy, as do the pirates (including Glenn Close, obviously in drag). The cast may have had a ball making this, yet the picture is an expensive lark, a personal extravagance--and everyone here is just playing dress-up. Julia Roberts is single-handedly misused as fairy-sprite Tinkerbell, though Bob Hoskins is well-cast (if too heavily bearded) as Hook's assistant Smee. All that's missing are plugs for Big Macs and Quarter Pounders and this would be the perfect example of a feature-length TV advertisement. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a marvelous story about Peter Pan after he has grown-up, married a beautiful woman, and had two children. After many years of living a regular life outside of Neverlad, Captain Hook kidnaps Peter's children and challenges him to fight for the lives of his children. So Peter goes back to fight for his children; but the problem is, Peter has forgotten everything about Neverland. So it's up to Tinkerbell and the Lost Boys of Neverland to help Peter remember to fly and fight again.I was about seven years old when I first saw Hook. my whole family gathered around to watch it and we all laughed and enjoyed it. This is a wonderful movie for the whole family. The gorgeous colors and marvelous soundtrack keep children entertained and interested in the movie. Hook is a very humorous movie that keeps the whole family laughing all day long. Hook provides good clean entertainment and laughs for all ages. "},{"Title":"Bland and clumsily made misfire","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"24 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Not as awful as some would have you believe, but this revisionist updating of the unforgettable Peter Pan tale is a bland misfire from the start. None of the elements gel together into a satisfying viewing experience. There is so little magic or energy on screen that it seems impossible to believe that a director the caliber of Steven Spielberg is responsible for the final result. The story imagines Peter Pan as an adult workaholic husband and father of two children (a boy and a girl). He has no memory of his past in Neverland and makes a habit of neglecting his family. While visiting Granny Wendy in London, his children are kidnapped by nemesis Captain Hook and, with Tinkerbell's aid, Peter returns to Neverland. Unfortunately, he has no clue on how regain his old magic to save his children. One certainly must give credit for a novel and promising concept, but it never takes flight. Robin Williams, certainly one of cinema's most energetic comedic actors, seems constricted as Peter. Dustin Hoffman seems to be having a fine time as Captain Hook, but for a legendary villain he is surprisingly toothless and devoid of menace. The film's worst misstep is in the handling of The Lost Boys. Whereas the characters as related by J. M. Barrie and in other cinematic incarnations seem ones to capture the imagination, Spielberg and his writers have re-imagined them as glorified skateboard hoodlums whose shenanigans inspire more tedium than magic. These boys are dreadfully uninteresting, as is Peter's irritating son, played by the usually reliable Charlie Korsmo. Viewers should be on his side after the neglect suffered by the hands of his dad, but he emerges as vacuous as his adolescent compatriots. Ironically, for a film that features a stellar casting trinity of leads, they are oddly wasted in favor of the tiresome adolescent cast. The women in the film really have it bad. While Peter has two kidnapped children, one could easily forget that his young daughter was held hostage considering that she is all but forgotten in favor of young Korsmo. Similarly, Maggie Smith is wasted in a brief cameo as the aged Wendy and Caroline Goodall is left behind in London to fend for herself. Julia Roberts may have had a fighting chance if anyone had a clear conception on their vision of Tinkerbell. Instead of the mischievous sprite with a huge jealous streak, we get a wishy-washy tomboy who has little to do during the course of the film. The much-celebrated sets are alternately busy and tacky, and the editing is amateurish. Some scenes are cut so clumsily that it is unbelievable that someone with Spielberg's talents failed to notice, or perhaps he simply did not care. For a much better take on the Peter Pan legend, look for P. J. Hogan's Peter Pan. "}{"Title":"Hooked on Sentiment","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here is the second of Spielberg's three great disasters (with 1941 and AI).His approach to film is heavily sentimental, highly refined. He sticks a coathanger through this narrow keyhole and sees what images he can snag.Sometimes it connects, at least in enough spots in the film to keep us on the path to wistful hopefulness, to a world that works the way we wish it would, But I am increasingly convinced Spielberg's success has more to do with this core vision of the world, and some mastery at storyboarding, than with any innate understanding of the medium. And here is an example. Some rather good material in actors by his standards. His support team is at or above average for his productions Stalwart producer Kennedy, the writer of Contact, production designers of Brazil and Private Ryan, Cinematographer from Casper.He is no less restrained in Hook than say in Close Encounters. No less sentimental than in Schindler. No less artificial than in Jurassic. No less preachy than in ET.Hook is Spielberg through and through, but it didn't stick because it was a smidgen over the line, hit the tipping point and turned us off by his pandering. "},{"Title":"disappointing years later, probably my least favorite of Spielberg's big blockbusters","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Seeing a film that doesn't work directed by Steven Spielberg is still more interesting, up to a point, than watching an average work by a lesser filmmaker with similar material. Hook is probably one of those films that also probably worked a little better for me when I was younger (I even saw it in the theater as I recall), and had that combination of high flying special effects and kiddie humor and heart that made for a good enough time. But seeing it on TV recently I come across, maybe like Robin Williams's character early on in the film, not connecting with those same nondiscriminatory reactions (in other words just happy to see something colorful and big with over the top actors and ideas). By now, however, I've seen too many of Spielberg's films up to now that speak to his themes of re-imagining escapism and of a father losing responsibility to more satisfying, more entertaining heights than this. The film has its moments, usually among the cast of kids that make up the Lost Boys, but it's also adrift in its huge production design, lackluster screenplay, and sometimes odd choice- or rather portrayals- by the principle leads.Williams himself isn't too bad as the Peter Pan of the picture, as an adult without much heart who has to find it in the midst of finding his kidnapped kids in Neverland. He is re-introduced to Tinker Bell (Julia Roberts, decent but far from really being memorable), and of course the title character played by Dustin Hoffman with enough 'ham' to feed a starving family. It's hard now to take him too seriously as a villain when even as a kid he seemed a little too goofy for the part. Bob Hoskins interestingly enough is maybe a bit better as Smee, Hook's main underling. The film's main action centerpiece for almost all involved, where Peter Pan and the Lost Boys finally take on Hook and his crew, is an action-filled extravaganza that seems to not really have the focus of Spielberg's better set-pieces in other films he's done. This is contrasted with bits of comic relief by Hook and some others in the Lost Boys that are hit and miss. And the special effects themselves, while a nice precursor to what Spielberg would work with later in the 90s with his Jurassic Park films, aren't enough to support the flaws elsewhere. Mostly in the script, to be sure, where perhaps some of the lack of putting together stronger, less clichéd characterization with the fantasy and un-needed scenes, rubbed off on the director and his style.Would it be a good time for kids? Maybe, but then many of Spielberg's films are at least eye-candy and at most grand-old times where fantasy and adventure/comedy/drama all mix together for something memorable. Indeed, his were some of the first 'real' films I can remember seeing and getting into, even the slightly darker and rougher Indiana Jones pictures. But even as a kid my enjoyment of Hook was mostly for surface pleasures- and being a big fan of Williams at the time- and the memories don't stick as well fifteen years later. Call it not being able to be a Peter Pan or returning to Neverland or whatever, Hook is at best average Hollywood escapist fare and at worst an overlong, lacking in focus family-fantasy film that shows the lesser side of Spielberg's gifts as a storyteller and artist. "},{"Title":"How can anyone not like this film?","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Honestly, somebody tell me (blackwolf14016@hotmail.com). I'm dead serious, because this is, if not my favorite movie of all time, is definatly one of my favorite KIDS movies of all time. The movie differs from the 'traditional' Peter Pan storyline; Peter is now a 40 year old workaholic lawyer. When his children are kidnapped by the evil Hook, Tinkerbell takes him back to Never Never Land to have one last battle with the evil captain. This movie is well done in almost all respects. The acting is top notch, even by the young Lost Boys. The music is well done as well, even getting an Oscar nod. My only (minor) complaint is the fight scenes could have been done slightly better, but that's just a minor quibble.This movie is for the young and the young at heart. If you don't like Hook, perhaps you have grown up too much. James Black Wolf Johnston "},{"Title":"Excellent for any audience","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of the best I have ever seen. The story line is great for any audience kids just learning the story or adults who never wanted to grow up. Spielberg's imagination and his way of sticking close by the original story makes this film a delight to see if you ever wanted to be a lost boy in never land. Every time I watch this film I notice another superb detail and use of irony. The story ties together beautifully and is easily one of my very favorites. It makes you want a never never land of your own.  "},{"Title":"Neverfood is Good for You! (spoiler alert)","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I LOVE this movie! I first watched this when I was about 6 or 7 and I am 20 years old now. I still enjoy it. In fact, I am watching it as I type this. This movie captures the human imagination in only the way that a Peter Pan movie can. I have seen all the Peter Pan movies to date, so I know. Robin Williams puts on a great performance as a father named Peter Banning who is too busy for his children. When his kids get kidnapped by Captain James Hook (Dustin Hoffman), Banning must try to remember his true identity, Peter Pan. Helping him are a wonderful cast of characters, including Julia Roberts, who plays a great Tinkerbell.The actors and actresses in this movie do a wonderful job of developing their characters. One of the best character developments is that of Captain Hook. In the original story of Peter Pan, it's mostly about the title character and we don't get to know much about Hook except that he is evil. Hoffman gives us a glimpse into why Hook is so sad and why he really hates Peter Pan.The child actors are good in this movie. I especially like Dante Basco, who plays Rufio. He did a great job as the young Lost Boy Leader. He made a lot of the scenes funny, especially the Neverfood scene! I LOVE that one! People who hate this movie don't seem to get why it is in the movie. It's all about imagination, people! Pretending is the name of the game in Peter Pan movies! Charlie Korsmo, who plays Jack Banning is also great, especially in the clock scene. It's so dramatic.Robin Williams is hilarious as well as dramatic in this movie! I wish he still did movies like this instead of the creepy old man ones he does now. The memory scene and the never-food scene are the best. I love how we get a glimpse into Peter's past during the memory scene. I could not think of a better actor to play Peter Pan (Banning) than him.Finally, the music by John Williams makes the movie complete. "},{"Title":"Excellent live-action film adaptation of the J.M. Barrie tale","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" HOOK, in my opinion, is an excellent live-action film adaptation of the J.M. Barrie tale. One of the things I liked most about it was Dustin Hoffman's villainous turn as the nefarious title character. If you ask me, it was funny when Rufio (Dante Basco) said, Looky, looky, I got Hooky. If you want to know why he said that, you'll have to see the movie. Also, I though that the performances were top-notch, the casting was terrific, and the scenery was beautiful. Oh, and I also loved the music, especially the music that plays during the war. I hate to admit it, but that was my favorite part. In conclusion, I highly recommend this well-done live-action film adaptation of the J.M. Barrie tale to all you Dustin Hoffman or Robin Williams fans who have not seen it. "},{"Title":"Good - Better - The best!","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well I understand that people might complain, but I myself find the movie absolutely remarkable and hilarious.I simply adore Robin Williams, And Dustin is one of my favorites, so even though I am an adult I still like to sit down from time to time and watch this unforgettable movie. Still moves me to tears, still makes me laugh. Of course it is easy to spot mistakes, clichés or whatever, but don't forget it was intended for the little ones and it should be considered a movie for the little onesWell any who 10 from me )Banarang! "},{"Title":"Nostalgia Factor","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was drawn by Steven Spielberg's vision of Neverland. An impressionist and impressive vision of Peter Pan's surroundings. Spielberg tries to wake in each of us the child within, or at least make us remember it. It had a bit nostalgia effect on me, a very deep feeling of innocence. In this movie you can feel a kind of spirit floating, you feel the weight of the past, the legend. I mean, you feel like reading Peter Pan's stories since you where a kid and now you get the chance to know Neverland, where all those stories happened a long time ago. It is a very good feeling of fantasy and Spielberg's magic! I won't say it is a must see, it's not. But for some people like me who can feel that magic in the movie it is a very good movie worth to see more than one time and to be remembered. Excellent directing! Good actors, specially Robin Williams and of course, Dustin Hoffman. Great soundtrack, the eternal John Williams.I understand the fact why some people hated the movie, if you never seen it i would recommend it. The feeling it had on me made me love it, the same effect on you may make you hate it, but i hope you get much pleasure as i did. "},{"Title":"Do You believe in Peter Pan?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is first rate family entertainment.The musical score is excellent, providing both entertainment and expression while all the while we behold a view that is beautiful and interesting.That seems to be one of the understated attractions that while we hear and look we indeed witness a grand stage in which is choreographed some really great dance numbers.This really is a very fine film,interesting,challenging and maybe I should not say,contemporary.I remember from long long ago the songtender shepherd,tender shepherd,or the refrain to I wont grow upor may be even.teach me to fly peteror I wanna crow,that of course was from the days when Mary Martin played Peter Pan and it aired on NBC.Iam not certain about what may in fact constitute acting but the film or at least its presentation provided for a unmistakable adventure to never never land.Do we draw a line as to what it is that this may be about or is what it is about not what not growing up is about.Thats why I never want to grow up,not me ,not I.The film attempts as a starting point to establish a level playing surface from which this gunslinger of a lawyer played by Robin Williams,who in fact is Peter Pan, now grown up is sought out by the infamous Captain Hook played By Dustin Hoffman.Hooks servant smee is played by Bob Hoskins and tinkerbell is played by Julia Roberts.There really isn't anywhere to start outside of the fact that Peter found his shadow and now the adventure gets very interesting.It would seem that if you were to watch the Peter Pan on stage as say with Mary Martin you would know that it was quieter and sentimental and as well a first rate experience,however when you witness hook you find yourself involved in the equivalent of an event,an truly extravagant presentation.This was an expensive film to make as the production numbers were as impressive as the story itself.The scene with the baseball game was so enjoyable that I felt that this was indeed the right ballpark for all concerned and though indeed this is being a-bit clever about all this, it is nonetheless first rate entertainment.The place mostly for Peter Pan is in our youth and indeed perhaps even in our hearts.We don't want to see our mommies and daddies die and I don't want to grow up!The only road block to all this,is this is about make believe and about pretend.I guess this is about the imagination, for instance the big meal the children have with Peter Pan present for the first time in a while.It is not so simple even in acting to convince someone that they are actually having something to eat and then to make it appear to the camera if you will that you are in fact having something to eat.It was interesting to see how that number was worked out on the silver screen as perhaps it may of been dealt with on the stage.However this was entirely theatrics and if your interested young girls liked this picture more than young boys and it seems that the older you got the less likely you were to enjoy this film.I gave Hook an 8 for many reasons some of which have been mentioned but mostly because of its entertainment value.There is indeed much to know and that maybe an impediment too,as knowledge does not seem to be present only the medium.This film does bear all the ear marks of a very well produced film and very professional in its approach.In fact its so good in that area that you would be better seeing the film than reading this. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was flickering through my guide one day when I saw Hook on the ABC Family channel.  I decided to watch it since I played the prologue to Hook in my band class.  The movie was pretty good but I loved the music especially in the prologue.My favorite scene was the food fight, that was pretty funny.  I also liked the scene when Hook, Jack, and the crew are playing baseball.  Robin Williams I believe played a good Peter Pan. I also believe the children played good roles.Overall I suggest people of all ages to watch this movie and I give it 8/10 stars.  I think it was a good continuation to the story of Peter Pan  "}{"Title":"One of the worst pictures I've ever seen","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The idea for the film is wonderful, but the reincarnation of Peter Pan as an adult just didn't fly with me. I disliked the acting of Robin Williams in this film and kept imagining that someone, such as Kevin Kline, would have been far superior. Dustin Hoffman, on the other hand, as Captain Hook was ingenious. I realize that this film is primarily for children, but the one-liners, dreadful sets, the food fight, and those three kissing mermaids didn't even seem appropriate for children. The talent that made up the film was entirely wasted and I can't imagine why any major name, such as Meryl Streep, would waste their time doing cameo performances. My feeling is that if you are a fan of the original Peter Pan, you are much better off sticking with that rather than viewing this bit of nonsense. Why writers and directors want to update films/books/plays that were masterpieces is beyond me. I'm thinking of films such as Scarlett, the story of Scarlett O'Hara AFTER Gone With the Wind. Sequels and prequels are mostly not up to the caliber of the original film/book/play. I would not want my children to see Hook; I'd much prefer they read the original. As for adults, they should stay clear of the picture entirely unless they don't mind wasting one and three-quarter hours of their lives. "},{"Title":"Such a wonderful movie concept! Such a waste!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"18 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A grownup Peter Pan, with children of his own, trying (or rather, not trying) to capture the magic of youth when everything is possible. A grownup return to Never-Never Land. An exciting director, an actor capable of greatness (but who can overact dreadfully at times), an imaginative story line - the mind boggles with the possibilities. However, this film could serve as a benchmark for movies whose concept is so exciting and whose execution is so mundane.  A great pity. "},{"Title":"Annoying Dancing Kids","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"21 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hmm, this is possibly the most bizarre movie made by Spielberg. Why did he cast Robin Williams as Peter Pan? Ok, its supposed to be interesting,because no one could imagine him in this role, but it just doesn`t work.Seeing a somewhat chubby (ok,FAT !) Williams flying over the island is very amusing, but for the wrong reasons. Obviously, Spielberg tried to create a different and original version of the old story, but he should have stayed closely to the source material instead. Other problems occur,when the lost boys army (thats what I call them anyway) appears. There are just too many annoying kids on this island! And they are doing choreographed dancing numbers. jeez. And bad ones as well. I mean, the first time I saw them dancing, I just thought, what is this supposed to be ?  Sorry , Mr. Spielberg, but your affinity for stupid kids with terrible acting abilities has gone too far this time. It simply ruins this movie.Look out for Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook and Bob Hoskins as Smee. Hoffman is virtually buried under all that makeup and hair appliances. He is obviously not taking this very seriously. His acting here is campy as hell, and he is not menacing or evil for one minute. There are a number of guest appearances by other famous actors,but they are equally wasted here. This entire movie looks like an overblown theater/musical production,complete with fake-looking sets and crazy plot ideas. You expect people to break into song at any minute. Its that bad. This is what happens,when big budget directors take a popular childrens book and turn it into a box office extravaganza. (see also The Grinch and The Cat in the Hat). "},{"Title":"Spielberg missed this one.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"21 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is one of Steven Spielberg's near misses. At least it shows that he is a normal director sometimes. I mean he cranks out great film after great film, so he was due for a weaker film. This one is overlong and very pretentious. Don't get me wrong this film isn't bad, it's just not as good as it could have been. A lot of great talent in this film. Dustin Hoffman's turn as Captin Hook is inspired, but Robin Wiliams portrayal of Peter Pan is very goofy. I will say that the film's score is awesome. Kids will probably dig it, but most adults won't care. I think making adults care is the whole point of this film.  "},{"Title":"Spielberg tries to find never never land - but alas fails","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"22 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The classic childrens story is updated with Robin Williams as Peter Pan, now a Lawyer who must return to Never Never Land.The problem with the film however is that there are too many American accents in what I always imagined was a typically English story.D Hoffman is not nearly nasty enough as Captain Hook.This is one for the younger members of the family, and while the film does have it's moments, overall it was a disappointing effort. "},{"Title":"Something undefinable just went wrong with this flick.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"23 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of those movies that leave you scratching your head. Where exactly did it go wrong? After all, we have a solid high-concept idea (what if Peter Pan grew up?), we have a director with a stellar track record used to making both action-adventures and children's movies, we have a magnificent cast (keep a look-out for a young Gwyneth Paltrow and a bearded Glenn Close in the scorpion box!), we have great-looking sets, good costumes, a big budget... so how did it all end up feeling a bit too much like the crappy kid's theater production in the beginning of the movie? The whole movie has this matinée feel to it. Dustin Hoffman is phoning it in, Robin Williams is doing that oh I can improvise better lines than scriptwriters can write for me any day!-shtick which really gets on your nerves after watching a few of his movies, Spielberg's feel on the direction is evident but in no way heartfelt... oh, and Julia Roberts' performance as Tinkerbell is so out-of-place and ridiculous that I remember finding it off even when I saw this movie for the first time as a young boy.Hook proves that sometimes, all the right elements needed to make an unforgettable classic sometimes turn into... well, something like Hook instead. Luckily, the converse also happens, when an unknown director and a small budget suddenly, out of the blue, makes a masterpiece of cinema. I like those movies a lot more. "},{"Title":"Pathetically Stupid","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"24 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Couldn't stand this movie from the get-go. I like Dustin Hoffman's performance and Robin Williams was ok, but the Lost Boy's were the most irritating group of brats I'd ever seen. I had wished the alligator would have ate all of them. The over-rated Julia Roberts was equally tolerating. "},{"Title":"Plastic and artificial with a thick sugar coating...","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"25 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...much like any other movie with Robin Williams. Just look at Toys and you'll know what I mean. Just don't come complaining to me when your brain turns to honey and oozes out of your ears. Anyway, Hook is certainly the worst movie Steven Spielberg ever directed and seems even more politically correct, family friendly and syrup dripping than the most colossal Di$ney fiascos.The sets look more fake than those in The Flintstones and the acting is miserable on all levels. Dustin Hoffman and Julia Roberts look forced and never seem to enjoy their roles - not that I can blame them. Oh, and did I mention Robin Williams sucks in this turkey?The dinner scene with the Lost Boys is enough to make even the youngest and most inane viewers puke marshmallows all over the floor. I am talking sugar OD here; honey and cinnamon catatonia. Movies like this are an insult to kids all over the world (not to mention adults). Hook must have the worst quality/budget quotient in movie history.Reference - 10 Star Kiddie MoviesThe Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe (the animated 1979 TV movie which is better than all modern Di$ney productions combined)The Dark Crystal (surprisingly original Jim Henson puppet movie) "},{"Title":"Godawful!","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"31 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Just saw this movie on VHS. Had no idea what to expect. First 15 minutes, showing William's family and work life bored me to death. But I was hopeful and decided to see more. When they got to London, I was intrigued by the lovely architecture of the brick townhouse where Wendy lived. My intrigue ended there. The problem with this movie is that not one character was endearing. Emotions ran high on occasion among the characters playing their parts, but these displays fell on neutral hearts since the viewer could not connect and feel empathy for any of the characters. At times, I became irritatingly aware that the orchestral background music sounded just like Spielberg's other blockbusters. And his overused techniques for highlighting dramatic moments(in this case anti-dramatic) were painful to watch. Blockbuster, mass audience appeal went into every gimmick he employed.Also, the intended ideal age group to see this movie remains a mystery. Certainly, it was a children's movie, but it was too sophisticated and overdone for children to enjoy. At the same time, it was too boring and nonsensical for adults to bear. Spielberg was likely shooting for a mass audience, but he ended up getting none with this stinker.I thought of other children fantasy movies that did work, such as The Wizard of Oz. It was not nearly as sophisticated in cinematography, sets and storyline, but it worked because all the characters were endearing, especially Dorothy. Even the Wicked Witch had a certain charm. So even though it was abundantly clear that Oz was a complete fantasy, like Hook, it managed to capture the human heart and mind with lovable characters and the simple theme - I want to go home because there's no place like home.I must give credit to Hoffman for his portrayal of Hook. He was so good he was unrecognizable in sound and appearance. Still, the way his part came across, he was neither a likable nor despicable villain. I just keep thinking, why is he obsessed with fighting a war with Peter Pan??? "},{"Title":"The biggest artistic low point for everyone involved","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"34 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched this film as a child and could always remember how utterly bewildered I was by it especially in contrast to the impressive (if Disneyfied) adaptation of Peter Pan. It was darker and stranger and made little sense to me, I guess I just thought I was missing something.12 years on and I still don't understand this simply because there is nothing to understand about it. It is a hideously self-indulgent mess of a film. Incoherently structured, one-dimensionally and superficially characterised, implausible (even in the considerably less demanding realms of the the fantasy genre, incomprehensible and ugly.But what really got me about this film is that I have never seen such a large collection of talent so utterly wasted. Everyone of them should be ashamed for being involved in the conception of this cinematic atrocity. What was the point of this film? The importance of an innocent imagination. All of that was put on screen before and in a much much better way in the Neverending Story, a warm, imaginative, humorous and engrossing children's fantasy. It's everything that Hook wasn't.  "}{"Title":"Spielberg should be ashamed of himself.","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"35 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is absolutely horrible. Everyone is cast wrong. The acting is poor. I hate all of the characters in this film. The script is completely stupid, and every single portion of the dialogue is terrible. Every single part of every aspect of this film is cheesy and stupid and bad. If IMDb used a -10 to 10 scale, this film would be well worthy of a perfect -10.Of all the hours I've wasted in my life, the hour or so I spent in the theater viewing most of this is the time I most want back. Please do not see this. Please do not show this to your children. Let's all try to forget this unforgettably horrible film, and just hope that in the future it is somehow obliterated from existence. This is very clearly Spielberg's worst film. It is probably one of the worst big films ever made by such a famous Hollywood director--so bad that there is no humor to be found in how bad it is. One just feels sorry for Spielberg messing up his rep with this piece of garbage.Audiences were leaving the theater in droves midway through it, where I saw it. I am certainly not the only one. Try seeing it again, if you genuinely still feel there was any merit to this. I dare you.As with many truly horrible films, its only value is as a litmus test. If you know anyone who claims to have enjoyed this film, it is probably very safe to completely ignore all other reviews by the same person. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs...","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"35 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We were treated to a video viewing of Hook for Thanksgiving one year. A perfect time to watch a movie, and this is what we saw.  Two hours of my life that I'd like to have back.  Bloated and lifeless, this material that demands a light touch was handled by an oaf.  While an occasional foray to recreate childhood fantasies may be excused, turning them into expensive adult nightmares can not.A 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A RARE MISFIRE BY THE MASTER DIRECTOR","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"37 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This frightful movie is a misfire by anyone's standards and it is certainly the worst film ever directed by Steven Spielberg. Robin Williams,an irritating actor at the best of times is no less than appalling here and like many British I cannot for the life of me see the appeal of the man.Most of his performances are cloying and syrupy in movies that make you want to gag rather than grin. Dustin Hoffman is wasted  and none of the cast emerges with any kind of acclaim. The action(what little there is)is confusing and poorly choreographed involving actors who could not fight their way out of a wet paper bag in any case. Hook's ship looks like it has never seen the sea let alone sail on it, moored as it is on one of the most unconvincing sets ever constructed. One scene that involves the lost boys at dinner engaged in banal childish name calling should have been excised from the movie after the first screening and burnt,it is Spielberg at his most unconstrained and is like a 5 minute version of the uncalled for penis breath line that should have been cut from E.T. All in all HOOK is a travesty from beginning to end and is the worst version of PETER PAN imaginable,only John Williams knew what he was doing with his powerful and evocative score. Question the judgment of anyone who says they enjoyed this farrago. It is AWFUL! "},{"Title":"My recollections of the night I saw HOOK","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can still remember the night I saw the movie HOOK.  It was in late April of 2001, fully ten years after the movie had been released.  When I saw Peter as he appears at the beginning of the film, with his glasses and and loss of memory, I thoughtEventually I'm going to be 30, then 40, then 50, then 60, then 70, then 80 years old. The way I'm going on now, that man could be me - sad and without a whisper of memory, with bands of clouds forever stretched around his heart.  I don't want to lose my memories - ever! - not even the memories of my beloved grandmother, Beatrice 'Mimi' Wyse.But as the film went on, however, Peter began to change, and I could feel myself begin to change along with him, recalling the Disney movie PETER PAN that I had seen in my youth and remembering that I had an album of the original play in a green box in my bedroom near the wall on the far side of my bed at the same time Peter was finally beginning to remember his own past and his childhood.  Finally the cloudy bands around my heart began to fall apart as I got caught up in the drama and at the same time Peter crowed, I crowed - for the very first time!I can crow!  I thought, delighted with what I was feeling.  I can crow!After the exitement was done and the movie was through, I went into my room and pulled out my old PETER PAN album - which had been given to me by a neighbour named Karen Atkinson.  On the album was my own printing, a short note that read, This record used for study only.  It has too many 'skips.'  "},{"Title":"Weird Feelings","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I get a weird feeling from this movie.  On the one hand, it has awesome Peter Pan scenes, and the scenes with the Lost Boys are killer.  But the whole side plot with Captain Hook warping the kids is way too weird, almost sickening.  The whole watch smashing scene was just bizarre as hell. Onto the plot Peter Pan grew up 20 years ago and became a yuppie jerk with no time for his kids.  On a trip to London to visit crazy old Aunt Wendy, who actually belives Peter Pan was real, Captain Hook kidnaps Peter's kids.  This prompts him to return to Neverland and rediscover being a kid.Overall, a good movie, just a bit weird in some parts. "},{"Title":"a story with a statement","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this movie years ago and it's never left my mind. I love it. In my eyes it has a brilliant moral behind it that I've never forgotten and I still carry with me. It may of been my over-analysing as I grew up, but a film like this can't help but make you think about your own life and your own wishes and dreams.The story starts with a man we don't recognise, who turns out to be someone we know and for a while, echoed his conviction of never growing up. Some may say it wasn't very good and they are entitled to that point. some may argue with them nd they that the movie was the best, and that's their opinion.In my opinion, this movie had the best Captain Hook, had an entertaining Peter Pan and the most true statement running through it throughout it. In my opinion, this film tells us that no matter how much we don't want to grow up, we will, but we'll never forget how to be a child, deep down in our hearts. "},{"Title":"An odd, but good movie","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is an odd movie, but not a bad one.  There are some parts which I didn't care for, like casting Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell.  And the Lost Boys are wearing early 90's costumes, which really dates the movie.  But getting past that, it's actually a pretty good movie.It has a rich, lush look like you'd expect from Spielberg.  I think some viewers were confused by the altered storyline, but if you go with it, you would find an interesting plot.  Maggie Smith adds gravity to her scenes. Dustin Hoffman adds the right amount of ham to Captain Hook, and Robin Williams finds a nice tone as a father who's forgotten who he was and therefore, who he is to his kids.  The plot twists and turns, but concludes with a satisfying ending. I understand why people don't like Spielberg, but when someone is good, you gotta give them credit.  This may not be Spielberg's finest moment, but I still like it. "},{"Title":"Very good movie (Careful, a couple small spoilers are coming)","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I liked this movie a great deal.  I enjoyed the actors performances a lot and I am glad to see such great actors in these roles.  The story is well done as well with all of the original cartoon's aspects as well as some new ones.    My favorite scene in the movie is where they're all at the table eating their imaginary supper.  That is, until Peter starts a huge food fight.  That's why it's enjoyable for kids because they all end up getting pies in the face and getting messy.  I liked how they even threw pies at Tinkerbell.  And it always makes me laugh to see Tinkerbell's bare feet get covered in messy pie and then she slams her bare feet down in the mess.  I also find it hilarious when all of the cake and mess squishes up between her toes.  Even Robin Williams stands in the mess on the table in his bare feet.  I like how actors will do lots of stuff like this.  This is a very good film. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After watching duds like Bless the Child and The Virgin Suicides, I popped my poor investments back in the Blockbuster bag, rewound so as to make sure that I didn't get penalized even more with a Be Kind, Rewind fee, and headed for the door.  But before I could turn the box off I turned to TNT or TBS or whatever and found that Hook had just started.  I immediately went back to that place this movie created for me when I was 17 in 91'. In his prime, Robin Williams inspires from the first moments as an acquisitions and mergers specialist.  His accurate portrayal of a stressed-out modern day businessman, along with the transition to mighty old Peter, make for a great version of a great story.  Spielberg shines in his ability to pack in the special effects with a star-studded cast, the kind of cast only Spielberg and his tractor beam could attract. "},{"Title":"Tenth time around's better than first  (aka, a Lit teacher's dream)","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is, overall, an engaging movie.  I can attest to this, as I have seen it at least once a year for the past ten.  Each time, I find something new to enjoy.  And yet, this time is the first I have truly appreciated the movie it its entirety, as both a child and an adult.  Perhaps I have been sitting in my Lit class for much too long, but I have found many symbols that can attest to a deeper meaning in the film.(spoilers ahead, first-time viewers beware)Wendy's being a (great-)grandmother, her line Why Peter, you've become a pirate, and her quoting of the mother's line from Peter Pan about watch my sheep are all symbols that growing up is inevitable, even after Grandma Wendy said there would be no growing up in her house.  Second is Captain Hook's snatching the children from their beds, as I believe Captain Hook to be maturity, as he is the commander of the grownups in a land of children. Also, Hook's slaying of Rufio (there, I said it.  Rufio!) was absolutely necessary from the symbolic POV, as Rufio was the oldest boy, and the commander, yet maturity and growing up must come to all children, even the Lost Boys, and steal their childhood away.  And yet, time, in the form of the crocodile, swallowed up Hook in the end.  Fitting irony in a land where time stands still.In conclusion, Hook is a modern-day continuation of the fairy tales of Hans Christian Anderson, the Brothers Grimm, and all the other greats who recorded our favorite bedtime stories.  An artful, child-friendly covering to a lesson we must all learn in our own time. "}{"Title":"HOOK ... good for those who are young at heart","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I must admit to being somewhat endeared to movies considered to be made for those who are younger.. that said I loved Hook .. I found it to be more than worthy of the obvious effort Spielberg put into this movie .. Dustin Hoffman was brilliant as Hook .. Robin Williams also shined as Peter Pan .. I found Julia Roberts a little saccharin at times.. some of the child actors also were a little short on believability .. but that was easy to miss if you are lucky enough to be caught up in the plot as I was .. I only noticed those small faults while watching it recently and with a more critical eye .. most of the child actors were something to behold .. especially the small child that felt Peter Pans face and discovered him to be Peter ..all that said..Hook is a movie I place in my top ten greatest movies. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully enchanting movie, a must see for all ages.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is a strong reminder about the true meaning of life...Joy. Even those who don't like the happy-feel good type movies should enjoy this one. If not, you probably need to remember what it was like to be a child.  If this movie doesn't reach your inner child, you've lost him/her and need to find them again very soon. "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is not terrific, it has flaws, but it's enjoyable. The story itself is very interesting, if a bit unbelievable at times. Peter Banning (Robin Williams) is a lawyer (not shown at work) workaholic, enough so he rarely has time for his family. The 1 time we do see shove work into the background for a family life is when he makes it to his daughter Maggie's play, but shortly after fails to attend his son Jack's ball game. When among his kids he's a disciplinarian, killjoy of an adult who clearly can't remember being a kid. So how can he possibly be Peter Pan, as his grandmother-in-law Wendy Darling (Maggie Smith) claims? That's what he asks himself after someone claiming to be Capt. Hook (Dustin Hoffman) leaves a ransom note after kidnapping his children on a visit to Granny Wendy at Christmas. He doesn't know what to do - until a firefly from Hell who calls herself Tinkerbell shows up while he's having a beer. She drags him to Neverland, but he's still convinced it's a dream till he sees the kids imprisoned. Hook & his crew are shocked that the overweight American-bred man who can't fight, fly, or even stand heights, is his legendary rival. Instead of getting him to fight right away, he agrees to a 3-day wait till Peter's memory returns. Now on Neverland, Peter begins his training under the instruction of the all-American Lost Boys, who seem more like their life involves enjoying sports than playing in Neverland. Meanwhile, Hook has an inferiority complex problem, believing he can't defeat his old enemy (something senseless I can't accept), so decides to turn Peter's children against him. Maggie has unshakable loyalty to her parents - she's clearly closer to her mother, though - & when the plot fails on her, she practically disappears from the movie. Jack, on the other hand, barely tries to hide his anger & ends up supporting Hook. He even breaks Peter's watch (which Hook takes support from), joins the pirates, & forgets his father not only because of Neverland but also by Hook's plot. I enjoyed this when I watched it, but it's definitely got some holes in it. Tinkerbell has human speech here - I guess that makes more sense than the writers giving Peter a minute-long flashback of what her traditional jingle-speech means. OK, that's not the best idea, but it's nothing compared to the fact that throughout the whole movie, she expresses her love for Peter. This wouldn't be so much a problem either - there is love/jealousy in the book - but I draw the line at the fact that she becomes human for about a minute, where the love isn't hidden at all. It made no sense! The Lost Boys had similar problems - they were too American, not just in their accents & speech, but in every action - shooting hoops, skating, singing a sound-off tune in a running drill, & food fights shouldn't be things they do. It was confusing how, when he finally remembered about his past life, Peter Pan forgot his present 1 the fact that he grew up, his kids, everything. Then in a few moments, it all comes back to him miraculously - he even remembers why he originally went to Neverland, but the story of how he fled his family because he feared death before he could even walk was ridiculous. Everything else in the movie was decent, though some characters were shown little, including Smee (Bob Hoskins) I still found I liked his role. There were some comical scenes, including where Hook threatens to omit suicide, & some touching 1s, especially involving the Banning family & where Peter remembers he left Neverland to become a father. I wish this could have been more loyal to the British-set, clever world every1 knows, but it's a decent enough movie. "},{"Title":"I love Hook so much!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have seen Hook so many times I have lost count! It is most definetly one of my absolute favorites, I grew up with it, and I will never forget it. I love Robin Williams in it along with Julia Roberts, and Dustin Hoffman...oh annnd of course my boy Rufiooooooo! Man is he cool or what!? I had the biggest crush on that kid when I was younger well I mean I guess I still do, but I dont know how old he is though..S haha But I love Rufio and and I thought that Jack was sucha cutie in the movie, but now hes older..ohh well! Anyways I guess I just liked the whole movie, mainly because well it was just a good movie, and everyone were such great actors, and actresses. I wish I could fly like Peter Pan. lol  "},{"Title":"Not quite terrible, but not quite good either.","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is the kind of movie you watch with your kids, period. It has a kids eye view on the world of neverland and the people who reside in it. Its almost as if Spielberg had an out of body experience while directing this film, handing the reins over to his 12 year old self and saying to himself, have fun. Its whimsical and at times even a bit charming. Although, these good points are routinely drowned by exhausting plot jumps and set changes. The film also suffers from the same thing that makes alot of Spielbergs films hard to swallow, the length. I am of the opinion that a good fantasy film is a short fantasy film. This movie could've easily been cut to an hour and fourty-five minutes and convey exactly the same amount of plot and character development as is present in the current two and a half hours plus of the film. It also suffers from over-dramatization of the relationship between Peter and Tnkerbell, while simultaneously under-dramatizing Peters relationship with the lost boys. The lost boys, in this film, have been reduced to a loathesome gang of punks and brats that, unless your 10, you just want to grab by the collar and beat relentlessly with a tightly folded leather belt. You find out nothing about them whatsoever and there is just no connection to them, at any point in the film.The only true delights in this film are the acting of Dustin Hoffman, and Bob Hoskins who, in my opinion, capture the attitudes and essences of their characters perfectly. Hoffmans portrayal of The Captain is that of a scourge and a scoundrel while also being a snooty uppercrust english gentleman. As for Hoskins Smee, he is as loveable as he is devious in this part and shows his incredible acting range and abilities. The worst parts of this film are Robin WIlliams, and Julia Roberts. They were incredibly unbelievable and in my opinion, contributed tremendously to what went wrong with this picture.Overall I'd give this movie 7 out of 10 stars. Watch it with your kids but don't expect to be whisked away to a magical realm and become deeply subdued by interesting storylines and fun dialougue. This movie is strictly, kids only, from start to finish. "},{"Title":"One of the best of my childhood....","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams is probably the best Peter Pan I've seen.  Well, at least, a grownup Peter Pan.  It's not a usual role for Robin compared to Mrs. Doubtfire or Good Morning Vietnam.  He's a workaholic to get away from his family, along with his drinking.  Then, his kids are gone and look who tells him that Captain Hook kidnapped his kids.  In comes Maggie Smith.  She is a wonderful Wendy!! This movie has it's ups and downs, of course.  But, Robin's humor along with Dustin Hoffman's performance as Hook and Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell makes this movie a perfect childhood movie that can be watched with the whole family! "},{"Title":"Don't let the 5.7 rating fool you... this film is fantasic on so many levels.","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There is no good reason for this film to get anything below a 7.5. I have loved this film since my childhood, and recently was on the verge of tears during one particular scene.Perhaps people just don't know what to make of this movie... and they critize it as being kiddie and trite and whatnot... its a KID's MOVIE, for God's sake! Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams are great in their characterization of Hook and Pan. The beginning of the movie builds great tension with the After-the-fact kidnapping - the hook slashes down the hallway build up great suspense. Just...MAN THIS MOVIE IS GREAT!Like I said before, just pretend this movie is rated 7.5 and go RENT IT! You will love it! Just don't except an all out Spielberg masterpiece, you might be just a little (yes, maybe just a little) disappointed. Otherwise, SIT BACK, ENJOY, and say FU to all the idiots who gave this movie a low rating. "},{"Title":"Overall, an enjoyable movie","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Being involved with a local theater company using the original script to Peter Pan, I found a lot of neat connections between that script, and this sequel to Peter Pan.  The movie touches the heart-strings in the right places at the right times, and is overall quite an enjoyable movie.  The over-2 hour running time goes fairly quickly.  The sets, scenery, and costumes are fantastic, and Dustin Hoffman plays a terrific Hook.  Robin Williams does well as Pan, and Bob Hoskins makes a fun Smee.The only two slightly annoying parts are 1. the Lost Boys are very 90s, which compared to now makes them a bit dated. Hairstyles, clothing, dance routines seem a little old! 2. one or two lines in the movies seem a little politically incorrect, but most people won't notice them! I really enjoyed seeing this again, not having seen in since the mid-90s. "},{"Title":"Peter Pan's Got Kids?","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Remember how as a child, Peter Pan could fly to and from Neverland and battle the evil Captain Hook? Well, that was years ago. Since then, Peter had gone to the real world and grew up into Peter Banning, a middle aged attorney. He's got a wife and two kids and absolutely no knowledge of him being Peter Pan.          Then one day, Peter and his family flew to England to visit his grandmother in-law Wendy. The real Wendy from the story. She was to give a speech at the opening of the orphan hospital that night, so the kids, Jack and Maggie, were left alone. All of a sudden, someone or something burst in and captured them.                     Upon returning home, Peter, Wendy and wife Moira, notice the damage to the house and the kids missing. They also find a note that tells Peter to come and save his children and was signed by Captain James Hook; Peter got a visit from Tinkerbell that night, and of course had no idea who she was, but she flew him to Neverland. Once there, Peter got into run-ins with pirates and met the Lost Boys, who when he told them he was a lawyer, chased him away. But they soon learn of his predicament and train him to be a warrior. And at dinner, they eat courtesy of Peter's imagination.         Meanwhile, Captain Hook and his right-hand man Smee, pondered what to do about Peter. Hook got the idea to make his children love him. It doesn't work for Maggie, but Hook was able to get at Jack.         One afternoon, Peter regains his old memory and can fly like Peter Pan! So he rounded the Lost Boys together, they went aboard his ship to get Peter's kids back. Hook had dressed Jack in a suit like his. The original head of the Lost Boys, Rufio, tried to take on Hook himself and sadly failed, so it was time for a showdown between Peter and Hook. It resulted in Captain Hook never causing any trouble ever again. So Peter bid farewell to the Lost Boys and flew his kids home and as soon as he returned to the real world, he was a whole new man!        A very good movie. Robin Williams, of course, is good as Peter. Dustin Hoffman is great as Hook. What's good about Hoffman is whatever character he plays, he becomes. You know. So it's hard to believe that the same man who played Rain Man is playing Hook, you can barely tell them apart! Julia Roberts, Bob Hoskins and Maggie Smith are here too and good in their roles. So, if you're a fan of the Peter Pan tales or the Disney movie and you wonder what would happen if Peter Pan grew up, then I recommend you check out Hook!- "},{"Title":"Shows me the power of Believing","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Many people have given the movie Hook a lot of negative criticism. Some say it's Steven Speilberg's worst film. I think it is one of his best. The direction is simply excellent. Every angle is captured just right. The scenery is excellent. It gave Never, Never Land a hip look but it also kept some of the original elements of the fairytale. Costuming was very well put together and when you first see the pirates you know what you're seeing. The best thing about this film is that it shows the power of believing. If you trully put you're heart and soul into something you can make it happen.The acting is pretty good. This isn't Robin Williams best film but he does have fun playing Peter Pan. Dustin Hoffman is really funny as Captain James Hook. Everytime i see him on screen i just crap. He is in top comedic form here. Julia Roberts is pretty good as Tinkerbell. I wish she would've had more screen time though. All in All a great film. Go out and rent it now. *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think that this movie is really funny and it is really good for little kids who ever wondered who was Peter Pan and who was Captian Hook and who was Tinker Bell and who was the Lost Boys and who was the crocodile that ate captain hook. And I think that that this movie is good for parents who want their kids to know who captain hook and peter pan are. And I think that this is a good movie for little kids and their parents to watch together and eat popcorn. And I think that this movie is really good because little kids can see how little tinker bell really is. And I think that this movie should get an award for all of it's great actors that played in this movie. And I think that this movie is really good for the children to watch this movie with their parents so if they want to they can ask questions about this movie. And I think that this movie is a really good movie even though it can be scary for little kids who don't know who captain hook is. "},{"Title":"People forget....","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have read some horrible reviews for a great movie. Complaints about Robin Williams, Dustin Hoffman, etc. But they were perfect. Captain Hook was never meant to be a menacing villain. He's afraid of a dead crocodile. And Robin Williams was perfect as the chubby Peter Panning, mainly because he's perfect in pretty much any kids show (see Alladin, Mrs. Doubtfire). This movie is tons of fun for kids, or anyone else who has a youthful imagination. If there is a downside of the movie, it is the subplot of Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts, who is horrible in Hook) being in love with Peter. This never goes anywhere, and I think we often look for the plot to follow the big name celebrities. She really wasn't needed and didn't help the movie. But the overall feel is fun. I recommend it for anyone who is or ever was a little kid. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Movie","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, for some reason this has been given a lot of rubbish reviews by the critics. Maybe its because they just don't know how magical this is. Hook is one of the best movies ever. I know everyone says that when they write a review. But this really is amazing. I grew up watching this movie, a young kid. When I watch this movie, filled with imagination. It makes me relive the feelings I felt as a Young-un. The acting is terrific with mega-famous actors. Huge sets, with great props etc. The whole atmosphere of this movie is tremendous. The music score by John Williams is definitely some of his best work. Just such a beautiful movie. I cant emphasise how great this movie is. Just watch it! "},{"Title":"You just have to believe","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is generally underrated. I loved it when I first saw it. It made me sad and happy, all at the same. Peter Pan is grown up and has displaced his childhood adventures from memory. He has turned in a cold-hearted father who is not able to live up to his son's expectations, which is very annoying and painful for Charlie Korsmo's character. Then Tinkerbell turns up and ol' Peter's life is turned upside down. Here the whole story starts. Hook has kidnapped his children and ol' Peter has to accept who he was and eventually starts to believe. The way he encounters the Lost Boys, how he struggles to learn how the old magic works and how he starts to turn into Peter Pan is very funny. Robin Williams is doing a great job. Dustin Hoffman, trying to control Jack, Peter's son, is diabolic and absurd at the same time. What appealed to me so much is this The themes of being a good father, of growing up, of accepting yourself, of magic and imagination, of endurance and courage, of love and witchcraft. At the beginning Peter's wife talks to him about how temporary a kid's wish to be together with his parents is. All too quickly kids turn away from their parents. There's only this short period when a dad is a kid's hero, and this period must not be wasted. That's something we all ought to remember. Magic is there, we just have to believe. Love and affection is there, we just have to open our hearts and let it in. At the very end Granny Wendy says So... your adventures are over. And Peter replies Oh, no. To live... to live would be an awfully big adventure. Let's adhere to this simple message of anyone growing up. Let's preserve childhood imagination and dreams in your hearts forever. We'll be much better parents and humans if we do that. "},{"Title":"A good dream","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Spielberg has chosen to realize a childhood's dream, ans that was a great idea. I love that movie. beautiful, nice, pleasant, funny and gentle. Dustin Hofmann is fantastic, mad and brilliant. Robin Williams makes a great performance to, because he has to show all the evolution of Peter, what's not easy. Many people didn't like it, but it was a big success, if I well remember. so it's a new evidence that public is more intelligent than critics and journalists. I just regret that Steven Spielberg didn't do more movies like that. I love many of his last films, but they didn't have the same magic, kindness, or simplicity that in Hook. Perhaps in the future he will, one day, do the same great moments "},{"Title":"Magic that has to be taken on it's own terms","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is one of the classics of my childhood- I don't remember when I first saw it but I've loved it for a long time.The reason that this movie is pretty unpopular with some people is not because it's a bad movie- quite the opposite- but because of it's origins.JM Barrie's amazing and well loved Peter Pan is one of my favourite books- there is nothing that has ever been written quite like it and there never ever will be, including the movie sequel, Hook. The idea of making a sequel about the grown up Peter- let alone a Hollywood movie one- would have made me cringe if i'd been old enough to contemplate the idea prior to seeing the movie.True enough, Hook is, on that level, a travesty. No actor can live up to playing Peter Pan- least of all a short fuzzy American comedian. And what was with the lost boys in this movie? American punk kids? WTF? As for the idea of erotic overtones in Peter and Tink's relationship, let's just not go there.But before Barrie's fans shudder and swear to never ever watch this movie- let me warn you that you'd be missing out.Hook may not 'work' as a worthy sequel to Peter Pan, but this doesn't mean it doesn't work on its' own terms, in its' own right.Forget all about the original when you watch this, and you will appreciate Hook as it's own movie, filled with magic, pathos, wonder and adventure. Sure, it might not be the work for the ages that Peter Pan is, but just learn to accept that fact and you can take delight in the inspired Dustin Hoffman as Captain James Hook (one of his finest performances), the endearingly unbelievability of the plot, the fantastical landscape of Neverland, the cinematography and light, the magical, dreamish quality of the Lost Boy's haven, Hook's galleon, and John William's gorgeous, sweeping score.This film has the look of a story that has lept off colourful pages and sprung to life in the minds of a billion children. I defy you not to swept along by the sight of Peter finally discovering his happy thought and swooping through a shimmering sky. I defy you to not be filled with childish wonder at the sight of the banquet appearing on the table. I defy you not to be close to tears at the end, as this Peter (who may not be the Peter we have adored in Barrie's tale, but a new peter, and one we can warm to and love readily enough) leaves his lost boys for a life he must return to.the cast too contribute to the excellence of the piece. In addition to Hoffman, we discover that although at times a little annoying, Robin Williams can turn in a funny, energetic and genuinely affecting performance (just don't bother complaining that he is hardly a fitting performer to portray an adult Peter Pan, since that performer simply doesn't exist.) Bob Hoskins is a great choice for Smee and though the idea of Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell might seem slightly dubious, it just does seem to end up working. She was pretty cool in this movie! And hey, Dante Basco was hot stuff (I don't care who knows it!) After all the years i've known this movie, I've come to love all the lost boy performers, especially the fat kid who first has faith and believes in Peter. Maggie Smith, too, deserves a mention for her lovely performance as Wendy.Sure, the film begins weakly. The characterisation in some cases is pretty bad. the script can be stupid and gets sentimental in parts. there are silly ideas in the plot, and even the premise is, when you think about it, kinda lame. One can almost hear the studio execs pitching their idea- hey guys, we wanna make a picture where the boy who never grew up... wait for it, wait for it..... grows up!As I said at the start, though, this film only works when you banish all thoughts of Barrie from your mind. Some purists might argue that it's cheap, Hollywood, americanised and insulting towards the original- and who knows, they might be right- but for me, this film has so much spirit and magic that i think thirty years from now, my kids will be watching it. "},{"Title":"A no regret manifesto that makes one giddy with childhood nostalgia -- filled to the brim with symbolic undertones -- and finally coated in Spielberg's ability to create mainstream appeal. Remark","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A no regret manifesto that makes one giddy with childhood nostalgia -- filled to the brim with symbolic undertones -- and finally coated in Spielberg's ability to create mainstream appeal. Using two extremely versatile talents, Robin Williams & Dustin Hoffman, Spielberg is successfully able to recreate the feel of Peter Pan in an enchanting contemporary setting. Hook is an epic, Hook is a comedy, Hook is an adventure, Hook is a drama, and most importantly Hook is a lesson. If you are a true movie-lover, it will undoubtedly HOOK you in, for this particular film shows what making motion pictures is all about.  "},{"Title":"What Would the World Be Like Without Captain Hook?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is one of Steven Spielberg's greatest film's...a cleverly written and directed movie that will make a Peter Pan fan out of anyone!Peter Banning, a cut-throat merger and lawyer, flies to London, England to visit his Granny Wendy and discovers that he is really Peter Pan!  After his children are kidnapped, Peter has to go to Neverland and deliver them from the clutches of Captain Hook with the help of Tinker Bell and the Lost Boys.If you think Hook is simply a children's movie, think again!  My grandmother loved this movie and got me into it at first, and my dad became hooked on it after that!  This film is also very popular among my friends (in high school and college).Hook is a magical fantasy film that will leave you in awe.  Just take the first star to the right and straight on 'til morning, until you reach the adventure of a lifetime! "},{"Title":"It ain't GWTW, but it sure is a fun movie","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Siskel and Ebert may not have loved it, but this is one of the most fun movies of all time. Nobody could have played Peter Pan like Robin Williams. Throw in Spielberg and Dustin Hoffman as a fiendish Hook and you have a real winner. Casting is genius, acting tops and the story is as feel good, warm, clever and amusing as it gets. Have the kids with you as well as the grandparents. Watch it when you need to get out of the dumps. "},{"Title":"Sentimental or Sweet?","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is a vigorous, imaginative sequel to the Peter Pan story.  The movie boasts a delightful cast (Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins are excellent together.), superbly lavish sets and costumes, a good deal of charming humor, and a stirring score.  A visual feast, a heartwarming story, and a gentle sense of humor - this film offers little for deliberately angst-ridden cynics of the 90s, but it's a marvelous confection for anyone who still has a child's sense of fun and wonder, or for anyone who no longer has them and misses them.The visual representation of London and Neverland are true enough to both Barrie and Disney to avoid nasty jolts to those expecting a recreation, without being enslaved by either.  The only change that jarred was Tinkerbell's transformation from common, foul-mouthed harridan to mature, caring lady.  (I will bypass the fact that Tinkerbell died in the book on the basis that she was too integral a character not to be included.)So is the movie sweet or sentimental?  How about sweetly sentimental?  And to the critics who call it syrupy, I can only ask what's so terrible about a little sentiment?  Couldn't our world use a little more?  "}{"Title":"A great fantasy which continues the story of Peter Pan.","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Not only does Hook capture the imagination of what would have happened if Peter Pan grew up, it also reminds parents of why their children are so important to them. It tells us to spend time with our children and keep them in our hearts.The story keeps well to the original book Peter Pan as it shows that Peter forgets his childhood and what it is like to be a child, as many parents do. Peter remembers what happened to him and with this memory he is able to save his own children from Captain Hook. Captain Hook represent the evils of the world and Peter fights against him. He fights against his lawyer and drinking tendencies to remember that his family is most important. "},{"Title":"Great Show...","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook, as a general comment, is a great movie and it really draws laugh from those who watch it. It is a family comedy where you can watch while enjoying yourself. The actors were all quite good, as a general. I enjoy watching Rufio, acted by Dante Basco. He is a really good actor. But then, all the others were good. Death is the only adventure I crave was the sentence that cracked me up by Captain Hook. The only part of the move that has me confuse was that of the last part where captain Hook vanished after the crocodile fell over him. It is impossible that he was eaten.This is a show that you can watch over and over again and will not get tired of. In fact, this show may be film in 1991, but it is a good movie and until today, I am still watching and just lately purchased the DVD. As a whole, I enjoy the acting,setting and everything, especially the good acting done by the actors of the show.Nice Show!! -) "},{"Title":"Do You believe in Peter Pan?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is first rate family entertainment.The musical score is excellent, providing both entertainment and expression while all the while we behold a view that is beautiful and interesting.That seems to be one of the understated attractions that while we hear and look we indeed witness a grand stage in which is choreographed some really great dance numbers.This really is a very fine film,interesting,challenging and maybe I should not say,contemporary.I remember from long long ago the songtender shepherd,tender shepherd,or the refrain to I wont grow upor may be even.teach me to fly peteror I wanna crow,that of course was from the days when Mary Martin played Peter Pan and it aired on NBC.Iam not certain about what may in fact constitute acting but the film or at least its presentation provided for a unmistakable adventure to never never land.Do we draw a line as to what it is that this may be about or is what it is about not what not growing up is about.Thats why I never want to grow up,not me ,not I.The film attempts as a starting point to establish a level playing surface from which this gunslinger of a lawyer played by Robin Williams,who in fact is Peter Pan, now grown up is sought out by the infamous Captain Hook played By Dustin Hoffman.Hooks servant smee is played by Bob Hoskins and tinkerbell is played by Julia Roberts.There really isn't anywhere to start outside of the fact that Peter found his shadow and now the adventure gets very interesting.It would seem that if you were to watch the Peter Pan on stage as say with Mary Martin you would know that it was quieter and sentimental and as well a first rate experience,however when you witness hook you find yourself involved in the equivalent of an event,an truly extravagant presentation.This was an expensive film to make as the production numbers were as impressive as the story itself.The scene with the baseball game was so enjoyable that I felt that this was indeed the right ballpark for all concerned and though indeed this is being a-bit clever about all this, it is nonetheless first rate entertainment.The place mostly for Peter Pan is in our youth and indeed perhaps even in our hearts.We don't want to see our mommies and daddies die and I don't want to grow up!The only road block to all this,is this is about make believe and about pretend.I guess this is about the imagination, for instance the big meal the children have with Peter Pan present for the first time in a while.It is not so simple even in acting to convince someone that they are actually having something to eat and then to make it appear to the camera if you will that you are in fact having something to eat.It was interesting to see how that number was worked out on the silver screen as perhaps it may of been dealt with on the stage.However this was entirely theatrics and if your interested young girls liked this picture more than young boys and it seems that the older you got the less likely you were to enjoy this film.I gave Hook an 8 for many reasons some of which have been mentioned but mostly because of its entertainment value.There is indeed much to know and that maybe an impediment too,as knowledge does not seem to be present only the medium.This film does bear all the ear marks of a very well produced film and very professional in its approach.In fact its so good in that area that you would be better seeing the film than reading this. "},{"Title":"There's never been a better recreation of a timeless tale.","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In a brave move Steven Spielberg took on the greatest adventure ever told for children and made it his own. After seeing this movie again recently after an absence of more than 10 years, I feel like a kid all over again. Elements of the story can hardly be forgotten once they've been experienced. More importantly, I finished the movie feeling a glow which can only come from knowing that, to live would be an awfully big adventure. Recent movies like Peter Pan have captured a truer essence of the original story by James Barrie. Finding Neverland will be complete this story by telling this timeless tale from its beginning and Hook tells the tale at its end. Once all these are on DVD, I will have a decent looking Trilogy in my collection. I've grown up reading stories and then waiting to see if any film maker would ever have the courage to make it into a movie. I have been disappointed in the past, but Hook captures the imagination in a way no other film ever has. Especially those of us who have grown up and have started to feel the pressures of everyday life and its responsibilities. This movie offers a fan of the book a real treat by becoming a guessing game to find out which parts of this movie actually came from the book and where they can be found in relation to each other. The score offers melodies almost as eternal as Indiana Jones or Star Wars and for good reason since the score was done by John Williams. In Robin Williams we see first, a man too busy with being a success to spend time with his children. But by remembering what it was to have an adventure, he was able to find his happy thought. He began to live again...with his family whether they be Lost Boys or Family. I've grown up and life doesn't seem as magical as it used to be, but Steven Spielberg reminded me of that magic by making Hook. This is a film about a time when life seemed without end. After seeing I want to begin living my own adventure.  "},{"Title":"Still the best!","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The story line and cast is brilliant. I first saw this movie many years after is was released, in 1997, when I bought it for my 3 yr old twin sons. After we watched Hook the bar had been raised and no other Peter Pan book or movie could compare- still to this day (2004). Hook is filled with the magic and honesty that no other story can match. I admit, I am as true a fan as my sons who are now 9 yrs old.Because of the movie Hook my kids believe in magic. When they were 5 years old we went to Disneyland and after dark we saw the after dark show on the lake that started with a Magical Mickey in a wizard hat slaying a dragon in the lake and ended with the most magical moment in my sons and my lifeWhile every light in the park was out a ship came into view on the Disney Lake, sailing our way... As soon as our eyes could make out it was Capt. Hook's ship my sons were filled with anxiety. As the ship came closer you could see Pirates fighting with Peter Pan. Peter Pan on the sails of the ship, sword in hand, fighting and then swinging about from a rope to another sail, to another fight. To save Wendy Darling.. My sons, sitting on my shoulders, witnessing this ... screamed with all their might Go Peter!!! Go Peter!!! Over and over again. It was so touching that the people within earshot all turned to smile, the people in front of us smiled and actually began to cry. My kids believed it was Peter Pan there that night, they believed them yelling made a difference. Because of that my kids believe (still) in Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy. It all started with this movie. And, there isn't an adult who wouldn't like it. Except maybe, those who can't find a happy thought anymore.  "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's not just nostalgia talking this was vintage Spielberg, no matter what the critics said. What it lacked in logic it made up for with heart. And Hook had an actual message. It was about family and remembering childhood. A REAL moral that is presented perfectly is something that family films of today sadly lack.Robin Williams is excellent as Peter Pan. He plays both the youthful Peter Pan and the busy Dad well. Hoffman is absolute perfection. He puts in a flawless performance. I was amazed to hear that Hook was played by Dustin Hoffman because he completely immerses himself into the character. Julia Roberts is surprisingly cute and the kids are surprisingly not annoying.  "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I dont get it. . . And I know many are along with me! I LOVE this film. It is one of my all-time favs along with Edward Scissorhands! When I saw this movie in the theaters years ago, I remember EVERYONE LOVING THIS FILM. All the reviews, all the journalists on TV , all the freaking audience members LOVED this movie. . . So why all the flake now? It makes no sense. I remember someone saying how this movie flopped at the box office. WHAT?! HOOK made 300 million worldwide! even by today's standards that's AWESOME!!!! The acting in this movie is exellent. The music is wonderfull ( i bought the soundtrack ) and the story is classic. And yes, sorry to disappoint, but Dustin made a much BETTER Hook than Jason Isacks!!!!! Nuff said. "},{"Title":"a continuation of the Peter Pan story in wonderful style.","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Kids WILL love this movie.  I know because I loved the movie as a kid.  I had watched the Disney version of the first Peter Pan when I was younger, and I was absolutely enchanted by Hook.  This continues to be one of my favorite kids movies.  The acting is fantastic, and this movie is the reason one of my favorite actors is Dustin Hoffman.I do understand that it strayed quite a little bit from the actual peter pan story (e.g. the lost boys) but it make sense since Peter Pan had gone away, maybe other lost boys had gone away too or even decided to join the adult side of neverland (pirates!) to grow up also.  It would explain all the new kids and also the differences because of the leadership under Rufio.overall, if you havent seen this movie, GO SEE IT.  If you or your kids like Peter Pan, especially.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Sweet Movie -)","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yes, I really like this flick! I think, I´ve watched it more than 30 times, but it never became boring. The funnie Idea of this selfish, old version of Peter Pan, who finds out, who he really is, has something really funnie. It´s harmless, but not uninteresting. At most I liked Julia Roberts in her Role as Tinkerbell. She´s really cute, isn´t she? I can recommend it to everyone, because, the movie has the potential to amuse everyone. Watch it, if you can ;-) "},{"Title":"The critics are not always right.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Though railed by the critics our family has found this movie to be one we watch over and over again.  It possesses the classic ingredients good family films are made of good triumphs over evil, a little romance, parents are good role models, some action, some humor, and some imagination. (Remember The Wizard of Oz or more modern, The Mask of Zorro)  Depending upon your standards there may be a few questionable words but this movie is our all time favorites. "}{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST SPEILBERG FILMS","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies.  I enjoyed it as a child and today as an adult.  Speilberg's classic touch is emphasised on it and I highly recommend to anyone who wants to see a classic movie.  Dustin Hoffman is excellent and so is Robin Williams.  Very memorable movie and I really love it.  GO BUY IT! "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST SPEILBERG FILMS","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies.  I enjoyed it as a child and today as an adult.  Speilberg's classic touch is emphasised on it and I highly recommend to anyone who wants to see a classic movie.  Dustin Hoffman is excellent and so is Robin Williams.  Very memorable movie and I really love it.  GO BUY IT! "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Most people disliked this film and I can't see why. Spielberg portraits things as if they were seen through the eyes of a child, full of magic stars and dreams and this is film is so touching that my brother cries when he hears the little singing. That's how touching this film is. Everything is very good in this film, from the performances to the direction to the art work. I recommend it.P.S. I've seen Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone recently and I wasn't touched at all, I was bored. It didn't touch in any of the ways that this movie did. So stop raving Harry and revisit Hook. "},{"Title":"dignified update of Peter Pan","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't understand why so many people hate this film.   Steven Spielberg and the cast and crew have made a plausible and interesting update of the Peter Pan story that enchants the viewers, young and old.  The score is great, and the script is powerhouse (So, Peter, you've become a pirate.)  Dustin Hoffman is outstanding as the aging Hook, and who could play an  adult Peter besides Robin Williams? The girl and boy who played his children never became annoying; they were mature in their roles and natural.Everyone involved with this project can be proud. They never came close to the level of  the trashy cartoon version Disney graced us with. "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What a great film. A classic film that i could watch endlessly. Robin Williams was cast superbly in his role as Peter Pan.Only downside was, the two children, who were poor actors to say the least.It's a film that always goes down well at Christmas, and it is assured to 'hook' all children (i apologise for the pun).The best part of the film is 'Rufeo', anyone who does not respect the genius of this character should be shot. The actor plays the role well, mixing aggression with a peaceful and sentimental side towards the end of the film.Steven Spielberg did this well, verges on greatness, unlike AI! "},{"Title":"A dream of a movie","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to say that I enjoyed this movie very much.  I was six when it came out and I remember leaving the theater hoping that my true identity was Peter Pan.  I think that is the greatest thing about this movie.  It creates the possiblity that Peter Pan is real, and that you could be him.  Captain Hook is a wonderfully frightening villain, and the chilly night when Peter's kids are kidnapped leaves one feeling breathless.  This is countered magnificently with the glory of never-never land and the lost boys.  The lost boys live in amazing tree houses, eat a variety of colorful and seemingly delicious foods, ,and practice sword fighting on the side. Overall, I would give this movie a 9 out of 10. Stephen Spielberg does it again. "},{"Title":"Going to cinema's never land","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Most of the times Spielberg shoots, he is aiming at tenderness. Sometimes he delivers some form of worthy entertainment, usually more understandable by children or less intellectually demanding audiences, other times he doesn't. Here we have the second situation. The thing is, Spielberg has also, in all his films, a kind of safety net that stops him from total disaster. That net has to do with Williams' scores and his camera which is most of the times able to be a complement to the actors (most of the times quite bad, especially children).So, he chooses a story which is naturally in the hearts of a good part of his audience (1 point to tenderness) and he reworks that story introducing nostalgia in the feelings of the own hero, who is himself reason for nostalgia in the memories of many grown ups in the audience; this gets the spectator even more in touch with the story, children or grown ups (family film, another point for tenderness). But than that's it. Absolutely nothing else. No cinematic idea, no intelligent writing, not even good performances (Robin Williams can do better, but he's not asked to). So we have a succession of shots, scenes, which are not magical, but ordinary; not insightful, but standard; not cinematic, but vulgar. You do have Williams on the background, but here his score works for the reminiscent style of his other scores we know to be associated with higher cinematic concerns... So there is not much to be appreciated here.My evaluation 1/5 i do not like to attack Spielberg as much as many of his detractors, but here he really failed.http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Very poor film, although it looks like it cost a lot to make","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  WARNING  SPOILERSBased on the Peter Pan story, this pathetic film takes us to a time when Peter Pan has aged, has had children... and has forgotten he ever was Peter Pan. Even his old enemies, who remember who they are, have aged. Good that there still are a few children to save the film from looking like a geriatric home.Apart from that we have a poor story line, Robin Williams rather less good than usual, Julia Roberts in a decorative role.Avoid, avoid, avoid, avoid. Even children will not like it.  "},{"Title":"i'm dumbfounded","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Someone tell me why this movie is titled Hook? Having just watched this movie, it's clear that Captain Hook is merely a side character, just your typical movie villain. I don't get it. That's like if Ferris Bueller's Day Off was titled Cameron Fry's Day Off. I just don't get it.I think this entire movie is as confused as its title. First, the story wants Peter Pan to morph back into his old self, then once that's happened, the story makes him an adult again. Cue the happy ending. How baffling.What a flawed, bad movie. You'd be better off watching Regarding Henry if you want to see a corporate man rediscover his family. Also, The Family Man is serviceable.Finally, why did TMC just show this movie? Is this really a classic? "},{"Title":"Cukor He Ain't","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" SS got his breakthrough with Indiana Jones. A friend had some great ideas but was busy with other projects and so gave the trilogy to SS. He made a lot of $$$ and a reputation off it.Things we never noticed about that trilogy or Star Wars come back like a headache in this one. SS might be good at the generic formula of the blockbuster, but keep him away from movies with any depth. Cukor he ain't.Worst of all is the music. I suspect the general attitude towards this turkey would be better if there were some way to turn off John Williams or at least be confident he'd be unemployed for the foreseeable future. I know few composers (David Arnold on occasion) who supply such horrid drivel for movies as Williams.Yes, he can create the occasional boot stomping JP Sousa march, but wait for him to evoke emotion or follow the emotion of a movie - and you're lost. You get a headache after quarter of an hour. The man has no soul; the man has no ... either. It's amazing he got as far as he did. He certainly should not have.If you watch this movie, the best you can do is find a copy with subtitles in your language, turn them on, and turn the sound all off.Then look at the pictures and listen to a soundtrack by Hans Zimmer or John Barry. "}{"Title":"Just Plain Didn't Like It","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The original Peter Pan and this movie seem to be in totally different dimensions. Robin Williams looks so unlike the original Peter Pan that it's unconvincing. Plus, I thought his wasn't that great he still had some mannerisms of a stuffy lawyer even after he discovered his old cocky self. What wierded me out was Dustin Hoffman's performance as Captain Hook. It seemed too out-of-the-ordinary. Cpatain Hook was like some cunning devil than a pirate. This movie is known as a kid's movie but it's really not once you think about it. What about that scene where they put that pirate in that chest with the scorpions? What about that other scene where Captain Hook attempts to commit suicide? Since when was suicide and murder kid's stuff? I also thought that Peter's little drinking and anger problem was mature. It was an overall weird adult movie masquerading as a kid's movie. I don't recommend it. "},{"Title":"An excessively noisy, kiddie-friendly, colourful pantomime - 57%","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Oh no, it's happened again! Not one week goes by after I mentioned this very film in a review of Roman Polanski's Pirates and the BBC offer a straight up comparison between the two by showing Hook today. Spielberg's much-maligned version of J.M.Barrie's classic tale (which suddenly seems in vogue after the recent Finding Neverland) was a simple side-project as the Bearded One was making Schindler's List and it really shows. Brighter than Christmas and twice as sugary, Hook comes across as a sanctuary from the black-and-white grim reality of his chilling Holocaust drama and this is one strictly for the little 'uns. Hook obviously, not Schindler's List.Appropriately enough, man-child Robin Williams plays a middle-aged Peter Pan who has grown up in the real world as Peter Banning. He has a wife (Caroline Goodall), two annoyingly cute kids called Jack and Maggie (Charlie Korzmo and Amber Scott, respectively) and a strangely dull office job which stops him being a family man. After flying (on a plane) to London to visit Grandma Wendy (Maggie Smith), Peter returns from a dinner to find his two children kidnapped and a message from none other than Captain Hook himself (Dustin Hoffman). After making acquaintances with Tinkerbell (a stunningly sexy Julia Roberts, despite a dodgy ginger wig) and being carted back to Never-Neverland to rescue his children, Peter slowly recovers his lost memories of flying, crowing, the power of imagination and having to live with the Lost Boys.Although it may sound a bit obvious, I'll state it just the same - if you don't like children in movies (especially cute, blueberry pie, All-American brats like Spielberg loves to use in his films) then stay the Hell away from Hook as your body will go into shock. They're everywhere and they look to be enjoying themselves the most, even if they do have a feeling of being carefully selected to represent all nations on Earth. There's the black one, the fat one, identical twins, the leader Rufio (Dante Basco) who has an Oriental look to him and one who has walked straight from the set of Bugsy Malone, still wearing his pinstripe suit. It all feels too staged, like you're watching a live-action version of Disney's It's A Small, Small World. The adults however look thoroughly bored. Only Hoffman and Bob Hoskins as Smee really give their parts some zest but that's not too surprising as they're playing classic villains. To be honest, the whole thing feels confused and muddled. Peter as a man comes across as a cold, harsh swine but Robin Williams dressed as Peter Pan (complete with green tights) is just wrong, playing the part in that manic behaviour so typical of Williams. The confusion is further highlighted by the dress sense, as Peter's wayward son walks among pirates dressed in his baseball gear. A sight so strange, it makes my head hurt thinking about it. It's not as bad as the noticeable blue screen but still... pirates with baseball caps? 'Tis not normal, sire!There is no doubt at all that this is strictly by-the-numbers film-making and with Spielberg polishing his WWII masterpiece for Oscar glory, that's not so surprising. Spielberg simply gathers the stellar cast together, sprinkles the whole thing with fairy dust (i.e. sugary feel-goodness) and waits to see what happens. The relentless onslaught of colour and noise can be too much at times, like you're an art teacher at primary school. The worst bit is the moment Maggie starts singing, at which point, I checked out emotionally before I was forced to throw up into a nearby bucket. Adults will take very little from this (although Tinkerbell does look very shagadelic, if that's your sort of thing!) but kids will appreciate this more, maybe even going to read the originals assuming you can prize their Playstations off them when the credits roll. Simple and uninvolving but perfect family fare to distract the kids while you pig out on their Easter eggs. Oh, and it's slightly better than Polanski's effort. "},{"Title":"And Spielberg wanted to direct HARRY POTTER?","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The low point of Spielberg's directoral career. A genius with stories set in his own country, he has alas no feel whatsoever for the British way of life and this absolute travesty of the Peter Pan classic is beyond insulting.Robin Williams is as likely a choice to play Peter Pan (at any age) as Steven Seagal! Granted he tries, but for WHAT?  Absurdly stagey and without any spontaneity or the passion of youth that was James Barrie's Peter Pan.I took my four children to see this when they were all between 7 and 12. They all stared at me in the foyer afterwards and said quizzically That WASN'T Peter Pan daddy!  On top of everything else, this was one crashingly boring flick with Dustin Hoffman, despite his four hours of make-up daily, no nearer to being Captain Hook then Mrs Robinson!An excrescent embarrasment on Spielberg's resume! (It's even making me angry writing about it.) "},{"Title":"Contemptible","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"23 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There's a story that Steven Spielberg,after the film was finished, realized what he had done,then locked himself in a limo and cried. I hope he cried his eyes out because HOOK is a complete disaster. It is revisionist claptrap that fails on all levels. "},{"Title":"What an over-stuffed holiday turkey!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"27 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A great concept totally ruined.  All the enchantment of a load of cement. Overly long by half, over-produced within an inch of its life, ego top heavy, and all around disappointment from a director and cast who should have known better, done better.  Neverland in shades of brown, red and black?  Juvenile punk rockers for the Lost Boys?  What were they thinking "},{"Title":"Hook - never never see this film!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"30 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I went to see this film when it came out following a recommendation from a mischievous friend (I constantly remind him of this and he denies it to this day). I sat there open-mouthed whilst this drivel played before my eyes. Rollerblading Lost Boys chanting like US Marines!! What happened here? And what next? The rapping hip-hop Seven Dwarfs? Oops - If you're reading this Mr Spielberg please ignore that last comment. Add to this Robin Williams who has two acting styles manic and schmaltzy and Julia Roberts miscast as Tinkerbell. It's the nearest I've ever been to walking out of a cinema and a lasting regret that I didn't. You're doing yourself a big favour if you avoid this. "},{"Title":"Peter Pan doesn't want to grow up? Well he has now!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What would happen if Peter Pan fell in love? This movie goes into detail about the boy who never wanted to grow up but does for love anyway. (Robin Williams - Peter Banning/Peter Pan) comes back to see Wendy (Maggie Smith) and finds out that she has grown up and is now a grandmother with a granddaughter whom Peter decides to give a real kiss to, and then falls in love with. Leaving Neverland, Peter is returned to time and begins to age, having children of his own. (Dustin Hoffman / Capt. James S. Hook) has decided he wants a showdown with the legendary Peter Pan and so orders for the abduction of his children to lure Peter back to Neverland. Upon finding out Peter has grown up, both the pirates and the lost boys are dubious as to whether or not it is Peter and whether or not he can cut it when it comes to fighting, playing and crowing, but Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) arranges for 3 days to get Peter in shape. Peter finally gets back into the spirit, but not before Hook brainwashes Peters son into becoming a pirate. The lost boys rally behind their leader of old but in the fight (Dante Basco / Rufio) is killed. Hook is finally slain and Peters children are saved, and everyone gets to go back home, leaving the lost boys and Tink' sad but with a new leader ... ends on with an upbeat feel, nice feel-good movie for the kids. "},{"Title":"Funny, but overly sentimental at times.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In Steven Spielberg's take on Peter Pan, Robin Williams is a grown-up Pan, who has no memory of his magical past until his children are kidnapped and he gets a visit from Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts).As good as Williams is,in one his his better man-child attempts, the film is stolen by an almost unrecognisable Dustin Hoffman, whose Hook is suitably pantomimic, yet oddly sympathetic, a villian lost without his nemesis.Hoffman has been quoted as saying that he has never had so much fun making a movie and it is his scenes with Bob Hoskins as Smee that are the real highlight of this movie.Although the sentimentality gets very sticky at times, this remains good family entertainment "},{"Title":"i felt good.........","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was about the Pitter who became adult and forgot his child. He is a just busy employee who doesn't care of his children. One day, his children were kidnapped by the Hook. And Tinkerbell came to Pitter and led him to Neverland. And he started to find his real himself who was young Pitter. Actually, it was not for the Hook, but the adult Pitter Pan. It makes many people become as if children. Using the Pitter Pan, who became an employee who lost his clean mind, it shows the remade old story, new version, and its new views. For example, there are many children who lost their parents, but they miss their parents(One of child confesses Pitter). And the other one is about Tinkerbell. She falls in love to Pitter who is an adult now. But, Pitter realizes this relationship is not good for him and her because he has children and, especially, his wife. The most important thing is that this movie is certain which it is just a fiction. At last, after Pitter defeated Hook, he returned the world he has lived. He felt he became normal again and the Neverland left his mind forever. "},{"Title":"An Imperfect Adventure Film for Older Kids to Adults","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It was a strain to sit through this appalling adaptation of a great book. The script and screenplay were terrible, focusing on pointless minutiae, skipping over the actual EVENTS of the story. The plot seemed to whizz along at lightning pace, yet nothing was happening. And the acting! The lines were delivered as if extracted through elaborate torture. I fell asleep in between the multiple, irrelevant and badly executed 'dramatic pauses' that Mr. Hofmund (Tootsir) laid thickly on. There are some very fine performances. Robin William (Mork the Ork)is a delight as the decent middle-aged slightly-unworldly cleric with a paunch pitch-forked into conflict with the never-never world when all he wants to do is forget the nightmares of his youth. Dame Maggie Smith is in good form as his splenetic and ambitious mother-in-law Grandam Wendy, and Bob Hoskins as slimy as only he can be as a politicking chaplain. Add the world's wimpiest Bishop, a frighteningly domineering Bishop's wife, and the entertaining yet mercifully brief appearance put in by pop veteran Phil Collins and we have an excellent cast. There is one scene in particular, which shows him grabbing Dustin's backside, which is completely out of character for him, and anyway Cap'n Hookie would have bitten his head off if he'd tried anything like that with him in real life, as he was always (despite anything else that can be said about him) very conscious of his dignity, as he was also...I suppose the filmmaker needed to dramatize what a selfish, self-centered person Hook was, but the characterization given to him in this screenplay is just not accurate & for me, it stuck out like a sore thumb. Just showing Beer-bellied Robins as the weak, stubborn, manipulated man he was, would have been enough -- the screenplay made him downright sleazy which I don't think is a fault you can put down to the Duke of Windsor, tho' he had many others! LOL! I admit it. I was moved by this syrupy view of the beloved children's tale! And yet I am not so sure the essential tale was not well told. A must for all ages. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Of course, you have to have seen the Mary Martin musical version of the original Peter Pan to appreciate this.  I did not much care for the disney version.  The musical always gave me the goosebumps.  Peter Pan is the greatest child story of all time, and this is a wonderful film that gives the story closure.  Yes, everyone must grow up... but that too is an adventure! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie Of All Time","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is one of those movies that gives you a high sensation when you watch it. The music is fantastic and timeless, the many vibrant locations are spectacular, and the storyline is great. Peter Pan is now Peter Baning, a work involved pen pusher who doesn't even know that he is Peter Pan. All he knows is that he was an orphan and Granny Wendy Was his Foster Mother and he can't remember his early childhood. Captain Hook decides to seek revenge on Peter by kidnapping his Children and Forcing him to fight for them. All and all, Hook is a great movie and I recomend it to anyone who is depressed because this movie can uplift anyone. This movie is also for anyone who is young at heart. "},{"Title":"True family movie","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I picked up Hook at the video shop strangely enough, the eleven year old and the four year old both wanted it. Went home Mum was also happy to see it. And being a long-time fan of Peter Pan I sat down to watch too.The sets for Neverland are gorgeously imaginative, in their own cartoonish way. Robin Williams seemed to have found his new home with the Lost Boys, take that however you see fit... and Dante Basco was perfect as the 'new Pan' Rufio. Great wild smirking lil' rebel he was, and for me the movie ended when... for those who haven't seen it, I won't spoil. For those who have, anyone else think that was pretty unneccessary?In fact, I think my only real complaint about this movie was Peter's daughter... as soon as they were in Neverland, she was as corny and lispy as any child character ever was. Perhaps that was all that was needed, but not once did I get the feeling that this child was anything other then a little pouty about being kidnapped, but for the ham-handed Dadddddy! Saaaave me! I don't wanna stay with the mean Mr Pirate! lines she spouted occasionally. Not exactly heart rending stuff. The confusion of her brother was more interesting, and it would have been nice had the girl shown some decent emotion... perhaps simply the writing of the character at fault. Anyway, not a major problem at all.Julia Roberts... a little detached from the movie. Could have done without the 'romance', which somewhat detracted from the childish playmate friendship of Tinkerbell and Peter. But very cute when fairy-sized, and the first interaction with her and Peter was very funny. Her performance was more of a plus then otherwise.Captain Hook and Smee's scenes, hilarious. The action and stunts, wonderful. Altogether a completely entertaining, original spin on Peter Pan, may not be some's cup of tea, but without a doubt a great family movie, and something I'd recommend to others for campy PG fun. "},{"Title":"Great!!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films. This film is fantastic! I know that the other opinion could be different, but I really like it. This film teach us to have self confidence and how important a family could be. This film is also touchy, and there's nothing I can say again about this movie except...GREAT!! "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't really get what people are saying, that this movie would be bad. What's so bad about this?But, sure, I can't describe what's so great about it either, but I just get a feeling while seeing this movie, that few other movies can give me. The set is incredible. You can really see when Spielberg has made a movie. The color is like it would have been painted out in crayons. And it creates a massive feeling. Just take a look at the finale. John Williams ain't leaving us yet, and thank god for that. In HOOK it is just the same feeling spreading in the body while the themes plays on. It doesn't really get thrilling, but it doesn't get to be a movie that singly handed lives on solid entertainment. Spielberg's movies will always be a troop of special movies in my house. And HOOK stands right between JURASSIC PARK and RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK.Rating A BIG 7.5/10.    "},{"Title":"The Peter Pan after Peter Pan","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If I read the book I'd might of disliked this movie but since I haven't I enjoyed it.  Good characters, with a really great Captain Hook.  It may seem cheesy but I think it's quite fun.  I just wish Robin Williams would do stuff like this now, rather than some of the other flicks he's done. "},{"Title":"More Graphic Than Previous Peter Pan Flicks","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Peter Banning (Williams) has grown up and become a workoholic. People say he's heartless and cold, but he's still a great man even as Peter Banning, he's just mildly selfish. Steven Spielberg films can be pretty grim and depressing, like A.I, this film does have some disturbing elments, such as, when Rufio the 16-year old lost boy who finally forms a bond with Peter gets killed when swordfighting with Capt.Hook, and the most disturbing scence by far, is when a pirate gets thrown in some box, and gets devoured by scorpions.Hook is worse than he is in the cartoon, he kills a couple lives.I wish that Pan's kids, Jack (Korsmo) and maggie (Scott)would have explored magical neverland instead of clostrephobically been trapped in Hook's sip through most of the film. Hook tries to commit suicide in one scence which is another disturbing moment. Pan's kids were greatin the role. I prefer this Peter Pan movie better than any other, and we find out that Hook is really just a bald old-man, he looks alot better in that one scence than with such long dark hair. "},{"Title":"Reminds me of my obligations as a father","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If I get nothing else from this movie, it reminds me that I have an obligation to my own children and to revel in their childhood.  I am continually blown away by Hoffman's performance as Hook and Robin Williams is one of the only actors that I can think of that could pull off both the adult and child effectively.In short, it's fun and it's telling me never to completely grow up. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I used to watch this movie all the time when I was younger, I loved it. I haven't seen it for a year or two, but I still think it's good. Maybe it's just more of a kids movie than an adult movie, but it was cool. I watched this before I knew or cared about stars and big names, in fact, I didn't even know Dustin Hoffman was Hook until I was reading this! But Robin Williams is awesome, and definitely has a lot of kid spirit in him. I liked Julia Roberts too. Peter Pan's two kids weren't so great, but I loved the Lost Boys. If you think about it, it makes perfect sense to have them as punky rebellious types. There's tons of boys out there today who are very lost, they're usually rebellious & all. "},{"Title":"Interesting retelling","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Updated version of Peter Pan with big stars (Robin Williams, Julia Roberts, Dustin Hoffman, etc) in the lead parts.  The outstanding sets, music and other special effects are used to good effect.  A lot of major film critics hated this version of Peter Pan, But I thought that it was one of Steven Spielberg's best movies for a long time.  "}{"Title":"Even as an adult, I still love this movie!","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There are several movies I watched frequently when I was a kid, and Hook was one of them. Watching it recently as a young adult, I still love this movie. The performances are wonderful. Robin Williams always makes a good protagonist and is thoroughly entertaining with the funny voices he makes and the lines he delivers. In Hook, he's like a big kid. Julia Roberts, as usual, is lovely as the stout and comical Tinkerbell. But I felt the real magic came from Dustin Hoffman as the infamous Captain Hook and Bob Hoskins as his sidekick Smee. Both not only fit their roles perfectly, but they are also funny and steal the show a little bit. Maggie Smith is also an excellent addition as Wendy Darling.I heard it took thirty or so sets to make this film, which makes the costs very high to make this film. However, each one adds a uniqueness and grandeur that does not necessarily recreate the Neverland that I remember from the 1953 cartoon, but makes it bigger, elaborate, and real. The costume designs, artistic work of the make up, and visual effects plaster the film and imagination of such a world created by John M. Barre. Now a junkie of Oscar history, I'm very surprised that this film did not receive those awards.Like with all of Spielberg's movies, John Williams makes an outstanding score, although I will admit that it sometimes has a slight feel of Home Alone. Nonetheless, it helps bring the film to life at intense levels.As with the plot, I did not find any of it hokey that some other critics complain about the film. Sure, it's not in the league of The Godfather's or Schindler's List's, but it's a fantasy. It's not supposed to be serious. On a side note, the movie has the moral of family coming first over everything else and that happiness and imagination cannot die. Hook may not be Spielberg's best movie, but it will always a favorite of mine. 10/10 -It hurts me that this does not at least have a 8.0 or higher. "},{"Title":"The greatest conceivable continuation of a classic tale.","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is hands down one of the best movies ever made. It's got great acting done by Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman and Julia Roberts, and the others are all good too (although the little girl gets kind of annoying...).This movie should definitely be considered a classic. It's funny, it's cute, it's sweet, and it's very quotable Ruf-i-o, Bangarang... and more.And I love the man who lost his marbles, literally. What a cute and clever little plot thing to throw in.This is a great movie for kids to watch, and for everybody else as well. "},{"Title":"Underrated, to say the least","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Some people have said that this was the low point of Spielberg's directorial career. It remains one of my most favorite films to date, and not just because of John Williams excellent score, also underrated. (I've been trying to hunt down the 3CD set for years, in vain.) The casting, especially Robin Williams - I don't see how so many people have a problem with him - was great. Ditto for Maggie Smith, Dustin Hoffman and all the kids. (It amazes me how she looks older in this film than she does in Harry Potter, despite the ten year difference between the two films.) People criticize this film for not being realistic enough, one person claiming that Dustin Hoffman's costume was a travesty. I say Hook is imaginary, and as this isn't his story, but Pan's, the costume design being a bit cartoony and 'inaccurate', whatever that means in this context, is irrelevant.The fact is, this is a classic story of redemption married to a classic children's story. The backstory of Peter Pan is made much more complicated; Pan is made human, in a way - without detracting from the myth.Hook is one of the few films that, if I didn't stop myself, would reduce me to tears. (The other two, off the top of my head, are Return of the King and Schindler's List, and ROTK I've become somewhat desensitized to, truth be told.) I guess it doesn't affect all people the same way; but it's tragic that some people think this to be a stain on Spielberg's career, when it's so clear to me that this is a lost gem, grossly misinterpreted by the populace.I don't why the film affects me this way, but I'm not alone here - I know many people who count this among their favorite movies, even though the critics at large and most people at this site would disagree. Maybe Spielberg wasn't true to the characters in the original book, which I've never read. If that's the case, I understand completely why people have problems with it - Mike Newell messed up Harry Potter 4 that way, for example.It is by no means perfect - Hook runs a little long, I have some issues with Banning's daughter, contrivances in the plot, etc. But these flaws never seriously detract from the overall experience. The only real sore thumb was Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell, which was almost a complete disaster, though it definitely didn't ruin the film altogether.I'll admit, though - if I read the description of the movie at the video store, I'd probably discount it out of hand. No short description like that could do the movie justice; anyone with brains would automatically dismiss it as a cheesy and not worth their time. For G-d's sake, give this movie a chance! ------------------ On an altogether different note, does anyone find it nothing short of amazing that Bob Hoskins was both the detective in Who Framed Roger Rabbit? and Smee in this film? He looks and sounds completely different in both of them; amazing what makeup coupled with a good actor is capable of. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I haven't commented on this yet!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I could have sworn I already wrote a review for Hook, but glancing at my review archive just now, I realized I hadn't - what a shock! I've seen it so many times over the years... and each time it grows worse and worse. (But in a good way, if that makes any sense.) Hook is a terrible film, yes. But in some ways, it's also very good. The ideas that surface are unique - what if Peter Pan grew up? What if he forgot who he was? What if, what if, what if...? The movie's stumbling block is Spielberg. This represents his best and worst - it's imaginative (the good) but way too bright, over-the-top and exuberant (the bad). Spielberg's liberal impact on the material is always present - he represents the Lost Boys as a pack of minority kids, who ride skateboards and look like they just stepped out of Stereotypical Ghetto Number One.The movie's flashy coloring and vibrant overtones bring to mind his older failures such as 1941 - similarly Hook is a film that, despite its faults, remains somewhat interesting.The second huge slip-up is casting Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell. Meg Ryan was originally considered for the role and she would have been about a million times better. Roberts is annoying and gives one of the worst performances of her career (which is saying quite a lot); Ryan's acting skills aren't too great either (take a look at The Doors) but when she sticks to the right roles she's always great. This would have been one of her perfect roles.I could sit here and criticize this film to all ends but at the end of the day I always find just as much to like. Robin Williams is suitable as Peter and Dustin Hoffman absolutely steals the show as Hook - he delivers the best screen persona of Hook to ever reach the big screen, far surpassing Jason Isaacs in the 2003 J.M. Barrie version in particular. (I think Isaacs is a great villain in cinema and he was given such little to do as Hook.) The co-stars are all talented - British veterans like Maggie Smith add class - and the film's on-location shooting in London gives it an authentic feel.Overall I'm giving it a five-star (out of ten) rating because I don't really like the movie. But when it's on, I usually watch it. I used to own the VHS tape. I think some of the ideas are really clever and the performances are great. It's a shame about Spielberg and his wacky taste for the absurd, but at the end of the day, that's what has helped Hook retain its status as a beloved failure over the years - this is the movie everyone loves to hate. "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed It","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't really get what people are saying, that this movie would be bad. What's so bad about this? But, sure, I can't describe what's so great about it either, but I just get a feeling while seeing this movie, that few other movies can give me. The set is incredible. You can really see when Spielberg has made a movie. The color is like it would have been painted out in crayons. And it creates a massive feeling. Just take a look at the finale. John Williams ain't leaving us yet, and thank god for that. In HOOK it is just the same feeling spreading in the body while the themes plays on. It doesn't really get thrilling, but it doesn't get to be a movie that singly handed lives on solid entertainment.Spielberg's movies will always be a troop of special movies in my house. And HOOK stands right between JURASSIC PARK and RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK.Rating A BIG 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant And Very Underrated Spielberg Fantasy On Childhood Lost","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Peter Pan grows up, gets married and forgets his past, turning into a fat boring corporate lawyer. He has two children but isn't a very good father, spending all his time on his work. During a visit to his Granny Wendy in London however, his past returns to haunt him when the villainous Captain Hook kidnaps the kids and holds them to ransom. Peter must return to Neverland, remember who he really is, and save his family.Hook is a terrific riff on J.M. Barrie's classic fantasy Peter Pan. Suppose Peter grew up ? And suppose Hook came after him for revenge ? Then suppose Hook decided not to kill Peter but to steal his son's affections instead ? Thanks to a great script by James V. Hart, Nick Castle and Malia Scotch Marmo, this movie combines all the high-spirited fun and adventure of the original stageplay with a wonderfully bittersweet nostalgia on childhood lost and the joys of parenthood. This isn't really a film for kids; like Drop Dead Fred it's really a film for adults with lots of goofy childish moments. Williams is excellent as Peter Pan, transforming from blinkered, out-of-shape, scaredy-cat into fighting, flying, crowing boy-hero, the kids are all great, and Hoskins has a scene-stealing role as the gleefully light-fingered, self-preserving Smee. An unlikely best of all however is Hoffman - whose method overacting I can normally just about manage to stomach - who is dazzling as the swashbuckling, iniquitous Captain James Hook, complete with batty wig, wall-to-wall histrionics (Don't try to stop me Smee !!, he bellows repeatedly, whilst faking a suicide attempt), a pathological fear of clocks and an accent you could curdle milk with. Hoffman extracts all the villainous comic potential possible from his performance, especially in a wonderfully wicked scene where he lectures the children on how much happier their parents were before they came along. Although not as acclaimed or as successful as many of his other movies, have no doubt - this is one of the extraordinarily gifted Spielberg's best films, and his talent shines through in every scene. Featuring fabulous sets for the Neverland locations, great flying effects and beautiful photography by Dean Cundey. My one gripe - the unnecessary romantic subplot with Tinkerbell, which adds nothing to the story and showcases far too much of the consistently awful Roberts. However, that cannot spoil what is a lovingly-made and ingenious fantasy, which gently reminds all adults what they once used to be. Good form !! "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There are some films, like Santa Claus the movie or indeed Hook that are continually panned by critics and cynics alike. Hook is a blissfully wonderful and funny story with a superb cast. Robin Williams never fails to impress and adapts excellently to this role and the changes the character goes through. It is a film that makes you want to be young again, to be carefree and full of happy thoughts and perhaps there is a message in this movie about not forgetting what it is that makes you happy.Brilliantly scripted and with great timing; especially between Dustin Hoffman's Hook and Bob Hoskins' Smee, this film never fails to brighten up my day.Bring me the heads of those who disagree I say! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Spin-off!","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A comment was posted suggesting that fans of the book stay away from this movie. I couldn't disagree more!! I absolutely love the book, and I adore this movie. It is not meant to be a recreation of Barrie's brilliant and timeless story... it is, well, sort of a sequel in a way. It's a what if scenario, just one option of many. It's very cleverly tied closely to the original story, with many references woven throughout the entire storyline, if not as much in the plot itself. The creativity in every aspect of the film is very impressive, and a better cast could not have been chosen. Any fan of NeverNeverland and the story of Peter Pan is sure to immensely enjoy this movie. It even enforces family values and has a great moral to the story (especially for those who have suddenly surprisingly found themselves grown up!) "},{"Title":"A memorable movie","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook reminds me of Peter Pan's great adventure in Neverland. Next,I like the movie, it was funny and ends 3 long hours. Third,it's a continuation to Peter Pan's journey where he grew up and learned new things. Including care,love and passion. Fourth,although he forgot about  Never Land.With the help of his old friend, tinker bell he tried hard to remember to fly and convince the Lost boys to help him save his children from Captain Hook.Finally, at the end they were all triumph and proud of themselves.And Peter this time promised to remember his Lost boy friends.I gave this movie a 10/10 for great performance and music. It gave me a good inspiration of trying hard. Also, thanks to the directors,actors and musicians who made this movie a memorable one.Plus, thanks to Disney for creating  inspiring movies. "},{"Title":"The Tale Of Sir... Spielberg","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" To sum up, I enjoyed this movie very much !Of course, if you try to analyze it like another movie, you shall be disappointed because of it's very simplistic moral...But if you consider this as a tale and watch it as you were reading a tale when you were a child, then, all the magic comes up ! That's where Spielberg is excellent  he has worked on the story as a tale, and successfully adapted it to the screen... Imagine how hard it is to adapt such a tale ! Look at the colors, the movements, the dialogs, the characters... Yep, definitely, this movie is really well done and has even something magic. I gave it 8. Certainly it's a bit long for children (more than two hours) but I'm sure that children would totally love it !  "}{"Title":"This movie could have been SOooooooo good . . .","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The premise and initial set-up are awesome, a bold and imaginative revisiting of an oft-told tale, in this case the Peter Pan story. (Worthy of mention the story idea and screenplay are by James V. Hart, who provided another such awesome re-imagining of familiar material with his next film, BRAM STOKER'S DRACULA - then followed it through with a clunky and discombobulated narrative.)The early scenes in London are great. A magical look and feel is established, with an undertone of both menace and wistful regret that gives the movie the feel of a classic in the making. Also, Julia Roberts is absolutely dead-on perfect as Tinkerbell - tomboy and coquette in equal measure, and totally captivating (overall, I don't get the whole Julia Roberts thing and in general think she's way overrated, but I do love her here). Robin Williams . . . well, he's just Robin Williams in the early going, I'm afraid; doesn't really create a character so much as be himself - but what the heck, it feels appropriate. Plenty of time for him to transform himself into Peter Pan later.Problem is, though, he never does. I'm not sure that any grown-up male could convincingly portray Peter Pan (although Martin Short probably could give it a good shot), but Williams never even looks like he's trying. He keeps up a steady stream of one-liners which are funny, but ultimately distracting. They keep him too aloof from the proceedings, and that's death in a story of this kind. I know that in some ways it's an intangible kind of criticism, but he simply never BECOMES Pan, and so the film - whatever its other merits - is simply dead in the water.Not that it has particularly too many other merits, anyway, once it arrives in Neverland. Once again, it may simply be impossible for any set or movie-created environment to be as evocative and full of wonder as the one we carry around in our heads concerning this mythical place. Still, what the film-makers come up with here for a setting is ugly and pedestrian beyond belief. The whole thing *looks* like a movie set, and a particularly cheesy one at that. Ed Wood or Roger Corman would be at home on this set, but it's not what we would expect from Steven Spielberg - nor, indeed, what is suggested by the wondrous opening London segment which preceded it (did they blow their whole set design budget on the first fifteen minutes?)The Lost Boys, too okay, I get what Spielberg was going for, and on the face of it maybe it's not even a bad idea (though I'm prepared to say that yes it is) - the boys not as Victorian waifs and innocents but rather as more closely akin to a present day junior high school class, complete with modern lingo and attitudes. Problem is, as executed, it just comes across as The Goonies in elfin dress, with all the dumb humor and clunky writing intact. Come on now, a food fight! A turf war between Peter and the would-be East Compton homeboy? Arsenio Hall-like whoo-whoo dawg pound salutes? Updating something for the modern age is one thing, Steven, but dumbing down your material in order to pander to the Nike generation of kids is just embarrassing.What is really a shame, though, aren't the bad elements per se - it's that the good stuff really is deserving of greater material surrounding it. First and foremost the title character himself. Dustin Hoffman just OWNS this role, I mean he really, absolutely just NAILS it. As a matter of fact, what he comes up with here as a characterization is so startling and completely out of left field (the best way to describe it being William F. Buckley and Long John Silver inhabiting the same body), but so wonderfully appropriate and uncannily *right* . . . that it's disappointing when we realize how poorly written and developed this character is going to be. Aside from what Hoffman puts across as a performer, the script never makes Captain Hook really menacing, or even particularly intelligent (his cartoonish sidekick Smee being, jarringly, the real brains of the operation). In fact, he's such a buffoonish character - full of empty threats with no backbone or follow through - that he's not even a worthy antagonist. Perhaps Spielberg was trying to soft-peddle the danger, in order not to make the movie too scary for little kids - but unfortunately, what we're left with is a powder-puff villain. Inevitably, then, our investment in the hero's struggle against him is greatly lessened.Even that may not have mattered so much if the film could have found a way to better utilize and sustain its most brilliant conceit SPOILERS AHEAD the revelation, halfway through, of what finally caused Peter to want to grow up and leave Neverland . . . the chance to be a *father.* This particular sequence is handled beautifully, and brought tears to my eyes. It gives his character real tragic dimension, as we realize that his failures as a dad are not simply unfair to his kids, but a betrayal of the best part of his nature. Then there is the delicious irony that Peter's happy thought - which restores him to his full former glory - is that of holding his child in his arms for the first time. This completely floored me, and suggested a much deeper and more well-thought out premise that the real enemy to be feared and fought against is not Hook (he's just the catalyst for the story), but in fact Peter's own divided nature.Alas, the film settles for the convention of the climactic showdown and a not very well-earned (or justified) happy ending. But, it seems to me, it could have been so much more.  "},{"Title":"Delightful film!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This updated Peter Pan film enchanted me as a child, and enchants me still. It has much of the same it is real! charm as other films in the updated fairy tale vein. To see a well done Peter Pan film that takes as its starting point the reality of the story is a simply wonderful experience. Robin Williams is charming as Peter (though I never really believe him to be the meanie he tries to be at the beginning), and Dustin Hoffman is both scary and laughable as Captain Hook. I have only good memories associated with this film, so it's low ranking surprised me. I think that it is a charming and delightful film, and helps kids (and adults) reinvent a classic tale. Certainly worth seeing still, and one of the most colorful, enchanting live action kids movies I can think of. Disregard this film's low ranking, and see it anyway. It's well worth it.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook represents so much to me.  I believe that it has a great message for our society and the way we live today.  In our adult life, we tend to leave (and sometimes scoff) our childhood behind as if it never existed at all. In the movie, Peter has grown up and forgotten his past.  This change makes him a crass, terrible person, focusing only on work instead of his family. During the movie, he finds himself and his childhood memories and becomes a better, more caring person.In real life, most adults of today are work driven individuals with very little time for joy or relaxation.  This movie teaches that all it takes is a little taste of a person's childhood mixed into their adult life to make them and their environment around them better. "},{"Title":"A great tale, an adult fairy tale","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I first heard the concept for Hook, I figured it would be another cheesy attempt to recapture the magic of the original story of Peter Pan. I was drawn to see it only because of Robin Williams, an actor I hold in high esteem.  But after seeing it, I recognized the movie not only as another great Robin Williams movie, but a great movie in general.  The movies use of color and upbeat timing makes it a movie that everyone can enjoy.  "},{"Title":"wishing you'd be one of the lost boys","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is the kind of movie that make you wanna be a children leader, or part of it, doing everything you are wishing for and to worry about anything but having fun with your bud. It's the kind of movie that makes you believe that there is a place as imaginaryland and that you just HAVE to believe in fairy. When you grow up it's harder, but movie like this just remember us those great things. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After reading the above post, I disagree that Hook was primarily a children's show. I think it had plenty for both adults and kids. I was an adult when i first saw it and still think it's perfect. If there were mess ups in there i didn't see them, and thought the show was very well made. Robin Williams did a smashing job, Bob Hoskins is a wonderful character actor, and Julia Roberts was a great tinkerbell. All the kids were great little actors. I save Dustin Hoffman for last cause he was so awesome! But then Dustin always is.Loved the show, watch it at least once a year.David. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Movies of all time.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was one of the most magical things I ever saw when I knew it first as a child. It brought the mystic of the story of Peter Pan to a realistic, plausible place. (I was a very rational kid, and needed that for this kind of story)One of the greatest elements of the movie is the score, by the wonderfully talented John Williams. Some of the most exhilarating and magical cues I know of are here.Stephen Spielberg opens the movie and sets up the characters in his usually great, realistic way. He takes you along with them through a dramatic sub-story, gradually and artistically revealing their characters. This method is in stark contrast to many mundane, terribly predictable movies, where they attempt to develop characters by basically telling you what they're all about with such lines as You know I hate the dark, Sheryl, ever since I got locked under the stairs as a childYou know the type..The movie, after allowing you to become comfortable with the characters and their situations, suddenly plunges you into the magical world of never-land, merging the real world and never-land in a more down to earth method of travel than other peter pan movies (see peter pan, the modern screw up) Peter, instead of GOING there, awakens there. Is it just a dream? Is it real?Wonderful actors, from Robin Williams in the starring role, to Dustin Hoffman in a surprising change of the usual (hook, himself) and the hilarious Bob Hoskins in a subdued, and outrageous role, where appropriate, to the soft-spoken performance of Caroline Goodall, and the wonderful and gentle Maggie Smith.This movie, unlike many recent ones, also involves good, and in places, great acting by the two children, Charlie Korsmo and Amber Scott, who play Peter's children, with their own very important sub-stories (the son, specifically.) "},{"Title":"What if Peter Pan grew up?","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Hook'is one of my favorite movies that I watched during my childhood, and even watching it again after so many years, I still cannot replace it for any of the recent movies about Peter Pan! I think it is an absurd that here in IMDb this wonderful movie is rated only 5,8! Until today, the best captain James Hook played is from this movie( with a great work of Dustin Hoffman) and so is Tinkerbell(Julia Roberts). The whole idea about Peter Pan being an adult,married, with kids, in our modern world is very original.Peter needs to rescue his children that were kidnapped by the captain James Hook, who wants revenge,but first Peter needs to remember how is to be a child again and make his imagination and memories to work.Hook is a masterpiece and I would really recommend it for people from all ages.) "},{"Title":"Goooood","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is the best i have ever seen, i really really like the story, and the adventure. When i see this movie, i feel wish for all in the world, that i lived in that world, and thats just wad that. 10 out of 10 def. I would recommend this to every body, use your imagination peter i what i would say to your guys (quote from the movie) Robin played really good. The start is a good mixture of now and days, and the family problems. I can relate to a god movie like...Tolkien books or something like that. Well thats all, hope you guys can use this one. Cy. soon // frigging fraggeren. Seems like i HAVE to write 10 lines so this is what i will do. "},{"Title":"I agree with potter_luvver","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 3 when it first came out and absolutely, positively, adored it. Now that I am 16, I feel exactly the same way. I watch it as often as I can get. This movie is meant for children and those with an imagination. Many adults have lost that open minded imagination that young children have. They criticize everything in their lives (i.e. politics) that they are turning out to be like Robin Williams in this movie. IT IS FOR YOUR CHILDREN. Stop ruining it for them. Instead of being so critical why don't you sit back and try to be a kid again for an hour and a half. You might even see what makes this movie so amazing and you might absolutely, positively, adore it. "}{"Title":"One man and the search for his inner child...a great message in a great film","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For a movie going on lucky 13 years old, it's still as fun to watch as it was the first time I saw it in the theaters. Peter Banning is a well off American lawyer married to the great granddaughter of Wendy Moira Angela Darling...Mora Darling. He also has two kids, Jack and Maggie. However, supporting for his family has become a full time job and as such he's forgotten all about having an imagination, playing with his kids, spending time with his family, and enjoying his life. And in the middle of all of this, there's Capt. James S. Hook, life long enemy of the Peter Pan (Banning, though unbeknownst to him). In an act of vengeance, he kidnaps Banning's kids in the night, and tinkerbell comes home to bring Peter back to Never Neverland and make Peter remember the life he left behind and the fight that was never finished.Mr. Spielberg went all out on this movie, and it shows. There's a lot of heart and soul here from the pirate ships to the lost boys hideout to London and back again. At the same time, there's a lot of heart in both the screenplay and the actors embodiment of the characters. I don't think there will ever be a Hook as good as the one that Dustin Hoffman has done in this film, Bob Hoskins is always a pleasure to watch and his comedic timing is near perfect, causing everything from a slight chuckle to uproarious laughter to pass your lips after each scene he's in, and William's Peter Banning/Pan, while extraordinarily silly and misguided at times, comes around brilliantly, and the first time you watch him fly you can't help but grin from ear to ear.The child talent is always a risky business, but if you accept that the kids are not going to be the best actors in the world, you realize that most of them do the script justice, whether they know they are or not. Charlie Korsmo, along with Dante Basco, are clearly the most talented, carrying their scenes with Williams and Hoffman very well. John Williams score is as wonderful as it ever was (you can hear some of the framework for the Harry Potter music in this particular score)...And finally, there's the message...never grow up. It's the same message from the original movie, but how it gets there is slightly different. As we watch Peter Banning remember and relive the life he left behind, we realize what he realizes; growing old doesn't mean you have to grow up...and you have to live...for that is the great adventure. At 2 hours and 20 minutes, the movie drags here and there a bit from time to time. And on no fault of the original production, the special effects of the film have not held up as well as they could have in the last 13 years. The movie is starting to look it's age. But I think no matter how old this movie gets, there will always be people who will be taken back by the simple premise of this movie and embrace it for the wonderful way it's taken the original Peter Pan story to a whole new level...and beyond.  "},{"Title":"I love it and yes, I HAVE read the book.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I teach second grade and every year I read the true Peter Pan to my class. I teach them that the book came first and there was life before Walt Disney. As a final activity we watch Hook. I've done this for years and every year my class loves it and I find things I haven't seen before. It does not deter from the book, it just takes it a step beyond. The costumes are not '90s. The costumes of the Lost Boys represent whenever they were lost and went to Neverland. I love the casting. I love the script. To the people who don't and are so critical, I bet that you were the kind of kids who, when the book was read to you, refused to clap to save Tinkerbell. Relax, sit back, forget about everything else, and enjoy. Lots of people have.  "},{"Title":"Use your imagination","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't get it.  Why are a bunch of you hacking this movie to pieces ? With criticisms that are as farfetched as ridiculous.  This movie is a tribute to imagination and fantasy.  It shows you what happens when you loose your imagination.  But of course we don't want to accuse ourselves of loosing that, so we call it growing up.  It really doesn't matter whether we're 12 or 40 or 80.  Which to my opinion is exactly mr. Spielberg's point and couldn't be portrayed any better than by mr. Williams.  Obviously the bad criticisms are written by people resembling Peter Banning more than they do Peter Pan. Personally I have a few simple criteria to judge a movie. If it touches me in that special place we all have deep inside of us, a movie is already well on its' way to land in my Toplist.  If it has a story to tell and is accompanied by music that underlines it organically it is certain to have a place on that list. Hook has a story to tell.  And a nice story.  Even the bad guys are fun. Mr. John Williams music fits the scenes like a glove.  I dar anyone to say that he or she is not touched by the scene where the little Lost Boy tries to erase the wrinkles out of Peter's face exclaiming  There you are, Peter Pan ! Mr. Hoffman and mr. Hoskins are hilarious in their various scenes, but getting in to that would be spoiling your fun. I am not afraid to say that I gave this movie a wholehearted 10 ! And as for the critics  I'm sorry to say that you have grown up.  Or with Wendy's words  Boy, you have become a pirate... By the way, gentlemen critics, hearken to the saying  Those who can, do. Those who can't, teach.  And those who can't teach, criticize. "},{"Title":"don't try to understand when you can't","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  a beautiful movie. try to watch it like a cartoon ok because Steven took very special idea to make it sometimes you don't know where you are or why does it come now but anywhay it's one of steven's best movies .  "},{"Title":"Hook has something for everyone if you have the right attitude.","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" For those of us who were in the target audience during this movie's release, it was one of the most entertaining and influential movies of our childhood. Hook taught us what life should be about. Life is not about having a lot of money, it is about having a life rich with imagination, fun, and most importantly love/friendship. Although the message is very apparent throughout the movie, it does not take away from the entertainment aspect. In fact, I feel it adds to it. Hook, in my opinion, is one of the most creative movies ever made. The older audience may have felt that the food fight scene was stupid, but it made nearly every face of my generation light up. While on a road trip to Mexico with about eighty other college kids on the bus, we voted to watch hook over the numerous other movies we had with us and not even one person had a problem with watching it. Since each of the guys brought a date, the bus was split evenly between guys and girls. Maybe most of the people who have rated this movie were not born at the right time to truly experience its greatness because it is truly a classic film and should not be detrimental to Spielberg's reputation. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is actually one of my favorite movies, especially at Christmas time, so it's disappointing to me to see some of the negative reviews. I was 11 when this movie came out, loved it then, and still love it even though I have seen it at least 15 times. It's definitely not some sort of deeply intellectual independent film -but it's about Peter Pan growing up for God's sake. I personally don't think the storyline of a workaholic parent discovering his inner child will ever get old and cliché - being a lawyer, I see how often that happens (not to me of course b/c I still like movies like Hook). And again, many people have said even children won't like this move but that's totally not true as I was a child when I first saw this movie and loved it. I think Robin Williams gave a great performance in this movie as did Dustin Hoffman. However, I can see where some of the other comments are coming from with respect to the cheesiness of Julia Roberts and some of the Lost Boys but again, it's a kids movie so whatever. This movie is a classic Christmas time favorite - my mom and I have watched it together every year for 15 years and soon we will watch it with my children! "},{"Title":"Not for the Pan Purists","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let's make one thing clear first. This film was not meant to be a direct follow-up to J. M. Barrie's famous novel and some of his rules are discarded so that the story can fit the filmmakers' vision. If you believe that Barrie's work is sacred and should not be tampered with in any way, then avoid this film at all costs. If however, you can accept the changes and are in the mood for an exciting adventure, then Hook is more than worth your time.The film offers an alternative vision of Barrie's novel and a side story of what might have happened if Peter Pan decided to abandon Neverland and live a life in the normal world. The story introduces us to Peter's alternate life (now adopting the name of Peter Banning) with his two children, his wife Moira (Wendy Darling's granddaughter), and his hectic lifestyle as businessman. Though Peter's days in Neverland are long over (so much that he's lost all memory of them), his old nemesis Captain Hook still seeks to obtain his revenge and finish the feud once and for all. When Peter and his family visit Wendy at the Darling household, Hook somehow finds a way to enter Peter's world and kidnaps his two children, holding them hostage in exchange for one final showdown. After Wendy reveals the truth of Peter's past to him, he reluctantly finds himself back in Neverland on a quest to settle his unfinished business and return his kids safely home. And that's when the fun begins.The all-star cast is outstanding. Dustin Hoffman is nearly unrecognizable as the devious Captain Hook and has an awesome on-screen presence. Even the toughest of critics will admit that Hoffman nailed the role perfectly. The casting of Robin Williams as Peter Pan/Banning was more controversial, but as usual, Williams exceeded expectations and was brilliant with what he had to work with. Bob Hoskins almost steals the show as Hook's right-hand-man, Smee, and provided a good portion of the film's comedic relief. The only major drawback is Julia Roberts who didn't provide anything unique or special to the character of Tinkerbell. That's not to say that it's her fault, but in all honesty, her absence wouldn't have made much of a difference.I have read reviews that bash this film left and right, saying it's an embarrassment to Spielberg's legacy, should never have been made, and is an example of his limited manipulative style. What a manipulative style means is something that I'll never understand. Isn't that the whole point of movies? To be manipulated into seeing something that you're not? Anyway, some of these film snobs need to do some growing up themselves and give this film the credit that it deserves. Hook is a fun fantasy adventure that illustrates the importance of staying young at heart and I would recommend it to anyone seeking a good time. "},{"Title":"People are NUTS!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Some of ya'll are pretty wacky, saying that this movie is overly cheesy, or awful. You're overly cheesy and awful. This movie is beautiful. It completely captures everything about Peter Pan, and it's funny, and full of action, and heart warmth...it pretty much has everything, so I don't know what you're complaining about. The only part I don't like is when Peter Panning's co-workers say Don't let your arms get tired!!! cuz they're all stupid. I know they were probably meant to be stupid though, so i guess they did a good job. Hooray! Go see this movie, and don't listen to people that aren't smart. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a movie I could see 1O times! It makes me cry, laugh and meditative. The movie makes me to wish being in an adventure like this.The Lost BoysThey show pure freedom.Peter Banning/PanA normal father of two children who only think of himself and his work, he had forgotten to see the world colorful.HookFirst of all I must say that Dustin Hoffman really is a great actor. And Hook, he's just an Evil Leader of the pirates, I think it's because he's the cleverest He never got the chance to love and he was never love either. So he hates the love.Best SceneI think one of the best scenes is where the lost boys eat, and Peter Banning becomes Peter Pan and gets his phantasy back.How should I finish? Go see it! "},{"Title":"I suffer from acute peter pan syndrome","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have decided that every person that does not like this movie has no inner child.that is all. "}{"Title":"All Around Brilliance","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" People are Dumb. This movie is GOOD. All of the little things in it are amazing,and is my FAVORITE movie of all time. To say that this movie is dreadful is completely foolish. The movie is remarkably funny and is wonderful in almost all aspects. Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins and amazing together. Smee is maybe my favorite character, next to Tootles and the little fat Lost Boy who rolls into a ball. As I said before all the little things in it are hilarious, such as every time Robin Williams turns around while still being Peter Danning, he turns with chest inflated and hands on hips( acting as Peter Pan). AMAZING. Also Glen Close is a pirate and that alone is reason enough for the movie to be rated a 10. Not to mention Rufio. Also amazing. the dialog between Robin Williams and Rufio while at the dinner table is wonderfully scripted and deserves to be watched over and over and over again. Robin Williams as Peter Pan was a wonderful choice because of his childlike acting ability. The Music. The Music is another reason the movie is so wonderful. John Williams is able to compose a score that can make you feel all of your emotions at once. All-together Hook is a wonderful piece of cinema that can be enjoyed by both parents and children. "},{"Title":"Typical Spielberg Fare","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is such a typical Steven Spielberg kids' film, which means some good and some bad, but always an entertaining movie.The film is beautifully photographed, another Spielberg trait. It also has some innovative special-effects. The sets are magnificent. Robin Williams and Julia Roberts play likable roles, the latter playing Tinker Bell. Spielberg also has the kids outsmarting the adults, or even outfighting them as in this film (gimme a break); some sexual innuendos that are not needed in this story; too much noise and activity for half the movie.At 140 minutes, it's a long movie, but the kids shouldn't mind while adults might get a little tired of it after awhile. All in all, it was okay but I didn't care for it as much as most people. "},{"Title":"well...this movie has it's moments","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There are so many things wrong with this film, it's easy to dismiss this as a flop that should be forgotten. But there are some worth-while moments here, too. For this review, let's first talk about the things WRONG with this movie, shall we? *spoilers ahead, obviously*So Peter Pan decides to grow up. I can deal with that, and it's a very interesting scenario. But, can ANYONE believe for two seconds that Robin Williams is a high-string lawyer?! Sorry, I don't buy it. Why Robin Williams of all people?! Doesn't make sense. The other problem is, the whole parent who is so busy he doesn't even make it to his kids baseball games is soo cliché. That could have been fixed. I could go into more detail about Robin's characterization, but, I'll just say that he isn't believable as a lawyer OR as the magical Peter Pan. Tinkerbell. Oh, Tink. Why why WHY was Julia Roberts in this movie?!? there was NO need. The fact that Tink talks is beyond annoying. She's a fairy named TINKERBELL for trying out loud!! She's supposed to make bell noises when she talks!! Oy. There is also a very odd subplot where for NO apparent reason, Tinkerbell becomes human-size for all of 5 seconds, kisses Peter, and then goes back to being small. Huh? Did I miss something? Weird.The lost boys. The set of characters that can make or break any version of Peter Pan. These lost boys are PAINFULLY PC and they are just so numerous that none of them have personalities, except Ruffio. And I can't get over the fact that not ONE lost boy has an English accent!? I think Spielberg forgot this is a British story. As for Ruffio...well, seeing the movie explains it all. A useless character to say the most.Peters kids are decent throughout this movie. After they are kidnapped, Jack (still angry at his father) becomes like a son to Hook. For some reason, the little girl Maggie is ignored after the kidnapping, only appearing to sing a lullaby to remind her of home. I'm sorry, but little children should not sing in movies. Ever!! But the kids didn't hurt the movie at all.Ah, now we come to my favorite character in all of literature HOOK!! Once you get past the fact that Dustin Hoffman looks like a mouse, he makes a decent Hook. Jason Isaccs was much better. Smee has an odd accent throughout the film, but, there is some nice chemistry between Smee and Hook.There are some cool shots of Neverland, but, we don't see ANY of the magic that makes Neverland the island where children are forever at play. I much prefer Hogan's version of Neverland in the new Peter Pan movie. Also, we don't see enough flying. Special effects are severely lacking, even for a film made 10- years ago.Peter finally remembering who he is should be really touching. Unfortunately the flashbacks don't add much, seeing as how young Peter and Wendy look at least 16! Way too old. Still with me? Good! Now we can talk about the things this movie got right. The scene where Peter returns to England and sees Granny Wendy for the first time in 10 years is very moving. Maggie Smith gives her best performance. I love how they included lines from the original book (let me give you a squench!) Very impressive!! Peter confronting his past is also done well. When he re-discovers the underground home he had lived in with Wendy...well, it made me feel like I was reading the wonderful novel again.Whew! So that's it. I've nitpicked this film, but it really isn't the worst movie i've ever seen. This movie IS long, and i'd only recommend this to Peter Pan fans who would enjoy a new spin on the classic tale. But in general, EVERYONE should be exposed to P.J. Hogan's new Peter Pan before viewing Hook. ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Sinking, Sinking, Sunk.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The concept of innocence lost and regained has been done before. If Steven Spielberg wanted to do his own rendition of J. M. Barrie's story of Peter Pan, he should have done so instead of making Peter Pan become a 40-ish Peter Banning as played by the manic Robin Williams, living in the present, and being pulled back by a ruse that is as transparent as is it implausible. It's like reading one of the more derivative stories by Stephen King in which the adult character, having forgotten what made things tick, was forced to go back to face his inner demons and re-discover his inner child, not without some perils along the way.HOOK is not a bad movie. Well, it is. Sort of. It's just that for Spielberg to come up with something like this, he must have been fishing for ideas and nothing must have made sense. In any sense, this movie doesn't make much sense even when there are isolated moments that come through like the movie it should have and would have been had it not re-hashed the same material almost verbatim. Why would Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffmann) have to go through all that trouble to settle an old score with a boy who is now a man and is probably more interested in work than flying through the air in green leotards and electrocuted hair? It's unexplainable, but many things here are.See, I also don't remember Tinkerbell ever having had the hots for Peter. As a pixie reminiscent of Judy Garland and Natalie Portman, Julia Roberts is able to convey the elfish innocence of her character. It's when she start behaving like a woman smitten by the adult Peter is when I somehow lost focus, because it plainly did not make any bit of sense. Even Captain Hook seems like he belongs in a totally different story altogether, and those kids parading around with spiked hair were a complete nuisance. Even Glenn Close in her brief cameo as a bearded man was pointless.The only scenes that worked for me involved a young Gwyneth Paltrow as the eighteen year old Wendy, slowly changing to the more earthbound Maggie Smith. It's here where I stopped and paid attention, because in recalling his past, Peter Banning discovers how much he's lost, and how the world and Wendy moved on while he stayed in a state of arrested development. (Sounds like something a certain betrothed King of Pop has already done, but then again... someone needs to give Him a pebble -- he's light enough -- and tell him to go jump in a lake somewhere.) A tremendous misfire in almost every account, it's not Spielberg's best moment. That would happen less than two years later with his double whammy of JURASSIC PARK and SCHINDLER'S LIST. "},{"Title":"Vastly under-rated flick!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I am truly astonished that this movie is not rated in the 8 to 8 1/2 range. I'm not sure what people were expecting when this movie came out, but it is basically a children's fantasy geared up to appeal to the lost child in all of us. I guess it missed it's mark on most, but for me, it was a great, nostalgic ride. Steven Spielberg still counts it as one of his favorite and also as one of his biggest disappointments. He has said so on numerous occasions. Dustin Hoffman, Robin Williams, and Bob Hoskins all give excellent comedic performances and the supporting cast is likewise appealing.If this movie doesn't make you yearn for the good things of your childhood, then you may be beyond the point of being able to reach back and capture it.  "},{"Title":"Cheated by Hook","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As a young kid, probably of about 16 when I first saw it, I loved this movie.Then I grew old, and I started to find it embarrassing - Bang-a-rang and the whole stupidity of it, the sickly, sweet, brightness of it all. It felt too cheesy, and I couldn't explain why.I picked up a copy of Peter Pan (2003) the other day after wondering whether it would be too childish, but I found it an absolute delight - fluffy and dark at the same time, complex, full of metaphors, a really intelligent film - something to think about, and I just had to compare the two movies because now I feel cheated by Hook.On reflection, Hook is very simplistic and mundane, and if that's what Steven Spielberg's films are coming to, simplistic eye candy then maybe he's not my favourite director anymore.First we have to accept the challenges that he is orphaned to an American family though he marries the English grand daughter of Wendy and he forgets who he is. Then has to go to Neverland to rescue his family, where we learn that Smee has his medical records. Peter Pan then forgets who he was as Peter Panning but somehow remembers from some strange romantic rendezvous with Tinkerbell, who should have been long dead by then.We have to accept the terrible sets, where there is no background to the pirate ship, the lost boys now have some kind of Roller Coaster, and play basketball, and for some bizarre reason, Rufio is wearing tights.Then we have to accept things that seem like gross over simplifications on the original story. For example, in Hook, it seems that the only reason Peter was afraid to grow up was because everyone who grows up has to die.We also have the oxymoronic features of the film of political correctness AND stereotypes of fat people being used as rolling bombs to splatter the pirates like bowling pins. Then also the pirates are really rather cute and beautifully choreographed.Don't get me wrong, this is classic family fayre, its typically Disney, mundane, sweet, and appealing to the lowest common denominator as I've heard it touted. But it's hardly a cinematic masterpiece full of scenery, and emotion, and dialogue full of heart. Also just because it has lines from the original story, doesn't make the film good. They're unnecessary and just serve the film makers to attempt a pathetic demonstration that they have read the book. "},{"Title":"If this were wrestling, I'd call it a 'Reverse M. Night Shyamalan'","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What if the Peter Pan story was real, and Peter had finally decided to depart Neverland, grow up, get married, have two kids and become a lawyer? M. Night Shyamalan has become famous by using a very clever gimmick of sorts--he makes films that are largely realist dramas, but that have a twist near the end where it's revealed that the whole film was really a genre film (genre films is a general term that is used primarily for works made that fall under what are normally considered the fan boy genres, especially the fantasy genres, which includes most horror and sci-fi). Director Steven Spielberg's Hook, although structurally the same as a Shyamalan film initially, brings its twist earlier and more literally transforms into a genre film, so that it ends up being primarily a kid-oriented fantasy (partially meaning that it's a bit heavier on the comedy) where the twist is that it is actually a realist drama--it's a kind of reverse M. Night Shyamalan. Shyamalan does horror, or fantasy, or sci-fi masquerading as a realist drama. Hook is realist drama masquerading as a fantasy film.The above fact is probably a large part of the reason why some viewers end up not liking the film very much. The animated Peter Pan by Disney, which is certainly the most famous filmed version of Pan, is manically paced and plotted--it's almost anarchic in a way. It's big on action, comedy and what sci-fi fans used to call a sense of wonder, which is a kind of awe in response to a thoroughgoing portrayal of a captivating fantasy world. Except for small doses and a climax that is very different in flavor from the rest of the film, Hook is not very big on action or a sense of wonder, the comedy is closer to a classical literary sense of comedy, and the pacing is closer to, say, Big Fish (2003). The film is even bookended with material that suggests that all of the fantasy may have been merely a dream. This is really a more adult Pan in many ways. To appreciate the film, a viewer has to slow down and not expect chaotic merriment at every turn.Both of the main characters, Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman, are excellent. Hoffman is almost unrecognizable. For the little bit that she's in the film, Maggie Smith is also excellent. The rest of the cast is good. The only performance I don't care so much for is Julia Roberts', but she is far from my favorite actress. I tend to dislike her as often as not.With the realist drama approach, Spielberg manages to give the performances in the fantasy portion of the film a bizarre turn, as most of the characters in Neverland seem to be bordering on a hammy insanity. That might not work for a lot of viewers, but I love it--keep in mind, though, that I especially love surrealism, camp and absurdism. Some sections of the Neverland material, especially the scenes with the Lost Boys, also have a colorful everything-but-the-kitchen-sink flavor, ala The Wiz (1978) or Batman & Robin (1997), both films that Joel Schumacher was involved with, curiously enough. I also like that approach, and I'm a (rare) fan of both of those films.It's interesting to note that even with the very different tenor of Hook compared with Peter Pan (1953), Spielberg translates almost every major character and plot element to his film in some way, with the most notable (and to me, lamentable) absence being the American Indian characters, who were surely omitted for reasons of political correctness (the 1953 Pan film being now seen as offensive by some people in its portrayal of American Indians).Some of the technical elements are rather nondescript but certainly competent, such as the bulk of the cinematography, and some are rather pedestrian or clichéd, such as the score. But overall this is an entertaining if unusual film. My final score was 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A rotten movie in all respects, typically Spielberg.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!!!There is so much wrong with this film that I could spend days talking about it. So many things are just wrong and bothersome. >The Lost Boys run around on roller blades. These kids are from the early 20th century and would not have such things. >The film has a light fantasy touch until one of the Lost Boys is run through with a sword on camera and dies horribly. Nice touch, Steve. >Baby Peter (age 5 months) doesn't want to die, so he makes his carraige roll away from his parents in the rain hoping to be picked up and taken away to a place where he won't have to grow up. The odds of this happening are off the scale, so Peter was actually committing suicide by exposure. >Hoffman is lousy, as usual. The Hoffman Principle states No Film is made any better by having Dustin Hoffman in its cast.  Overall, this is a real bust, and it all lies squarely on Spielberg's shoulders. He controlled every aspect of its production, including stealing a wonderful script by Nick Castle and mutilating it to his own standards. As you can see by the list of goofs, his is pretty typical of Stevie's output. Very few of his films work completely, and this one works not at all. Rating 4 stars out of ten, due mainly to Bob Hoskins. "},{"Title":"a low-rent effort from Spielberg","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"25 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There are a lot of rumors going around that Joel Schumacher was the real director of this film, just as those rumors that refuse to die of Spielberg being the real director of Poltergeist. Who cares? It doesn't change the fact that Hook really is a bizarre, maudlin, overacted effort from whoever directed it. The messages that you're never too young/old to change your life are virtually hit over your head with a sledgehammer in true Spielberg fashion. But then again, that is why he is Hollywood's go to guy, Hollywood films generally don't have a lot of respect for the intelligence of the average film goer (although who can blame them?) and Hook is no exception. I keep thinking of the Edward Bulwer-Lytton joke from the snoopy comics every time I see a Spielberg film where he caters to 10 year olds. Even 10 year olds can appreciate intelligent work. It's the adults who think they need pandering to that gives us trite like Hook. "},{"Title":"Even a misfire can have a certain charm...","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ROBIN WILLIAMS tones down his usual manic personality to play a suitably aged Peter Pan who has become (of all things) a lawyer and the father of children he can barely spare the time to acknowledge. It's an original concept for a film about the legendary Peter Pan who, as an adult, has to save his children by sprinkling himself with fairy dust (courtesy of an ill-conceived Tinker Bell played by JULIA ROBERTS).Despite being an uneven and overlong film, there are some compensations, chiefly in the performances of Maggie Smith (as the aged Wendy), DUSTIN Hoffman as a wigged and mustached Captain Hook, and BOB HOSKINS as Smee, providing some much needed comic relief as Captain Hook's fawning pirate.There's a certain amount of charm in the nursery scenes that open the film--but, unfortunately, once Peter flees to Neverland, the film sinks beneath a plethora of clumsy looking settings and a peculiarly chosen cast of Lost Boys. Only the clever bantering between Peter and Captain Hook bring some of the Neverland scenes to life--and the final dueling match is well staged and fun to watch.All in all, it's like a pudding that has too many lumps in it for complete enjoyment. Even John Williams' score is less satisfying than usual, apparently because the material was not inspiring enough for his genius. "}{"Title":"Needs More Plank-walking","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is way cheesy, but the Peter Pan fantasy is a good one. It's also a good idea to have him come back to NN-land years later, after having abandoned the Lost Boys in pursuit of that boring quest to fulfill his budding teenage urges. You know the drill Pan grows up to be Robin Williams (it's a sad day for anyone who grows up to be that), who goes by the subtley changed name Peter Panning and is a lawyer-suit jerk who marries Wendy's granddaughter/niece or whatever (the point is it's a blood-relative, despite the implied long-standing relationship between Pan and Wendy)and ignores his kids.There are some slick sequences at the beginning, like when Hook reappears in Pan's adult life. Dustin Hoffman steals the show and drives the movie playing Captain Hook. He has some great lines and demonstrates real acting chops, as opposed to Robin Williams who is just playing himself, albeit slightly toned down. 'Twould be interesting to see someone else have done this Pan role. Jim Carrey? Gary Oldman? Hell, we should just cast Gary Oldman as every character in every movie. (Gary Oldman) for some, miniature American flags for others. Frankly, the only things keeping this from being a masterpiece are some random unexplainable circumstances in Never-Neverland's time-line, and the overemphasis on kids and how great they are. The underlying message of the movie becomes a Robin Williams pro-children schmooze-fest. What's the message, guys? Adopted children (i.e. the Lost Boys) are not as endearing or important as one's biological offspring? Also, Pan's son kinda sucked. As did the lines written for Smee (Hook's second), who is played by Bob Hoskins, an actor that is criminally underused here. And as I said in the title, this film could use more walking of planks and so forth. But surprisingly, this is a watchable Steven Spielberg movie with music by either Hans Zimmer or John Williams which doesn't detract from the experience.Personally I would like to see a Pan spin-off/sequel where Pan's son goes back to Never-Neverland and finds the Lost Boys have grown up to become Pirates, and Peter has replaced Capn Hook. (Just an idea, you fledgling Hollywood writers!)A sufficiently entertaining and scary movie for kids and adults alike. 7.5 "},{"Title":"A beautiful return to a childhood classic.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is quite a good a movie.  While the story may be tailored for children, it can still be enjoyed by fans of all ages.  All of the actors do an excellent job in their part, probably because they grew up with the original Peter Pan.  While not all Spielburg movies are this good, Steve's camera style and rich use of colors contribute to the watchability of the movie.  I give this movie 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I believe in fairies","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is fantastic apart from some parts of it looking a little dated (but hey, that's never stopped anyone watching the Breakfast Club).  It's a classic, I was about 8 when Hook came out and I loved it then and I'm about to watch it again tonight!  I don't see why people have bad mouthed it here, the cast are great (even know I still think it's weird that Dustin Hoffman is Captain Hook), the story is great and it's just magical! "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really loved this film. It was sweet, moraled, and Julia Roberts was really cute as tinkerbell. With a nice ending, i was never bored during the movie. Sure it's a little 80's, but it was cute! I liked it very much "},{"Title":"Some reviewers just think too much!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't know what movie all those reviewers (for a living) were watching, but this movie is FUN!Just get a kid or two and sit down and watch. I dare you not to laugh.  "},{"Title":"It's marvellous","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Don't believe to those who told you this Spielberg's work is not good. The idea of how our belief gives us an ability to fly  is clear enough. Especially for adults. But probably not for typical american ones, who cannot dream, cry and feel "},{"Title":"Could've Been Better!","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is a good movie at its best, but a poor one at its worst. What I mean by that is this movie has good moments and dreadful moments. Hook is about a grown-up Peter Pan with a lost memory who must try to get his kids from the snatches of Captain Hook. I will start with the bad things. Julia Roberts was miscast as her Tinkerbell role. I must also mention she looks ugly with that freaky hairstyle. Also, this movie was boring at some parts. I felt like going to sleep, then a good scene pops out. Here are the good things. The acting of Dustin Hoffman as Hook is great. He is hardly recognizable. The music by John Williams is memorable and great as usual. Also, the scenery was good. I must say that I have seen better Spielberg films like the Indiana Jones series or E.T. I rate this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"lighten up!","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" honestly. i strongly disagree with the negative feedback to this film. It is so amazing when you watch this as a child. who cares if there's clichés and you think hook is too comical or friendly. I think Spielberg perfected this role, as he was enjoyable to watch but the audience is always aware of his dark side. Hook is a gentleman and a villain, i think this take is perfectly fitting.Nobody has seemed to mention how amazing Robin Williams is in this film. I could not think of any other actor who could play this role so well. Everybody knows he has something about him, possibly a child at heart, best shown in 'Mrs Doubtfire'.Undoubtedly the film has its flaws, but it is so enjoyable to watch. even simple mise en scene with colours, and the set. Brilliant in my eyes. Notably in the dinner table scene, the colours bring the film to life. I believe it would bring the children's imagination to life as well. People are far to cynical, i enjoyed this film as a child and i will continue to do so as an adult. "},{"Title":"A great sequel to Peter Pan, and a warning to parents","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A great kids movie, and little more. This is a sequel, not a re-imagining, to Peter Pan. I loved Robin Williams as a grown up Pan as a kid, however, this movie definitely wore a lot on me when I saw it at 18. Fair warning for parents, this is a kids movie, but there are some scary scenes. At one point Hook punishes one of his pirates by sentencing him to the Boo-Box. This is a small chest that the pirate is stuffed into before having scorpions dropped in after him, and as a kid I found it really scary. However the small war at the end is quite fun, seeing the lost boys suit up by jumping through bamboo mats before being painted and armed with swords was a hoot, even at 18, although you gotta wonder where the bamboo came from. "},{"Title":"A great sequel to Peter Pan, and a warning to parents","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A great kids movie, and little more. This is a sequel, not a re-imagining, to Peter Pan. I loved Robin Williams as a grown up Pan as a kid, however, this movie definitely wore a lot on me when I saw it at 18. Fair warning for parents, this is a kids movie, but there are some scary scenes. At one point Hook punishes one of his pirates by sentencing him to the Boo-Box. This is a small chest that the pirate is stuffed into before having scorpions dropped in after him, and as a kid I found it really scary. However the small war at the end is quite fun, seeing the lost boys suit up by jumping through bamboo mats before being painted and armed with swords was a hoot, even at 18, although you gotta wonder where the bamboo came from. "}{"Title":"Spielberg's Ultimate Family Film","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Dear Readers,What if Peter Pan grew up? What if he became like the adults he always hated? What if he married? Had kids? Became a lawyer and a workaholic? What if cared more about his job then his kids? What if Captain Hook kidnapped his kids and he had to remember who he was? And how did he come to Neverland in the first place? All these questions are answered in Steven Spielberg's most panned film Hook.I watched Hook one night on TV. From what I heard from reviews I suspected it was going to be pretty bad. I was so wrong. This movie made me feel like a kid again, something I haven't felt in a very long time. I was laughing my head off and being moved at the same time by this beautiful movie. I was cheering for Peter when he fought the pirates and booing Captain Hook. I've never experienced a film like Hook, and probably never will.Peter Banning is a workaholic dad who spends more time at work than with his family. His son is starting to hate him and his daughter feels neglected. While visiting his mother-in-law, Wendy Darling, in Britain, his children are kidnapped by the nefarious and diabolical Captain James Hook! Assisted by Tinkerbell, Peter returns to Neverland to save his kids and become the Pan one last time.Hook is around ten times better than the cheesy Disney version and its awful sequel. Robin Williams brings his full comedic power to bear in this film and does a great job as Peter Pan. Dustin Hoffman is hilarious and chilling as Captain Hook while Bob Hoskins is lovable as the bumbling Smee. Julia Roberts is spunky and cool as Tinkerbell and Maggie Smith is just perfect as Wendy. John Williams's score is beautiful and magical and is instantly memorable while Steven Spielberg's direction is straight and to the point. This is one of Spielberg's finest movies, right up there with Schindler's List, Close Encounters, Catch me if you can, Jurassic Park II The Lost World, Amistad, and Ssaving Private Ryan.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is one of my all time favorite Speilburg movies. A lot of the time he goes too heavy on the special effects and doesn't focus enough on the rest of the film for my taste (Jaws, Jurassic Park, et cetera) but this time he really nailed it. Robin Williams is great as a grown up Peter Pan who's forgotten who he is as well as Peter after he remembers, and Dustin Hoffman plays Hook like he was made for the part. Captain Hook is sinister in this, and it's perfect. In the beginning, he has a man put into a box filled with scorpians. Most bad reviews I've read of this film are by whiney Disney fanatics who don't think the movie was cute and/or happy enough. This story isn't any of those things. Right from the beginning it's dark. The once whimsical and playful Peter Pan has grown up to be a workaholic lawyer who doesn't believe in fairies and thinks of his children in a way best put in words by a question he asks his son Jack on the plane ride to England. He asks him, Why do you have to act like such a child? Wendy, now a venerable woman of at least 90, observes when being told of Peter's profession says, Peter, you've become a pirate. Some might say the lost boys should have been less like little kids and a little more bad-ass but that would defeat their purpose. The reason they left for Neverland was to always be little kids and have fun. "},{"Title":"Fantastic kids' movie","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This different take on the life of Peter Pan is a joy to see again and again, assuming you have the light, fun-loving heart necessary to live in Never Land yourself.A middle aged Peter Banning who has forgotten he was once Peter Pan must return to Never Land to rescue his children after they were captured by the conniving Hook, still anxious to kill Pan after all these years. With the help of Tinkerbell and the Lost Boys, Peter must find the Pan in himself if he is ever going to be able to rescue his children and defeat the Hook once and for all.The wonderful Land of Never is fantastically created, including friendly mermaids to an outrageous imaginary food fight. The Pirate ships are decked out with the expected patch eye-ed pirates down to the stuffed trophy croc towering over all. About as realistic as the thought of Never Land itself (perhaps all viewers will agree with this statement, depending on personal beliefs in the extraordinary...).Overall, a staple on the kids' video shelf in my opinion. "},{"Title":"This is the kind of movie that inspires...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...And stays with you your whole life. I loved this movie when I saw it at 3 and still love it. It's magical and its fun. But it's more than that. Spielberg has taken a legend passed down and reworked it, giving depth to characters we thought we had figured out. Its original. And John Williams' score is one of his best. Don't look for plot holes and acting flaws - it's not that kind of movie. Enjoy the ride that this takes you on and have fun with one of Robin Williams' best performance and Dustin Hoffman's absolutely brilliant portrayal of a lovable villain. You'll see why the title is Hook and not Pan. Even Bob Hoskins and Maggie Smith are perfect too - they bring this world alive. "},{"Title":"It rocks!","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yes it may be an old movie, and not really go with the book, but it's still good nonetheless.Hook has pretty much an all star cast, with Robbin Williams as Peter Banning/ Peter Pan, Dustin Hoffman as Hook and Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell. And to top it all off, it was directed by Steven Spielberg. If that hasn't sold ya then...you must be crazy or something.For all of you who have not seen this movie, go! go and get it now! it's a really good film that deserves to be watched.  "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  hook is one of those amazing movies from my childhood that own but will watch if it's on TV there is just something about it that makes you stop and watch. an really it is just way to much fun. It is the movie of the 90's and for all the kids born in the mid 80s it came at the right time for us we were just old enough to sit through movies so like little mermaid Hook became one of our favorites. Robin Williams Is a god to me. Hook is protrayed so well in this movie you Love to hate him and you still feel sorry for him just a little bit. that makes a good villain the ones you enjoy seeing on screen. and who doesn't love rufio i mean gawd. RUFIO RUFIO RU FI OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO "},{"Title":"In Defense of Spielberg","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have noticed that many reviewers on IMDb love to lambaste Spielberg for his lack of creative vision.  Obviously, they cannot think for themselves and are spoiled by art-house garbage.  Spielberg has story-telling skill, but rarely does he let the production get in the way.Hook is an unfortunate example of the latter.  It is beautiful to look at, sometimes a little too sugar-coated, and filled with the same moralistic hooey that fills many of his other films.  Close Encounters failed because it tried to make 'family sentimentalism' part of the story.  JAWS succeeded because he used it as a subtext and not a dominant point.  Saving Private Ryan and Schindler's List were also loaded with it, the latter being the stronger film.  Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade even tried infusing it, but it was totally unnecessary.  I think that was more of George Lucas' fault for trying to mix the same messages of the Star Wars series with the symbolically-dead Jones.Hook's production design is fantastic, surpassing what Disney did with his version of Peter Pan.  You have a politically-correct band of lost boys (no vampires this time) and a typical old white guy as the villain.  This is almost as creative as the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.  Robin Williams is a curious comparison to the world because he spends so much time trying to be funny that his more serious scenes fall flat.  I guess it's just for the easily emotive.By the way, whoever thought that Julia Roberts should be in this movie ought to be shot.  Dustin Hoffman gets a little too far into character as Captain Hook, but I can tell Spielberg was pulling his strings the whole time.Overall, you don't need to see this to understand Spielberg.  To all you haters out there, I challenge you to review ALL his work, not just this and 1941.  Fantasy fans might like watching this to tide them over until the next Lord of the Rings.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i love this movie. it is so good. very original. steven spielberg is a wonderful director. i enjoy everything about this movie. even though the prim audience is probably children, the humor is more targeted at adults; the lawyer humor, etc. i was quite young when it first came out, i was 3, so i didn't understand everything about it of course. this was so creative. what if peter pan grew up? this is one of my favorite movies. robin williams adds some of his delightful comedy in this. watch and enjoy. 10 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"in some ways good, in some ways terrible","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a touching and funny movie in some parts, but irritating in others. Robin Williams trying to act like a pirate was funny, Captain Hook was all-around funny, the lost boys were very touching and well-played. But--Julia Roberts was horrible, the bratty children of Peter were even worse. I wished Hook would've have killed them on the spot! The kids' mom was terribly over-acting, Rufio was an irritating jerk-off, and Smee was quite terrible. I thought Maggie Smith as Wendy was good, and Tootles was good. Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad.  "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I adored this movie when it came out. I love the Disney version, so this sisn't disappoint me. Applying this to the cartoon's plot was great. It didn't try to create something new, which I liked. Peter Panny is a self-involved workaholic who gets a lesson on being his old self, Peter Pan. Of course, with children in tow, he'll learn to fly and be all the things kids and adults wish they could do stay young forever. Still, everybody's got 'sponsibilities, and Pan's got to make a decision. It was endearing and a great film to kick back and watch. I've seen worse films to bag, and this ain't one of them. "}{"Title":"An Awesome Movie","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The last person to review this (about three years back) said that this movie was awful and they brag about having seen it three times. Well, that's nothing. From the time I was 3 years old until now, I have to have seen this movie countless times. Sure, I liked it as a kid because it was a cute little movie. And now, as I watch it at the age of 14, I can still say I enjoy it. Very, very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Stop being w***ers","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Geez, you guys are bitter! Whats up with hacking this film to pieces? I thought it was great. The costumes and sets were creative and colorful, the children were adorable, Williams, Hoffman, and Roberts were great... the plot was nice, and the ending was fun. I mean, its only flaw was that Elijah Wood wasn't in it, and I say that about every film anyways, just cuz I'm in love with the boy. So stop being such wa***rs- the film is adorable and funny and whimsical. "},{"Title":"youve got to use your imagination, believe","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i love the peter pan story, i love the magic that goes along with it. at first i didnt think very much of this movie. but this was truly a heart capturing adventure. i soon felt that i too was on the same journey as mr. peter panning. you have to remember how to believe. i could have done w/o the big name actors minus williams, he was good. i had fun watching this movie, it seemed to fit the peter pan story. worth watching i say.  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really liked the movie when i was younger and I'm glad to own it now on DVD =). I love the cast Robin Williams and Julia Roberts. I also think Steven Spielberg has made some of the best films. It's hard to explain why I love this movie but I just do.  "},{"Title":"Job Well Done by Everyone","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I agree with Daniel Coninx below 100% I just wanted to say this movie couldn't be better.. I was 10 years old when I first saw it at the movies.. And I saw it again every day there after until they took it out of the theater.. And on that day, I was disappointed, so I went to see Medicine Man instead, which was also good.. I have never done that since with any movie at the theater, in fact, I don't think I have even seen a movie twice, at the theater,, On video, that is a different story.. No wait, I did see The Ninja Turtles several times.. This was a great movie, with a great story and message behind it..  "},{"Title":"Poignant fun movie about family issues.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie Hook creates helpful insight about the importance of family.It suggests that parents can become better parents by getting back in touch with their own inner child and by giving their children the attention and love they need to thrive. It also points out some important issues about the negative influence of Hook who tried to alienate Peter's son Jack against his own Dad. This is an issue that comes to the fore when divorced parents try to alienate their children against the other parent. An enjoyable and sensible movie for the whole family regardless of age. "},{"Title":"Not entirely successful but full of Spielberg magic","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The score my John Williams is nice. The performances are generally good. The story could have used some more work early in development but it's by far the best  Peter-Pan-grows-up-and-becomes-a-heartless-yuppie-Film. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i saw this movie when i was 7 years old. i loved it, and i still love it today. first of all, it's a great story. everyone knows the story of peter pan, and this one just expands on it. i think the only part that's really questionable for me, and i just wish they kept out, was the part where the little girl (peter's daughter) is singing that song on the ship. that part i didn't even like when i first saw the movie. the least they could have done was dub her voice with someone that could actually sing, i get embarrassed every time i watch it for some reason. but overall i really like it. i'm sure grownups who see the movie wouldn't like it because it is a kid's movie, but it's the kind of movie that will grow as the years pass and the kids who liked it will continue to like it. i guess it's because kids like most movies they see when they are a kid, especially if it's a movie that's made for kids (obviously). and i guess the feeling that they had the first time they saw the movie sticks with them when they grow older. how many movies that you loved when you were a kid do you hate now? basically this is a good kids movie, if you are a hardcore movie lover that's seen almost every movie ever made, this isn't the movie for you. i see this as more proof of what a great director steven spielberg is. the same guy who made schindler's list and saving private ryan, knows how to make a really good kids movie at the same time. and he knows how to deliver it in a fashionable, clean, and up-to-date matter. when i first saw this movie, i didn't know he made it, i probably didn't even know much about him in the first place. but a few years ago when i saw that he made this movie, it did nothing but make me like it even more. i don't think i have ever seen a bad spielberg movie (and yes i liked A.I.). "},{"Title":"Adventure just screams","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  its a great film, although for kids its quite funny in places and robin williams is great in it!! it just makes you want adventure and to get out of the hell hole that your life is. The kids are great actors and Captain Hook just totally makes the film! Great quotes and Julia Roberts is amazing in it! overall a great film "},{"Title":"A simply BREATHTAKING fantasyland of childhood imagination!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  But first, let's hear one of those taunting kiddie songsPeter Pan and Wendy's girl sitting in a treeK-I-S-S-I-N-G!First, comes love and then marriage.Now Wendy's girl is spilling such preciousy offspringTo parade around in a fancy baby carriage.So as a family man, Peter Pan is now gray and aaaaaging!Too bad Peter Pan's family still suffers from dysfunctional problems typical of any old family in the 1990s. Poor, poor needy little kids crying for their workaholic dad, who's simply too busy with his lawyer duties and keeping a death grip on his cell phone to pay much attention to his wifey 'n' kiddies. Yet this doesn't stop him from taking his clan out to England to visit Granny Wendy and placing the tots in such elegant nursery rooms where the old lady herself once send her Victorian childhood with her brothers. Whoops...look what happened! The kids are GONE!!! KIDNAPPED!!! MURDER!!! FIRE!!! Peter Pan's old nemesis, Capt'n Hook himself had somehow escaped the crocodile's jaws and had vowed revenge after stuffing and displaying the unfortunate beast's body in public. So lo and behold! It's time for Peter Pan to revive his very own boyhood legends so he can get his small fries back...only if he can get his old noggin out of this dense fog that had made him so middle-aged as well as preventing him from realizing his very own past - fantastic or otherwise. But first, he had to impress the Lost Boys - the very tribe he had once led AND his very own sweet-faced brats he had came so far to rescue from the mean-spirited clutches of the aging pirate captain. So let's go for a quick dip in The Fountain of Youth, boys!!!Though this sparkling little Spielberg gem may has some pretty sticky moments (the misty flashback of the boyish Peter Pan mashing lips with the young girl that had obviously resulted in such juicy babies), it nevertheless carries such a MARVELOUS wealth of whimsical eye candy, swashbuckling adventures, dreamy flights of fantasy, child-like wisdom, and really funny sight gags as well as a truly ASTONISHING range of imagination that had made just about everything possible, including such a stunning scene of THREE moons in the Neverneverland sky that really made me gasp inward! And it's also refreshing to see a grown man just enjoying himself like a kid once again (ironically, THAT'S a natural knack to ENJOY LIFE ITSELF that we have all so unfortunately lost once we reach our seething and fuming puberty!) Oh, one more thing...I think it's really cute to see our own Julie Roberts fluttering about in a fairy garb!) "}{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Go see this movie.  If you want to see an action packed-adventurous movie then you need to see this movie.  Robin Williams plays the superb role of Peter Pan.  After Hook yoinkses Pan's kids, Pan goes back to Neverneverland and gets together with the lost boys to have a sweet battle with the evil pirates.  Take my word, this movie is equivilent to eating forty packages of Gushers.  "},{"Title":"really good","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is a really good movie. It is for kids and adults. The plot was good, and the music. I've watched this movie so much, and It never gets old. This is a movie for anyone with imaginations. When I watch this movie it makes me wander what it would be like to FLY. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good fantasy movie, and with an imagination. Oh, another thing Williams, and Hoffman were excellent at the roles.  "},{"Title":"an underrated gem.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why do people keep dissing this movie so much???    It's certainly not Spielberg's best, but not his worst.  (1941 deserves that honor.)  Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman are excellent.Fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Deviates too much","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook as a movie is fine. But to those out there who treasure the story and brilliance of J.M. Barrie, it is simply dreadful. Being one who acted in a stage performance of the original play (as Curly), this film is seen as a travesty. There are too many instances that important details are overlooked. For example, there were originally 6 lost boys; Curly, Tootles, Nibs, Slightly, First Twin, and Second Twin. Then Peter. There are seven doors for seven boys, but in this film there's one big-ass door and a hollowed out tree, not the house under-the-ground. Also, where are the red skins? They are a vital part of the story! And another thing, since Peter is pretty much the only boy left on the Neverland (the lost boys decide to live with the darlings) where did this plethora of 20 to 30 lost boys appear from? And how the hell did Ruffio get there, if Peter was the only one who could bring people to and from? And how did that fat black kid know Tootles if Tootles left before all of other lost boys came? There's too many holes and deviations. It is a bad representation of Peter Pan. "},{"Title":"its a great flick OK!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I really don't care what others say. The movie Hook is a fun movie that is great for the entire family. I've watched it with my dad and sisters for many years and every time it seems just as enjoyable. Robin Williams is very good and the story is clever. Although some may say it's insulting to the original story it still brings new magic to the fable of pan. I believe that kids and parents alike came both enjoy the movie. So to all you killjoys out there just lighten up and take it for what it is, a fun, creative, family film. I really don't understand all the terrible reviews. Almost everyone I've talked with about the movie seem to have enjoyed it so watch it! "},{"Title":"WHY  do we have to forget it all??","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In this one, Peter is a grown man.. It's a novel idea, and the film contains the grown Peter's 2 children at the center of the whole plot, needing their Dear Ol'Dad to revisit the site of his own legend to rescue them from that Old Codfish,HOOK himself ! The film contains a beautiful score, and an eternally youthful Robin Williams is ideally cast as the legendary PETER! Also of note is Dustin Hoffman, dastardly and evil, and smirking as the Captain, and the LOST BOYS are beguiling, esp the eldest boy, Dante Basco, who plays RUFIO, and Isiah Robinson, as POCKETS. ANYONE who claims the film is awful beyond words HAS forgotten everything for sure! Take a few hours and escape into that wonderful NEVERLAND, where childhood STILL LIVES! NO Old Fogeys are allowed! What's SO TERRIBLE about THAT? "},{"Title":"A Great Adventure","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The story Peter Pan has fascinated children and adults all over the world and has been made into movies and musicals. The idea of never growing up and always having fun and adventure seems to captivate people of all ages. But what would happen if Peter Pan did grow up and left Never Land.In Steven Spielberg's Hook, Robin Williams plays Peter Banning, an orphan turned into a work-aholic father of two children Jack and Maggie, and wife to Moira. Her grandmother is called Granny Wendy (Maggie Smith) who claims to be the real Wendy from J.M. Barrie's Peter Pan. When Peter and his family go to London they star with Granny Wendy. One night after coming back from a dinner in Granny Wendy's honor, they discover the children to be gone. They find a note signed Captain James S. Hook. The police have no leads and Peter is upset. Granny Wendy decides it is time to tell Peter his true identity...he is Peter Pan. Peter is freaked out and doesn't believe it until he has a visitor that night; his long time friend Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts). Tink, as she likes to be called, takes Peter back home to Never Land.The story revolves around Peter trying to get his kids back from Captain Hook played wonderfully by Dustin Hoffman and Peter trying to find his true identity. The change from civilization to fantasy is a little hard for him to handle. Trying to convince the Lost Boys that he is Peter Pan and that he has kids is difficult and they put him through a lot. With the help of Tink and the Lost Boys, they try to get back Jack and Maggie from Hook and his plan with the help of his first mate Smee (Bob Hoskins) to make the children love him.What makes this movie so enjoyable is the combination between the real world and the fantasy world of Never Land. Williams is a very believable Peter Pan, despite his size and age, as well as Roberts as Tink. These two make a great duo to face off against Hook. This movie isn't just for kids. It's a perfect mix of adventure and fantasy that is fun for the whole family. It will bring a smile to anyone's face. How can it not with music by John WIlliams? This movie is Bangarang! "},{"Title":"Critics Don't Always Know a Good Thing. . .","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie didn't rate well with critics (sometimes a really good thing). It's too bad, though, because this is a terrific flick. Our entire family (ages 6 to 46) enjoys this movie year after year. It's just a lot of fun.Dustin Hoffman is very funny, even a tad twisted, as Cap't. Hook (and I'm no Hoffman fan as a rule). Robin Williams is in better control of himself than he often can be, and makes you really believe that Peter Pan is and does as Mr. Barrie's original character did. And Bob Hoskins (Smee) is a gem of an understated comic here.Don't be fooled by the detractors or critics -- see this and believe in some make-believe for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Definitely underrated","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  To describe my relation to Hook in just a few words A fantastic movie, even though I've never been fascinated by the Peter Pan stories. I'm 19 years old and I saw this movie eleven years ago (1992) and I still love it after over a dozen viewings. The story, the way it looks, the characters (especially how they've developed since the main Pan story), the feeling. In my opinion, Hook is a competent fairytale, not to mention VERY well done! In my top ten. "},{"Title":"The ultimate kids movie!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The movie serves it's purpose very well and that purpose is to entertain the young ones.Oh boy, did I loved this movie as a kid and so did all my friends. However now that I'm older I of course look differently at the movie and I've also more critic at it.It's a fantastic fantasy movie that suffers from a silly story and bad looking sets. It's so obviously filmed in a studio, that it truly reminded me of an old B-movie from the 50's. And sure, the story is original and fun but it also has some silly and just plain weird plot lines in it, that don't suit the movie because they distract too much from the main plot line and will probably bore the kids as well.The performances are excellent. Robin Williams actually plays one of the best roles out of his career! Dustin Hoffman is highly amusing as Captain Hook and the lost boys are just awesome! The movie has some excellent jokes and funny moments in it, which all makes the movie more than pleasant to watch. The action is Spielberg-like-good and the cinematography and music are more than excellent. The ending is somewhat disappointing because...well, it just looks weird and too fake, like it was rushed (which it probably also was).However I don't think it's really fair from us grown ups to judge over this movie since it was obviously made for kids. So let the young ones judge this movie. I'm sure they'll enjoy it and are capable of looking past the fake looking sets and other weaker points of the movie. They most likely won't be disappointed and shall enjoy watching it from start till finish, unlike probably most of the fair and objective adults.Nevertheless, I still consider this to be the ultimate kids movie!6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"This movie is truly one of my childhood favorites and a great movie all its own.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Honestly, despite the crap people here throw on Hook, I've always enjoyed watching this movie when it comes on TV. I still cry during the scene where Pan goes back to the tree where the lost boys hid out in the original cartoon. He starts to remember this past of how he was orphaned, taken to neverland, and watched his best friend Wendy grow old as he forever stayed a young boy. Reaching deep into his past of sadness and happiness, Pan (Robin Williams) evokes real emotion from the audience. Perhaps this is not one of Spielberg's better films, but to me, this is saying alot about the man. The fact that love one of his lesser effort as a childhood favorite, makes me want to watch all the rest of his films, such as Encounters and the Color Purple. Spielberg is truly a great director, and this movie, while not showing every facet of the man's ability, is truly an enjoyable and memorable ride. Please watch this movie (with an open mind) and judge it for what it is, not as a flawless work of a master director. As for me, this movie has a true treat, an fantastic heart-warming family movie like we all need every now and then. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Why does everone dislike theis film????","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   I really loved this movie. What if peter pan grew up? Robin Willams plays Peter Banning which is an greedy adult version of Peter Pan. Dusitn Hoffman plays as Capitan Hook, which he did a very good job of. And Julia Roberts played the magical fairy Tinkerbell. What happens is that an adult Peter Pan returns to neverlands to save his children from Capitan Hook. But he has forgotten everything, how to fly, fight, or crow. So tinkerbell has three days to train him up with a big fight with Capitan Hook,to get his children back. Besides the movie being good the canera work was beatiful and the musical score was one of the greatest I have ever heard. I give Hook a 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"I thought it Kicked Tail!!!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Whoever thought that this movie was bad... obviously never saw it! Besides the fact that Robin Williams rules, Dustin Hoffman rules as the Captain! I've seen literally thousands of movies but few of them amount to as much fun as this one! For a good time... Drink Whenever They Say Bangerang, Tink or Peter Pan. For a hammered time... add Rufio to that list! All in all, I thought this movie was awesome and if people from Britian don't like it... well, it's because they're still p***ed over the whole Tea-Party incident. "},{"Title":"Hook!!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a fantastic take on the ever classic story of Peter Pan.  Robin Williams plays Peter Banning.  A businessman who never seems to believe in anything remotely magical until one day....Hook (1991) has to be my favorite movie of the year for 1991.  I can not think of a better family film during that time.  Hook had an all star cast of actors including Dustin Hoffman, Robin Williams, Julia Roberts and Bob Hoskins.Although 11 years have passed and the film is showing it's age.  I believe it still stands up to the testament of time as a great film.  I give it 3 out of 4 stars for delightful fantasy fun.I truly loved this film with all my heart.  My favorite scene is battle at the end with Hook.  Very good! "},{"Title":"One of the best fairy tales ever to be seen","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Another movie which everyone trashes . WHY ? WHY ? WHY ? OK it does not have such a great plot (on the action side) but it is one of the most beautiful stories printed in celluloid . The first hour of the movie is probably the best one . Even the fact that 30 minutes pass before the trip to Neverland without any action and you don 't get bored (and I have seen it several times) is a very positive sign . We are introducedto the family of Peter (Robin Williams) a workaholic lawyer who travels to London for Christmas to meet his dear step mother Wendy (Maggie Smith) . One of the most legendary one-liners is said when she hears that he takes advantage of bankrupt (sinking) companies .  So , Peter you 've become a pirate!  . When his children are mysteriously kidnapped he encounters a fairy (Julia Roberts) who tells him he is the long-lost (and short of memory) adult now Peter Pan . She forcely drags him into Neverland where they meet his old nemesis , the one armed chief pirate Captain James Hook (Dustin Hoffman) who still wants his revenge.             The sets and costumes are brilliant . Hook belongs to a kind of movies which prove that cinema CAN MAKE DREAMS COME TRUE . There are classic scenes such as the first scene where Tinkerbell meets Peter or Peter on the pirate ship meeting Hook . Unfortunately the plot utterly falls flat during the second hour but the marvellous finale hopefully restores our interest . Despite the lack of plot the story itslef isvery engaging . The kid becomes an adult and must deal an old enemybefore leaving this fantasy world forever . Julia Roberts and Dustin Hoffman give good perfomances . The latter , to me , is STILL unrecognisable under the make up , after the 6 or so times I have watched the film . Is it really him ???!!!. Maggie Smith is very good and Bob Hoskins as Smee is enjoyable . One of the reasons I wrote this review is to declare that this IS Robin William 's best dramatic performance to date (forget the Fisher King or Dead Poets Society) . He is purely excellent in both aspects  a typical-mannered, obsessed with career yuppie initially , and at the end he finds his old madness and is a campy and WILD hero which looks like a restless and hypercinetic kid. (I don 't believe there would be another actor capable of playing Peter Pan). In the middle of course he is very confused and sceptical about what is going on .         Nevertheless Hook is one of Stephen Spielberg 's better works to date . For you who like fantasy films it is a must see . Forget the bad comments from cynical people . Maybe they lost the kid inside them forever .HOOK                                      8.5 /10   "},{"Title":"Well-done, has terrific moments, flaws","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hoffman was superb, and lit up the stage like he was the lead on a Broadway play.   Dustin Hoffman is Terrific!  You da man.  Vigor, enthusiasm, and the spark of Real Acting Genius at Work. A pleasure to watch him light up the screen.  The movie's worth watching for Dustin's performance alone. 10+/10.  Marvelous work, as are his other films, like Little Big Man.  A Genius.Bob Hoskins is great as usual, played the #2 like a pro - great to see him working in this one too... 10/10.   He is a craftsman and a pro.Julia Robert's Tink... she was best when she was tiny and we couldn't see much of her lol.     Julia, what happened?   You had a few moments, but you weren't pixie-ish at all.  Like someone said you looked like you were waiting for Richard Gere or something... you were a supposed to be the Supporting actress in this one, not the star, remember?  We don't want to feel sorry for your character.  Agree re comments the romance piece was totally out of place here (writers/directors' fault).  But, your delivery was non engaging, just so-so... not the writers' faults, you could have done more with the part.  Julia gets a 5/10.Robin Williams tried, but he seems a bit too old to play the part... maybe a newcomer would have been a better choice, younger actor in the role.   He delivers a solid performance, it would have been nicer to see more Pan and less Peter Banning, he was just ok... 7/10.   Overall Robin's a true genius too, (eg good morning vietnam) but he was a bit out of place in this film..The actress who played Wendy, and her older companion who lost his marbles, were both great supporting cast.  9/10.The Lost Kids turned in a nice performance too, with believable work done on their part.  9/10The actress who played Moira was wallpaper, totally forgettable. 6/10Spielberg - Visuals, direction and pacing were excellent per Steven's usual work.  8/10Bottom Line Hoffman's performance was simply superb.  It will stay with me. The movie is great fun, and highly recommended for the young and the young at heart etc.Well worth watching, it moved me, and I wish I could see more Dustin Hoffman in these disney-esque types of movies.  He is great.  Robin Williams is terrific too, just not in this film lol.Overall, 8-/10 rating...   good movie, could have been better. "},{"Title":"A balanced view (finally!)","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have read so many user comments on IMDB about this movie, and it seems to me that most people have a very extreme view, one way or the other, for whatever reason - and this doesn't help the IMDB user who might be thinking about seeing the movie, because all they are getting are either biased, or emotional, views - or both.So, to set the record straight, I am going to attempt to write a fair analysis of 'Hook'. Bear in mind, first of all, that even though England, Australia and the USA all allegedly speak the same language, we all have very different cultures and expectations of entertainment. Given this information, you can assume that 1) Americans will *generally* like this movie better than the English or Australians, and 2) The English will *generally* tend further towards a negative view of the movie.These comments are not intended to give offence, they are based on my experiences of living abroad for many years and having experienced different cultures.Onto the movie itself. It has been criticised as being saccharine. It is my opinion that in places this criticism is justified. I do agree that Robin Williams can tend towards overacting, however bear in mind that the lines he says were written by other people. I personally thought that the child actors playing Jack and Maggie were not given a fair chance by the scriptwriters as many of their lines were obviously written to pull at the heartstrings of the audience rather than reflect 'reality' (which is a relative term in a movie that does not deal with the real world) - by reality I refer to the reality of how a real child would react in that situation. However, if the scriptwriters' aim was to pull at the heartstrings, then they succeeded, judging by the comments of many users concerning 'Hook'.'Hook' has also been criticised as being badly cast. I personally think that when Williams is good, he is very good, and when he is bad - turn it off! I personally thought Hoffman was so good that I didn't even recognise him until the credits came on at the end. He has been criticised for hamming it up - well, this is a movie based on the concept of fantasy. Of course he is hamming it up. Most children's fantasies *are* larger than life.(WARNING Spoiler ahead) The romantic interlude has been criticised, and I would agree with the fact that it was not ideal, but for different reasons. The fact that it was short was not a problem in terms of the film's logistic flow. However I suspect that whole scene went right over the heads of the children watching, and probably most of the adults too, because it required your brain to switch from 'light entertainment' mode to 'emotional drama' mode in a split second. Here is what I think is the logic of that scene Tinkerbell is upset, because she knows that Peter will leave Neverland as soon as he has rescued his children. She wants him to stay, and seeing as he is now an adult, she tries to convince him to stay using an adult tactic - 'I've always loved you'. However her plan backfires because first of all, Peter has now remembered so much about his past in Neverland that he is no longer in 'adult' mode, but is fully the original Peter Pan again, and secondly, in explaining to him that she is upset because he will leave once his children are rescued, she reminds him of the adult world and the fact that she is not a part of his adult world. He goes off to rescue the children, back in full light-entertainment-swashbuckling mode. It is a short, subtle scene, and in my opinion does not belong in the movie.For those who hated Julia Roberts in the role, I would agree she was perhaps not the ideal choice, but to give her credit, I think she did a good job with what she had. Consider that she would have acted most of those scenes alone, against a blue backdrop, so that later on her image on film could be miniaturised and pasted on top of the scenes with Williams and the children.The sets have been criticised. One user said 'Hook's ship looks like it has never seen the sea let alone sail on it, moored as it is on one of the most unconvincing sets ever constructed.' This person obviously has not taken to heart that 1) We are in Neverland here, and the rules are different this ship does go to sea, but the important thing is that it should look like a child's fantasy pirate ship, not that it is seaworthy. and 2) This movie is aimed at children and the young-at-heart, and I suspect that if all you can do is criticise the accuracy of the set, you have missed the point.One user said 'One scene that involves the lost boys at dinner engaged in banal childish name calling should have been excised from the movie after the first screening and burnt,it is Spielberg at his most unconstrained' Hmmm, once again I think this person does not remember what it is like to be a child. Elaborate name-calling is one of the oldest rites of childhood. The important thing is not to crush the spirit of your opponent, but to come up with a more breath-taking vocab than they can!Finally, one IMDB reviewer says 'Hook is reasonably entertaining in a mindless sort of way, I suppose'. Hear! Hear! That is exactly what it aims to be, entertaining, and not taxing on the brain cells. That is what its message is - have some fun for once and stop being so serious all the time.I did not love this movie, it is not my favourite movie, far from it. However I hope I have shown that many of the criticisms that have been expressed are not always balanced. 'Hook' is a good fun film - but only if you are willing to let it be one.  "},{"Title":"Speilberg makes another good film","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Steven Speilberg makes another good film. What if Peter Pan grew up? That's a good question which Speilberg answers with Hook. It's very imaginative, thoughtful, with great acting.Dustin Hoffman, Robin Williams, Maggie Smith, Julia Roberts, and a little role for Gwyneth Paltrow - seeing those names = good movie for kids and adults alike. Very well done! "},{"Title":"I Think This Movie Was GREAT!!!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've seen this movie when I was 7 or 8, and I loved it and I still love it. Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman did a good job playing their roles- but I thought the child-actors were eye-catching. I even had a crush on Charlie Korsmo!! I also thought Amber Scott (who played 'Maggie') was great- she's an amazing actress. I wonder why she didn't go for hollywood. Julia Roberts looked quite horrible in fairy costume. Charlie, I still think you're great.  "},{"Title":"A fantastic update by the master of cinematic storytelling!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Contrary to the opinions of many, I completely enjoyed Hook.  It was a testament to Steven Spielberg's masterful direction through the eyes of a child.  In this case, one of the most famous children in the world, Peter Pan.  The writing was superb; not too much for kids to understand, but enough humor to keep adults interested.  The special effects are so fabulous for 1990, and add beauty and majesty to the film.  The role of Captain Hook was marvelously acted by the great Dustin Hoffman.  And who better to play a grown-up child than the actor who embodies the spirit of every child, Robin Williams.I quite loved the movie and watch it quite often for it's intelligence, wit, heart, and sheer magic.  Hook, in my opinion, was one of Steven Spielberg's best. BRAVO! "}{"Title":"One of the best Spielberg/John Williams combos...","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Despite all the negative reactions from the critics when this movie was released, I think that Hook was one of the most interesting and beautiful movies that Steven Spielberg has ever made. I know, I know, why in the world would I think that? After all, he's made so many other more meaningful movies. This is how most pretentious, stuck-up nerf-herding critics respond to Hook. However, this just means that these people have absolutely no connection with their inner child. These are the same people who hate Jar-Jar Binks in Star Wars Episode I in his entirety (but that's a different story). Never-neverland was a wonderful, fresh new fantasy land, and even though its inhabitants may not be what one expects, I believe the changes were for the good and showed that people can still have an ounce of creativity within them. The relationship between Rufio and Peter (Robin Williams) was at first angering and then heart-wrenching. My favorite part is when the Lost Boys finally realize that Peter really is THE Peter Pan (despite his lawyerhood) and when John Williams' music takes your heart and makes it truly soar to great heights. This is also one of John Williams' better scores. Also, Charlie Korsmo's (playing Jack Banning) acting was superb for someone who was still quite young. I don't know what movie the critics saw. I guess they just are too jaded nowadays to appreciate this comedic and emotional story on childhood. "},{"Title":"One of Spielberg's many great films","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember the first time I watched this movie.  It was my favorite movie for I guess a couple of years.  It had (and still has) all the combined qualities of what a great film should be. It has great acting (I thought Hoffman gave an Oscar-caliber performance, and Robin Williams was great too. Just the right blend of straight and funny as only he can.  And once again, John Williams provides a superb musical score.  I'm beginning to think the Academy is more jealous of him than they are of Spielberg (come on, 33 nominations, only 5 wins).  The film has that magical ability to draw you into a fantasy world.  Spielberg has that uncanny ability to put you where he wants you to be.  This may not be his greatest film, but he is undoubtedly the greatest director there is, has been, or ever will be. "},{"Title":"This opened my eyes.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I honestly think this is one of Steven Spielberg's messages to society. Very often is Spielberg considered, The child who never grew up, so why do you think this movie was made? Too much criticism over this wondrous movie. It really made me think to myself, I could be a kid again!, and it has! It was just the movie I needed to convince me that I can hold on to the child within. Anyone can. You don't need to fly away to NeverNever Land, but it would be nice if some people would once in a while. "},{"Title":"A happy thought.","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Peter Pan is all grown up and has kids and has forgotten his life as Peter Pan. Well Captain Hook comes along and kidnaps them. It's up to Peter to go back and retrieve his children. It isn't easy to learn how to fight, fly and crow all over again.I thought that this was a really magical movie. It's a nice family movie and I liked the part where the guy flew out the window in the end and was just so happy. He really did lose his marbles. Most of the movie was happy and magical. The voice of Captain Hook is awesome. It's deep and sinister. Dustin Hoffman did an excellent job as Captain Hook. I cannot think of anyone else who could play that part as well as he did.Think happy thoughts and see this movie. "},{"Title":"See this Movie","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is fantastic! It lets you escape to a fantasy world and lets you forget about your worries. This movie gives hope to those that have none. Many might say this film is BS or F&^%ing awful but they are only commenting on their own lives. It's a brilliant magical film that lets you forget the thoughts of everyday life. Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman portrays their characters in unbelievable fashion. I believe that this is one of Spielberg's finest films. When I saw this in theaters I felt that it was a phenomenal approach to the untold story of Peter Pan and Captain Hook. This movie will forever be on my top 10 list, and anyone that speaks otherwise is insecure within their own body. Go Hook! RUFI-OOOOOOO!!! "},{"Title":"Misses its full potential, but is still fun","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook brings together director Steven Spielberg with material from J.M. Barrie's Peter Pan stories. The combination sounds perfect and Hook is generally a good film, but unfortunately it doesn't realize its full potential. However, that's not to say that the film's premise isn't sound. In fact, it's an interesting twist on the Peter Pan stories Peter Pan has grown up into a work-obsessed father that neglects his kids and has forgotten ever being Peter Pan. Along comes Captain Hook to rekindle the old rivalry between himself and Peter and Peter has to relearn his old ways to combat Hook.I'm not sure why a film about Peter Pan was titled Hook, though, as catchy the title is. The film seems to try to justify this titling by inserting numerous references to hooks early in the film. Putting aside the title, the film has decent though few sets and a great score from John Williams.The film does have a good cast. Robin Williams is appropriate to play a Peter Pan that has grown up but needs to rediscover his past. Julia Roberts proves a fine choice for the role of Tinker Bell. Charlie Korsmo does well as the more focused on of Peter's two children and the rest of the supporting cast is suitable as well. Maggie Smith has a notable appearance as Wendy. The outstanding performance in the film, however, is Dustin Hoffman as Captain James Hook. Hook is portrayed as flamboyant and foppish with a haughty laugh, yet also sinister and at times sarcastic. It was quite amusing how he denoted acts as being either good form or bad form. Bob Hoskins is also amusing as Hook's sidekick, Smee.Where Hook isn't as consistent is in the story. Initially a good story is developed, but from there the execution of the premise is mixed. Most of the film is solid and the film has some great moments, particularly where Captain Hook is involved. However, it tends to get bogged down at times by lingering on scenes such as the insult battle and subsequent food fight. More of the film's time should have been spent on the conflict between Peter Pan and Hook. The final conflict left something to be desired as it relied too much on random contraptions and one child's girth as weapons. The ending is satisfactory even though it is very much expected. Despite its flaws, Hook is a fun Peter Pan film. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film that is victimized by spoiled critics and intense Spielberg cynics.","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film, as I first saw it when I was twelve (maybe thirteen), had an undeniable effect on me. Spielberg largely has influenced my interest in film and stories with Jaws, E.T., Third Encounters, Jurassic Park, etcetera, etcetera. He is a master of conventional entertainment by cleverly implementing life and wonder, awe and visual splendor into his pictures. He does not write these fables, he tells them with a voice and sensibility no other filmmaker has; like a unique, very beautiful, handwriting that actually reads better than the rest. His films have a heart, a soul, and a quiet sort of depth.I watched this movie again and not only was it great nostalgia, it was, as if for the first time, a wonderful experience. The sense of wonderment, the, at first, reluctant adventure, the central theme (as is with many Spielberg films) of family, self-discovery, the playful humor, and the heart it has that never skips a beat. No amount of criticism, observation, or trivia can take this film away from my list of favorite childhood films. I recommend this to every family that has children, every child that has dreams, and every adult that has an open-mind.Consider the scene when Tinkerbell flies through the window, and a startled Peter Banning swats at it as he would a fly Beautiful. Consider the scene where a groggy Peter Banning awakes on a Harbor full of Pirates, and breathlessly approaches one aberrant entity after another, surely belonging to a dream Imaginative. Consider the scene where a newly discovered Peter attempts to fly from a elevated rock, fails, then looks to a youthful reflection in the water and is struck on the head by his son's home-run ball Comforting. Consider the short-lived duel permitted by an arrogant, yet deeply tormented, Rufio where he is incapacitated by Hook then, in a touching last few moments, is disarmed by a father-esquire Peter Pan Touching.There are countless scenes I could revisit over and over again.Despite the constant criticism towards it over it's change in direction and the take on the story, it has no importance when it comes to deciding the enjoyment of this film. The themes it deals with is refreshing in it's form as a classic tale; the emotions ring true, if at times strangely, which is affectuous even when the tone feels uneven. The action, however highly dependant upon it's enormous sets and seemingly limitless props, is exciting, charming, and (unbelievable for popcorn entertainment) uncompromising to central events.There's no arguing that this is great entertainment for all ages (some, however, might have trouble stomaching the movies more tender moments). It is true that Spielberg was rushing for a deadline&#151;a deadline that had been late presenting itself&#151;and that many scenes could not be reshot as they were meant to be, and that the editing was not allowed an adequate time-frame. Spielberg acknowledges the penalty it took on the finished product, but never said he did not like the film (which is largely misconstrued). When you know you could've perfected something, in the eye of it's creator, it's easier to be disappointed by a finished work.My issues with the film are as follows The script, let me say that it feels as if it was written, reworked, still felt hokey, then was reworked again. However, Spielberg did a good job casting a spell with each and every scene, despite their inherent flaws. He reminds us, time and time again, that we care about these characters before it's too late. We are rescued, once again, I think to myself, from absorbing into an action orgy instead of a wonderfully bright, fun, and touching life lesson.For my last remarks, I will say that I am extremely appalled with a majority of viewers that have decided it Speilberg's Worst Film. Those that fall victim to a false loyalty to J.M. Barrie's masterpiece will probably never take their fervent emotions off their mind while watching Hook, and why should they? This is but one of Spielberg's many money-makers, and he needs a couple bad movies on his resume. Come on, the guy's rich; maybe even a little overrated! Screw this movie, Spielberg's job is to make high(est)-end entertainment. We, as a whole, will accept nothing more.This eloquently written, very insightful review has been brought to you by, Sean Stack. (aloycius@gmail.com) "},{"Title":"Delightful Film","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Speilburg offers adventure and excitement to children and adults alike in this very successful adaptation of the children's novel Peter Pan. The very strong cast of well known stars only accents the already powerful and spellbinding charm that this magical film has to offer. While still encompassing the naiveté and adolescence of the lost boys which was very present in J.M. Barrie's novel, Hook allows adults to remember the fear and anxiety a child may encounter when faced with the idea of growing up through the eyes of a child and the reflections of an adult. An instant classic and yet another feat by Speilburg, this film is perfect for any age and will delight people both young and old for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Those who don't like this, have lost the child in them. How sad.","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I find this movie enchanting. I am old enough to know the loss of your inner child is devastating. (I was 19 in '69) Allow yourself to believe and you too will find this movie in the form it was meant to be taken. There are lessons not necessarily to learn but to remember. We are never too old to use our imagination. We get caught up in the life we choose to live and forget the joy of life. Remember a happy thought of your own from childhood and go there. It isn't really hard. Read the story to a child and then watch the movie with them. I think you will find another side of you that you have forgotten. It's there for the taking. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie, take it for what it is","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Don't try to over evaluate this movie or deconstruct it. It's a simple movie made for entertainment purposes. It's a great film in fact, that is for its audience. There is nothing special about it, the film does have the cliché morals, but think about it...it's a children's story! It is entertaining, funny and a thrill to watch, as long as your not trying to pick it apart and go to deep into the film. It stays on the top, the film doesn't delve deep, so don't try going deep yourself. If you haven't seen it you should, it's a classic. This is a movie to be watched for the exact purpose of being a movie. You will be one of the very few who have never seen this film if u don't watch it. WATCH IT. "}{"Title":"Hook is back Good Form, Good form","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Superb, imaginative exciting action adventure showing pan as a grown up taking a different path to the book but life is about seeing things at different angles and I believe this dose that well.This is Every parent's duty to show your child this film if not then it is a spoiled opportunity because this will open your Childs imagination I am 18 myself and I have fond memories of watching this movie it helped shape who I am today.Dustin Hoffman was a superb Hook chilling nasty yet humorous and likable Bad guy while when peter pan played by Robin Williams was also excellent. Rufio was an excellent replacement to peter but the best moment when peter succeeds him is a arm tingling moment. Or the moment when hook kills Rufio ouch nasty right in the stomach So if u watch this yourselves with your children on a dark winters night You will feel the magic of peter pan.Just don't forget to close the window once you send them to bed wouldn't want any visitors at the window. ^_^Hook IS BACK "},{"Title":" A Fantastic Story","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Just a wonderful take on the Peter Pan story, and Robin Williams is simply brilliant as Peter. The style and direction was almost flawless. I did have some problems with it, mainly because I never saw any of the other Lost Boys fly like Peter did, and that bothered me, silly it may be, but it did.The whole cast performed wonderfully. Even the small cameo role by Glenn Close was great, not going to tell you who she played, just keep and eye out for her and you may see HER, hehe. Another actress of notable mention is Maggie Smith. She has been acting in film for 30 some odd years and is just wonderful. Her portrayal of the aged Wendy was both magical and heart wrenching. Although this film isn't perfect, what it does offer is simply fantastic, I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!!!!!","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie, and am still angry about all the bad press and reviews it received.  My kids love this movie.  I bought it for them, because I know how kids like to watch and rewatch movies, and this is one I can (and have!) sit through time and time again.  I thought that the story was great, I thought Dustin Hoffman was terrific. And who else could be Peter Pan all grown up than Robin Williams? I think that people seemed to forget it is a fairy tale and supposed to look as such in NeverLand.  The inside jokes that referred to other movies cracked me up.  Anyone who did not enjoy this film has grown up too much, and could use a trip to Neverland. "},{"Title":"May not be the best but I still love it","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" So I get it, a lot of people really don't like this movie, but I can't figure out why. I saw it for the first time when I was about 7 years old and loved it and in fact I still do. There is this great misunderstanding in our country about films, everyone seems to think they all have to be deep, philosophical, independent type pictures... what's wrong with a little fluff every now and again. I have been studying theater for the last 4 years and have found that the fluff is just as important as the deep, philosophical.This movie is fun, and imaginative. It great for kids, they can relate to the lost boys and Pan's kids. And it's great for adults to remember what it is like to be a kid and how to relate to their own children. The acting may not be Oscar worthy but they all do a very good job. Yeah it's a little corny but let your self get caught up in it, there's no shame in that. It's a great film for kids and maybe those of you who aren't will find it entertaining as well. "},{"Title":"The Greatest celebration of Happiness one can imagine!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is absolutely the most underrated film of all time. Hook is a film that reminds us of the fun it is to be a kid, to have adventures and to live in imagination. It shows us what great times we had when we where young, when we didn't had to work or cope with financial situations.Robin Williams journey to become Peter again is one of the greatest cinematic joy. A miracle of film that works on every level; the cinematography, the direction, the action, the script and above all; the music. Hook is a search for happiness which turns out not only to be found in childhood; but in adulthood alike.I rate this film a solid 10 "},{"Title":"Shut up","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What I don't understand is all these people coming on here bashing it and pointing out stupid plots and scenes. And saying how bad the actors are for it. And talking about how it makes the story look bad. This is a film intended for children. Its not like a 7 year old is going to be sitting in the audience, or sitting in his room or living room saying the actors were horrible and that scene didn't make sense and it didn't follow the book and blah blah blah. If you saw it as a kid, great. If you liked it as a kid, even better. But seriously, whats the point of coming on here and bashing a kids movie? Its not like a child is gonna log onto IMDb and see the comments and decide not to see it. So your pretty much just wasting your time sitting here bashing the movie. I thought it was a good movie, cause I've been a fan of Peter Pan all my life. And this movie was my favorite movie for awhile when I was younger. But seriously, if you don't have anything good to say about a movie, don't say anything at all. Especially if its about a kids movie. "},{"Title":"flawed, but fun...","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" You really have to take Hook with a grain of salt. It's not a perfect piece of work, but I was eight years old when it premiered and the impression it made on me at that young age has stayed with me. It is, after all, a children's movie. Sure, there are parts specifically designed to keep adults interested, but anything remotely related to Peter Pan will always be first and foremost for children. I personally love this movie. It's always been one of those films I can't help watching any time it's on TV. This is an imaginative, brilliantly cast movie with colorful sets, vibrant characters, and beautiful music. It's almost like a live-action cartoon. Robin Williams is nothing short of wonderful as a grown-up Peter Pan, but I have always felt that Dustin Hoffman carried this film. His turn as the flamboyant, oddly sophisticated Captain James Hook leaves audiences wondering how this could be the same actor who blew our minds in Rainman. Hook is a fun movie. I believe that Spielberg set out to make it a fun movie. Don't buy or rent Hook hoping to be educated or enlightened. You WILL be entertained, though, and I think that's exactly why this movie has become a cult classic for so many of us. It's entertaining. It's fun. It's just great. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest stories ever told...","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a great movie for all characters involved. It is a great story of innocence and finding out who you really are. Spielberg did awesome in making this movie and John Williams score is beautiful. This movie is a wonderful continuation of one of the best stories ever created. Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman do a wonderful job of recreating these historic characters. Robin Williams is a wonderful actor who really brings any character he plays to life. The scenery in the movie is awesome and breathtaking. This is a great movie for anyone that grew up on Peter Pan and always wanted to know what happened next. Hook is a great family movie that appeals to old and young. This movie is one of the greats. "},{"Title":"Has some groan moments but overall not that bad","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sure this movie could've been better, especially for a Spielberg film, but it's still got some great moments in it. This film will probably be most appealing to kids, silly at times, but full of swashbuckling fun. Dustin Hoffman does a superb job in the roll of Captain Hook and with Smee at his side I'm reminded of the Luthor Otis relationship in Superman giving a humorous side to our villain's evil persona. Robin William was also perfectly cast, after all who better to play a man who was the boy that never wants to grow up? Neverland itself is exactly what it should be, a wonderful fantasy world full of color and magic. And John Williams score is, in my opinion, truly one of his bests. I say treat this film like you'd treat Phantom Menace, as long as you're not too picky about some cheesy lines and bad kid acting it's a pretty enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"One of the best films i have ever seen.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. With awesome Cast and a movie filled with love, magic,and what it truly means to be a kid again, Hook is one of the best Family films of all time. The lost boys are a beautiful array of different colors, personalities and backgrounds, bringing warmth and fun to the film. Also, Dustin Hoffman as hook.. EXCELLENT, he really brings the cartoon character to life and as hate-able as he was, you had to love him. I've seen this film a million times and every time I see it, it makes me laugh, it makes me cry, it makes me smile, and It truly has something wonderful about it, I wish there were more films out there like this, that give you that good of a feeling inside. "}{"Title":"After I saw this when I was 16, I caught a lot of jokes that I didn't catch when I was 7","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is of course the story of an adult Peter Pan having to fight Capt. James S. Hook one last time. As Pan (now named Peter Banning), Robin Williams is more subdued than usual, but does manage to make the most of the character. As Hook, Dustin Hoffman is almost unrecognizable but never gets dull. Bob Hoskins has some great lines as Smee, Julia Roberts is worthwhile as Tinkerbell, and Maggie Smith is her usual dependable self as an elderly Wendy.I saw Hook when it first came out, and mostly just interpreted it as a cool kids' movie. But when I saw it again nine years later, I caught a lot of jokes. There's Peter's comment about mergers and acquisitions, and the shots of the Beatles poster, for starters. Moreover, Glenn Close and David Crosby have brief appearances. All in all, Steven Spielberg managed to maintain the original story's magic without going overboard (pun intended). And now I realize that Tootles was played by Arthur Malet, who also played young Mr. Dawes in Mary Poppins, and also once appeared on I Dream of Jeannie as Jeannie's Cockney uncle. "},{"Title":"The movie of my life","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is, probably, my favorite movie, in a list of good ones too. But, without no doubt, I love it! When it came out I was just 10, but watched few years later, in 1995, i think. I really don't know nothing about technicals and others properties about cinema, special when I was just 15... so, I love this movie for its essential trust in you, trust in your dreams, trust in the happiness!!!I never believed in Santa Claus or others characters of childhood... but Peter Pan, Tinker Bell and the lost boys were always my friends. I remember when I was looking for the sky and searching for the second right star... Hook brings excellent actors, like Dusting Hoofman, Julia Roberts and Robin Willians as Peter. But above all of them, the movie brings the magic of the childhood, lost into us when we grow up. I cried watching it... and for these day one I dream about a day that i will find a guy just like Peter, after found the miracle of happiness, love and friendship. I grew up so fast.. so many responsibilities... but I decided to be with children... for never forget that little girl that lives in my soul. I learned it with Hook.. I've learned it forever. "},{"Title":"Awesome, awesome, awesome!!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I LOVE HOOK. It reminds me of my childhood and believing in magic, Peter Pan, and fairy tales in general. I first saw this when I was about 7 or so. I remember loving it back then. It touched my heart and made me wish so much that Neverland was a real place. It's funny because as I got older, I still watched it, but I started to get a lot of the jokes made which made certain scenes even funnier. Hook has adventure, magic, and heart and I still love it to this day. It makes me want to believe in magic again, but it's hard to do that as an adult with responsibilities. I am 21 and I don't think I'll ever get sick of it. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done - A Work of Art","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" An amazing movie perfect for children of all ages and appreciated by many adults as well.While it was obviously not made with the intentions of properly following up the book, the creativity in the movie is absolutely astonishing, from the costumes to the script work (there are some pretty witty comments in there).No matter what you personal feelings towards the movie are, it is all about remembering who you are and the people who make you who you are. It is about childhood, and bringing out the best in people. And adventure and comedy, yes, but also a lesson most adults have still to learn. "},{"Title":"I Believe! I DO believe! I do believe in Fairies!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Just watched this movie for the fifth or sixth time. I'm currently 55 and watched it with my wife and our 34 year old daughter. We all laughed, got misty eyed in parts and truly loved it, again. During the commercials (yes, we actually watched it on TV) I ventured to IMDb and read some of the member comments. Those 'reviews' made me feel the need to leave some comments of my own. The image one person left which struck me the most was people with no imagination will probably not like this movie much. So many of the comments were apparently about analyzing it to death rather than letting the movie tickle their too oft unused imagination. 'Hook' is not about Spielberg, or the too many 'Lost Boys' it is about children, dreams, hope, joy, and the passion for life that we often lose as we grow older. More than anything else though - Hook is about not wanting to grow up, even when we are 35 or 45, 55 or beyond. Hook is full of vibrant joyfuller images and examples of the wonder that fills our children's minds about what might just be possible. It is a sadness to see how so many people have lost and forgotten that sense of wonder. Just as Peter had lost his sense of who he was and then regained it - so can we allow happy movies such as this to remind us of that which we may have lost and yet need so much to give us joy and hope in our lives. If we keep the sense of wonder so obvious in Hook, growing older is not the same as growing old. "},{"Title":"The beautiful side to Spielberg's imagination","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hello, I find this film so intelligently magical. I watched this many years ago with my dad. It was amazing. I knew Robin Williams from 'Mrs Doubtfire' and I knew Steven Spielberg from 'Indiana Jones.' I sat down and watched. This film truly unlocked my imagination. I was 4 or 5. And this film was just truly magical. I always after seeing this beautiful movie dreamt of going to Neverland with Peter Pan. My wishes came true in my dreams. I flew with Peter to the faraway place called, Never-Neverland. I was in heaven. It was my dream and i have concurred it. I thought myself the luckiest person in the world.This film is a look at an adults imagination. I believe 'Peter Pan' is of course based on the character written in the novel by J.M Barrie. But i think the 'Peter' in this film is based loosely on 'Steven Spielberg.' I remember reading once, that Mr Spielberg had lost his childhood and he got it back by watching films and reading books full of imagination. I think he based some of that character on himself. I think Steven Spielberg is one of the best directors in the world who has one of the best imaginations in the world.I think this film is beautiful. It is a heart warming story about an adults loss to gain of imagination. Spielberg re-lives J.M Barries story of Peter Pan, and graciously gives a spectacular film of beauty and imagination.Robin Williams is awesome at playing 'Peter' he knows how to play a adult and a child. If anyone else played that role, it would have been a flop. In all fareness, Spielberg, Williams, Hoffman, Hoskins. There just kids in adults bodies. That is why i respect them so much.Love this film....10/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated, with bad spots","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Spielberg's Hook is often critized as being too childish. Why? Some may say the same thing about Jurassic Park. Hook is a film with some glaring bad spots - John Williams' occasionally irritating score, Julia Roberts' Tinkerbell (and even worse, the minor romance between she and Peter) and a few bits of Hallmark-ian dialogue are basically all I can think of. Let's start at the beginning.Peter Banning, middle-aged lawyer extraordinare, doesn't do a whole lot with his kids. He misses his son Jack's big baseball game, but makes it to daughter Maggie's play. He frequently has to answer his cell phone. On a trip to England, the children are kidnapped by someone claiming to be the literary villain Captain Hook. Peter's adoptive grandmother tells him that the Peter Pan books are all true and that he IS Peter Pan, after leaving Neverland. Unbelieving this, he is confronted by Tinkerbell while drinking and taken off to Neverland to save his children.Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins steal the show as Captain Hook and his assistant Smee in some truly hilarious scenes, including one in which Hook decides to kill himself. The sets, costumes, and dialogue (with some exception, mostly revolving around the Banning children) are good, and the crocodile with the big clock in his mouth is truly, well, cool.Robin Williams looks outrageous in tights, but fortunately, the writers poke fun at themselves. The lost boys are much better portrayed than Disney did and the atmosphere is very piratey (even though in some scenes the viewer feels like they're trapped in a Disney amusement park). It has some real poignancy and then some mock hallmark sentimentality. Williams' score blasts throughout what seems to be the entire picture, which does, in fact, get irritating. Overall 7.5 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful fantasy","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"47 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  HOOK is a film for kids, watched by adults, and therefore criticised. It is true that it was made at a period in Spielberg's life when he really should have been growing up himself (his next two features were Jurassic Park and Schindler's List, made back to back), but take this film at face value and you find a warm, sentimental piece of American culture.The cast all play out their roles superbly, especially Dustin Hoffman as the inimitable Captain Hook. The music is sweeping and glorious, and Spielberg has endeavoured to make the whole film appear fantastic and magical. My only criticism would be its length. Two and a quarter hours is a little long for most childrens' attention spans, and it is best viewed in two seperate installments. Other than this, HOOK is an enjoyably journey into a magical land.  "},{"Title":"Strictly Teen Fare (but not in a bad sense)","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was seventeen or so when this movie came out.  I loved it.  I saw it twice in theaters and bought the LaserDisc.  I still have that disc, but I never watch it anymore.  Why not?  Because I outgrew it.  Robin Williams has some great comedic lines (though far too few), and there are some genuinely heart-felt moments to be sure, but the main purpose of this film is to give teenagers a chance to say good-bye to their childhood.  They knew Peter Pan when they were children, and now Pan is back for one last adventure and to pass the baton to a new generation.  And once that baton has been passed, it's time to move forward.  That is what I and most adults have done, and that is why I highly recommend this film for teens while I advise adults to pass it by. "},{"Title":"not that bad!","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I simply don't understand why so many people are bashing this film lately I mean it's not that bad! I think the reason is because a lot of people try to point out the bad jokes about the film but c'mon they're not all that bad! I mean c'mon it's true that some of the jokes are lame and boring, but so what? there's enough action and heart to win over it so don't go to hard on Spielberg for making this for crying out loud!So it's definitely worth a peek if you're a spielberg fan it won't disappoint I promise you and if it does than shame on you!!!! because like I said and i'm not going to repeat this. DON'T GO TO HARD ON SPIELBERG FOR MAKING THIS FOR CRYING OUT LOUD BECAUSE IT REALLY ISN'T THAT BAD!!!!!!!!!!! out often stars............. A very hard 7 which means it's almost an 8. "}{"Title":"An updated classic tale","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This story picks up after the original Peter Pan.  Peter, after marrying Wendy, has grown older and is lost in the reality.  Hook, still harboring anger towards Peter, kidnaps his kids.  Peter is forced to return to Never Never Land to rescue his children.  In order to rescue his children, he must remember who he is.Although it will never be a critic's favorite, it is a great story of conflict both external and internal.  Character are fun and lively making it an enjoyable family film. "},{"Title":"Pleasant interlude","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Worth watching with the kids, if only for Hoffman's gleeful performance of the all-time favourite pantomime baddie.A film you can't help enjoying, simply because everyone obviously enjoyed making it. Infectious. "},{"Title":"This will take you back to your childhood.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw Willow, and felt close to my childhood days, but when I saw Hook, I felt I was back in my childhood. It made a great impression, even a day after I saw the movie.Great direction by Spielberg, and equally great acting by Dustin Hoffman, Tim Robbins, and Julia Roberts make this a memorable movie. It's difficult to give any one the credit.It's a great idea, Peter Pan, grown up and changed, going back to his Neverland, and remembering old times, and joys. Great acting by evil Capt. Hook (Dustin Hoffman), and Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) gives the feeling that all in the movie is real. A must see movie, if you have forgotten your childhood. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but with Heart","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook may not be the best fantasy that Spielberg ever produced, but what it lacks in many details, it makes up for in heart. It poses the question, what if the one person in the world who never grew up, actually gave life a try.Also, as much as people knock the performances in this film, Dustin Hoffman is amazing as Hook. He truly has the mindset down, and it shows. In addition, though many may hate him, Robin Williams is perfect for this role, and he acts as Peter quite well. I really can't see why people seem to hate this film that much.And what's more, I think it is the truest story to the message that Barrie was attempting to portray, that life is the adventure, and Peter is the one who is missing out on all the fun. "},{"Title":"The First Peter Pan's Movie Entitled Hook ?!!","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Really, why is that ?! But when you watch the movie carefully you'll understand the intended good meaning. This is not quite the (Peter Pan) story or even (Peter Pan Begins) ! It's new modern (Peter Pan), some look upon his mysterious past, the old conflict with the old enemy, a cinematic fairytale with a message BUT MANILY for grown-up people. So we have this time a very busy material narrow-minded father who was once Mr. (Peter Pan) himself ! And further than that he must believe it very soon so he can fly, literally, in the sky of totally fantasy world to fight the noble fight and save his beloved ones; his children (or accurately his inner self childhood). But the movie wouldn't encourage or support evil by the strange title (Hook) or we would've had all the James Bond movies entitled (Lunatic Rich People Who Want To Take Over the World) part 1, part 2 and so on !! Or to name (Superman) as (Lex Luthor's Annoyance) ! But this movie had its own point of view about the predicament of the recent age's man. The script wants to remind us that we'll always meet in our factual life more than one (Hook) who'll force us to recover the dreams of our own childhood, to face him by our very innocence's spirit. (Hook) as in here symbolizes the evil materialism that tries to destroy our true good nature along with every single sense of pure loveliness or charm in ourselves. So we must search for (Peter Pan) in us to save that child (inside us or outside us), combat that non-moral power, and defeat it. Therefore our clean clear soul would have its victory on that violent materialistic evil which the movie presents it through the behavior of (Peter Banning) with his son who could be lost because of it and become a son for (Hook) as less busyness and more caring substitute father. All of that because (Peter)'s oblivion for the tenderness, loss the purity, and having that cold discontinuous relationships with whom supposed to be the nearest beloved ones, or what supposed to be his unsophisticated dreams and original happiness. So he didn't become the old (Peter Pan), he became no (Peter Pan) anymore ! Therefore if we return to this buried senses then we all can fly despite our sensuality, avidity, and failing as they're all together turning us into the odious old monster or.. The perfect (Hook) !That kind of flying you'll find something like it at (E.T) and maybe in almost all of (Spielberg)'s movies to confirm so many fine meanings  the great freedom for our real hidden talents and suppressed heroism, or the fascinating release of our unique beautiful childhood's dreams. It's the ultimate escape from the grown-up's bad world. Once they said that (Spielberg) makes movies which are similar to (Disney)'s movies, completing their nice high messages, and their distinguished magic. In fact here he picked out the elements of the story which had its popularity from (Disney)'s animated movie of 1953, to remake the hero's personality by the high-tech of the 1990s and as a criticism for the 1990s' troubled person ! But to tell you the truth..This movie had too many troubles which led it to its shocking failure. It suffered from the absence of acceptance for a lot of things  That new intro of the very well known fantasy, that weak story about the real history of (Peter Banning) as (Peter Pan), the love story between his grand mother and him !, that other love story between the (fairy) and him !!!?, some sudden misplaced violence which made the taste little dark in what seemed to be cheerful fairytale like it's (Cinderella) meeting (Dirty Harry) !! (Spielberg admitted of deleting more violence to make the movie less scary and appropriate for kids !). Well, it's a situation of simple bedtime story which turned into a satire for modern time's evils ! The movie didn't completely make harmony by gathering the enjoyable old story with the new lines, nor the taste of the fable and the fact. So (Spielberg) eagerly invited us to believe the fantasy and believe in it, but unfortunately we couldn't believe THIS fantasy !However the well meaning is there as more important than its movie. As we agreeably understand that when any (Peter Pan) surrenders for just making money in a very greedy cruel world with his losing for his childhood's memories (as his childhood itself) then he may turn into contemporary Hook who will be no less truculence or senility. "},{"Title":"The Most Brilliant Movie Out of Never Land","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is, and always has been, my favorite movie, from the time I was born (quite literally) and probably to the time I die- as a shriveled up, white-haired old lady who's muttering nonsense about fairies existing and boys that can fly. I've read the books, watched the movies, and have even seen the musical. Peter Pan is my favorite child hood story and Hook only enhances my love of it.I was AMAZED by some of the comments posted. Many who have seen the movie have hated it, despite the brilliant acting, special effects, and an unbelievable plot. But perhaps it is that very unbelievable plot that has left many unsatisfied. Some have problems with it because it conflicts with J.M. Barrie's story. Some have problems with it because they just can't understand the point of the movie. Now is the time that I'd like to point out that, according to the movie, the real Peter Pan conflicts with J.M. Barrie's Peter Pan because the story was second hand from the real Darling children- Wendy, John, and Michael. I have the feeling that many are unsatisfied by the movie because they can't understand it.... and because, as adults, Peter Pan does't seem to carry the same type of fascination as it does for children. That is the only explanation that I've been able to come up with as I've read some of the other comments. And the truth of the matter is that it's based on a children's story. If you don't like the idea of that, then don't watch because there are bound to be some inconsistencies between real life and fantasy. The entire plot revolves around a grown up Peter Pan who has forgotten his entire past in Neverland. He has taken the name of Peter Banning, has married Wendy Darling's granddaughter Moira, has had his own children, and has taken on the very grown up job of being a lawyer, putting his crafty, cunning, and sly nature to use. However, he has become the very thing that, as Peter Pan, he feared. He drinks, works to much, and has no time for play or for his family, something which his wife detests. Peter's children- Jack and Maggie- love him very much, but are constantly put off (especially Jack) b Peter's apparent lack of interest in them.Finally, after the Banning family comes to visit Granny Wendy Darling in London, Peter's children are stolen by a man who calls himself Jas. Hook. Wendy tries to convince Peter that the man who is calling himself Hook is the actual Hook, and has taken the children to Neverland, a place where only Peter can save them. When she tries to tell Peter that he's he actual Peter Pan, Peter refuses to believe.After getting drunk, he finds himself in the Nursery where his children had been staying- the nursery that he has been so many times before. This is when Tinkerbell comes to take Peter away so that he can rescue his children. The pretty much final straw for Tink is when Peter says that he doesn't believe in fairies. Tink reminds him that by saying that he doesn't believe in fairies, he is killing one. He still refuses to acknowledge her as something real. Tink ends up knocking Peter out in ordered to bring him to Neverland- to face off against the notorious Captain Hook!Of course, Peter, unable to believe in anything around him (and still refusing to acknowledge that he's the Pan) can't face off against Hook anytime soon and expect to win. Peter is given 3 days to get back in the shape. Tink will have to reteach Peter how to fly, fight, and crow! I refuse to say any more about the movie, except that, despite it being based on a children's' story with all of the inconsistencies that a fantasy story entails, the movie was probably geared toward teenagers and young adults. An example of this would be the many different allusions made throughout the movie to thinks like Gahndi, lawyers, the 60's, and even one short insult about gynecologists. Saying that, there is nothing in the movie that is terribly inappropriate. There is, however, quite a bit of violence and even a character death. I would caution parents to watch the movie for themselves before letting a 5 year old watch it ( though I personally see nothing wrong with letting a 5 year old watch it. They wouldn't understand it anyway. I'M SPEAKING FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE!). That being said, Hook is a very intricate movie that cannot be fully appreciated until the book is read. That is the only way that all of the little jokes will be caught. An example of this would be when the older Peter is forced to play make believe when dinner is served and, to his surprise, he fines nothing to eat! This would be a reference to the book, which states that one of Peter Pan's favorite games would be to pretend to eat. Another would be the presence of Tootles, now an old man who lives with Wendy still. Anyone who's read the book would know that Tootles was once a Lost boy.I hope that anyone who has taken th time to read this rather lengthy article will take a chance and watch Hook, instead of being cautious and take a few to many negative opinions of the movie a bit to literally. No one ever really grows up. Get in touch with your inner child and watch the movie! You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Captures the imagination.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Quite how Hook has achieved a mark of 6.2 out of 10 is beyond me. I've read a number of reviews on IMDb for Hook, which do not do this film justice. All the reviewers that gave this film less than 7 have not provided a worthwhile review, just because you don't like the way Spielberg has chosen to tell the story, doesn't make it a bad film.The film puts a slightly different twist on the whole Peter Pan story. Peter is much older now and has to re-find his abilities that were lost when he left Neverland many years previously to the setting of the film. All the innocence of youth has been left far behind, I feel that the film teaches us all that we can learn to a live life a little differently....enjoy it more. To my mind there are many hidden messages in this film, if you can choose to expand your mind. It taught me to, as Peter puts it, find my happy thought. The film shows us a great deal about imagination, and how ours can be used effectively.Robin Williams is brilliantly cast, as no other in my opinion could play the role of a child...then adult....then child...etc etc.The casting is fantastic and spot on for this type of film. I felt I could relate to all the characters that were the 'lost boys'. By the end of the film I felt a warmth towards every last one of them, which I would think is possibly the whole point...and I even felt sadness at Rufios death. Julia Roberts was fantastic as Tink, as with all the cast I really believed they were born to those roles.Basically, I'm not a movie expert but I loved this film as a kid and still love this film. Definitely one of the best films of my youth, and I'd not hesitate in showing it to my kids. "},{"Title":"It's a different story than Peter Pan.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I loved it. I thought it was excellent. Then having heard that it was pounded by critics, I was shocked. I can understand why some people didn't like it, but still, I thought it was excellent. It may not be Steven Spielberg's best, but it's certainly not his worst, which he rarely has. And Robin Williams, I thought, made a great Peter Banning aka Peter Pan; this isn't a spoiler, you already know from reading the back. I'll always treasure this movie as long as I live, and when I get married and have children of my own, I will introduce it to them.This is one of my favorite movies. See it. "},{"Title":"Good!  Keep the Peter Pan story alive.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" To all the naysayers of this movie, I say it takes all kinds, and that every movie has 1,000 different opinions. Here is my take, and here are my observations and some background on the original principals in the Peter Pan storyI have seen several Peter Pan movies the 1953 Disney, the 2003 live action Peter Pan with Jeremy Sumpter, 2004's Finding Neverland with that hotttttttt Johnny Depp as author Sir J.M. Barrie, and of course Hook. I have studied about the early actresses who played Peter Pan on stage Maude Adams (New York, 1905), and Nina Boucicault (London, 1904). In 1924 a silent movie was made, starring Betty Bronson as Peter. Later female stage-Peters included Jean Arthur, Mary Martin, Sandy Duncan and Cathy Rigby. I have seen Peter Pan performed as a ballet, and loved it. I have studied the lives of Barrie who wrote the play, and of Charles Frohman who was the manager of Maude Adams plus he was the producer of the original stage play with Adams and Boucicault.Barrie died in 1937, and Frohman was killed in 1916 in the torpedo attack on the ship Lusitania. They were both born in 1860. Frohman controlled several theatres in New York and London. Maude Adams died in 1953, at age 80. Her life was the basis for the actress Elise McKenna in the movie Somewhere in Time. The Peter Pan principals have long passed on, but the story still lives on in many reincarnations.For all Peter Pan productions, permission has to be gotten from the Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital in London, because they were the sole beneficiary according to Barrie's will. Barrie was very cagey about who received future royalties from Peter Pan, and he gave all royalties to the hospital and none to his adopted children or to any of the Peter Pan actresses who may have felt that they deserved the profits.I thought the skateboard leader (Rufio) of the Lost Boys in this movie was darling, and certainly appropriate to the time of Hook in the early 1990s. BTW, I just saw the same actor (Dante Basco) playing Ramos in the dance movie Take the Lead (2006). He is a very good dancer, and I thought his coordination on the skateboard (in Hook) was excellent. He is a very versatile and talented actor.Hoffman was great as Captain Hook in Hook, and also great as Frohman in Finding Neverland. Of course, Hoffman was great in Midnight Cowboy, Papillon, The Graduate, Rain Man, etc.Robin Williams is always good in whatever characterizations he attempts (I especially liked him as Popeye). Kudos to all actors and production staff of this film Hook.12/10 "},{"Title":"Somewhere out there","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My spoiler is not directed to the movie itself, but to so many of the comments I have read about his movie. I saw this movie at the movie theater when it was first released and have seen it many times since then. It seems that many of the comments about his movie are much like Siskel and Ebert's old arguments, Gene leaning more to the technical merits of movie making and Roger leaning towards entertainment value. The actors alone provide tremendous entertainments value in a place where life and death since to matter even less than it does on this planet now, if that is possible. How Dustin Hoffman, who plays the indomitable Captain Hook, ranges from whimsical to cold-hearted with the flick of his ruffled wrist, Kill them...kill them all. The movie raises and answers questions about the power of the mind, the will of the spirit and the transforming loves which comes from the heart. Put yourself in the mind of Peter's children and ask yourself how you would react after finding out Peter Pan IS your father.I highly recommend this movie for young and old, if only it reminds us to pay more attention to those who are most precious to us. "}{"Title":"Barrie would have been pleased","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Peter Banning (Robin Williams) is a 90's kind of guy, a driven workaholic who spends too much time on his cell phone and too little with his children. He is a premature old fart devoid of imagination or playfulness. Then he and his family return to his boyhood London home to visit Grandma Wendy (Maggie Smith) the philanthropist who took him in as an orphan, raised him and whose granddaughter Maura he married.On their first night, Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) has Peter's children kidnapped. To spur him to rescue them, Grandma Wendy reminds Peter of his long-repressed origins &#150; he is, or was, the real Peter Pan. He refuses to believe this until Tinkerbelle (Julia Roberts) shows up, sprinkles him with pixie dust and, before he knows or in any way approves of what's happening, he's sailing past the second star on the right. In Neverland, Peter must find his original qualities somewhere inside him to win back the Lost Boys and battle Hook for his children and their affection.Robin Williams gives a performance only he is capable of in this lovely tale of recapturing youth and realizing that the most important things in the adult world really aren't very important at all. If you have no capacity for innocent romance, like some other posters here, you'll hate this movie. If, on the other hand, you consider being likened to Peter Pan as one of life's greatest compliments, you need to get a copy of Hook and clear some time in your adult schedule to reconnect with your own sense of joy and wonder. "},{"Title":"Why do we have to be adults?","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm in the age, when everybody wants me to grow up, and act like my age. But who ask my opinion about it. I wouldn't say I'm childish, but do not want to grow up yet. I do want to celebrate Christmas (and the other holidays as well) as I did ten years before. When I weak up on Christmas morning I always would like to feel that tingle in my stomach. And I always would like to play that I'm waiting for Santa Claus... I love film like Hook, because they help me to be a child in this adult world. When somebody tell me that you should grow up I always answer them, that sorry I can't because there aren't girl pirates. I look for those people who would answer with a smile which would mean they know what I talk about. Maybe nobody will answer this way, because they would never tell me to grow up... "},{"Title":"What is wrong with all you people, have you no souls? (Probly not no)","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" How can people not see this movie for what it really is, so wonderfully wonderfully wonderfully wonderfully pretty display of epic magnitude so epic its magnitude will epic your face off. The idea is sound with a nice twist on the conventional Pan-a-ram that you usually see, at times it can be a little sugar sweet, but come on people its peter bloomin flippin flocking flying pan. (or something like that) All you who think that this movie is tripe, all i have to say to you is BANGARANG!Any other attempts at Pan are just a mockery of a sham of a sham of a mockery of a sham, that deserves to live in exile in Shamville, St Mock. "},{"Title":"Descent entertainment","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hook is based on Peter Pan, who is now a grown-up man. Peter has forgotten who he is, and is one day sent to Neverland, where Captain Hook has his base.  Hook hates Peter Pan(because he cut off Hooks hand, and threw it to the crocodiles).  When Peter Pan has arrived, Hook kidnaps his to children.  Peter is finally convinced that he is THE Peter Pan, he retakes command over the Lost Boys, and prepares for the FINAL battle with Hook. Most of the actors did a good job in this movie, and the overall result is an above-average adventure film. 6,5/10 "},{"Title":"Deep down, we all want to re-experience our childhoods.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I loved this film when I was 6 and it was first released. So did my 35-year old father. 15 years later I still love this movie. I think it is the most memorable movies of the Peter Pan story, and I believe it is because it's uniqueness and ability to tap into everyone's love of childhood, laughter, and albeit cheesy fight scenes. And although this movie may be one of Spielberg's more simple films, I think he does an excellent job of capturing this story and continuing it. This movie remains a classic to this day.And despite how evil Captain Hook is, I still love Dustin Hoffman's character in this film. I laugh every time. "},{"Title":"An Adventure of Whimsy","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Unlike the predecessors whose biased and one-sided thoughts have crowded this page, I am going to attempt to give a well-rounded, impartial review to aid those with interest in this title with their decision watch, or not.The movie follows the adult version of James Barrie's Peter Pan, portrayed as the neglectful father Peter Banning, whose fanciful past catches up with him as his two children are mysteriously abducted by the infamous Captain Hook and taken to Neverland. Peter must rediscover himself, his past, and what it means to be a father in the rediscovery of his inner child in this magical adventure.In what the movie attempted to be, it succeeded. As far as fairy-tale spin-offs are concerned, this film correctly captures the wondrous enchantment associated with the original story, and carries it forward. For lovers of the original tale and it's adaptations, I would suggest giving this movie a try. The cinematography is decent, as is the script and acting. By the end of the movie, you feel like much has happened, you know the characters well, and feel the story strongly, unlike many of today's current films.Critics have called this movie 'overly sugary', and 'boring'. This movie isn't an action-packed blockbuster, and doesn't try to be. A vast achievement was made in continuing the critical themes of the original work of Peter Pan, on which is was based, and carrying them over into a new storyline while retaining their clarity, value, and flavors. Consider the main themes of the original Peter Pan imagination, and childhood wonder. This is not strictly a children's movie, however. To those who remember Peter Pan from their childhood fondly; this adventure will still well.Staying true to the canon, Hook produces a adventurous journey of vibrant whimsicality, and feels like a true extension of the original work. "},{"Title":"To a ten-year-old I'm Huge.","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is one of those movies where the premise is brilliant, we just wish the rest of the movie was. It's not that it is a bad movie, but it could have been better. The idea that Peter Pan migrated to the real world and grew up is interesting. The idea that Peter Pan has kids is interesting. The idea that Captain Hook kidnaps Peter Pan's kids is interesting. Directed by Steve Spielberg, the pacing and emotional value of Hook seems off. The points where Peter Pan (Robin Williams, which is good casting, the forever 14 year old plays a man who's spent most of his life 14 years old) is trying to rediscover who he really is feels forced and kind of painful. There are few laughs and few moments of whimsy. The points where Peter Pan is with the Lost Boys should have been fun, but they are not. Perhaps there are too serious of undertones in the movie to keep it completely jovial. The only characters I found interesting were Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) and Smee (Bob Hoskins), which follows the Darth Vader theory that the bad guys in a movie are always the most interesting. The movie also features a real life Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) who at one moment decides she wants to be big, so she does it. For one moment, Tinkerbell is a big person, and has a crush on Peter Pan. I personally liked it better when Peter Pan and Tinkerbell were just coworkers. I also found it annoying that throughout the movie, Peter Pan's daughter kept yelling to Captain Hook that he was unhappy because he didn't have a mother. Well, that just explains everything, now doesn't it? "},{"Title":"wow !!! like anyone here know what they're talking about...","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" god ! some of you guys are hard on this movie.i mean seriously if any of you are making a living out of writing movie reviews..well you guys must be broke as F.i always thought a movie should'nt be judge, its either you like it or you don't, now if you don't you shut the F up. I get offend reading the reviews about this movie.Spielberg is a genius. for everything he done so far in his career, Hook is the ultimate masterpiece for kids and its a make believe journey for grown up.I assume half of the reviews on this film are from British people. Well all i'll say is you don't know S about movies if you think that this picture is trash..i mean you don't like it fine but this flick is a triumph every minutes of it. "},{"Title":"Responding to OliverGbyrne's post","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think this is a fantastic movie that deserves much praise. Its a classic tale brought to life to show what would have happened if Peter Pan left NeverLand.In response to the post by user OliverGbyrne, yes, the classic novel is set in England and the Lost Boys in the movie have American Accents. But who says Neverland was ever restricted to the boys of London? It's a marvelous fictional place that I imagine is home to any child who falls out of their pram. So I don't think they'd all have British Accents even if they were all from London, because they're not around people to learn the accents from.But I do agree in that Steven Spielberg is a great director who may have missed a few points in making the movie. But it will always be my favorite film from my childhood. "},{"Title":"Always Spielbergland ! (DVD)","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie brings back a lot of good memories. 1991 Before going to see the movie in theater, I had bought the sublime John Williams' soundtrack on tape! So, I got all the themes in my mind when I discovered the movie and it was a great addition to the pleasure !! (note for the coming of Indiana Jones IV repeat this trick)2007 Now, with CDs, DVDs, Internet, entertainment is very different, but I still cherish much this movie Maybe because Peter pan is a archetype for fantasy & Spielberg an archetype for great film-making so their meeting is unforgettable;Maybe for the exceptional cast (Williams, Hofman, Roberts, the kids,..);Maybe for the respectful and moving script which seems a natural sequel to the classic tale;Maybe for the great insight about fatherhood;Maybe for the incredible, beautiful & poetic sets, all done without digital effects Ah, you want some minor flaws If Spielberg delivers as usual some great shoots (like the one between the jaws of the crocodile which is an echo both to Jaws & Jurassic Park), maybe he abuses of his glances-stare style we don't see the action first but the reaction of the action on the faces of the characters...I read a critic saying that it is the first movie where Spielberg directs the death of a child! So yes, it is a bit strange that it happens in his Peter Pan. In addition, the lost boys are maybe too much impatient for war&#133; Again, it is Peter Pan !Finally, Peter's romances equal Casanova (he loved the mother but married the granddaughter while being the love struck of a faerie!At least, he stays faithful ! Good husband & after this great movie, a good father !!! "}{"Title":"Why is this film treated so poorly? I used to love this movie when I was a kid!","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I just don't understand why people can insult this movie so much! Although it may look like a rather unusual Peter Pan tale, it really shouldn't receive this much negative criticism. Personally, I think that Steven Spielberg actually knew what he was doing when he directed the film, and like most of Spielberg's motion pictures, it features excellent acting, a sensational score by John Williams, and some magic regarding the direction and film-making (at least for this one). It may not be the best picture that Spielberg directed, but at least it can impress younger audiences if anyone who reads this comment doesn't agree. Other than that, I'm giving this film a score of 9/10. "},{"Title":"one of my Fav's","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this film, is by far one of my favorite films. i was only 6 when it came out, and didn't see it til a few years later, but when i did, i loved it. and i grew up on the original peter pan movie too. some people have said that its a bad sequel to the peter pan movie. that its a horrible rendition of what peter pan would have done. what people don't realize is, its NOT a sequel. its a whole movie unto itself. while it would logically take place as a sequel would and would logically be a sequel...its not!This film, yes, has flaws, but so do all films, and to say this one is riddled with them, is neither fair, nor true. some have said that Captain Hook, Dustin Hoffman that is, was too comical. for me, that's what gave the character so much appeal. I love Dustin Hoffman as an actor, and seeing him play a part like that only added to it. sure robin williams wasn't the best for the role of a peter pan, but as the movie was not meant to be serious and was meant to be as a what if film. he was perfect for this particular film. as for tinkerbell. I'm gonna go out on a limb and guess that tink grew up too, after peter pan left, she left neverland too, and grew up, and that's why she looks much older. and Glenn Close was awesome as Gutlass the pirate in the Boo Box...great scene, and bob hoskins and smee!! oh man great cast...not all start...but great! not the best film ever and not Spielberg's best film. But one of my favorites, and will always be a great to me!  "},{"Title":"This is an enjoyable film...","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After reading through many of the negative posts, I just had to comment. Every time I watch this film, it makes me laugh. It asks and answers the big question, What if... Is Neverland never suppose to progress? Most of the comments I read seemed to come from people who have lost their sense of imagination. I read some who said I was a little kid when I saw it and loved it, but now I hate it. So in a sense, they grew up and lost that magic of make-believe. All the negativity reminds of the one scene Banning has with his daughterTootles made this for me (holds up flower), it smells real nice she said.It's just paper, Banning replies.This best describes all of you who have grown up and forgotten what it's like to be a kid, have fun, and pretend. In other words, you've become pirates. Lucky you! Say this three times It's just a movie, it's just a movie, I'm not suppose to analyze it, I'm suppose to enjoy it.I would have given it a 10, but there is some questionable violence in it. "},{"Title":"This movie is pure joy","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The comments from some out there who like to think they should rate movies on snobbish artistry lose the entire point of movies. Wondering if John Williams enjoyed writing the score, how Spielberg could have directed this and commenting on how could they after other work they've done is just pure boorishness.This movie is a pure joy to watch. The point of movies is to tell a story and immerse the viewer in that story. And this movie does that extraordinarily well. It is very nice spin on the basic Peter Pan original by Barrie, and uses the talents of some very prolific current actors well. Robin Williams is indeed the adult who is a still a child. Dustin Hoffman is a wonderful character actor and was pure perfection as Hook. Others (such as David Crosby) I'm sure had fun playing their roles, and the story actually had a message as well.The music was NOT overdone, and augmented to story well. Rather than continue to answer johnmichael-2's mightier-than-thou tirade, viewers read this This movie is a wonderful adventure and a pleasure to watch. It was very well cast, the script was nicely done, the movie has no dull points, it moves the story along well, everything contributes to the goal of the story, and it is well acted. Is it going down in the annals of movie-dom as the most artistic and best movie ever made? Of course not. But, it is a fantasy story, and a whole heck of a lot of fun to watch. And THAT is the point. "},{"Title":"Give It A Chance","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Personally, I do not understand why there are so many negative comments about this movie. I may be a little bit biased, but I grew up with this movie and even from a young age the plot fascinated me. Yes, some of the characters may be cliché, but the truth is, this is a continuation of the story of Peter Pan and a very unique and well-made one, if I may say so myself. There are bound to be plot carry-overs, some alterations to make the story more interesting, and some toning down of the villain. This is a children's movie after all. I guess what I'm trying to say is cut Steven Spielberg some slack. The movie was made in 1991, it's now 2008, and I still love it. I am sure there are many others who do too. So, let yourself be a kid again. Just watch the movie. I'm sure you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"A crummy beginning leads to a better conclusion","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A lot of people must've been pulling hairs out of their head once people saw Steven Spielberg's Hook in the big and small screen; critics also commented the film for being too much sad for a Peter Pan movie unlike the Disney cartoon. But knowing Steven Spielberg, he always has tricks up his sleeves to make things better.The film starts with Peter Banning (Robin Williams), an uptight business man who doesn't have the guts to say no to a deal and yes to his family's needs. Everywhere he goes, Peter carries a cell phone with him and interrupts moments from his daughter's school play to missing out on his son's baseball game. Peter's very uptight about a lot of things and doesn't know how to relax and just say what the hell. It's not until him, his wife Moira (Caroline Goodall) and their two children Jack (Charlie Korsmo of Dick Tracy) and Maggie (Amber Scott) go to England to visit their Granny Wendy (Dame Maggie Smith) for a benefit of a children's hospital before the children are kidnapped. What's strange about the kidnapping is that it's from Captain James Hook, Peter Pan's old nemesis, where not even Peter Banning can't except the fact that he was the young boy in green tights that fought the devilish pirate.Now what kind of life is that? Peter Pan all grown up and fat! Peter Pan's got a cell phone and doesn't know how to be a kid again! So now with the help of Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts), she brings Peter to Neverland where he sees that Captain Hook (Dustin Hoffman) has his kids. When Peter and Hook meet face to face, the captain himself is laughing that his nemesis is old, fat, scared and doesn't know how to fly which even shocks all the pirates in the boat. After being booted off the boat and taken to another part of the island, Peter meets with the lost boys, a group of orphans who defend themselves against Hook and his band of pirates, while meeting with the rebellious Rufio (Dante Basco) who doesn't believe the old man is Peter Pan until later on in the film.The first part dealing with Robin Williams as a frustrated Peter Pan doesn't work where fans are not used to him being an angry person but more funny and charming nor seeing Peter as an adult, but the rest of the film on Neverland works like a charm where the set designs are sculpted beautifully. The acting works on some levels where I couldn't believe that Dustin Hoffman could play a somewhat kooky version of Captain Hook; Julia Roberts doesn't work as Tinkerbell, but it was probably Steven's choice to bring in an all star cast from Williams, Hoffman, Roberts, Smith, Bob Hopkins, Phil Collins, Glenn Close (playing a man) and others for this film.I like it! "},{"Title":"Imagination and entertainment","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In Hook, Steven Spielberg answers the question- What if the little boy who never grew up, Peter Pan, did grow up after all? Robin Williams plays the grown up Pan quite well, while Julia Roberts is very good as Tinker Bell and Dustin Hoffman is very funny as Captain James Hook. The storyline, which is none too inspiring until it gets going, follows Peter Pan back to Never Land where he must try to rescue his kids from the treacherous Hook. Here the movie becomes a delightful journey into fantasy, a must for children and the young at heart, as Spielberg lets loose as only he can.Many may find Hook silly, but I found it to be an enjoyable evening's entertainment.Tuesday, April 7, 1992 - Balwyn Cinema "},{"Title":"Steven Spielberg Did It...","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have found out why, everyone in IMDb hates this movie, the reason is that they are idiots and have lost all sign of imagination, i was 15 when i first saw this movie it shoved me off my feet's. Hook is a Peter Pan story, and i think the reason it became as good as i believe it is, is simply because of imagination and of course robin Williams, but now to my ratings.Story 10/10 Right from the start you can see this is a fantasy movie, you did know that but what you didn't know is that this fantasy movie is much greater then many out there. We meet Peter Banning who is afraid of flying, of course this is the guy who was born as Peter Pan because of a mistake as a child. He is never considered by his kids, and do not have time for them at all, when Peter gets home to his kids granny Wendy, the fantasy slowly begins to start, here Peter meets his old friend Tinkerbell, at first he doesn't believe it of course because he forgot it. A letter from Captain Hook is placed on the door with a large knife saying he took his kids, this is where the true fantasy begins when Peter takes back to Never Neverland and has to prove to his kids that he loves them, and has to prove to himself that he used to be Peter Pan the boy who never became old. This story is worth everything, of course it has its bad moments but that is easy to overlook, because the story sucks you in.Actors 10/10 Everyone plays a really good part, everyone lightens the mood, but the one who does the best is of course Robin Williams who didn't like his way of playing Peter Pan, Dustin Hoffman is of course the next best, i don't think anyone else could have played a better part as Captain Hook then Dustin Hoffman, and of course Julia Roberts were perfect as Tinkerbell, i don't like the many movies she have starred in but she did this great, all in all the actors sets the mood just right, to an hard movie as this is.Music 10/10 Fantasy music all the way, this is your typical music from Steven but the music from him have always been welcomed into the movie collection family, it does a great turn in making the movie more amazing and more enjoyable, and if that isn't something great then i don't know what is, i personally love the ending in the movie, it is normal of a Steven Spielberg, love it, or at least try.Special Effects 9/10 The special effects are from early on so not much should be expected, but in the other it is expected because it is a fantasy. But it is actually really good for its age, you cant say that they didn't do a great job back then, it is hard enough as it is, so a great work for an old movie, for an old decade, an fantasy just needs Special Effects and it surely gives good effects for a good price, in a movie.Overall 10/10 Everything is great, the people hating this movie, well they have lost their imagination, the have lost that little thing that should trigger a person, Steven did a great job, the wrong people just saw it. I love this movie and i know there are many millions who did also, and the many who never saw it, well bad for them. This movie is a best buy no matter what it costs it should be bought, i wouldn't want anything better then this anyway, and believe i am a movie fan i know what good movie is, and what bad movie is.Please don't destroy other with your bad comments because we all know, that you just didn't have that magical imagination. Hook is great, hook is wonderful and shouldn't be let down.Great job Steven... "},{"Title":"Not Godawful","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I feel like you have to give this movie more credit than a lot of critics and others do. It is, in it's most basic form, more of a children's movie. I was personally intrigued with the plot, the whole Peter Pan growing up idea and Hook kidnapping his kids to get him to come back for a war. I thought that both Williams and Hoffman were brilliantly cast in their respective roles as Peter Pan and Captain Hook. I also thought the music was excellent and did a superb job in showing the character's emotions and to accent what was going on in the plot. If you see this movie for the first time as an adult, chances are you would think it was godawful. However, this movie was released when I was 5-years-old and it was my favorite childhood movie and certain scenes are still very memorable and very fun to watch again. I'd give it a 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the movies which create more mixed feelings","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hook is positively one of Steven Spielberg's least appreciated movies, maybe even one of the most underrated films of all time.Although nowadays I don't appreciate Peter Pan's stories as much as I used to, the truth is that this is a different and unique take on Peter Pan's story.This motion picture has many good things adventure, magic, special effects, humor, beautiful landscapes and sceneries and a wonderful John Williams's score.Speaking of attention to detail, check out the Neverland, for example it looks nice, quite detailed and carefully made. Captain Hook's ship is a nice ship and he's got a nice and valuable museum of clocks of the finest quality.The worst things about this movie are when Captain Hook sends a pirate to The Boo Box (a very hard scene to watch) and also when Peter and Rufio exchange insults to each other during the dinner - in fact, there is some really nasty language here. There is also some rude language in some other scenes. Plus, the movie is quite long.The Banning kids (Jack and Maggie) are likable. Maggie is loving, while Jack is a bit wilder. Both are well played by the actors.Captain Hook is obviously very evil, but a humorous villain. Dustin Hoffman's performance as Captain Hook is incredible. He's almost unrecognizable in this film. Even when his long hair is briefly taken off, he still looks so different. What a brilliant actor! Dustin Hoffman, more than playing the characters, seems to become them.Bob Hoskins is great as Smee. And he looks so different here to the point of being nearly unrecognizable, with that beird and those pirate clothes. Not to mention his English accent, another thing that sets him apart from Eddie Valiant (Who Framed Roger Rabbit). Robin Williams plays well the role of Peter Banning/Pan. But his constant Bangerang! or whatever he says can become tiring.Julia Roberts is great as Tinkerbell. This is her best role ever and her best acting ever. And it's amazing how they made her look so tiny. Besides, unlike in Disney's version (which Tinkerbell is jealous, cold and a traitor), Tinkerbell here is kind and likable. Julia Roberts even looks pretty in this film and her legs are lovely.The funniest gags of this film are when Peter Banning says «I'm not that kind of lawyer!»; when Maggie yells «You needed a mother very badly!» to Captain Hook; when Maggie says that Hook «is just a bad man without a mother»; Captain Hook's last words, which ironically are «I want my mommy!»; Hook's fear towards the sounds of clocks; when a miniature of Captain Hook's ship is on fire and sinks; when the pirates yell «Run home, Jack!» by mistake instead of «Home run, Jack!»; Captain Hook's funny attempt to commit suicide, repeatedly forbidding Smee to try to stop him and suddenly ordering him to stop him; Jack yelling «Bang! Bang!» after a sarcastic comment from his father.This film is probably the best prove why Steven Spielberg is considered the «Peter Pan of Hollywood». "}{"Title":"Magic","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie. It was a great childhood movie. I find it much more consistent with the original play then that god awful Disney version was. That movie had a sense of darkness but also had a lot of childish wonder. Sure, Spielberg annoys me from time to time. And he's kind of overrated. But I liked his vision of a sequel to Pan. I always loved this movie. I loved the never-food scene when he can suddenly see the food. Whose imagination wasn't captured by that? Peter Pan is not really intended to be happy play. Just as Mary Poppins wasn't intended to be. This movie is wondrous for everyone, young and old. The acting could have been a little better. Oh well. I never really thought Julia was all that great anyway. This movie is worth more than what it is considered. It should have made more at the box office. I encourage anyone and everyone to see this movie. "},{"Title":"HOOK, line, and clinker","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As I said in my review of 1941, even a great man like Steven Spielberg has his off-days.  HOOK was the second off-day and, if we're fortunate enough, it will be his last.  Even the weakest moments of A.I. (what few there are) are stronger than the best this film had to offer.Spielberg was often seen (certainly up to SCHINDLER'S LIST) as the child who never grew up, which made him perfect for making a Peter Pan film.  The problem is, however, that HOOK turned out to be perhaps the most self-indulgent film he has ever made, certainly since the overblown 1941.  Everything about HOOK screams Gaudy!.  Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman are well-matched as, respectively, Peter Pan and Captain Hook.  But the Lost Boys are simply the most irritating bunch of brats ever seen on the screen; Spielberg simply lost me right here.  And Julia Roberts, who is normally quite appealing (PRETTY WOMAN, NOTTING HILL), is absolutely awful as Tinkerbell.  And that's not all the production design and the cinematography, normally great things in a Spielberg film, are barely average.I like much of what Spielberg has done, but HOOK is the one film (besides 1941) that I wish he either had never made or had made much better than he did.  Luckily, however, he survived this debacle as he had 1941--with flying colors. "},{"Title":"Hook, Line and Stinker!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"27 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Having just watched the new Peter Pan film I thought I ought to revisit this one as well, just to remind myself of the differences.Ick! What a horrible movie! Not awful in an MST3K kind of way, but just a mess. Robin Williams as Peter Pan? Dustin Hoffman as Hook? Lots of annoying kids dancing until it grates on your nerves. Oh, and Julia Roberts as Tinkerbell. I'm sorry but Julia Roberts is a one-character actress. All she ever plays are vulnerable women with social interaction problems. It's just boring predicting every shy look that she's about to give!Compared to the new film, this doesn't stand up well, either as a direct comparison, or even allowing for the ten odd years since it was made. Even as a flat out comedy it just isn't funny. The combo of Hoffman and Williams just doesn't work.If you have any say in the matter, don't bother with this one. It's not worth it.EDIT Oooh! Touched a nerve with this one....so many people....disagreeing..with me...must be wrong......ahhh the pressure! "},{"Title":"incredibly bad film that wastes Dustin Hoffman and Maggie Smith","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can take sentimentality, but in sparing doses. John Williams' syrupy music is only one of the many shallowly presented pieces of trifle that are abound in Hook. Disastrously directed, it doesn't trust its audience enough to think that they will spot the poor continuity and charmless script. Robin Williams has some decent one-liners when playing Peter Banning, but when he starts acting like Peter Pan, its the equivalent to watching a grown man trick or treat. Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins rise above the mess with their sterling characterizations as Captain James Hook and Smee, respectively. Julia Roberts is awful as Tinkerbell, and is symbolic of star casting gone horribly wrong. Except for Charlie Korsmo, who plays Peter's son Jack, all of the child actors are terrible, especially the Lost Boys, who were so interesting and charming in previous adaptations. Now they've succumbed to politically correct times(Notice the lack of Indians in this version), and are a racially mixed bag. The kid who plays Rufio is particularly bad. Immature and lacking in anything that made J.M. Barrie's play and novel so magical, Hook is a family film that will bore kids and annoy adultsOne plus David Crosby as a pirate "},{"Title":"Even worse than you might think","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"29 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have the doubtful distinction of having seen Hook three times.  For the life of me I can't say how this happened.  Still, it's something to brag about in later years; for I very much doubt that even the misguided people who saw it a second time managed to see it a third time.What made me do it, you ask?  Well, it's like many fatalistic human impulses.  I continued to watch out of disbelief for it seemed that something which was never very good managed to disintegrate more rapidly the more I stared at it.  Since I expect that no-one else in the world has seen it three times, I feel especially qualified to say what's wrong with it.Everything.  It's ugly.  The Lost Boys are loathsome (and so very 1980s). Julia Roberts is a ridiculous tinkerbell.  A hessian sack would have made a more flattering costume.  It's never clear to what extent magic is involved in the plot - whether, for instance, Peter's son forgets his father due to enchantment or for emotional reasons.  (It makes a HUGE difference to the story.)  The plot is lame and contrived.  The messages inherent in Close Encounters, Jurassic Park, E.T. and Empire of the Sun - that only the especially depraved and wicked dislike children, that even the most appalling children are God's own angels - are rammed down the throat with excessive force here.But worst of all is the bitsiness.  I didn't have my stopwatch out (on any of the three occasions), but I think that Hook has the shortest romantic interlude of any film ever made.  It's between Peter Pan and Tinkerbell ... Tinkerbell - you're big!  Yes, and I've always loved you.  Oh - then I suppose I should kiss you.  No - you should really rescue your children. Okay.  -It whips by!  And it's a scene that has no reason to exist; and, like every other scene, no relation to the scenes around it.  The entire film is like Spielberg's conception of Neverland snow here, desert a metre away, sex just two paces to the left, childhood innocence two paces to the right ... all self-contained units, all tossed into the bowl hap-hazardly in the belief that a salad with every ingredient will taste better than a salad with just three or four.Anyone for a strawberry shortcake, gherkin and watercress salad? "},{"Title":"Major Misfire","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"34 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This return to Neverland was suppose to be a small scale film that writer Nick Castle was going to direct himself. Spielberg came across the script and then proceeded to toss huge sums of money to get the right to direct it, and then to make one of the most wrong-headed films ever made.The plot concerns a grown-up Peter Pan who has forgotten Neverland. Hook seeking to get a revenge on his enemy kidnaps his kids and forces Peter to try to remember who he was.This is proof that with out real vision all of the money in the world won't help you. It also proves that Spielberg's is a limited director. I could rip this film to shreds but will restrain myself by only sighting one or two major mistakes. First are the lost boys, who are skateboarding punk kids from the early 1990's. This should be a timeless tale and Spielberg in order to go for the kid audience instantly dates the film. Spielberg is a pop culture junkie and all of his films are riffs on other films. That can only take you so far with out dating your films and here his need to be now badly wounds the film.  Julia Roberts, while nice in theory, is completely wrong as Tinker Bell. Even with movie magic she just looks wrong as Peter's oldest friend. Worse the role as written isn't as feisty as she was in the original novel.The best thing in the film, and probably the one thing they got right, was Dustin Hoffman as Hook. He chews the scenery and then some and should probably won the Oscar for his role.Given the choice I would never watch this film again which left me crying in my seat as I became more and more heart broken with each missed chance to make a classic (or even a decent film.)3 out of 10See PJ Hogan's Peter Pan instead, thats a classic, this isn't. "},{"Title":"Hook","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This isn't a bad film directed by Steven Spielberg, but it is certainly one his little career glitches. Basically it is all about what has happened to the guy who was once Peter Pan, the boy who never grew up. Peter Banning (a childish, but fun Robin Williams) is a businessman with wife Moira Banning (Caroline Goodall) and kids Jack 'Jackie' (Charlie Korsmo) and Maggie (Amber Scott). Not long after arriving at Granny Wendy's (Dame Maggie Smith) house, the kids are kidnapped by someone claiming to be Captain James Hook. Soon enough, Tinkerbell (Julia Roberts) arrives and takes Peter to Neverland both to meet his past arch enemy, Hook (Golden Globe nominated Dustin Hoffman), and to prepare in three days to remember his past, and fight as Peter Pan. Also starring Bob Hoskins as Smee, Arthur Malet as Tootles, Phil Collins as Inspector Good, Isaiah Robinson as Pockets, Dante Basco as Rufio, Raushan Hammond as Thud Butt, Gwyneth Paltrow as Young Wendy, and try to recognise Glenn Close as Gutless (the one put in the box with scorpions), and although you won't recognise them, George Lucas and Carrie Fisher are the couple kissing on the bridge, lifted by the fairy dust. Williams is fun to watch both before and after becoming Pan, but Hoffman does steal the show as a pantomimic villain lost without his nemesis, makes him a little sympathetic, and all supporting cast members make this a lot of fun for the family. It was nominated for the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Visual Effects, Best Makeup and Best Music. Good! "},{"Title":"It is sad that when people grow up, they forget the joys of Neverland","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Firstly, I am going to second the statement that adults who look back on this movie after the fact only see it as a children's film lacking deeper meaning as being disappointing.It's actually funny, because it seems that they have, like Peter once did, forgotten the wonder of being a child.This is an excellent movie, with excellent performances by Dustin Hoffman, Bob Haskins, Maggie Smith, and Robin Williams in particular. What a wonderful cast for this film, and I feel that this one carries the original message of the novels better than any other Peter Pan related movie out there.Watch it with your children, or amongst those friends who remember watching it when they were young. I feel that movies that spark the imagination are rare or coated with too many special effects and hardly any substance these days.This is a classic. It is fun and warm and familiar. Relax and enjoy it. Children movies are not meant to be watched with a stiff posture and an eye for mistakes or flaws. Be a kid again, think happy thoughts, and remember how to believe. "},{"Title":"Wasted opportunity","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"26 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I thought that the set up story was brilliant and this could have been one of the best children's films ever made but tragically it was left in the hands of idiots.Spielberg made a Politically Correct film by deleting the Indians and making the Lost Boys multi-racial. The original story was written by an English writer who would never had thought to populate his film with multi-racial Lost Boys. Spielberg made a mistake in veering from the formula.While I thought Robin Williams was fine as the older Peter Pan in this vibrant, beautifully-colored film, Julia Roberts was plainly terrible as Tinkerbell.The film was a huge missed opportunity and to this day I think what this film could have been had it been left in the hands of writers and a director who were not worshippers at the shrine of left-wing idealogy. "}]