[{"Title":"Appealing In Its Own Way","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I haven't seen this film in quite a while but I have pretty good memories about it. It's an intriguing film, something different and appealing even though some of the subject matter is inappropriate.I saw the last word because it involves a 13-year-old boy whose hormones are raging and his brief relationship with a grown woman. There is one sex scene that may make people squirm a bit, so be forewarned. Other than that, I don't remember anything else objectionable.I like the photography and always enjoy seeing the old days - here it's the 1920s and 1930s - portrayed on today's films with the great cameramen and directors of today. Also, the South has some beautiful scenery that is eloquently on display here.The story is well-acted with real-life mother-daughter Diane Ladd and Laura Dern, along with Robert Duvall and Lukas Haas. The latter plays the young man and was already somewhat of a star after playing the young Amish boy in the 1985 film Witness. Duvall is one of the finest actors of his generation so you always get a good performance out of him.This is a pretty low-key story but never puts you to sleep. Modern day feminists might like this film was Ladd plays that role to the hilt. Dern also delivered, making a very believable Rose. "},{"Title":"Soft, fuzzy, warm feel-good movie!!!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. In updating my VHS collection to DVD I bought it a second time and  was so glad that I did. I love the music score and the soft period lighting it provides in  telling the story of Rose - a down on her luck teen-age almost adult girl who comes to  live with a southern family during the depression in the 1930's. Although the film was  edited for time (as all films are) the DVD provided more background information about  the story through the commentary provided. Although I've never read the book - watching  it again has made me decide that I want to. I count this movie with others of its' kind (TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, FRIED GREEN  TOMATOES, THE HEART IS A LONELY HUNTER to name a few) as providing a wonderful  opportunity to become a part of another's family memory. These kind of movies are  capable of evoking in us a remembrance of our own childhood and bringing out feelings  of warmth and caring that many of us have in common.I highly recommend it for its beautiful photography and wonderful music. "},{"Title":"A character study featuring fine performances by the leads","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is essentially character-driven and features excellent performances throughout, particularly the four principals-Laura Dern, Diane Ladd, Robert Duvall and Lukas Haas.  Ladd and Dern mother and daughter in real life) give especially fine performances and deservedly received nominatins for the Academy Awards In the Actress and Supporting Actress categories.  The film has a good script and is well done technically.  But it is first and foremost an actor's movie and the acting carries the movie along.  Well worth your time. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A very touching tale of very humane family","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I got a chance to see this film accidentally while glancing through the channels on my TV. I was instantly hooked and watched the whole film. This film is about a young, restless and free-spirited orphan girl, who is in search of affection. She's also sexually overactive, well that's what the people around her in the 30s feel. She's sheltered by a family who are just like an ordinary family down the road, but when she needs them stand up for her, never caring about the so called caretakers of morals and virtues. A very intersting study if deep rooted charcters, played equally well by the actors. 2 characters stand apart in the film, one of the girl Rose played brilliantly by Laura Dern, and of the mother, played by Laura's real mom, Diane Ladd. Robert Duvall is very believable as the head of the family in the southern in the 1930s. I liked the gentle pace of the movie, and its buildup towards the end, where Diane garners herself for a confrontation with the self proclaimed keepers of the virtues, including her own husband. I like the way their Diane's and Robert's characters undergo transformations, small ones but enough to keep the audience attached to the film at an emotional level. Even days after watching the movie, you'd have the images of the cheerful, sometimes confused, lively and lovely Rose, flashing in front of your eyes. And that's makes the use of a narrative, which some people didn't like about this movie, so appropriate. If I had known someone like Rose in my lifetime, I would definately told this story to everybody I knew, many times over. "},{"Title":"Uneven little effort","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Which is a shame considering there was so much to like. Laura Dern's performance is astonishing as the Rose of the title who has a shady past and comes to live with a family headed up by Robert Duvall and Diane Lane (her real life mother) who gives a wonderful performance also.The story is a cobweb, if story it is, I haven't read the novel,and the plot is character driven all the way.The sexual content is handled sensitively and the fact that Rose is a 'nymphomaniac' of the era - i.e. she loves sex - is understood and tolerated by the family.The eldest child, Buddy, is played by Lukas Haas who has many good performances to his credit - and has never turned down a movie role since he was five - who has an evil streak according to his mother but keeps certain secrets about Rose along with his father who also has secrets.An amazingly tolerant and lovable family headed by a father with integrity - which was a bit of a stumble for me as Robert Duvall's incessant smirking does not translate as such to me. I find it irksome - and confusing. I would have preferred a different actor in that part a la Leslie Howard from the forties.The sepia cinematography was breathtaking and the street scenes amazing as were the two actors who played the younger children.The wraparound of the story didn't work at all. Rose deserved more that a verbal dismissal at the end. And the mother vanished inexplicably. Now there was a character. Too bad the viewer wasn't respected a little more.6 out of 10 for all that. "},{"Title":"Sort of weak","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I feel like there's a really great film hidden somewhere inside here. If not great, at least good. I don't think it really develops into anything too interesting, even if it's never outright bad. The performances are good enough to sustain some interest in what is going on, and the initial premise of it really does seem intriguing enough. Maybe it's just where the film went that it all seems sort of disappointing, and because of that I do think that the first half is noticeably stronger. Laura Dern really is brilliant in this though, as is both Duvall and Ladd. I can't really say I disliked, but I wouldn't really recommend it either. Seek it out if you must. "},{"Title":"mawkish to an almost nauseating degree","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this limp Southern period piece a wholesome young belle with the innocence of an angel and the manners of a whore supposedly disrupts the progressive Georgia household of Robert Duvall and Diane Ladd. The qualifier is necessary, because the film collapses into pure schmaltz almost before the end of the opening credits. The clumsy voice-over introduction by John Heard and the flashback (almost on cue) to his halcyon youth give fair warning to what kind of film this will be safe, calculated, all-too polite, and adapted for the screen by a novelist obviously attached to his own words. The casting is attractive, but no one is given much of a character to work with. The title role gives Laura Dern a vehicle for some overripe histrionics, but despite her promiscuity Rose is simply one saint in a family of saints, and every conflict quickly disappears to allow them all a chance to live happily ever after (Rose is even spared the consequences of her constant, physical 'search for affection' by a convenient inability to bear children). In the end it might just be the perfect diversion for people who thought 'Driving Miss Daisy' too controversial and inflammatory. "},{"Title":"What an interesting movie!","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Duvall was splendid in this movie. I do not want to ruin it for people watching, so I can not tell you much but his acting was great as well as Laura Dern. What a dynamic and thought provocative movie with so many interesting twists that are unexpected. The wife was really good too. The morals of it, the conflicts, the family. This movie had it all, love, conflict, compassion, passion and all great acting too! I would imagine if this movie is a book I should read it actually. The nuances were subtle and well done, it did address some touchy topics as well. The young boy actor really was well cast too. I guess all in all, the casting was super, the dialog was well done and the way they captured the south was excellent as well. "},{"Title":"airy light sexual","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Buddy recalls the Great Depression when Rose (Laura Dern) came to work for his family. She escaped prostitution in Birmingham to be the domestic servant. Kindly mother Hillyer (Diane Ladd) is partly deaf and was orphaned young. Rose flirts with father Hillyer (Robert Duvall) but he rebuffs her. Young Buddy (Lukas Haas) has a sexual encounter with Rose. She is desperate to stay and convinces him to keep it a secret. She continues to be flirtatious with the town's men. Father wants to send Rose away while mother argues to keep her.This is a nostalgic jazzy rambling reminiscence of a compelling character. My only problem is that this movie takes a light tone making this almost a fable. Despite the childhood point of view, it needs to go for a darker mood to fit this sexualized tragedy. Director Martha Coolidge is caught between making a kid's coming of age journey and a young woman's walk on a dangerous tight rope. The light airy mood keeps the darker material at a distance. "},{"Title":"Well Acted Period Piece.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Set in the South of the 1930's, film tells the story of Rambling Rose(Beautiful and appealing Laura Dern) who comes to the home of Daddy Hillyer(Robert Duvall), his wife Mother(Diane Ladd) and children, one of whom named Buddy(Lucas Haas) will come to love Rose, as she settles into their lives as a maid, but whose charm and beauty attract the attentions of all the local men, much to her employer's consternation, which will lead to a chain of events to have a lasting impact on the family, especially Buddy.Very well acted film recreates its specific time & place quite well, and has an interesting story and character development. Only missteps with the framing device of the now adult Buddy(played by John Heard, who doesn't much resemble Haas!) not working well, seemed tacked on and anticlimactic. Still, a nice little film anyway, with many memorable scenes and colorful dialogue. "}{"Title":"Rambling Rose","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An ingénue nymphomaniac's turbulent life rooted in the 1930s depression period of southern USA, served as a housemaid in a hotel owner's home, our heroine Rose, an uncultured but stalwart gal whose miserable past is the hidden wound cuts her deep and being unaware of her sex-addicted disposition, her path of looking for Mr. Right is rather bumpy and poignant. The film is narrated by Buddy, the eldest son of the hotel owner, Rose is his first love and always occupies a special place in his heart. Although Rose is the potent pillar of the film, female director Martha Coolidge has steadily integrates a handful of equally vivid characters (young Buddy, his Daddy and Mother) into a moderate template of chanelling and rescuing Rose from her self-destructive hazard, despite of wanting any laudable gambits in highlighting the narrative skills and the plot is always stuck into a hoary frivolousness, the complete work is at best satisfactory.The film is noteworthy by setting a record in the history of the academy by virtue of a real mother-daughter pair garners two Oscar nominations in the same film, Dern and Ladd (a second collaboration in a film after Lynch's WILD AT HEART 1990, 7/10) both showcase their stunning acting bent. Dern has nailed a quite innately delicate role since Rose is the damaged goods by nature, but her pure kindness and innocence hasn't been impaired and her female vulnerability is the real gem under the circumstance, even if she would mature gracefully later and give a more challenging and nail-biting performance in Lynch's INLAND EMPIRE (2006, 7/10), this film is among the crests of her filmography nonetheless. Ladd, after the pompous and lavish turn in WILD AT HEART, unexpectedly chooses a more positive and orthodox good-lady embodiment, her award-worthy moment confidently present itself in the latter part of the film, and single- handedly salvaging Rose from the misogyny from seedy male-predominance. But Duvall is also glittering in his category-fraud (I put him in leading) portrait of a man who is much wiser than he initially appears, and a juvenile Lukas Haas, almost being provocative while driven by curious sex impulse to take advantage of Rose, which might be the most contentious segment of the film per se, and at least he acts like a pro. My final conclusion is that regardless of its maternal inclination of female-skewing demography, it is indeed a thespian playing field with decent fodder. "},{"Title":"Good photography, but a little slow and depressing","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Since I started looking at Laura Dern movies and heard so much about this one, rental stores didn't have it. I finally found on the internet where I could buy it for about $10, I got it along with one of my favorites, Afterburn. The movie, a flashback to the 1930s, made a slow start but picked up later. It's a story that, for that period of time, has probably been played out thousands of times in real life all over the country. A young girl without a family to raise her in those times is a real tragedy, and Rose was doing the best she could..very lucky to even get the job and the home. I thought that Rose getting into bed with Buddy and what happened then was totally unnecessary to help the movie. Thats why I went down to a five. The ending was quite depressing after grown-up Buddy came back home and found out she had died. We didn't know anything about her for 25 years. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, if understated, period piece","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Diane Ladd and Lukas Haas are nothing short of remarkable as mother and son in this quiet family-centered coming-of-age piece. Duvall is, of course, great. And, Laura Dern makes the difficult title role her own by making her character's weakness and vulnerabilities also her strengths and virtues. Kevin Conway is marvelous as a supercilious doctor.  The beginning is painfully slow, but those who stick with it will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"They got the accent right!","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you grew up Southern you always have a thing about Hollywood actors trying to put on a Southern accent. I cringe when I hear Paul Newman, his wife Joan Woodward or Elizabeth Taylor trying to be Southern. I liked Rambling Rose because, for once, the actors nailed it. Only to be expected, I guess, since Diane Ladd is from Mississippi and Laura Dern is her daughter. (So how to explain Robert Duvall, who grew up in San Diego? Well, he's just one helluva an actor.) Aside from the accents, the acting was outstanding.Also I thought the soft summery lighting was perfect, unlike some period movies that seem done in comic book colors. I wonder where the location scenes were shot--anybody know?The story itself wasn't great, but was above average, IMHO. "},{"Title":"Rambling Rose is one of my all time favorites...love Laura Dern","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rambling Rose was a wonderful, sweet movie set in the south in the 1920-1930 period...with a great cast. I can't imagine it getting any better than Robert Duvall as Daddy saying,Rosebud, you are as graceful as the letter S. And mother, Diane Ladd, saying to Daddy, something to the effect of shooting him right between the eyes...with truth! It just does not get any better than that! I loved it when Robert Duvall took on the old doctor head on...to save Rose. Lucas Hass, John Heard, and all the cast was wonderful. The dialog, the lighting, the camera work were all outstanding and all wrapped together made a memorable experience. I fell in love with this film. "},{"Title":"Humorous and touching","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Martha Coolidge's best film, this is a comedy-drama about Rose, a sexually aggressive girl (Laura Dern) who moves in with a well-to-do Southern family and changes their lives.  As close to perfect as it could possibly be, this film features a top-notch cast, evocative cinematography and set decoration that brings to life the Depression-era South, and a great score by Elmer Bernstein. Standouts in the cast are Dern (no one else could have played this role) and Diane Ladd, who is heartbreaking as Rose's greatest defender. Dern and Ladd were both nominated for Oscars, the first mother-daughter to do so for the same film and in the same year. "},{"Title":"sweet, oversexed girl has many adventures","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is told in flashback form. A middle aged man remembers a girl that came to live with his family when he was in his early teens. She was a very nice girl, but highly sexed. At one point she tried to seduce the father, which was the funniest scene in the film. The story of her life with the family, though brief, was interesting and well done. Rose was a free spirited girl that you couldn't help but love. Good show. "},{"Title":"Trite, unsatisfying wallow","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Screenwriter Calder Willingham adapted his own book about a wayward young woman in 1930s Georgia who comes to stay with a rural family, quickly setting her lustful sights on the family patriarch. Director Martha Coolidge isn't especially graceful here, moving the film along in fits and starts, and when it becomes apparent that there isn't much to the story beyond the central situation, it just becomes a chore. The writing is decidedly bland, opening with a woeful prologue, and one never gets a sense of character development or transition. Real-life mother and daughter Diane Ladd and Laura Dern each earned Oscar nominations for their work (an Academy first), but young Lukas Haas (standing in, perhaps, for Willingham) gives the most interesting performance as the teenager with a crush on his family's flirtatious houseguest. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie gives a eyeopening glimpse of the 1930's and a hidden agenda of a very moralistic time. It is a charming story of the maid's attempt to walk the line between her own natural inclinations and the societies expectations for her. Laura Dern offers a very realistic and convincing performance that marks her as a great character actress. The interaction with her own mother, in the supporting cast, shows a natural adaptation to a role that is rare in such a young actress. Duvall is wonderful in a role that demands a vast understanding of human emotion and character study of his part. The set and old automobiles lend a real authenticity to this period in history. It takes you back to a simpler time, but underscores all of the attitudes of the time. This is a movie to be enjoyed again and again at each opportunity. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Pressed inside a special book","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Laura Dern is sort of underrated, maybe that is because Miss Dern has commingled movie acting with TV roles. If she is not obviously a knockout, physically, then no I don't understand that view, since her pulchritude scores right up in the top BABE percentage as Kidman, Ryan, and the late Anna Nicole Smith. The Jurassic Park scientist who bounded across the compound running for her life(and Sam Neill) has the best legs of any actress in my mind. Laura Dern's acting competence is right up there at her feminine attractiveness.Different from the very popular Jurassic Park. The less well-known comedy/drama is typically the old(1991) tape or DVD some person has back in a closet underneath a bunch of old videocassettes, eight-tracks, and various other old media. It belongs on a shelf next to Annie Hall or Beaches. Ramblin' Rose is a movie with a practical transference into a role of a simple but level-headed call girl in the South during the Depression Era. The woman is very down to earth, homey, and very sincere. But has a taste for good loving. Put it that way.The time is the nineteen-thirties, and Ramblin' Rose is a movie you could see with anyone, who is an adult and appreciates a good movie. It feels like a seventies movie for some reason. "}{"Title":"Knowing Waski","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie takes place in the 30's and 40's. It's a great story about a young woman trying to start a new life by living with a family and taking care of the children and helping the mother out with household chores. She falls in love with the husband, Robert Duvall, and the 13 year-old, Buddy, played by Lukas Haas falls in love with her. Her real life mother, Diane Ladd, plays Robert Duvall's wife. It's a great plot and keeps you interested until the very end. I've watched this movie many times...I think it was wonderfully put together. My best friend is Evan Lockwood, the one who played Waski, Robert Duvall's youngest son in the movie. I love hearing tales about his experience in this movie with Laura Dern, Robert Duvall, and the rest of this great cast. I own this movie and recommend everyone to watch it at least once and admit to falling in love with Rose. "},{"Title":"****1/2 Gorgeous, touching","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gorgeous, touching film about a Southern family in the 1930s whose lives are disrupted by the arrival of Rose (Laura Dern), a so-called loose woman with a real heart of gold. Dern is perfectly cast in the delightful title role, and her real-life mother Diane Ladd is brilliant as the matriarch of the conservative clan who does everything in her power to make sure the ignorant and self-righteous men around her don't harm the charming and rambling girl. Director Martha Coolidge has made a light and delicious Southern delicacy on par with Jon Avnet's Fried Green Tomatoes that is never less than totally enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated film with great Laura Dern performance.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's unfortunate than few people have seen this film even though both Laura Dern and her mother Diane Ladd were nominated for Oscars for their performances.  Laura Dern is AMAZING as a sweet innocent whose unabashed sexuality shocks those around her.  Please, please, please see this film - you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"An utter delight","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was delightful. Laura Dern puts in the best performance I've seen here. Her portrayal of Rose was perfect. Her mixing of sexiness with innocence came off as totally real. Rose was a girl with a deeply troubled past, and as a result, cannot separate sex from her understanding of, and quest for, love. Robert Duvall is always worth watching and his role here is no exception. The child actors were all adequate. Direction and photography gave the scenes a very restrained sunlit memory sort of quality. I'm not sure if the framing device in the film was even necessary, but it wasn't bad. I enjoyed the fact that this film was set in the Deep South, but did not focus on race. Good movie. Grade A "},{"Title":"Time Line is Off","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If Buddy was 13 in the 30's (when the majority of the story took place), he would have been in his 50's in the 70's (when the story was supposed to end). The grown up Buddy who appears at the end of the movie was MAYBE in his early to mid 30's. In reality, he'd have actually been about 20 years older. Other than that, cute movie coming from a Southerner. Usually, Im picky about movies taking place in the South. For example, I hated Julia Roberts fake accent in Steel Magnolias. It irritated me because she IS from the South, and STILL found it necessary to over exaggerate a Southern Accent. Overall, cute movie. Didn't even know it existed until I walked in on my mother watching it. Laura and Diane (real life mother & daughter) are cute in it together. "},{"Title":"Good acting, middling movie","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A sweet little film that suffers from sentimentality. The performances of Duvall, Ladd, and Dern are all excellent and I especially liked Ladd's quirky feminist humanist character.I did NOT like the flashback wrapper. It was superfluous and useless. I also did not like the choices that were made as to what scenes were important for the plot. The way it was presented did not make for an interesting story. They had these terrific characters played by great actors and they did nothing with them.And not to be picky, but the music was terribly distracting. I didn't particularly like the score. It was uninteresting and didn't add anything to the story - there's no room left for interpretation because of the drippy, syrupy music underlying the scenes.  "},{"Title":"A fine little film.  but here's a question about ...","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all, I gave it an 8 out of ten. The acting was really quite wonderful all around, and Laura Dern can absolutely steam up a room. Her Rose was always sweet and always on a sexual hair-trigger. She was a bit dim-witted, but always quite endearing.And even this warm, feel-good, sweetheart of a film made me think...So here's the question If a young adult woman gets into bed with a thirteen year-old boy, and then allows him to fondle her to orgasm, does that make her a criminal? In this day and age, the answer's yes. But every person commenting on the film (rightfully) loves Rose, and loves her motives.and consider this Would there ever be a film where a young adult male gets into bed with a thirteen year-old girl, and where one or the other fondles the other to orgasm, and the film goes on to develop that adult male into a sympathetic character? The answer is No. Such a film produced in the 1930s or today, would have had the perp rightfully jailed or rightfully shot.Now,it seems to me, that while Rose today would go to jail, in more sensible times Rose would not be a sexual offender. In fact, I figure that the boy would be universally recognized as one really lucky fellow. But our current social norms would see poor steamy Rose placed under arrest.In today's wacky, feminized legal system (in which ideology must regard males and females as always the same, all the time), Rose would have to be regarded as a criminal, simply because any male who had a sexual relationship with a minor female is a criminal --and rightfully so.In this wacky, feminized time, we read all about fabulously gorgeous 20-something high school teachers who get arrested for having sex with under-age boys. A generation ago, what would have been a boy's fantasy come true, is now portrayed as a boy's nightmare. Talk about screwing around with a kid's head!Is there anything at all about 1932's Buddy that is so different from young teenage boys of today? If not, how can the encounter between Buddy and Rose be so okay in the eyes of every commentator (and in my eyes, too, by the way), while similar encounters today between 14-15 year-old boys and 30 year-old women is now called a crime? What am I missing here? "},{"Title":"Hollywood Pushes Immorality, Again","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I will never cease to be amazed how historically inaccurate movies are or how morally bankrupt the people responsible for making films these days are. No one in the thirties would have kept a tramp as a house keeper especially with children in the house. It simply would not have happened and all the stupid reasons it might have happened are leftist writers pushing their agenda using a period movie to disguise their moral depravity. There are the usual digs at the South which were totally uncalled for and not probable by coming from the mouths of Southerns and the wife actually defends moral equivalence in one speech. Total rot. The only reason I watched the piece of garbage to the end was to see how bad the plot would get. It didn't fail to live up to my worse fears. Happily this movie was not exactly a huge hit, but then not too many movies are these days. The public isn't stupid. "},{"Title":"Nothing special here.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a sucker for nostalgic memoirs of childhood, but this one has little to recommend it. Lukas Haas should win a special award for work ethic he's hardly skipped a year for movies appearing since he was 7, and IMDb lists him with SIX in various stages of pre-production at this writing. In the present one, he's 15 playing Buddy, a Depression-era 13-y/o whose family takes in Rose, a vivacious and sexually rather uninhibited young woman, especially for that time. She puts the move on the father while Buddy and his sister watch, but dad is stalwart and declines. Buddy, who has no such moral qualms, does wind up with her in his bed one time, and manages to pet her to orgasm, but she returns no favors to him, though she apparently doesn't mind doing it with most any young man who comes along. The summer passes, or the year, or whatever it was, and everybody moves on with their lives. So what? "},{"Title":"Laura Dern's best acting","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story, set in 30's of states, present us with Rose, who is a maid at the household and somehow so sexy girl that men come around to watch her, which actually wasn't so accepted those days...It is a good movie that leaves you with a warm feeling for a person born on wrong time. "}]