[{"Title":"I think this movie traumatized more kids than Jaws","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If your idea of a dark comedy is something like Beetlejuice or Deathtrap or Heathers, then watch out. This one makes them look like Peewee's Playhouse.You know how certain horror movies cross over into comedy? Like when Freddy Krueger says Welcome to prime time b!tch!! and slams a girl's head into the TV? Well, this is the opposite comedy crossing over into horror. It gets pretty weird, and if you're not expecting it, it can be downright upsetting.I think that's what makes so many people hate this movie. With an all-star comedic cast like it has, it promises to be a laugh riot like the DVD cover says. I was expecting something like Ghostbusters meets Fletch meets Summer Rental. Instead it's more like Planes, Trains & Automobiles meets Deliverance. In other words the comedy is very low-key, not quite enough to offset the disturbing story.Dan Akroyd, who plays a sadistic murdering judge, is just plain frightening. John Candy, who plays the sympathetic policeman, gives the story an air of tragedy. Chevy Chase is his usual wisecracking self, but it can't compete with the horror & violence of the plot (being trapped in a hicktown house while people are getting brutally murdered all around you). You really have to be ready for it, otherwise you might end up traumatized. The Bonestripper scene will give lifelong nightmares to any kid under the age of 12, as well as impressionable adults.But now that you've been warned, perhaps you'll be able to take it in stride. I'm not sure if writer Dan Akroyd intended this to be so nightmarish, but it sure is. Definitely a one-of-a-kind. NOT for young kids!! "},{"Title":"Give this movie a try before you pass it by...","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"51 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I, unlike a lot of others, found this movie to be extremely funny- both in a smart way and a sort of gross out way. Chevy Chase is really funny with his sort of smart-ass, dry wit, probably his best performance after Christmas Vacation. From the movies I've seen Demi Moore in, this ranks as her best and shows that she can do comedy. Dan Akroyd and John Candy each pull double duty in this one and do it well- I couldn't even tell the second character Dan was playing until the credits rolled. The sets are unreal- from the junkyard (complete with piles and PILES of random junk and the Baby Huey-esquire Lil' Debil and Bobo) to the house of the honorable judge, it's hard to believe they actually put this together. Don't take everybody's word, check it out and you won't be sorry... "},{"Title":"Okay,  so no one was expecting Schindler's List","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"50 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This isn't a four star classic.  This isn't a motion picture epic to be adored for ages to come.  This is not the measuring stick by which all comedies should be measured.  However,  this movie has gotten a bad reputation,  undeservedly so.  So,  what is this movie?  It's a harmless, mindless romp through an amusing storyline played out by the witty rapport of the core characters.  The sight gags and slapstick,  while cliche' and childish,  are sure to bring a slight giggle.  What's more fun than a judge who's idea for a great execution is dumping the accused in a rollercoaster called the Bonestripper?  (Complete with Damn Yankees theme music,  no less.)  The performance of the Digital Underground brings a shimmer of surrealism to the whole ordeal.  No,  this isn't the best movie in the world,  but it's far from the worst. "},{"Title":"A surreal comedy.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"37 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is bound to become a cult legend, and shows Dan Aykroyd at his finest.  I highly recommend it to anyone who finds humor in the absurd. The film, though bizarre, reflects society in an uncanny way.  Somehow, the characters portrayed in the movie seem strangely familiar, and this can even be unsettling (where have I seen them before?).  A lot of work went into this film, and it should, IMHO, be taken very seriously as comic art of the highest form.  I gave it this film a 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Unconventional Comedy That Gets A Bad Wrap","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I look up all of the movies I watch on IMDb, and I'm surprised that this one is so disliked. I think the main reason is that with a cast of such comedy legends as Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy, people were expecting a more conventional comedy. Most of their audience was probably expecting something along of the lines of The Couch Trip, Delirious or Fletch. I think people like me, who appreciate campy horror films like 2001 Maniacs, The Butcher and any of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre series, are more likely to find some humor in this film.Thanks to the remarkably bland title, I had no idea that this was a comedy with a horror twist when I found it on a cable channel. The completely pointless start of the film, which involves a party and some sort of talk of some sort of business deal, also doesn't hint at what the film is really about. It isn't until the protagonists get arrested that all of the fun starts.What follows is something in between comedy and horror. It skews more towards horror, with tons of gross-out scenes thanks to Dan Aykroyd's various grotesque characters. There are tons of bones, but not a lot of blood. Unlike conventional horror movies, where body-counts are generally in the double digits, only one group of ne'er-do-wells end up slaughtered over the course of the film. Even the two annoying ancillary characters who are along for the ride, who would be dead meat in any real horror film, end up getting a reprieve and a happy ending.By far the strangest part, and my personal favorite, is the musical performance in the middle of the film. When I saw a limo pulling up in a scene halfway through the film, I thought, okay here come some more victims. I was surprised to say the least that the occupants of the vehicle turned out to be the entire Digital Underground crew, including the instantly recognizable Shock G (aka Humpty Hump)! Instead of being murdered, they all perform a song (unfortunately not their one major hit, the far superior Humpty Hump). You can even see the late-great Tupac Shakur as one of the members of Digital Underground, before he started his solo career. I would recommend this film to anyone just for this surreal moment, but if you have no idea who Tupac or Digital Underground are then you probably won't enjoy it as much.After a few fake endings and the actual goofy cartoon ending, the movie is over. All in all, it doesn't have that many laughs, and it's definitely not scary, but it is rarely boring. The Digital Underground cameo is excellent and the cast plays their roles well. This is certainly not the best movie I've seen, but I would rank it better than any bad comedy and most bad horror movies. In fact, I'd say this film is just a few buckets of blood and a few crazy gross-out scenes away from a cult classic. "},{"Title":"This is...","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A movie you can watch when you want lots of interesting characters, scenery, and complete nonsense everywhere you look. This movie was never intended to be an intellectual masterpiece...it was made to make people laugh, and to entertain. On many levels its very similar to movies like Scary movie, and the burbs...which have decent ratings. I just don't understand the average person these days, and what they seem to like about anything. Movies like traffic get 10's, and movies like this get 3.5's...traffic was a total bore fest, and this movie kept me entertained. Before everyone starts thinking this guy is out to lunch Keep in mind that one of my favorite movies of all time is Brazil..a movie which got amazing reviews, and in my opinion is equally as unsettling. "},{"Title":"Forget Trouble. Nothing is Good.","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1991 &#x96; actually, starting back in 1988, I made it my mission to watch as many movies as I could. I loved going to the cinema and literally seeing everything. And yet, in early 1991, I decidedly avoided Nothing But Trouble.Damn, I must've been a smart kid.This movie was so richly bad, so incredibly awful, so repulsive and so spiteful of the human race, it should never had been made. Hell, it didn't know at any point if it wanted to be a comedy, horror or both and never settled in on any genre.Basically, Chevy Chase's Chris agrees to take both an obnoxious and absolutely appalling couple of nitwits and Demi Moore's Diane to Atlantic City from New York but get sidetracked when they run a stop sign. Apparently, this is the end all to all sin in this small town on the way to the Eastern gambling destination.Once they get caught and led to the local judge, the movie title kicks in.In honesty and all that is good, I watched this train wreck of a disgusting and horrifyingly bad movie because the hilarious How Did This Get Made podcast covered it and I needed to see it before I listened to their show.After seeing this mess, this repulsive pile of sh|t, get progressively worse &#x96; think Garbage Pail Kids The Movie Part II, you truly wonder if any one, at any time, thought any of this was a good idea.But, if you must see this pointless, aimless and poorly written romp, at very least listen to the How Did This Get Made podcast following. At least you'd finally get a good laugh out of this time wasted.* * * Final thoughts I remember the only two positives I saw during this Demi looked amazing! and I was impressed with the 1991 technology. I mean, who knew they had GPS in cars in 1991?Now, think about it. Are those two positives worth wasting another 94 minutes of your life over? "},{"Title":"A Wacky Horror Comedy From Start To Finish","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hi there, Monstermaster13 here with a review. This review is for Nothing But Trouble - and underrated gem of a movie that came out into the early 90's.Apparently loosely based on a true story, the movie stars Dan Akyroyd (it's also directed by him as well), Chevy Chase, Demi Moore and the always great and (it pains me to say this) late John Candy.Chevy Chase and Demi Moore play a couple who end up in the town of Valkanvania after having a run in with the police, and the end up at the judge's house where they meet the crazy J.P Valkanheiser and Bobo and Lil Debul as well as the police cop's sister Eldona (also played by John Candy).The judges house is filled with all sorts of kooky mechanical devices, and all sorts of hijinks insue in this.A lot of critics tend to bash this one on the grounds of it's plot, but it's supposed to be weird because it's a black comedy and it doesn't have to make sense for you to enjoy it.I heavily recommend watching this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Take a moment to realize that a long time ago, comedy legends Dan Aykroyd and Chevy Chase made a movie so unspeakably bad that its almost impossible to watch. A movie so grotesque in nature that it just sits there on screen like turd burning in the hot sun. This movie is called, Nothing But Trouble, and its buried in cinematic obscurity, but for all the right reasons. Whats even more insulting is the fact that Dan Aykroyd actually wrote and directed this picture, as if this was the movie he was dreaming to get made. He must have been on some strong dope. Here, he plays a deteriorating old man with a penis shaped nose who stands as the justice of the peace of a rural northeastern town. Among his family is a duo of mentally challenged mutant toad- humanoids and John Candy in drag. Not to mention, the whole area surrounding them is a toxic waste dump complete with dead corpses. Essentially, you are looking at a parody of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, minus everything that could have been potentially funny about a Texas Chainsaw parody. Its pure bunk, plain and simple. For those of you who are fans of this picture, God bless you, because I couldn't find a damn thing likable about this putrid mess. Yes, I know its supposed to be surreal and gross. If they wanted to really do that they should have hired David Lynch. "},{"Title":"Burn the negatives - Leave no survivors","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Nothing but Trouble holds a special place on my all-time, worst movies ever list of shame. It's easily one of the top 10 worst movies. But it also holds the distinction of being one of the very few movies I've ever walked out on. Yes. It is with great shame that I must confess that I saw this garbage in the movie theater. When I saw Demi Moore being held captive by two disgusting blobs, I knew I had hit the nadir. One blob screamed, I want...another bowl of cereal! I wanted to leave with my stomach intact. I bolted for the exits. My family was with me and had to leave too since I had the car keys. I have no idea how this movie ends and I want to keep it that way. Stick this movie in a time capsule and never dig it up. Better yet, burn the negatives to keep some poor, cold family warm. Do something useful with this junk because to watch this movie is to hate this movie. The fact that so many talented comedians were in this flotsam makes it sting even harder. I don't know how this train wreck could be allowed to happen. I just know that no human being should have to sit through it. "}{"Title":"people actually LIKED this???????","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the worst pieces of film I have EVER in my life watched, and I have sat through lots of hours of film. I will even give Eraserhead credit as an art film, because of the definition that true art will trigger some visceral reaction in the viewer, be it disgust, admiration, love, laughter . . . in the case of Eraserhead it was total disgust. In the case of Nothing But Trouble . . . I vote for the Nothing. It is truly hard to believe that such a great talented cast could still not rescue such an abominable piece of film. So much wasted talent and money, and all those cumulative life-hours of all those viewers.If you feel you must see this, this belongs at the very bottom of your Netflex queue, when there is absolutely nothing else left to watch--your time is worth way more than this. "},{"Title":"About as bad as it gets","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd supposedly has an affinity, almost a fetish, for collecting bizarre little gadgets and oddities that don't serve any particular purpose other than just to sit there so he and his friends can goof on them. After seeing this movie, I can believe that, because that pretty much describes this movie to a T. A good cast wasted is an understatement; EVERYTHING is wasted here--time, film, you name it. The paper the script was written on would have served a more useful purpose in wrapping fish--which may well be exactly what happened, because my God does this thing stink. The whole movie is one long Rube Goldberg contraption, except that, unlike Goldberg's gizmos, this isn't amusing, funny, clever, or anything else other than painful. I've often wondered after seeing a particularly headache-inducing piece of cinematic bilge if the people who made it had any idea of how bad it was going to be when they were shooting it. After seeing this, I can't believe that anyone who participated in this atrocity didn't know how bad it was going to be BEFORE they shot it. Maybe they figured, Hey, it's Dan Aykroyd, he'll think up something funny. That's like being told you need brain surgery and that your surgeons are going to be Johnny Knoxville and Tom Green, and figuring, Well, that's OK, they'll learn brain surgery before the operation.The only even remotely amusing bits in this movie belong to John Candy as both a cop and his sister (!), and that's due solely to Candy's ability to make a silk purse out of a sow's droppings. Take everybody else's word for it, and avoid this brain-rotting fungus like the plague that it is. "},{"Title":"Truly the worst movie ever produced","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I believe the venerable movie critic Leslie Haliwell sums this film up best ...exceeding dismal comedy in which a group of self-indulgent comedians, having been given a great deal of rope, proceed to hang themselves; it is not a pretty sight.  Variety says, Astonishingly poor effort...the longest 94 minutes on record.  Ken Newman, of 'Sight and Sound,' claims this was an absolute failure as a comedy...  This is truly and without exception or doubt the worst film ever produced.  I have encouraged many to see this film if for no other reason than to know just how awful a film can truly be. Ironically, the film was written by an arguably intelligent team (the brothers Aykroyd) and starred four usually reliable actors  Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, Demi Moore, and the late John Candy.  How then could a production go so disastrously wrong?  You really have to see it to believe how bad it is.  The ONLY redeeming quality (the ONLY reason I could even give it one point other than the fact that IMDB won't let you give it a zero) was the entertaining scene where Digital Underground performed in the courthouse.  That's it.  That's the only possibility of redemption in the worst film ever realized in American cinema.  ANYONE who cares to argue this critique is MORE than welcome to email me at ... though I feel certain that I won't be hearing from anyone. "},{"Title":"A poor vehicle for 4 stars!","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was disappointed to say the least! I was hoping for a brilliant comedy because of the 3 great comic actors Akroyd,Candy and Chase. And better for Moore who was excellent in G.I. Jane and Ghost. I watched Akroyd in Blues Brothers and Ghost Busters. In the National Lampoon Vacation series and Caddyshack Chase was great. Candy in Brewsters Millions , Stripes and Second City TV were all excellent for them, But this film from these four great stars was less than stellar. Clearly if you expected funny from this motion picture you will be dissatisfied as I was. If you see this movie, well you just wasting ninety four minutes that could be better spent elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Not one bit funny","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Based on Dan Aykroyd's personal experiences. In 1978, he was pulled over for speeding in a rural town in the Northeastern United States. The police officer took him to the local Justice of the Peace in the middle of the night for a trial.It's a sad thing when movie with such comedians as Chevy Chase (National lampoons vacation) , Dan Aykroyd (Blues brothers) and John Candy (Planes , trains and automobiles) doesn't have even one funny thing in it. I like black humor , I love The Addams family and I consider myself to be quite open minded person. However this terrible movie pretty much killed career for anyone who appeared in it. Yes, it's that bad.I could say that there are some good things in this movie- Demi Moore (Ghost) is pretty and the set decoration is nice. However watching this movie is as enjoyable as hitting wall with your head . Wait &#x85; Hitting the wall with your head is MORE ENJOYABLE than this&#x85; I pretty much erased the movie from my memory just to keep my sanity. I don't recommend it to anyone, even to people who like weird kind of humor. There is no humor here people . Unless you think that John Candy dressed as a woman is hilarious.Interesting thing &#x96; This is Tupac Shakur's film debut. He briefly appears as one of the members of the former hip-hop group Digital Underground. In the end credits he is billed as 2 Pac Shakur.Avoid this movie. You have been warned. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great cast gone awry. This is the only movie I have actually gone out of my way to get people not to buy. I only regret that the lowest vote I could give it, was a (1). It deserves a negative rating. The make-up is really bad and the humor is nauseating. I bought this from a video store going out of business 1994 for $4.00 and I'd take it back if they were still in business. If they had a lot of movies like this in there inventory, no wonder they are out of business. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever created","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was, without any exception, the single worst experience I ever had in a theater. This movie not only makes no sense, it doesn't have any redeeming qualities. Only see this movie if you hate yourself and are desperately seeking ways to punish yourself.this is HORRID. you will want to end your life rather than finish this movie. (and i assure you, the ending is so bad, you'll wish you hadn't waited till the end). "},{"Title":"This movie supposed to be Stupid","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a comedy, what do you expect?? It supposed to be stupid and silly, that's the point. I can't believe anyone take this picture so seriously. This is a funny movie, maybe not the funniest film ever. It still a pretty funny movie. Relax and turn off your brain, you'll enjoy this movie.I give this film 6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bad, Really Bad","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Simply the worst, most awful movie I've ever seen. Didn't laugh once, don't know why it was made. I almost threw it back at my friend when I returned it to him. He thought it was the best movie ever. Don't know why he's still a friend.... The last scene with Chevy Chase on the couch gave me chills, I actually felt embarrassed for him. How could so many talented people make something so talentless? The make-up is horrible. There are NO jokes in the movie. How can a comedy have no jokes? If there was a refund counter to get that 90 minutes of my life back, I would demand it and ask for interest. I'd rather hang by my feet over hot lava before I'd spend another second minutes watching this. "},{"Title":"Some things cannot be unseen","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film when I was about 12 or 13 when it came out on video. I remember being excited at the list of stars that I knew from hilarious movies of my childhood. I can only remember being confused and disappointed.A decade or so later, I've seen it again--and frankly, all the writers trying to defend this film are wrong. There is an attempt to create a dark edge to this film that just doesn't work because of the frequent cartoonish departures from realism (the house, the yard, the twin grandchildren). All of the jokes fall flat. I have to agree with the many other comments I've read it's painful. I'm terribly frustrated by this film. I watched and felt embarrassed for the actors. This movie was like a potentially good line of standup humor that went horribly wrong when converted to film.Please save yourself from watching this movie.  "}{"Title":"Absolutely dreadful","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'd give this horrible movie a zero if the rating numbers allowed me to. This movie was sickening, perverse, evil, and was total putrescense. I cannot believe the terrific, rave reviews for this movie. I also saw a number of other awful reviews too, so I guess my thoughts on this film are not alone.Nothing but trouble was awful and sickening. It star Chevy Chase and Demi Moore who decide to go to Atlantic city for the weekend. Two other Spanish colleagues of thiers, but not quite friends, invite themselves againced Cheve's will to tag along last minute. On route, the guy colleague Randy, an arrogant jerk, persuades Cheve to take a shortcut and also to speed. Randy gets pressuring about it. Come on man, you have a BMW, act like it! Then they drive through a mysterious dusty looking ghost town. While passing through it, Cheve unknowingly runs a stop sign. Cop John Candy sees this and starts pursuing them. When he stops them, he orders them to follow him. They follow him into a very strange and erie area and up to an ancient looking dilapidated creepy old house. Inside the house is even creepier. It's filthy, cluttered, and mothball eaten with bizarre looking gadgets and accessories.Then they meet the judge. From this point onward in the film is nightmarishly horrible. The part of the film leading up to this point was not too good itself, but now the film turned dreadful, disgusting, and scary. But not scary in a good horror movie way. Scary in a sick, vomit inducing, mentally traumatizing way. The judge, played by Dan Aykroyd, is one sick, evil, disgusting thing. He sends many of his defendants onto a conveyor belt which carries them into a flesh stripping, murderous machine called bonestripper. The machine even shows bones being shot out of it after people were sucked into it. There are other freaky, scary traps in the house too. Then there's the creatures of the house itself. The Judge's nose looks very much like something you really don't want to see on a man's face, and that image itself has giving me nightmares and literally made me vomit, literally! Then the judge can also pull parts of his body off and on again. Then there's these two hideous freak fat creatures that live right outside the house in the dumpyard. Then there's the moat which is literally raw sewage. Then there's the hotdogs the judge forces his guests to eat for dinner. And the hot dogs are made of, well I'll just say too words. Bonestripper. Cannibalism. This was the most sickning, evil, revolting, perverse, horrible, dreadful movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"deliberately annoying","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Successful financial writer Chris Thorne (Chevy Chase) meets emotional lawyer Diane Lightson (Demi Moore). She wants to stop a land developer and he's willing to take her to meet him in Atlantic City. Obnoxious, wealthy Brazilian siblings Fausto and Renalda tag along. Chris gets lost and is arrested by Valkenvania police officer Dennis Valkenheiser (John Candy). He is brought in front of crazy old Judge Reeve Alvin Valkenheiser (Dan Aykroyd) and his weird mansion/courthouse.It's an ugly funhouse of deliberately annoying characters. Dan Aykroyd has nobody to blame but himself. He just goes crazy without anybody willing to tell him that this is disgusting and not funny. I hate most of these characters. If Chevy Chase is nicer, there is a possible rooting interest. However everything is so over-the-top ugly and unlikeable. I almost want to give it a pass for being campy but not every bad movie deserves that pass. Its worst sin of all is that it's not funny. "},{"Title":"This is not a good movie.","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Have you ever wondered what a less funny version of Texas Chainsaw Massacre would be like? I would hope not, but Dan Aykroyd apparently did and thus Nothing But Trouble exist. This movie is disturbing and watching it is like having food poisoning in your eyes. Worse things have happen to me other than seeing this film... on second thought, no they haven't. If there is a God and if that God is just, Aykroyd shouldn't assume that being in the Trading Places and Ghostbusters will save him from fiery pits of damnation. My nightmares would watch this movie and say, Damn, that's some pretty messed up stuff! The highlight of this film is probably the opening credits. It's the one part where the viewer still remembers what happiness is. "},{"Title":"The kind of movie that can only happen by accident.","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An inexplicably disturbing film that makes you feel you're watching a dream you'd normally have forgotten. A dream that you retain a slight nauseous feeling from; like you vaguely remember your sister being naked in it or something.Alone, NBT could be seen as some brilliantly avant-garde misfire. But when placed in context with The Burbs, Beetlejuice, Gremlins and Ghostbusters, you can see what they were going for; a popcorn comedy with horror elements, nothing more.It's hard to believe the studio didn't shut this down during production. I would assume that Aykroyd repeated again and again that Ghostbusters looked like a train-wreck on paper but was a smash.NBT shares some Jungian thematic elements with The People Under the Stairs and Flowers in the Attic, all films about inescapable labyrinthine houses and villains with perverse and mostly unknown motives. The sanitized, focus grouped, cookie cutter Hollywood we have today is a result of insane projects like this, and an effort to not repeat them.As Roger Ebert used to say, it takes a talented filmmaker to make a truly bad film. Not just boring, not just forgettable but, poignantly, insistently bad. I don't think anyone would disagree that Mr. Aykroyd is a talented man. "},{"Title":"A superior litmus test.","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very funny as well as a very entertaining sashay in and out of the world of weird. If you're rigid with your own expectations, do yourself a favor and expect to to be generous with your poetic license chits. The movie jumps in and out (a lotta out) of the real world from start to finish, never getting comfortable for those predisposed to not get comfortable with stuff like this. The show comes off as so stupid that even when it's clever it still looks stupid. By the third watch, nothing about this movie is stupid. Most everything is funny by then. And so, the litmus test. If you meet someone, and there's a romantic spark, and that person 'admits' that they really like the movie, you've found your soul mate. And if you meet someone who says the movie was 'soo stupid', you've met ont of the soldiers tha comprise the 'masses'... OOOOhhh, I said it. "},{"Title":"When an entertaining film becomes a flop","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think I watched this film first on television and liked it....then I bought the DVD years later and loved it. I find this flick amusing, imaginative with good performances. So why was this film an ultimate flop at the box office? I didn't watch this picture because of any special actors who play in it. I believe a reason for this one being a flop is that people have a certain expectation if movie stars they love are performing...They are frustrated when they don't recognize Dan Aykroyd in make-up, when John Candy plays entertaining but without being overly funny and when Demi Moore is not as heart-wrenching as in 'Ghost'. That is and will be always an issue if you are a filmmaker for instance and have stars in your picture. They pull away quite some focus from the rest of the movie...Also, this film is a little gross at times and maybe for a big budget comedy people where not ready for that yet. I'd say this film was ahead of its time. One prove for that, supposedly 'Nothing but Trouble' has achieved a little cult status over the years. "},{"Title":"Deliverance meets Texas Chainsaw Massacre meets Beetlejuice","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very unique and underrated movie! If you like the three movies mentioned in the summary, you will probably like this movie. This is Dan Aykroyd's baby, written, directed, and starring. Aykroyd's characterization of the Shire Reeve (origin of the word Sheriff) totally makes the movie, as does Mr. Bonestripper, souped-up police cars, and John Candy playing against type as the nice-but-tough Chief Constable. Some really amazing sets here, pre-CGI. In my opinion this movie has only two weaknesses 1. It's a little slow getting started with a protracted dinner party prologue, and 2. The two giant mutant baby grandchildren that live out in the junkyard are just too cartoonish, and not funny at all. But the rest of the movie is great, well worth your while. I particularly enjoy anticipating what ruling the Reeve is going to hand out with each case, and the conclusion of the State Police raid is also a great moment! "},{"Title":"If you expect too much, you will be disappointed","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Its hard to believe just how critical most people are of this movie. First and most importantly I cannot understand why so many people think this movie is gross or has parts that are hard to stomach. MAN UP! The scene in Apollo 13 where the guy pukes in space is more grotesque than anything in Nothing But Trouble. In my opinion this movie is pleasantly bizarre and random. I loved the fact that it starts out like very much like any old movie (the only part that many of the film's most critical reviewers seem to like) and turns into something you would never expect at all. I know I was totally surprised when they end up in that mansion with that crazy old judge. Its like a crazy dream in a film. Set design was awesome.I think many people just don't understand the humor used the film. I've noticed that many people who have given the film negative reviews have stated the only funny part is when.... - and then each person lists a different scene, each equally amusing in my mind. At times the Shire Reeve is hilarious, saying the weirdest things. This is worse than a week of yellow s***storms. MA SKUNK! wheasey peasey *strange whistle sound* and his nose even turns into the tip of a penis during the hot dog train scene (if you happen to catch it as it is only for a brief second)It seems the more times I watch it the funner it gets. I think I like it so much for the same reason most people hate it so much. Because it is unorthodox and isn't just the same old run-of-the-mill romantic comedy. It stands alone in my mind as one of the most uniquely entertaining films of its time. I made all of my friends and every girlfriend I've ever had watch it and most seemed to like it.Don't get me wrong, I am taking it for what it is. It has its flaws. Chevy Chase did kind of sleepwalk throughout the whole film. Demi Moore looks terrible and plays a character that is unfunny and somewhat irritating at times. I think most people just expect way too much from this movie once they see who is in it. If at all possible the best viewing scenario for this movie would be to forget about WHO is in it and to try not to expect to see Uncle Buck, or Clark Griswald or a reenactment of the movie Ghost. Just take it for what it is and its a pretty funny movie that happens to also include TUPAC in his first movie appearance and that rapper with the big nose!MEMORABLE PARTS Chris So that's where they buried Flipper. Brazilians in unison FLIPPERS' DEAD?! sign said 'NO CUSSING' and Chris says Sh*t The weird trumpet music playing as they enter the compound. If it's an ambulance, you've got a chance. If it's a hearse, it's got to be worsethere's a FUNKY Karma here man < in Negron's Brazilian accentDiane Let's just be quiet and let him do his little thing and we'll be on our way. J.P. Oh, I will let you be on your way, and when you go... (bellows) J.P. THE CAT'S EYES'LL SPIN! NOW, LISTEN! Chris Thorne OK, we'll listen! J.P. (calm again) Hey, hey, ha! Ho ha! Heh heh heh heh! Hoola, Hoola, Hoola! The Boola Boola Boola! Look who's got the front seats to the Mexican hat dance now! Just like a bunch of spiders in a birthday cake! J.P. Do you know what those stock certificates are worth today? (shouts) J.P. JUST ABOUT THE FINEST OUTHOUSE WALLPAPER YOU'VE EVER SEEN! We were forced to become what you drove through today; a burnt out coal field and the biggest icebox graveyard this side of the Ohio foundry belt! And that's why I *never* let a banker go! Fausto So your Daruandpa made a lousy deal, is that our problem? Diane Lightson Judge, that's a very tragic, tragic story. J.P. I believe it is. Renalda You should do a book. "},{"Title":"Bizarre adventure film","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm also kind of surprised by the bad reviews this movie had, i've always considered it a good dark-adventure for teens. I'm really not sure this is so far away of the well-respected Stand by me (7.7) and The Goonies (7.5)...Many good things could be said about it - it has a great set, the house craziness and oppression is perfectly transmitted through it- Good acting here, by Dan Aykroyd and John Candy- the Digital Underground surprising performance- Demi Moore, with some weight overload on her legs, but still looking great, showing us that anorexia is not always needed on screen- Disgusting scenes all over the movie, just because that's what the movie is about!And above all, it entertains. It never goes down, it's fun, not in a lol way, in a 80's movie way, which makes it nicer and more unique. We know this kind of movies won't be done again, we know that kind of magic is gone, and that's what makes them worth to rescue and defend from despective reviews. If you see it around, give it a try, you'll find something quite different of what movies are all about now "},{"Title":"No other people could of come up with this but the aykroyds.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My goal in life is to see every movie Dan Aykroyd and John Candy have ever been in so of course, this movie was on my list. It was airing on Encore and decided to tape it, however I was a bit hesitant to do so. Looking at the reviews to the film by critics and other non-professional viewers I almost decided to take the film off of my list for good.It all changed after I saw it.I have to admit that this movie is no Gone With the Wind. It isn't a movie that will be adored through the ages and will stand the test of time. It took me a little while to get it. The movie is a black comedy without comedy in it. The comedy comes from the entire situation. Chase and Moore are put into this situation that is so surreal. That's the beauty of it. The Aykroyds are two extremely creative people and no other person could have possibly come up with a story of this magnitude. The sets are amazing, the makeup is great, and the script is original and creative. 7/10 "}{"Title":"It should be a cult classic.....","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This flick has just the right mixture of stupid, funny, gross, disturbing, and completely off the wall.  And most importantly, it was reviled by the critics, big qualifier there.  If this was a midnight movie, I'd go see it. It would be great to occupy the after hours. "},{"Title":"Boo!!!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie a while ago, and I am still trying to forget it!  It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen!!!  Talk about a total waste of time!! The story was horrible!  The acting was just as bad!!  Save yourself!! Don't watch it!! "},{"Title":"Definitely deserves to be in the bottom 100","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This may actually be the worst movie of all time.  I am as serious as a heart attack when I say that no one and I mean NO ONE could make a movie this bad even if they decided consciously to make the worst movie possible. This is one of those movies that makes you wonder why the stars took these roles.  Anyone could tell from a mile away that this movie would be awful.  "},{"Title":"So bad it's not even interesting","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I agree with the consensus. Burn the negatives. This is right up there with GIGLI as one of the absolute worst films ever made. I can hang with something like WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S which knows how dumb it is. But this... my god, I felt like I had just bathed in manure after watching it on HBO the other night. It made me feel icky and embarrassed and resentful all at once. I'm just amazed that, despite the clout of then-stars Ackroyd, Chase, and Candy, this POS ever was greenlit in the first place. It's an absolute trainwreck; NOTHING about it works! And again, other movies are actually humorous and a bit charming, even, because they are so flawed. SILENT NIGHT, DEADLY NIGHT comes to mind. And WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S too. But not this. This fails in every way imaginable. "},{"Title":"ignore the haters","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie for probably 20 years. I'm a big fan of John Candy and Chevy Chase from the late 80s/early 90s. I'm not sure what triggered my brain to think about this specific movie, but something did, so i went online and bought the DVD. After the impulse purchase, I was having a little buyer's remorse from reading the overwhelming negative reviews on here. I was questioning my choice and asking myself Was it not as funny as i remembered?!? I just finished watching it and my post-purchase trepidation was a waste of time and energy. Was it the funniest thing on the planet? No. Did it entertain and make me chuckle. Yes. Was it worth the four bucks I paid for the DVD? HELL YES! The frequent Chevy Chase comments throughout the film alone are worth that. If you don't like it, God bless your little heart - and find something better to do than post negativity where none is needed ) "},{"Title":"If you don't stop, trouble comes a knocking...","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was great and enjoyable back in 1991 and still is so even today. There is just that something unique about the chemistry between comedians Dan Aykroyd, John Candy and Chevy Chase.The story is about four upscale people whom are caught for traffic violations in Valkenvania and are brought for immediate sentencing before the eccentric judge Alvin Valkenheiser. And soon the day turns into a real nightmare.While Nothing But Trouble is not the type of comedy that will split you open from excessive laughing, then there is just something Classic about the entire movie; be it the mood and absurdity of the story, the hilarious and outrageous characters, or the fact that Dan Aykroyd, John Candy and Chevy Chase were just a great combination, I do not know. But I do know that this movie is entertaining.The movie does bear itself as watchable more than once. And if you are a fan of Dan Aykroyd, John Candy or Chevy Chase, then Nothing But Trouble is a must watch. "},{"Title":"thought it'd be up my alley at the time...","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know the film has a few decent characteristics... the set design is pretty cool and there's a little be of an uncomfortable gore/make-up edge to it, but that's about it.It's not funny at all. The whole concept seems absolutely ridiculous. Way TOO over-the-top imo. I've revisited-it once since watching-it in the theater, and it's still as bad as I remembered.Slightly entertaining sight gags nearly, and I mean NEARLY make it passable.A cast that includes Akroyd, Chase, and Demi Moore drew us in, but I remember the entire audience(at least the one's I heard) being quite disgruntled with this odd and unfunny mess of a movie.I'd pass. 34/100 "},{"Title":"Nothing but Dan Aykroyd -","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Have you ever watched a movie that seemed great at the time, but by the eighth or twelfth viewing, it starts looking worse than you thought it was? I love Dan Aykroyd. He was and still is one of my top ten favorite talents to emerge from Saturday Night Live. However, as far as being able to write, produce, direct and star in a film, he might have bit off more than he could handle. I saw a portion of this movie for the first time around 1995; it was the scene where Chevy Chase is tried before the judge, found guilty on trumped-up charges and sent through the roller coaster from hell to his death. That was it for me. I never knew what happened next for several years. What happened before that? Where did it go from there? I had to know. Some years passed, and I found the movie at the local library. (Yes, libraries actually rent movies, and they do it for free.) It turns out what I missed was Chevy Chase as a successful stock broker meeting Demi Moore, a really hot lawyer, and that's basically where things spring board. It starts out dull and boring and leaves you waiting to get into the plot. Chevy wants to take Demi out for a long drive down the coast to be alone, but in walks the late Taylor Negron from Fast Times At Ridgemont High and his girlfriend to horn in on the trip and pretty much get on everyone's last nerve, including the audience. They don't even have a purpose in this movie and are quickly shuffled out twenty minutes later after serving their purpose. After pressuring Chevy to break the law and get them all arrested, they all get dragged up before Dan Aykroyd in very heavy (and I do mean VERY HEAVY) prosthetics in a courthouse in the middle of several acres of junkyard surrounded by a moat. While this fat-suit gimmick worked out great for Eddie Murphy in The Nutty Professor, Aykroyd uses it to become as gross, obnoxious and unappealing as possible. It's just not funny or really integral to the plot. The house and junkyard with its various Addams Family hidden room aspects are more intriguing, but we never see much of it. John Candy plays the judge's nephew, the only normal person in the judge's family, but Candy also gets stuck playing double-duty as his overweight and homely sister in a role that is both disturbing and uncomfortable for Candy. It's supposedly played for laughs, but it's not funny. The rest of the movie is pretty much about Chevy and Demi trying to escape with Chevy getting trapped into a marriage with the homely fat niece and sent through the aforementioned roller coaster to his death. Luckily, it conks out before truly chewing him up. Unfortunately, he's basically sleepwalking through the scenes and phoning in his dialogue without the energy or personality of Clark Griswold. Demi Moore tries playing her role straight, but it is not hard to see she's completely confused and dismayed by the script that isn't very funny and is actually frequently disturbing. It's basically Deliverance as a live-action horror cartoon, and it's not really helped by a disconnected musical interlude by a group I'm told calls itself Digital Underground. I'm never heard of them either, but they're the only good thing in this movie even if it gets disturbing to watch two young beautiful ladies rub up against Aykroyd in his fat latex old man costume. If this movie is what we can expect from the unbridled imagination that is Dan Aykroyd, all I can say is Thank-God for Harold Ramis for keeping him restrained enough to create Ghostbusters. "},{"Title":"As a Pennsylvania native, this movie is spot on! A+","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was born and raised in eastern Pennsylvania. Watching this movie, I know exactly where the inspiration came from. It is basically a caricature of an old coal town in Pennsylvania. The honorable reeve is identical to the stereotypical pennsylvania dutch man. If you are from PA, you will love the film. If you are from somewhere else, this movie will show you why you should never move here. It's all about the details in this film. The local meat markets sell garbage that is similar to the hot dogs, and the junk all over the yard is another PA dutch characteristic. Check this movie out, and go into it with an open mind. "},{"Title":"A pickle shooting train.....","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A financial publisher, meets a spurned woman and agrees to take her to a business meeting, to meet up with her soon to be ex partner. On the way there, they run a stop sign in a tiny town in the middle of nowhere. They are arrested and taken to the local court. But all is not as it seems. The courthouse and the prison are a maze of booby- traps and deadly contraptions. Not to mention the seemingly insane Judge, his hatred for bankers, and his insufferable family.....Maybe it was my age when I first saw this at the cinema (14), or maybe it was due to fact that I saw the dreadful Soapdish just before it, but I always find time for this film, and its a perfect, silly film to watch every now and again.I'm not saying its a brilliant film, it's far from it, and Ackroyd's directing leaves a lot to be desired, but when you have a reliable cast like Chase, Candy, and the aforementioned Ackroyd doing what they do best, in a bonkers film, you can't help but love it.There is a little bit of a story to the whole silly thing, The judge hates bankers because a long time ago a deal was made and ruined the town of Valkenvania, but Ackroyd doesn't know what to do with the narrative, so a fun-house was created to fill in the cracks of the weak plot.But the town of Valkenvania, and the judges house, are just wonderful, and look like they were created by someone who likes a touch of alcohol. One liners are cringe-worthy, but coming from Chase, they sort of work, and Moore is just hilariously bad.Add Candy in drag, and a couple of what could only be described as blobs into the mix, and you have one of the most random movies to come out of the nineties.I like it, I can't think for the life of me why, but I always enjoy watching it. "}{"Title":"A cult classic on dope!","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How this movie became known as a quintessential flop is quite beyond me. Then again, when I consider some of the movies that have garnered best picture Academy Awards, the whole flawed process of rating movies becomes clear. There is simply no accounting for taste. For example, consider that, the overlong, pretentious, and painfully boring, Chariots of Fire, actually WON the Best Picture award, and yet all the film gave me (and MANY others) was a bad headache. To each his own.So, on to my review. I never saw this picture when it debut in 1991, but I clearly recall watching its HBO premiere. I found it to be one of the finest examples of really dark comedy that I had ever seen. The wonderful serendipitous circumstances which allowed Mr. Ackroyd to secure the services of top notch talent like Moore and Chase only served to make the movie seem all the more believable and satisfying. I'm sure that all of the headliner performers felt like their agents had consigned them to apply their considerable talents to, what can only be described as, the circle of hell that Dante might have envisioned for the bloated egos of self-aggrandizing film stars. The look on Chase's face when he imagines the judge's nose transformed into a penis is so authentic that I was convulsed with laughter. And who can forget that priceless card game between Demi Moore and the delightful Little Devil and BoBo. Surely Ms. Moore has experienced similar feelings while surrounded by adoring male fans queuing up to the very edge of Hollywood's famed red carpet.What makes this film even more of a gem is that we, as the audience, KNOW that this was probably not what the actors believed that they had signed up for. It plays as humorously as if, say, Lawrence Olivier had been contracted to star as Mr. Hand in Fast Times At Ridgemont High. To their credit, all of the actors are in fine form, and do deliver their very best to the insane plot and dialog. And that, in a nutshell, is why this film belongs on any film buff's must see list. It's not Hamlet, but it delivers solid (if extremely dark) comedic entertainment. "},{"Title":"A hidden Gem","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't put my finger on why I love this movie so much but I do know it has spent countless hours in my VHS growing up. A who's who of some of my favorite actors of all time (Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy) star in this dark comedy about a group of New York City slickers (Chase, Demi Moore) who get caught failing to come to a full stop at a stop sign in back road NJ. What ensues is Chase and Moore getting caught in a twisted funhouse of doom witch also doubles at a courthouse. I understand this movie isn't for everyone but it doesn't get nearly the credit it deserves. I would love to see it on blu ray but I ain't holding my breath. "},{"Title":"Great but creepy","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really like this movie. I watched it multiple times as a child and still catch it every time it's on. This movie was a bomb at the box office probably due to the dark and creepy undertone ever present in the file. A car full of NYC socialites are on a road trip when they are pretty unjustly imprisoned in a creepy mansion surrounded by mounds and mounds of junk that were once the property of all the perpetrators (perhaps innocents) that came before. Chevy Chase has a sarcastic humor similar to roles you've seen him play in the past. Demi Moore proves she can play comedy. John Candy's character is jaded in this film so he does not bear the warmth you're used to. Aykroyd is brilliant as the Village Reeve (evil judge). This movie was written and directed by him. With haunted mansion-esque trap doors, slides, and secret passages; you will be entertained and kind of creeped out. The roller coaster is the best, though. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Cult classic","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nothing But Trouble is one of those movies, such as the original Death Race 2000, that you would never recommend to a friend . Its so bizarre, you're almost tempted, but think they might find you odd,if you did. However, on occasion, when you run into someone who also saw it--its good for a great laugh. WTH was all that about LOL ! And you and that person are like in a cult following...then go on your own way. I happened upon it when John Candy died. I made it a point to view all of his movies. He plays two characters in this movie. I can say one thing, it was very original, and doubtful anything like it will be made again. View it when you want to see something very bizarre & kind of borderline sickly humor. "},{"Title":"charming  absurd","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" a comedy. but not ordinary one. exercise of full joy of performance, it is strange, dark, absurd, out of rules, kitsch, unrealistic, ironic, slice of Gothic literature, but nice. really nice.not exactly for story but for the shadows of childhood with monsters, dangerous trips, crazy strangers and value of law in far territory. and for image of impolite image of justice. so, each actor is adorable in this play of good make- up and mixture of American cultural references. sure, it is not impressive. but for an evening entertainment it is not a bad choice. only amusing meeting with few characters and an unique Dan Aykryd or same Chavy Chase. "},{"Title":"There is no such thing as Worst Movie Ever","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A 40 million dollar extravaganza (it was a huge amount of money in 1991), this is certainly no masterpiece and it deservedly bombed. Chevy Chase and Demi Moore sleepwalk through the movie. Dan Akroyd hams it up. And the story is a mess. But despite all this, the movie does have its moments. And honestly some of the sets are fabulous.Now, a score of reviewers have called it the worst movie ever. In other words, ALL the other movies EVER made were BETTER. I'm sure even they could think of at least ten movies that were worse. I can think of hundreds.The Industry has been inflicting turkeys on us since its inception. And it will continue to do so.Worst movie ever? Not by a long shot.I give this one a benevolent 4. "},{"Title":"Great Chevy Chase Cult Movie","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this whacky movie back in 1991, and I thought it was AWESOME! I don't why it's got such a low rating, it's not Shane. or something like that. This movie is supposed to be a far-out, macabre comedy, and that's exactly what it is. Dan Aykroyd's idea of a criminally insane small town judge who rules with an iron fist and will run you through his Bone Stripper if he takes a personal dislike to you is a take-off of the old stereotype of the crooked small town sheriff who goes out of his way to hassle people from out of town. Having a 6'4, 300 lb. daughter to marry-off (John Candy) was a brilliant touch. This ain't Ben Hur and it's not supposed to be.Worst movie ever? You gotta be kidding me! A literal sea of bad comedies have been made but this isn't one of them. Most movies don't even keep my attention the whole way through because they're so bad, but this one did. Something tells me that criticism came from someone who works in the legal or law enforcement field, and it hit too close to home.I think that one of the best parts of this movie was Chevy Chase. He's always very funny and he's pretty much the same no matter what movie he's in. He is easily one of the most talented of the original SNL cast, and I have enjoyed all his films. Fletch is another great one. "},{"Title":"A dive into the creepy... and it was great!","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow I am surprised at how much people hated this film. But I think that really exemplifies the genius of this film. It is bizarre, macabre and surreal. It makes you feel uneasy in a fun, nightmarish, laugh house, and a little bit scary sort of way. I think that uneasiness is why people reject it. But that is exactly why it is so good!It's a twisted version of Alice in Wonderland. It has the feeling of a really bad dream you've had and forgotten about.I love the sets and the crazy characters! It is all so original. I'll never see characters like that again. The house is great and I love how it takes this haunted 1800s house and mixed it up with the mess of a tweaker/hoarder. So creepy! It's not really laugh out loud funny, but the weird humor of it adds to the bizarreness of it all.Great 10 stars! I'll appreciate this gem... unlike other people. "},{"Title":"Just Loved It Ya'll! One of My All Time Favorites!","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I, like many others, must confess to a bit of disappointed surprise at the number of people who don't get this very funny and amazing effort, a true horror/comedy classic, lovingly and painstakingly created by the genius of Akroyrd and Company. With over 180 reviews (admittedly, many extremely negative) and 14 message board pages (and counting!) dedicated to it on this site alone, with more than a thousand comments pro and con (with the message board comments overwhelmingly majority pro it should be noted) about this incredibly funny, albeit dark movie, I think everyone would have to agree, Nothing But Trouble is at the very least an interesting nexus for thought, and perhaps worthy of some consideration from those who would see it cast to the bottom of the Worst One Hundred movie pit. It certainly does not belong there, with some of the most fabulous sets and set pieces I've ever seen in any movie, and truly greatest ensemble slap-stick choreography this side of the Hal Roach Studios. Yes, I would have to say to the poor guy that had nightmares after watching it, perhaps one shouldn't subject younger viewers to its macabre content. But for the rest of us twisted sisters, oh! what a funny, funny, holy mackerel, freakin' funny masterpiece this jewel of a black comedy is! Just loved it, ya'll. And I still laugh after many repeat viewings. Not many movies I can say that about. Not only brilliant, insanely complex staging and set design with a plethora of sight-gags to add layer upon layer of giggles, but a snapshot of Demi Moore at her absolute loveliest. A really great movie like this one is always going to elicit extreme opinions both for and against-- indeed, that's one litmus test for the category, Great Movies. Do yourself a favor if you've never seen Nothing But Trouble. Give this one a look. Twenty years later and I'm still laughing! "},{"Title":"Nothing but flak","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie gets a lot of flak and yes it is silly, nonsense even, but you have to remember this is an 80's style screwball black comedy. If you were expecting deep story lines and involved, fully developed characters then you clearly didn't read the title let alone the back of the box! And another thing about this movie....comedy is not entirely the word that best describes it. 'Nothing but trouble' is pretty damn scary when you really think about! The whole family are psychopathic, the setting is like a twisted fairground from hell and the sense of isolation is actually quite uncomfortable. As for the ending, and maybe this is just me, but I think this has one of the creepiest endings of a film from it's time. The end is far scarier than most of the laughable horrors from the late 80's early 90's.I recommend you give this movie a chance, especially if you grew up through the 80's (younger audiences probably won't get the 80's kitsch style) Just don't expect anything other than tasteless madness. bear in mind this is a movie that has a pickle-firing train (yes you heard me right) and a judge with a nose that looks suspiciously like the business end of a mans baby maker! Not the best horror comedy ever made, but well worth a look if you're in the mood for some senseless entertainment. "}{"Title":"Simply cannot be rated","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I've found that most ratings are based on comparing the movie they've watched to a different movie. Well, Nothing But Trouble can't be compared to any other movie on the face of the earth. You can't say it wasn't good, because in it's own little world, I'm sure it was an excellent movie. I, however was afraid to put my feet on the floor while watching it. It wasn't scary, just disturbing.      As for the acting, it was phenominal. Everyone was very convincing as far as their characters went. When watching this movie, just keep in mind that it's an Aykroyd Brothers Creation, so brace yourself for weird and expect the unexpected. If you're into reality programming, this is NOT the movie for you! Other than that, it was pretty good.  "},{"Title":"What's up with you people?","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was shocked to discover that this movie ended up on AFI's 100 worst movies list. Compared to dark comedies like The Cable Guy and Death to Smoochy, I think this film is quite good. The plot is original for once and the performances are highly entertaining. Dan Aykroyd is frickin hilarious as the J.P. and John Candy gives an equally amusing performance as Constable Dennis/Eldona. Chevy Chase and Demi Moore also give noteworthy performances, although their characters are less memorable. From the reviews I've read about this film, the general consensus appears to be negative. I'm a little confused. What exactly is so unsatisfying about the film? The script isn't that bad, and Dan Aykroyd does a decent job directing. There's even a cameo appearance by Tupac Shukar. What could possibly make this movie the WORST dark comedy of all comedies? The film isn't overly humorous, and actually contains some eerie moments. The scene in which the judge removes his nose always frightened me as a kid and so the audiences' emotions are not continually lopsided, being the majority of the film is funny. If it were up to me, I'd remove Nothing But Trouble from AFI's worst movies list and replace it with something more deserving.  "},{"Title":"Pretty darn good, actually!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to like this sort of thing--clearly it isn't for everyone! But if you like fantasy movies which have a certain sense of style and atmosphere, and it you happen to like the humor of SNL/2ndCity folks, then you'll probably like this movie a lot!One of the best moments for me--this is after seeing it at least a dozen(!) times--is when the Dan Ackroyd character chases the Chevy Chase character out of his room, and, when in his haste to escape, Chevy grabs and hurls a football-sized furry object at Ackroyd, Ackroyd reflexively catches it and shouts, My skunk! (Or, to be more lingistically precise, Ma skunk!) Plotwise, this vignette it had nothing to do with anything before or after this moment in the plot--it must just have been one of those improvisational things that, thank goodness, stayed off the cutting room floor.The movie is as full of little delights such as this every bit as much as is the movie set intentionally full of clutter.If you watch and sort of like the flick the first time, then watch it again. And again. Each time you do, you'll see--and enjoy--even more! "},{"Title":"Just Awful, Just Bloody Awful","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh my god, it was just awful. There was no credible plot, and it was ugly to look at. It was one of those times where you wait for all your nickels to fall into place so that you can get the point of it and leave. Like Rushmore, I just sat there praying that I would all of a sudden, be enlightened and GET IT. Never happened. Instead what I realized is that I had just wasted a good portion of my life watching it, and that it truly was an incomprehensible pile of crap. And I don't think that it was just because I didn't GET it.To each his own, but dang this was just wicked bloody awful. Not funny and very disturbing (and not in that fun After Hours disturbing way).Really. Just a bad movie. But, statistically, there are going to be a portion of the audience who will like/love this movie. I was not one of them. "},{"Title":"A movie more for entertainment","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The funny thing about this movie is that it's stacked. John Candy, Chevy Chase, Dan Akroyd, and Demi Moore. The quality of this film is below average;although, this film is more for entertainment. It's not a Academy Award film, but more of a Saturday Night film you get at blockbuster for a couple of cheap laughs. I believe in giving credit where credit is due, this film is much deeper than meets the eye.This is a film where you don't need to be a film critic, you just sit back and enjoy it. The entertainment value is higher than the quality as you see in most movies, such as Vegas Vacation, UHF, Baby Genisus, and Jigle all the Way. I gave this movie a 6/10 for every memorable scene. "},{"Title":"It's not meant to be funny...it's meant to be WEIRD!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i love Nothing But Trouble, and i think the problem that occurs frequently is that people rent it thinking it'll be hilarious bc of Dan Akroyd, John Candy, chevy chase, etc. BUT it's totally about being different... I guarantee you-there's no other movie out there like this one! It's so weird that it has kept me intrigued since 1992.  I love the parts with the rap group singing. The MOST memorable part, however, has GOT to be the train on the table that has the condiments! Yes this movie is wonderfully weird. See it for its uniqueness! "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad as people here tend to say","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If one takes the time to read the reviews here, one will smell something fishy Most (95%?) say that this movie is the worst they have ever seen. BUT, a slight but significant group says that it is one of their favorites. This movie is not as bad as they say.  In fact, it doesn't even approach bad. In fact, it is one of my all-time favorite comedies.Dan Akroyd's performance as the demented judge is hilarious.  The parodies of po 'white kitsch are dead-on industrial folk-art, warm Hawaiian Punch served with dinner, Lionel trainsets serving dinner condiments. Sometimes, Akroyd really takes off with his character and delivers hilariously colorful monologues.  They are so convincingly absurd, even if you've never encountered backwater coal town judges before (who has, really), you just KNOW that he has somehow psychically funneled the souls of dozens of them and run them through his comedic prism.Believe me, this movie deserves so much more credit than others here give it.  I know that my taste is not *that* bad.  I give it a 9/10, because some of the puns are a little bad (Folk art? Folk 'em!) but Mr. Bonestripper is so utterly and absurdly funny that it would have made up for even 100 bad Chevy Chase puns.  And Chase, I think, plays his part effectively, somewhat more seriously than I think others here were expecting.  It's all part of the gag, though  A banker.. er.. financial publisher.. that encounters the amalgamation of all that is wrong with backwater Eastern America condensed into 90 minutes.  A wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"This movie was real! I thought it was a bad dream from my childhood!","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay here goes, I watched this when it came out in theaters when I was twelve years old. I was completely disturbed with how bad this movie was even then. You know how you watch a movie when you've grown up and the movie that was the greatest thing ever, now has transformed into mindless drivel and bad f/x. This movie never needed the fifteen years in between. Somehow I managed to block it out, and I forgot about it. I was bored so I googled Dan Akroyd and Bonestripper, lo and behold IT WAS REAL. I may actually look for this on DVD, maybe after 15 years it might have some entertainment value.Even if I have to MST3K it. "},{"Title":"this movie absolutley disgusts me.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  pure and utter crap. it wasn't funny. at all. or anything. i am sick over the time i wasted watching this piece of garbage. watch something else. ANYTHING else... i mean, like ANYTHING. this is the worse piece of trash i have ever seen. avoid this movie at all costs. ANYTHING. ugh... "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is such a funny movie. Chevy Chase plays a rich, New York banker, Chris, and when his friend, including Diane (Demi Moore) want him to drive them to Atlantic City, he agrees. When taking a detour through a crazy looking town named Valkenvania, Chris mistakenly runs a stop sign. His punishment is staying in this terrible old mansion. Dan Akroyd plays this crazy judge who keeps him prisoner. The whole movie is Chevy Chase and Demi Moore trying to escape from the mansion. By the way, none of this information spoils the movie, so don't worry. This movie is so randomly funny. There is no other way to describe it. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone. "}{"Title":"Hamburger Americans don't like dark films. Philistines.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hope I spelt that right, anyway..Dan Aykroyd's direction shows promise in this genre. Black Comedy is not a genre that a mainstream American audience finds easy to understand, Especially when it is combined with elements of Horror. I love this movie.Dan Aykroyd's sense of style is charming, His sense of humour is brilliant.Creepy.It's definitely in my top fifty. Perhaps ahead of its time, audiences will eventually warm to dark films, en masse. But American audiences have a history of not liking films that aren't happy, or flakey. "},{"Title":"Nothing But Troubling...","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one fetid piece of steaming dog poop.The collective pharmacological fascinations of the principals involved are well on display here.  Chase seems barely interested in delivering his lines, and no wonder...the script seems to be cobbled together from the collective meanderings of a group of retarded monkeys.John Candy is completely wasted, (as is his talent).  He plays several roles, perhaps in a selfless effort to save the careers of others.Dan Ackroyd is Dan Ackroyd.  One of the characters he plays has a penis for a nose.  This is the most clever thing in the movie.Demi Moore is somewhat fetchingly attired, however, even had she removed her top in the film, I'd still be loathe to recommend it.  It's that bad.The movie goes on and on forever, like a meandering story told by a dimwitted pre-teen.  Prisoners shown the film immediately after spending 30 days in hole, have requested 30 more days.It's been nearly 10 years since I've seen it, and I can still smell this film. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of all time","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All 69 people who gave this movie 10 points should be forced to watch nothing but Demi Moore movies for the rest of their lives.  This is easily on my list of worst 10 ever.  A total embarrassment.  Drama is easy. Comedy is hard.  This movie proves it. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most bizarre movie ever made, without a doubt one of the worst!!!!","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stars Chevy Chase, Demi Moore, John Candy, Dan Aykroyd, Taylor Negron, Bertila Demas, Brian Doyle Murray and Peter Aykroyd.I don't know how anybody could've thought up this ridiculous and horribly unfunny movie. It confuses me as to why anybody would willingly act in this movie. I'll point out the bad first and move to the positive. This movie had a really bad and confusing plot. It's about some people being trapped in a weird prison castle fun house that's run by this ugly old judge, played disgustingly by Aykroyd. It's weird and violent and stupid. The whole movie was pointless and I don't see how Peter and Dan couldn't have been either toasted or baked when making this weird movie. Dan directed and co-wrote with his brother. The direction was terrible and just didn't look good. The whole movie was disjointed and the only part that was semi-tolerable was before we ran into John Candy as the cop. The Posistives Chevy Chase and Demi Moore gave decent performances, under consideration that they had nothing to work with. John Candy was mildly amusing in drag as the horny grand daughter. And thats it with the good. If you don't believe me watch it for yourself. Oh, yeah, also, it looked as though they purposely shaped Dan's nose like a penis, but maybe I'm wrong!My rating 0/10 stars. 89 mins. rated PG-13 for Language and Violence. "},{"Title":"You're going to make me swim through toxics!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I remembered this movie some time ago, I remembered that it was a grim comedy with very little sensible humor. The thought of a senile old man who had a weird-looking nose and who put traffic violators to death seemed very sadistic and too maddened for my taste. Even more so was the concept of a pair of distended children who were six-some-odd feet tall and who were riddled with body hair!All that changed subsequently after I had watched it again. When I watched it a second time, it seemed massively funny, and it had a morbid, but hilarious sense of humor. For instance, the performance-slash-cameo appearance of Digital Underground performing alongside with a keyboard-riffing Dan Aykroyd or the scene with the demented dinner from the tenth level of hell was too funny not to miss!The plot is patchy, but still is good. After a mishap occurs, four city slickers end up in a forgotten town under the heinous rule of an old-as-dirt judge with a sadistic sense of justice. The four city folk must escape the deranged old judge soon...or perish.Finally, to all the people who thought that this film was gross and misanthropic, I must concur, but with a very large and humored grin on my face! "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, Okay. This wasn't the funniest or even the best movie ever made, but it certainly wasn't the worst. I thought the humor was great and I loved all the characters, although the huge baby twins were really disgusting. I loved Dan Akroyd in this movie. I loved the way his character talked and his makeup effects were great. I miss John Candy terribly. He was always funny in whatever movie he starred in. I think he was one of the greatest comic actors ever. He was the highlight of this movie. I loved both his characters, Dennis and Eldona. I think Nothing But Trouble would be classified as a black comedy but it was a good black comedy. I can understand why most of you would think this was a bad movie but there are definitely worse movies than this one out there. This movie was funny, entertaining, and not at all boring. I would definitely recommend this one to anyone who likes black comedies and to anyone who likes Dan Akroyd and liked John Candy. I don't particularly care for Demi Moore but I liked her in this movie. And Chevy Chase was funny like always. Like I said, this wasn't the best movie ever made but it wasn't the worst. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and I'm glad that it was made. Thank you for reading my review.  "},{"Title":"Nothing But Trash","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At the time I voted on this sickening waste of celluloid, 36% of the IMDB members had rated it 1.  The only reason I did not join them was that the highest rating of the Bottom 100 is 2.5 and I did not want to risk this film entering the list.  It would be best if this mess just disappeared all together.How bad is it?  How about a carnival ride that chews up living human beings and spits out their stripped bones?  Or Dan Aykroyd dressed in a costume that is so restrictive his mouth barely moves, wearing diapers, and talking incessantly like he's making up the dialog as he goes.But I've said to much.  By writing anything, I've acknowledged this film beyond its worth.  "},{"Title":"Vote for WORST movie EVER","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A local morning radio show was asking people to call in and vote for the worst movie they'd ever seen, and although I have only seen this movie once, and it was about 15 years ago, it IMMEDIATELY came to mind and without questions it was my vote. (I bonded with a roommate in college over the fact that both of us thought this movie was the worst ever made.) Not only is the story line corrupted with inaccuracies and absolutely unbelievable paranoia, the scenery is disturbing and amateur. John Candy somehow plays a giant baby (excuse me, TWO giant babies) who play in sort of tire yard? The acting is weak, the writing is inexcusable, and it is 90 minutes of my life that I will unfortunately never get back. "},{"Title":"Worst...Movie...Ever!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love movies, even bad movies...but I HATE this worthless piece of garbage. Of the hundreds of movies I've seen, not one was so excruciatingly bad as 1991's Nothing But Trouble.  How a movie with so many great actors and comedians in it could be so unbelievably awful is beyond me.  This makes Cannibal the Musical look like Gone With the Wind.  It even beats Freddy Got Fingered for the title of truly the very worst movie ever made. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After 10 years this movie still is the only movie I ever walked out of the theater on.  With the great cast I could not believe it at the time.  I have not watched it again since I was asked recently what is the worst movie you have ever seen and this piece of trash was remembered. "}{"Title":"Just Watched if for the First Time!!!!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know why so many people out there absolutely hated this movie. I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed it. As a matter of fact, I felt like I have been missing out on one of Dan Aykroyd's best performances. It was obviously a dark comedy and one that I plan to add to my collection! I admit, I was expecting a lot more old school comedic humor between Dan, Chevy, and John but I was pleasantly surprised at the end of the movie how much I enjoyed their individual performances. Also I must mention that Demi did a great job too! I was certainly expecting her to be the one to hose the synergy between the fellas but she was great. Heck, I even liked Humpty and 2 Pac!!! Definitely recommend this movie to anyone who is interested in watching a well written example of what a dark comedy should be.Awesome movie folks!!! Favorite line Thanks for the espresso maker...and the bag of $H!T "},{"Title":"Quite Simply the Worst Film Ever Made","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy. Three funny guys, right? So there should be something funny in this film. But guess what? Nothing of the sort. Not one laugh in the entire movie, and I use terms like 'film' and 'movie' extremely loosely here, because this waste of several thousand feet of celluloid is actually probably so disturbingly bad that I have a very hard time seeing that anyone could give this film a vote of anything above a 1. And for those of you who gave this trash a vote of 10 must either have been comatose or suffering from a brain embolism. Yes, it really is that bad. The only way that I can describe how I felt after seeing this putrid mess is Physically Ill and Mentally Horrified. Avoid it at all costs. In fact, go into your nearby video rental or retail store and request that all copies of the video be destroyed. "},{"Title":"The biggest waste of a cast I've ever seen.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Absolutely the worst movie I ever sat through. I'd have to be in a full body cast to ever watch a minute from this film again. HOW it got to be so offensive, stupid and unfunny with a cast like it has is the only notable thing about the movie. .... Plus, maybe because killed the career of the Digital Underground. OH, it's bad!EDIT I don't have any desire to water down my statements, in fact, if possible I would reaffirm them. I only get to say that one movie is the worst movie ever made and I still give my vote to this one. I still have sick and uncomfortable memories of this movie after 14 years! I sincerely wonder about the sanity of the people who like this movie. Not the people who just say they like it to be different but those who MEANT it when they said this was classic comedy. This film is so excruciatingly, unfathomably bad that it changes you forever and for the worse. As an American, I apologize to the rest of the world that this movie was made. A final remark to those who own a copy of this film Get help. "},{"Title":"Good to Pair with Modern Problems...","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You need to watch this just to see how truly awful a Chevy Chase movie can be...Yes, I recommend watching it, if you like to watch disturbing movies (I'm serious). El Topo, The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover, Nothing But Trouble. See, it's not so much a bad movie that is remarkably boring and ridiculous (i.e., Battlefield Earth), or bad yet entertaining (Da Vinci Code) as a movie that gives you the feeling you are trapped in some horrible alternate universe, not unlike the characters in the movie--maybe it's actually a secret psychological experiment! Not a date movie unless your date is a Crispin Glover fan. Dan is talented, but squanders his ability on this and other atrocities such as Spies Like Us, or Caddyshack 2. He was once a funny man. Now it just hurts, or proves there's lots of drugs and nepotism (Peter Ackroyd is not Brian Doyle Murray by any means) in Hollywood! "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must say after reading some of the hate reviews about this movie, those must have been the people that paid money to see Gigli.Anyhow, I found this move very entertaining. It's a good time, utterly bazaar and twisted, but fun.If you liked Dead Alive (BrainDead), anything from Troma Films or Early Sam Raimi flicks you will understand the message this movie is trying to deliver. All the people with negative criticism about the movie, lighten up would ya, no one forced you to watch it. "},{"Title":"The worst?","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Probably not. But it comes damned close. MONKEYBONE probably takes top honors. Dan Aykroyd, who must have been snorting cocaine nonstop while making this, directs and stars in a movie about a family who goes off course in New Jersey and ends up in the hands of a truly scary inbred family. Aykroyd plays a hanging judge with a diseased nose. John Candy plays a cop as well as a mute, lonesome lady looking for a husband. Some truly awful stuff ensues. I am sorry to say I saw this in a theater. With my wife, no less. Chevy Chase and Demi Moore costar as the ill-fated couple. It was clear by the time this was released (1991) that Chase was on the ropes, acting-wise. Moore's no great shakes in it, either. I always thought of this as an Aykroyd vehicle, much like Bruce Willis' ego-driven HUDSON HAWK. Aykroyd acts/hams up a storm, while everyone else around him seems adrift or bewildered. Stay far, far away. "},{"Title":"This world is so messed up!","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just checked out the imdb entry for 'Nothing But Trouble' and found out that it was in the bottom 100 movies! What is wrong with you people!? A super comedy with all the comical geniuses of a generation (Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase, John Candy) and a hysterical script and it goes to the bottom? What did you expect to see here, 'Scary Movie'?Dan Aykroyd in an acting job that defines comical acting, Chevy Chase with his usual tongue in cheek style and John Candy with his genius timing isn't enough for you?Well, just go see 'American Pie' for one more time. Your intellect deserves it.10/10PS Let us all who respect this gem, give the movie a '10' even if you think it's worth a '7' or '8' to save it from disgrace. It's a shame. "},{"Title":"Just like a bunch of spiders in a birthday cake","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love the production values of this film.  The setting is amazing, because the house is surrounded by acres of old junk.  The production design is fascinating, because it is a mixture of various nineteenth- and twentieth-century art, advertising, pop culture, architecture, furniture, machinery, folk art, and household products.  Dan Akroyd, unrecognizable as the elderly Judge Valkenheiser, gives a mesmerizing performance.  My favorite part is when they're eating Dutch country heifers (hot dogs) and Akroyd says  Here's how I like 'em, and I suggest you eat 'em the same way.  If ever a movie captured the unpleasant juxtaposition between the normal world and the abnormal world, it would certainly be this one (with the dining scene in Eraserhead coming in a close second  They're new!). The above things are the only good parts of the film, while the rest of it is just plain silly.   "},{"Title":"Nothing But Pain","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"21 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Count me among those who thought this movie a complete disaster. I'll not summarize, as this has been done many times. I watched this movie on cable, waiting for it to pay off in some way. I mean, it HAD to get better - no one would intentionally make a movie this thoroughly unredeemable. In the end, I felt like I needed a long hot shower. It's been years, but it still hasn't washed off yet. The title has become a word used to mean the very standard of badness in any topic with friends familiar with the film. An irony This movie would fit right into a segment of Leonard Pinth Garnell's Bad Cinema. Those familiar with SNL know of what I speak.Some may very well like it. To them I say enjoy yourselves, but please do not actually recommend the film to anyone. You'll just cause further pain and lose considerable respect from your peers. "},{"Title":"Absolutely love it!!","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Either you love it or hate it. You know not every movie has to be a Titanic and not every movie has to be groundbreaking. This movie is a cult classic that rates in my personal top 20 movies I love to watch more than once. Dan Akyroyd is not your every day common comic. His eclectic style really shows in this film, and should be praised. I understand why it flopped in the theaters, everyone was expecting too much. I bet Dan, Chevy, John and Demi wanted to make a fun, very off the wall movie and wanted to take a break from the grind of Hollywood expectations, and I love them for doing it. A must see!! I wish Dan Akyroyd would make another one! "}{"Title":"Good, Underrated Comedy!","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd directs & co-stars in this 1991 comedy with Chevy Chase, Demi Moore and John Candy. Chase plays wealthy businessman, Chris who meets and helps woman, Diane (Moore) get to Atlantic City. They travel with 2 of his clients and take a wrong turn on the back roads in the town of Valkenvania where they unwittingly run a stop sign. Soon, they're pulled over by police chief, Dennis (Candy) who then takes them to Judge, Alvin (Aykroyd) who has an odd way of doing things and Chris and Diane find themselves in a nightmare. Aykroyd also plays Alvin's plump grandson, Bobo and Candy also plays Alvin's mute granddaughter, Eldona who falls for Chris. This is a good, underrated comedy featuring a good cast I recommend. "},{"Title":"As a Comedy Horrid, As Entertainment Perfect","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nothing but Trouble (1991)** (out of 4)Dan Aykroyd directed, wrote and co-stars in this bizarre comedy about a banker (Chevy Chase) and his three guests (including Demi Moore) who get pulled over in a strange town and are taken to the local judge (Aykroyd) who is a little strange to say the least. Soon the four people find themselves being held against their will for reasons that they really don't know. As a comedy NOTHING BUT TROUBLE is a complete disaster because there simply aren't any laughs. As entertainment NOTHING BUT TROUBLE works because it's just so downright bizarre, strange and surreal that you must say that you really haven't seen anything like it before. If THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE had been turned into an attempted comedy then it probably would have turned out something like this and it really does seem that Aykroyd's character, an elderly judge with a penis shaped nose, was fashioned after Grandpa in the classic horror film. But, where do we start with this thing? I must admit that I'm really not sure what Aykroyd was trying to do here because there's really never an attempt to make anything funny. In a comedy you expect a fresh stream of running jokes but honestly that doesn't happen here and instead it seems as if the director just wanted to be strange for the most part and every once in a while throw out an unfunny joke. The majority of the jokes either come from Chase marking a smart remark about something or the various deformities of the family are poked fun at. I already mentioned the nose that is shaped like a penis but one of the strangest bits come from a couple mutant children whose extra boobs and obese bellies are constantly bouncing. These two creatures are never funny but instead you just look at them like the characters and are just disturbed by how ugly they are. You also feel rather surreal being trapped in this environment so I guess if Aykroyd did anything right it's that he created a very strange atmosphere. The entire cast seems to be having a good time and everyone appears to be in on the joke. John Candy gets to play the town cop as well as his twin sister who of course gets a crush on Chase. NOTHING BUT TROUBLE was considered a disaster when it was first released but fans of bad movies or just flat out weird ones should at least be able to stay entertained. "},{"Title":"A strange hybrid of Twilight Zone, Wizard of Oz, and Texas Chainsaw Massacre","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I firmly believe what hurt this movie, was what Dan and Peter Aykroyd thought was funny. The humor is my kind of humor, dark, a bit macabre and a bit of gross-out humor. It simply was too strange to appeal to a wide audience. Supposedly the whole plot of being pulled over for speeding happened to Aykroyd in the late 70's in New England and he thought it was funny enough to warrant a comedy feature. Well, it didn't work out so well. It might have fared better as a scene in another movie entirely. I thought the scene where they drive through the back country to coal mines and junkyards was a bit eerie since it reminded me of Texas Chainsaw Massacre. And I don't believe it was intended to be creepy! The idea of a 100+ year old running a backwoods courtroom with absolute power in his own fiefdom does make for a good backdrop. In the horror genre! Why I like about this film is that Aykroyd reminds me of so many old timers who're vets of law enforcement and as such it hits close to home for me. Additionally,the archaic metaphorical anecdotes are so un-intelligible and odd, you can't help but laugh at the JP's posturing and conviction of it all. Daniel Baldwin's bit gives another comedic attempt, the outcome is almost not funny had it not been so light-hearted. This is why I think it failed. No one knew quite what to make of it. Too strange and surreal to be funny and too light-hearted and senseless to be a horror. If this were a spoof of say... Judge Ed Koch, it might've worked.Essentially, if you enjoy it, you might feel guilty for doing so. "},{"Title":"Surprised at all the bad reviews...","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm seriously surprised at all the bad reviews. No, its not a comedic gem but its better than half the garbage comedies they put out now. As someone else stated, its a great Chevy Chase Cult classic. You have to know what you're getting into, I mean its an early 90s comedy. If you go in expecting comedic genius, of course you're going to be let down. But its an enjoyable movie, if you enjoy 80s/90s comedies. If not, I suggest you look elsewhere, and stop rating/reviewing this movie so low. In all honesty, your reviews just make you sound like some pompous jerk. Personally, I love this movie. Of course, I especially enjoy making fun of it. It has quite a few memorable lines/scenes (penis nose, Digital Underground...) "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, but a must-see","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here are the people in this movie if you don't know, and this was in 1991 Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, Demi Moore&#x97;but even more intriguing is the cameo by Digital Underground, featuring Tupac Shakur and Humpty Hump. With a cast like this, how could this movie possible be bad? If you haven't seen it, there's probably a good reason.Without going into an attempted plot analysis, because the actual plot of the movie is a few people trying to escape a crazy junkyard/bunker/haunted house while attempted dark humor and a few slapstick gags are supposed to be enough to make up for the lack of a back story. To sum it up, you see Dan Aykroyd in some horrible makeup that makes him look like old and disgusting. Without warning there are two fat guys in slimy fat suits who, according to the movie, were kicked out of high school for being too fat. But for some reason they run around in underwear and talk like babies. It might sound funny when reading the description, but it isn't&#x85;at all.Then you have John Candy in drag for no reason except to waste a few minutes with the usual ugly-cross-dressing-man who make comedic passes at one of the stars. While they try to distract you with this, the movie tries to force a spark between Demi Moore and Chevy Chase which never works at all and also has no back story to make these character slightly real.Most of the way through the movie you feel dirty and ashamed that you're watching such a bad movie. But there is a silver lining Digital Underground.Completely out of nowhere, Digital Underground shows up at this deserted fortress thing that is supposedly within about 45 minutes of New York City, yet is down some deserted dirt road miles outside of a very small town&#x97;this road at one point was described as being parallel with the interstate, yet people get lost there all the time. Furthermore, one part of the movie reveals that all these famous missing people were killed in this crazy junkyard/madhouse. The even find Jimmy Hoffa's ID. So this middle of the nowhere place somehow manages to secretly arrest and/or kill hundreds, if not thousands of people over the years, but no one ever noticed? But luckily, Digital Underground shows up in the courthouse. They say they are musicians, and Dan Aykroyd, as the insane old judge, tells them to play for him. Now this movie turns into a short music video for Humpty Hump and Tupac. They do a nice performance, despite the fact that at one point Ayrkoyd's character is playing some kind of old organ for a solo. The sheer randomness of this music video, along with the complete horribleness of the movie somehow wormed its way into my brain until I decided this movie is awesome and worthy of encouraging other people to watch.DISCLAIMER If you watch this movie, do not blame me for the time you wasted. But it will be worth it. "},{"Title":"All Star Cast, at the top of their form.","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has so much to recommend it. Even after repeated viewing I can find a laugh or two. It seems so much shorter to me than it's actual playing time. Playing time is what it's all about. This hilarious, Gothic comedy is a non stop ride of action and sight gags. The dialog is pertinent to the story, well spoken and never lost under an onslaught of music or special effects. Speaking of music, The Digital Underground segment is inspired, showing that cultures can coexist in the spirit of fun. The cast is entertaining to watch. Chevy Chase playing it straight, proving he can really act. Demi Moore as lovely and accomplished as ever. The late John Candy believable as a man caught in the family trap, and hilarious as his sister. Dan Aykroyd taking hours to get into make-up, at a point in his career where he obviously did not need to resort to such masochism to prove his worth or talent. The story has many surprises the first couple of times through. It does not seem like a rewarmed version of anything else. It comes off as fresh and inspired. The set is as original as anything I've seen. I love the gadgets, the props dept. kept it believable. I find this movie worth watching a couple of times a year, but no more often than that, laughs work best if they take you by surprise. So don't study this movie, try to forget it, save for when you really need to lighten your mood. It's a happy pill if you just sit back and turn off your brain. "},{"Title":"Loved it and watch it often.","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are great movies, there are bad movies, and then there are cult movies that are neither here nor there in the grand scheme of things, but find a group of people who can really appreciate a movie for more than its 'blockbuster' appeal or lack thereof.Anyone watching the movie and paying attention can tell that no one could have possibly thought that this movie would bring in $500 million, I haven't gotten the impression that was the intent at all. Its just a lighthearted comedy that has a Rocky Horror sort of 'cultish' feel to it. Its grotesque....and 'cute' at the same time. Toss in a little humor and a list of big names we all know and love and you end up with a cult film that wont appeal to everyone in the world, but will catch the eye of weirdo's like me who actually liked Rocky Horror way back in the 70's.This is a movie for the cult film type of people for the most part. You're either going to like it for what it is and what it was meant to be, or you're going to find it boring and toss it in the trash.If you're a blockbuster sort of person who wont settle for less, don't bother wasting your money. But if you love the oddball stuff...if you're a B movie fan like me, then you might just get a kick out of Nothing But Trouble. "},{"Title":"Admit it, it's a guilty pleasure.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, YES, this movie was a train wreck. That's the whole point; who can drive past a train wreck without looking? The plot is SUPPOSED to be farcical, the acting is NOT supposed to be realistic, and we are SUPPOSED to be weirded out by the whole thing.I admit, I don't own this movie and probably never will. But if I'm flipping channels and I see it, I can't not watch it. "},{"Title":"Nothing But Trouble = Nothing But Great!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Growing up in the 1980's and 1990's I can honestly say the films from this era were great. The actors like Dan Akyroyd, Chevy Chase, John Candy and more were leading a different kind of Hollywood. The film 'Nothing But Trouble' is a classic comedy film which shows the creativity, and talent of its cast. A dynamic film which is both fun, entertaining and interesting. I admit, it has a simple plot but in its simplicity there is humor. Entertainment does not always have to be high-brow, or filled with controversy. This film grasps the fact that entertainment is about watching a story unfold, and being a part of the ride. I loved the work done by Dan Akyroyd, his make-up, and skill as an actor really come through. The film was well written and well acted. Great family movie, and will always be a huge fan! "},{"Title":"An absolute cult classic, destined for the ages...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, no this isn't Woody Allen or Martin Scorsese for Christ's-sake!  What it is is a truly original, wacky, mad-cap romp into the world of the absurd with a cast that is more than willing to put everything out there and be moronic.  Dan Aykroyd did a perfect job portraying two outrageous characters as well as directing.  Chevy Chase (in his last funny role, though he's somewhat of a straight-man here), Demi Moore, John Candy, Taylor Negron, et al, do a great job.  This is especially funny if you've spent time on the East Coast in these towns (yes, I have!)  In Pennsylvania (where I lived for a short few years), there is a town called Centralia that has had an underground mine-fire burning for DECADES.  Barely anyone lives there (most were successfully relocated eons ago, but some still hold-out in the multiple-chimney'd homes).  The resemblance to these minor hamlets is remarkable and hilarious.  Aykroyd caught all of the little minor details (like serving warm-Hawaiian Punch at dinner, etc.), which makes it a true American Cinematic classic.  Look, I've reviewed tons of art-house and classic films for different magazines, but I'm certainly not above lowbrow humor like this.  It's worth watching (especially in repeat viewings where it truly comes alive.)  Don't let the bad press get to you, this was funny over a decade ago (God, I feel so old suddenly), and it's still funny today.Enjoy.  "}{"Title":"A wretched, horrid film","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this film with absolutely no preconceptions about what I was about to witness. It was with a growing sense of horror that I realized that I had rented what is inarguably the worst film ever released from a major studio. This is the cinematic equivalent of a train wreck. You want to look away from the carnage, but you just can't. I just can not imagine what Dan Aykroyd was thinking when he decided to film this monstrosity. It isn't so much a misguided attempt as it is an abortion. The only cast member who seems to have any faith in the product is Dan Aykroyd himself, who approaches his multiple roles with a relish. Sadly, the script just does not warrant his enthusiasm, despite the fact that he wrote it himself. Everyone else seems to be at least mildly embarassed by the piece and seem unusually subdued, even the wooden Chevy Chase. The production design is rather amazing. A great deal of money was spent on making this gothic cartoon, but to so little effect. You watch in disbelief as scene after scene builds up to a crescendo of... nothing. There is so little to laugh about and even less to care about. If each and every character had fallen into the shredding device at the end of the first reel, it still would have been twenty minutes too much. If you enjoy bad movies, this one should definitely warrant your attention. Empty-headed, badly scripted, and poorly acted, it is not impossible to imagine that Mr. Aykroyd was somehow channeling Ed Wood's spirit when he was making this film. I can only recommend this film as an example of just how wrong a project can go.  "},{"Title":"Truly a GREAT motion picture","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A classic comedy on par with some of the greats of the past. We enjoyed every minute of this truly great classic. Possibly one of Dan Ackroyds most creative efforts. One nonstop binge of gasps and giggles. Chevy Chase never misses a beat in this comedic romp through the town of Valkenvania with John Candy playing Valkenvanias finest. Demi Moore has probably her most challenging role since showgirls. Why Oscar was not mentioned in 1991 is a mystery to me, hello Academy are you listening? The only question remaining is why was a Nothing But Trouble II not proposed to the studios by now? If you want to see one of the best movies ever run don't walk to the video rental store and grab this little gem. "},{"Title":"too awful for even MST3K!!!!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me summarize the awfulness this wayMy best friend and I like to rent really awful movies and do our own MST3K on them; that is, we dub copies of these awful movies but patch a secondary audio track so we can comment on the film as we dub it.  It's all spontaneous, off the cuff, sort of a drunk dude's criterion DVD edition.  We've trashed some real stinkers, including Hong Kong Hitman, Mitchell (before the MST3K version, believe it or not), and most of the films of David Heavener.When we tried to give this awful flick (about a lost shire in New Jersey where a decrepit old judge forces terrible things upon yuppies while globular fat creatures roam a surrounding junkyard) the MST3K treatment, something happened.  We were speechless.  This piece of raw sewage was so horribly written, ineptly executed, and terminally unfunny that we just sat stunned, searching for clever puns and quips yet finding none.  Dan Ackroyd was the brains behind this?  My man Dan?  Say it ain't so, Joe!I am a man who loves bad movies!  This film goes beyond bad.  It was used to torture the hapless youths in Salo, Or The Last 120 Days of Sodom.  It was distributed in Iraq in hopes it would demoralize Sadaam Hussein's Republican Guard (so that's why the war ended so quickly).  Bullets can't stop it!  It's awful!  Oh my God, it's moving toward me!  Make the bad movie go away!!!!! "},{"Title":"Everything but Good","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One good scene.In the entire running time of this film, there was only one scene which didn't have me cringing, embarrassed for the actors, humiliated that I could have read a good book instead or just wishing I had a pair of pliers to rip out my fingernails instead of watch Nothing but Trouble ever again.The Bonestripper.Loved it.Loved the accompanying music (by Damn Yankees, I think), loved seeing those unknown actors (and a Baldwin brother - YES!) go sliding down a mini-roller coaster and fly into the waiting jaws of a machine with jagged pistons for teeth, waiting to chew them up and spit their stripped bones out the other end and into a metal target, pinging like a pinball machine with every hit.There, I just saved you the trouble of having to watch this exercise in insolence.One and a half stars.  One for The Bonestripper, and a half star for seeing Demi Moore in her last comic role before she decided to embody women's suffrage.Mel Brooks, call this woman. "},{"Title":"Comments","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Dan Aykroyd, but...I was terribly disappointed when I watched this movie.  I expected a comedy with such great actors.  Too bad.  This film should have been burned at the editing table.  NOTHING could have saved it!!!  NOTHING BUT TROUBLE is what you'll get if you bother to watch it. It has to be the WORST FILM in history in my opinion.  Sorry Dan.  Keep trying. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie ever!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I cannot even begin to tell you how much I hated this movie. I still have nightmares.Hold on... that's misleading. I don't have nightmares resulting from anything happening in the film itself, but from actually being in the room as this film was playing on TV.There has never been a poorer actor than Chevy Chase. Sure he did well in Fletch and Vacation, but seriously, when you see that Chevy Chase is in a movie, doesn't it just make you want to move to Lancaster and become Amish? Secondly, the entire film takes place in some sort of dump and Dan Ackroyd, the king of all schlock, plays some sort of centenarian judge with no teeth. It kinda reminded me of Strom Thurmond, but uglier and less funny.That should be noted... this thing is purportedly a comedy. I did not laugh once throughout the entire running time of this film. I was consistently grossed out, and I believe this was unintentional on the part of the filmmakers. This film was just so terrible, thinking about it makes me nauseous. If you want to lose weight, just watch this film and you'll lose your appetite forever.Let me just say this I have never walked out of a theater due to the crappiness of a movie, but when I watched this film on my television, I walked out of my apartment. "},{"Title":"They spent money on this!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a piece of ____! It has been many moons since I saw this movie but I remember I hated it. I kept telling myself, It's got to get better. Well I watched the whole movie and in my opinion, it never did. When it was over I told my wife, I can't believe I watched the whole movie. I love all the actors and actresses in this movie especially Dan Aykroyd and John Candy. If there was any kind of hidden message or if this was some kind of parody, I didn't see it. All I saw was a waste of good comedy talent on a really bad story line. With that in mind I fin it hard to believe that anybody who likes the entertainers, liked this movie. I think watching slugs race would have been more entertaining. It's no surprise this film made it to print since Dan Aykroyd was the writer/director. Sorry Dan, Didn't like this one. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time last night and I must say, I had a hard time sitting it out. I wanted to turn it off and watch something else but I kept telling myself it would get better (it didn't). The whole idea of a speed trap town/judge was weak material at best, so I don't think there could have been anyway to have made a good movie out of it but at least could have made it funny. I did not find ANYTHING funny in this movie, as a matter of fact, I thought it was stupid. What got me to watch it in the first place was all of the comedy stars that were in it. You'd think with that kind of line up, they'd be able to make a good film. I am surprised though that Donna Dixon (Dan Aykroyd's wife) wasn't in it but maybe she read the script and and told him she couldn't do it because she had a headache that night (or told him she was too well to be in it). This movie should be re-titled to Nothing But Trash..... "},{"Title":"a true original comedy","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film was great!! the situaation that these people were put in is truly original, thats the best part of this movie, the originallity. who else would have come up with such a grand plot? this is a movie in which the viewer either loves it or hates it...i love it!! i rate it a perfect 10!!  "},{"Title":"Speechless after viewing","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A friend picked this up at the video store and brought it over for us to watch.  Neither of us knew anything about the movie beforehand, and he decided to rent it based upon the cast and the fact that it was a comedy.  I commended him on his choice when I saw the cast of characters.We watched the movie with a growing sense of horror, and at its completion, neither of us said a word for a good 20 minutes.  We rewound the tape and were half way back to the video store to drop it off before either of us said anything.  We each were afraid that the other might have actually liked the movie!  Finally I tentatively said Um... that wasn't so good... in response to which he burst out It was AWFUL!!!  And so began the reviling of this steaming turd of a film.One of the worst movies ever made.  It tops my all time worst movie list, with only Very Bad Things even remotely approaching it.  To this day we both still occasionally discuss that fateful night and the abortion of a movie we witnessed on the screen.  The memories are painful but we feel that we need to talk about it openly as part of the ongoing healing process.As Leonard Maltin says in his review BOMB.  Seedy set design is impressive, the rest is stupefyingly unwatchable.  See it at your own risk, and you can tell your own war story afterward if you make it all the way through.  And I worry deeply about the people on this board who thought it was great.  Very deeply. "}{"Title":"Our vote for the worst movie","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe that there were over 100 people who gave this movie a rating of 10.  I never realized that Dan Aykroyd had that many relatives.  When we watched this movie we were so overwhelmed with the sheer stupidity and bad acting, that we couldn't change the channel.  I think it was like looking at a bad car accident; you know you should look away, but you just can't. "},{"Title":"nothing but *&#!","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not a lot I can add to the comments list for this atrocity,but I felt compelled to anyhow.Yes,what was Dan Ackroyd thinking when he came up with this? It's like he had a nightmare and upon wakening,wrote it down scene for scene.He should have filmed his sales pitch to the studio exec's,now that would have been funny! Studio exec;Yeah,Dan.... I think I get it......now what was that part again where your nose is a penis?.....I like John Candy ,although his batting average was pretty poor when it came to his film choices.This film makes his other bad ones look like classics.Peter Sellars was once asked what he would do if he could live his life over.He replied I would do every thing the same,except I wouldn't see THE MAGUS.(1968 Michael Caine).Had he lived to see Nothing But Trouble,he may well have reconsidered his choice. "},{"Title":"A *really* funny film whether you admit it or not.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, I agree that this is a genre of film that you either love or hate.  It is actually inventive and most of the time, hilarious.This is one of my all-time favorite comedies (and the way New Jersey is portrayed in the film is what *I* always thought NJ might look like!). The table that has a train in it shooting pickles and has a mustard tankcar is ingenious!  The dual John Candy roles are superb.  The Jimmy Hoffa spot was just perfect!If you were one of the nay-sayers, see it again.  Give it a chance to entertain you, not educate you!  It is really funny! "},{"Title":"Warning, Will Robinson! This is absolutely the Worst Film Ever Made!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoy bad films. I watch them all the time on MST3K. This movie is so bad that it makes me feel kind of sad and uncomfortable that I watched it. I try not to think about this movie, but every now and then I see it in the store or on TV and I feel sad again. I saw it a week ago in the five dollar DVD bin at Wal-Mart and I felt sad again.I wish I never watched it. I really regret seeing this movie. Sometimes I wish that I could take some kind of hypnotic therapy so that I can have my memory of this film wiped for all time, but then I think that if I did that, I might accidentally watch it again, and then the pain would be fresh again. The trauma of watching it again for the first time coupled with the problem of have the repressed memory of really watching it the first time would be too much for me to cope with. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know what is meant by a spoiler, so I hope my review of this as one of the worst movies ever does not count as one. About fifteen years ago my wife and I saw this movie. We were attracted by the cast, figuring that with such a cast it would have had to have been a good movie. Guess what, the planets probably lined up in such a way that the best of casts could make a stinker of a movie. After all, even the 1927 Yankees lost a few games. Given your choice of putting this tape or DVD in your player or watching a test pattern on the TV you should pick the test pattern. The characters, as I remember, are not at all real. The situations are impossible. "},{"Title":"What a waste of talent","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, the least said about this film the better. I really couldn't imagine that this group of highly talented actors could come together and result in that bad a film. Painful efforts at humour, incredibly bad dialogue etc. etc. What a pity! "},{"Title":"Nothing but Praise.","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a considerably great movie. I give full credit to Chevy Chase and Demi Moore for their heartfelt performances and believable chemistry as two star-crossed lovers with shady pasts. Dan Akroid, who plays an eccentric mutant with a taste for blood/hot dogs, is a comedic genius. If you love the Hills have Eyes, you'll love Nothing but Trouble! There's also a great hip hop performance that's bound to win you over if you appreciate the likes of African American performance art.P.S. I really don't appreciate all you haters. This is a great film worthy of nothing but praise. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know if this was the Akroyd/Chase team trying to pat themselves on the back by thinking any movie they made would be good because they were in it, but this was just awful. Bad acting, terrible script, mutant relatives?, John Candy as a woman, it goes on. Digital Underground performing was about the only worthwhile scene in the movie. I wish I could sue the studio to gain back those two hours of my life. In the pantheon of bad movies, this edges out Caddyshack II, Cannonball run (at least that was a lot of actors making fun of themselves), and anything with Stephen Seagal or Van Damme. Now, I must admit to never having seen Gigli, so someone will have to tell me if that is worse. I guess it is true that some people can get anything made into a movie. "},{"Title":"really unpleasant","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"19 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chase and Moore are on the way to Atlantic City when they suddenly get stopped for speeding in the middle of nowhere. They're sidetracked to a bizarre, backwater town (on the verge of decomposition) that's under the jurisdiction of a cantankerous judge who doesn't take too kindly to outsiders. Everything that can go wrong does, and they find themselves fighting for their lives to escape from the murky town and its creepy, amoral inhabitants. The cast may have had a good time making it, but this dreadful comedy has no laughs, repellent gross-out gags, and an unappealing story. Talented actors are wasted in this nauseating, and practically unbearable 'comedy.' * "},{"Title":"My least favorite movie of all time","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With the number of interesting, funny actors in this film, I went into the movie theater with high hopes. Within the first few minutes of the film, these hopes were gone. This movie was simply not funny. The plot did not flow very smoothly and the twists did not bring so much as a chuckle. My Dad and I ended up walking out of this movie. To put my comments in context, the only other movie I've walked out of is The Crow. I've enjoyed all of the other movies that I've seen with these actors. I'd really like to get into specifics about why I rate this movie so low, but I'm afraid I'd give away some spoilers. Believe me when I say that if you watch this movie expecting to be entertained you will be sorely disappointed. If you're tempted to rent this movie, find something that is actually funny. For instance Oscar staring Sylvester Stallone. "}{"Title":"Possibly the worse movie I have ever seen","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"27 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not one to criticize movies much...I like to give all movies a chance and like to look for the good in all of them, but really...this has got to be the worse movie I've EVER seen...honestly...The title basically says it all. My father bought this movie because of the actors in it, who were supposed great comedians, and because it was cheap. 1 word disappointing...I have never watched such a lame, grotesque, pointless, boring movie...list goes on. Don't waste your time watching this, we didn't even finish it 'cus it was so horrible, and I think we ended out throwing the DVD away.My rating, 0 of 10...if that's even possible...~Ange Dor~ "},{"Title":"Spectacularly Bad","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow. What a god-awful price of garbage. This is my new choice for worst movie ever made, it was Battlefield Earth, but Nothing but Trouble takes the cake.This movie has NO plot, NO characters, NO story, and NO real ending. For the most part, it is genuinely difficult to even label this as a movie. I never had the privilege to see this in theater but I just watched it on Netflix and boy-howdy is this movie a turd. The humor is almost nonexistent or totally misses the mark.I do suggest watching it though for no other reason than the fact that this movie is fascinating in its awfulness. Just when you think it can't get any worse, it has a random rap video, or two giant babies that talk about pooping their diapers. If those 2 things sound bizarre in a movie about 4 travelers abducted by psychopaths, then you are starting to understand this movie. It some how keeps inventing new ways to shock you with its wretchedness all the way to the ending of the film. "},{"Title":"Come  on!  It wasn't that bad","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was good, but not great. It still does have some funny moments. The movie should have been better. Like American Pie, this is one of those movies that you can watch on a boring saturday afternoon.**1/2 "},{"Title":"mindless","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A mindless mess of useless entertainment with a lively performance by Taylor Negron(Hope and Gloria) and nothing else. I am honestly surprised to see that this was not credited as being directed and written by Allen Smithee. Instead we have Dan Aykroyd to thank. What was he thinking, as well as what was anybody thinking who played any part in this film? Why was it made anyhow? "},{"Title":"Horrid on so many levels.","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's really hard to say enough bad about this film. Terrible plot, wasted acting talent, and an atmosphere that just leaves you feeling ick. There were some disgusting scenes of violence that would have been fine for a horror flick, but doesn't work in a comedy. Which brings us to, arguably, the worst aspect of the film. It can't make up its mind if it is a quirky comedy or a horror flick. It, frankly, would fail on both accounts.There are some truly fine actors/actresses in this movie, but the talent was largely wasted. Chase a few good moments, Moore was passable, and Aykroyd's not so good. It is hard to say about Candy's contribution other than it was another waste of a fine comedic actor's time.All and all, just a terrible film. There are some movies that are so bad that they are good, this one is so bad it's just bad. "},{"Title":"disturbing","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I voted this 4 out of ten for the pure fact that it's truly a disturbing film. I am a horror buff. A film buff, truly, but I have love for scifi and horror... and yet, this comedy this film stuck with me throughout the years.There's something really horrifying in Dan Ackroyd's character and those twins!I don't know, of what they call black comedy... I believe this movie does it.It's a terrible film. It really is trash. But somehow it leaves an impression.So if you're up for some B movie chills, watch this but rent something quality with it... The cheese factor will leave you with a bad taste in your mouth and you'll wonder why you watched it in the first place.But I think you'll remember it. ugh. "},{"Title":"unforgettably bad/good","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS HERE There are few comedies as silly as this one (Mars Attacks comes to mind for one). But the old judge with the penis shaped nose eating boiled hotdogs off a toy train was something I'll never forget -- besides the old fart hated lawyers and bankers so he wasn't a total idiot. I'm sure this was too over the top for most folks but I thought some of it was brilliantin the much the same way as Monty Python -- the crazier the skit the better you remember it. My wife and I were making a want list for our DVD comedy collection and we both agreed this one had some merit -- but I couldn't convince her about Mars Attacks. Hmmmmmm  "},{"Title":"Pile of Crapola","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Dan & Chevy.  They should've stayed home.  A monumental lapse of creativity & good sense.  For all involved. Depressing.  Uncomfortable.  Unwatchable.  Few laughs.  Avoid this one like poo on your shoe. "},{"Title":"This movie is so funny...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...you'll pee in someone else's pants. Western cultural decadence at its best! Perhaps we should broadcast this on the Al-qaeda television network. Osama, upon seeing it, would surrender immediately (then again, maybe not... it might be reason enough for him to resist being taken alive.) "},{"Title":"WORTH SOME TROUBLE!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw Nothing But Trouble I thought this was darkingly funny. I wonder why people said that this was one of the worst movies? The stuff was for laughs not for thrills. This is one of the best movies that has put comedy and horror together. They took familar territory and breathed new laughs into it.  Dan Aykroyd (the guy that played Elwood in The Blues Brothers movies) did a good job writing and directing this movie. The funniest character in the movie was the judge. And for those who saw, yes, he nose is actually a penis. I also liked the house, booby traps, etc. That reminds you of things you might see at a haunted house attraction. I also liked that Digital Underground sence. Them and Dan Aykroyd tore up the house. It may not be the best from him. But that was his best since The Blues Brothers and Ghostbusters movies. So, I give Nothing But Trouble ***1/2 in my book.  "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever!!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie really sux. I saw it on pay TV here in Oz which is really saying something about it. Terrible script. Terrible acting. Shonky sets. I'm a huge fan of Chevy Chase and Dan Aykroyd, but this is not worth it. Interesting cameo by 2pac as one of the hip hop group though. But I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"nothing but disaster","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have never had so much trouble sitting through a movie in my entire life! This excruciatingly awful piece of s**t redefines bad. For those of you who thought Wild Wild West was the biggest mistake in history, you were wrong. What a stinker! Is giving Dan Aykroyd a penis-shaped nose supposed to be hilarious? Your brain will need an ultra dose of pain relief after sitting through the likes of this junk. Unless you want to slip into a coma or develop a brain tumor, avoid this at all costs. Yes, it is that bad! If it comes on television then ask your cable company to deny access to the channel until it goes off. If someone gives it to you for free then throw it away. This is possibly the worst movie ever made. Worst part is, the people who made it thought it was funny. 0/4 (I couldn't rate it any lower)   "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD THIS MOVIE SUCKED","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1.5 out of 10.  This movies plot was horrible...acting was horrible...everything was horrible......but watch it...that way you can say you have seen the worst movie that Demi Moore ever made or Chevy Chase ever made or Dan Aykroyd ever made and even John Candy ever made. "},{"Title":"The name says it all","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For having such star power, this movie was awful.  If you try to explain the plot of the movie to someone else, it comes out sounding like a 9 year old telling you about his scary dream.  Terrible, terrible, terrible. A lucky 2/10. "},{"Title":"The only movie I ever left in the theatre....","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a waste of talent. This is the only movie that I've ever gotten up and left while in the theatre. I was embarrassed having to watch these fine actors slog through this mess. UGHHHH.....  "},{"Title":"Dan Akroyd's a genius","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first happened upon this movie, I had never heard of it and knew nothing about it. This surprised me as I have always been a fan of the comedy greats featured Akroyd, Candy, and Chase. I have a special place in my heart for this film. It truly feels like a bizarre trip through the goofball weirdo mind of Dan Akroyd. Just him as the old judge makes the film worth watching. If you don't find at least that funny and the set amazing, then I don't know what's wrong with you.The supper scene is pure hilarious-ness. John Candy in drag dishing out the nastiest looking hot dogs ever, Dan Akroyd as a whacked out super ugly old crazy judge with a dick nose at the head of the table doing the best crazy weird old man I've ever seen, and Chevy Chase as a diner. And a condiment train. 'nuff said. "},{"Title":"Brilliant absurd dark comedy adventure.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie about ten years ago and has haunted my mind since then. Was happy to have found the DVD yesterday. Watched it again and was equally amazed by the huge amount of over the top details and twists. I remember watching it, not knowing what I was looking. missed the first ten minutes I think. So it was only until after the end I was enlightened about Dan Aykroyd playing both the judge and one of his creepy grandsons. That discovery only added to my delight about this movie. Because it was yet another surprise. And this film is full of twists and surprises. It keeps getting wackier and wackier. Every time you think you got everything down something happens that you couldn't have imagined. It gets gross, it gets creepy and definitely uncomfortable, it gets absurd. --SMALL SPOILER-- For example The party that has been arrested is offered a dinner (this sounds nicer than it actually is). First they serve grey looking big sausages. Then the middle of the table changes into a model train track and you can't believe they actually made that. Then the train starts to run by with all kind of sauces like ketchup, mustard etc. The judge, who looks really awful, demonstrates in a very distasteful way how to add ketchup to your sausage. It makes you feel nauseous. And just when you think you've had it, there is a shot of Chevy Chase looking at the judge's nose and he sees the glans of a penis. --END OF SPOILER-- Maybe I have a strange sense of humor or enjoy movies for a different reason than most people, but I really liked the creativity, the attention to detail, the surprises, the over the top story, and the nice finale. The set designers must have had a vivid fantasy because there are some set pieces that are truly incredible (all kinds of gadgets, but also the exterior of the judge's house). I think Dan Aykroyd is brilliant as the judge. I would say all other parts are supporting roles. I would put this movie in the same category as Shaun of the Dead. A kind of horror-comedy-adventure. Although I think Shaun of the Dead includes more belly laughs. And the comedy in Nothing but Trouble is more dark. If you're looking for a National Lampoon kind of comedy, skip this movie. But if you expect a very strange, creepy, over the top, dark-comedy with some horror elements that makes you feel uncomfortable at times and laugh with anxiety at other times, this is for you. "},{"Title":"A 3.7 out of 10 doesn't cut it.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I give this movie a one out of ten, but to be completely honest, I would really like to give it a half a star. In my opinion, this movie wins the worst movie with the best cast award. Chevy Chase? Dan Aykroyd? John Candy? and Demi Moore? We have all come to expect a lot more out of these guys, and I was more than disappointed here.The story was basic, but it was pretty original, and the concept is actually pretty funny. But the delivery and the jokes just couldn't cut it. I sat there half the time wondering why there were so many strange and weird characters throughout the whole thing. Of course you can go overboard in movies, but when you do, it should at least make sense.Over all, incredibly disappointing, especially from such a talented group. "},{"Title":"Nothing but trouble. How true.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I honestly can say it is THE worst movie among those that I've ever seen and with all likelihood among those I'll yet to see. This wannabe funny movie isn't just not so, but it is literally painful to watch. I finished watching it for one reason that I may find something worthwhile. What did I find? NOTHING, none, nada, zero. I did not feel sorry for the actors &#150;as many people did-; I felt disappointment and frustration towards them. What ever reason, they've chosen to participate in the making of this garbage; and by doing so they tricked us into watch something that nobody should've ever seen. There for all my sympathy goes to the audience. PS I found something good, the title Nothing but trouble. How true. "},{"Title":"Simply horrible","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I felt like I was being tortured when I saw this movie. Didn't the makers of this film know that fantasy-comedies almost never work? None of the actors and jokes that they uttered were funny in the slightest and it was too bizarre to be called tastefully artsy. The two obese baby-like men were the worst. They were simply unnecessary, not to mention too disgusting-looking to watch. Dan Akroyd usually writes some pretty funny stuff, but this was a failure for him. I swear, I can't remember one funny joke. I never thought Chevy Chase was that funny and he certainly isn't in this stinker of movie. I felt like Demi Moore was simply THERE a pretty mannequin who never says anything worth listening to. In fact, the entire ensemble felt like props. It was a movie that proved Chevy Chase, John Candy, and Dan Akroyd's careers were failing. Also, the part where the really old man eats the grotesque and so-horrible-it's-inedible hot dog left me feeling sick for days. It still makes me feel sick when I think about it. This movie is one of the worst I've ever seen. It should never have been made. "}{"Title":"Nothing but fun","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I currently own this film on an ex-rental VHS I got for $2, and I must say I do quite enjoy it. This it's the first time I'd seen it because I first saw it in 1992 when it just came to weeky rental and at the time it became one of my childhood fav's. Then early this year I saw Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 on DVD at a friends house and it made me thinks about this films....I now realize because this was largely a spoof of TCM2. Yeah and this film it a quite entertaining adventure of that horror comedy fans should get a kick out of.Directed & written by Dan Aykroyd, staring Chevy Chase, Demi Moore, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy. This film lives up to the comedy cast's reputation and should be quite a hoot to many viewer with is twisted sense of humor. It's a surreal thrill ride though bizarre visuals and and ride the processes your meat and spits out your bones.If you like this film I would also recommend Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 which is actually a better film that is even more of the surreal this, however it should be warned that TCM2 has a fair amount of gore so it may not be for all viewers.Over all I'm impressed, so I give this film an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Get a Grip!  This movie was great!!!","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hello, Some people come off.  I had to leave the theater because.  Well obviously the movie is not real, please.  It show the funny side of Hollywood.  Just like Harry Potter.  We know it's not real, but come on this Movie Nothing But Trouble was funny and well done by many great actors; such as Chevy Chase and the Late Great John Candy.  This is a Comedy/Fantasy movie.  John Candy was playing as himself, funny, serious and believing. Chevy Chase did great with his National Lampoon attitude.  Demi-Moore got to play the hot girl and funny, like always.  Dan Ak. got to play the funny, disgusting judge.  They did a very good job in directing.  If you don't like it.  TOO BAD.  Leave positive about the movie.   "},{"Title":"A CULT CLASSIC! (sorta)","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Akroyd hit the nail on the head with this one! I can't explain how much I just love this movie! If you've ever been to Pennsylvania, you know there are definitely places like this! Every place is a junkyard or an abandoned something. I guess I'm just a sucker for the macabre and old places and junk not to mention Chevy Chase. Don't be so anal retentive, talk your movie critic b.s. to somebody else...THIS MOVIE RULES!!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious Tongue-In-Cheek Comedy","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I Think This Is One Of The BEST Comedies Of The Nineties. It Has An ALL-STAR Cast Including Demi Moore, Chevy Chase, Dan Akroyd, And John Candy Who All Draw A Bunch Of Laughs. It Is Very Campy And Sorta Reminds You Of The Early Nineties T.V. Show 'TALES FROM THE CRYPT'. Perhaps Too Slapstick For Some I Think It Is Worth a Watch (And Re-Watch). "},{"Title":"That's how I like them, and I suggest you have the same!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so bizzarro and off the charts that I am still thinking about it two days after seeing it for the first time.  Lighten up, people!  This movie was great, totally surreal and funny, and visually very cool to look at.  I loved this movie, and can't wait to see it again, it will probably only get funnier and funnier!  The plot was sketchy sometimes, but when you have a wiener condiment train, who cares?! Please, do yourself a BIG favor- don't believe all the negative hype!  Check it out for yourself, and THEN decide!  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm still shocked to see that this great movie has only been rated at 3.5!!! I've always loved this movie since I rented it on video about ten years ago. The story is original and funny and if you like Dan Aykroyd and Chevy Chase you should watch this movie despite what others have commented. I'm not putting these people down but I think they watched this movie with preconceived notions about what they expected of for instance Chevy Chase in regards of being hilariously funny. He does a great job with the character he's been given. So does the other actors. When I watch this movie I'm drawn to another universe - it's absurd, weird, bizarre and FUNNY!  "},{"Title":"There is no God.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a recovering from being an alcoholic, don't see this movie. You'll want to drink again.The only place this movie should be shown is the New York sewer system.After watching this movie, my tv is impure.  I must burn it.If you're looking for fun, don't watch this movie.  Turn on the Discovery channel and watch the special on horse shoe crabs.I laughed at this movie, not with it.I feel like my soul is trying to escape my body... my skeleton is trying to run away.This is a big turd.  Stinking all the way.  God, I feel unclean. "},{"Title":"I am horribly sorry I ever saw this movie.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie on TV at least five years ago, probably more.  What a mistake.  I still remember how terrible it made me feel.Recently I remembered seeing a movie that made me feel like crap for the rest of the day, so I looked around for it.  I couldn't even remember who was in it quite right (I looked through almost all of Steve Martin's movies before finding he wasn't in it - I was thinking of Chevy Chase's character), but I knew John Candy had some kind of really screwed up role.  In fact, he had two, one of whom was a revolting, odd woman who Chevy Chase is condemned to marry.  I looked through a bunch of Candy's movies and... aha!  Here it is.  Now I can tell you not to see this movie, assuming you don't enjoy feelings of intense misery.The actual details of the plot are hazy in my memory, and really they aren't important in what I have to tell you.  A quick summary will do.  Basically Chevy Chase and Demi Moore get arrested by Dan Aykroyd (who's a cop and a judge and a bunch of other things, I think) in the middle of nowhere, and they're taken to Hell on Earth.  Aykroyd makes them stay in his demented house, which is designed to make being alive as unenjoyable as possible, just like this movie.  He tries to absorb them into his family, and basically makes it so they don't have a normal waking moment where their surroundings let them be themselves.  Chase and Moore pretty much spend the movie trying to escape, roaming through what looks like either a wasteland or a house from a surrealist film (except that it's set in rural America), being beaten down the whole time.Perhaps it started when I saw this movie, perhaps not, but the thought of being trapped in a place with no contact with the outside world, and only a few unbearable people to live with, really scares me now.  After watching this movie I had a braindead feeling.  Maybe you know what I am talking about.  If you watch the movie you will learn.  It's a sort of fuzzy, unhappy feeling, where your mind just goes blank and the world seems like a terrible place to live.  It felt kind of like the time I had a bad case of the flu, when I could only barely tell what was going on, and my hands felt prickly for hours.  Except that the flu gave me something to measure sickly feelings against, and this movie only serves to numb my mind once again every time I recall it.Not only would I not recommend seeing this movie, I would advise that you don't see it.  Please avoid having an awful memory planted in your brain. "},{"Title":"Want to see a funny Dan Aykroyd? Then check this film out!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Based upon the people I know who've seen this film, and the user comments, I have come to the conclusion this is a film you will love or hate. I myself love this film. The performance by Aykroyd as the judge is comedic genious, the set is amazing, and this film is much under rated due to the reputation it has for being awful. I think this film will be loved by those who enjoy weirdness in thier movies. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is far and away the worst movie I have ever seen.  The plot makes no sense.  The characters are stupid.  It includes characters made out of garbage-- piles of garbage that talk.  Worst of all is the gross and disgusting piles of bodies and bloody gore that set off several scenes.  With a great cast, you would think that this movie would be better.  Unfortunately, even the cast doesn't  make up for the storyline. "}{"Title":"ACK!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The missing link of bad movies - Nothing but Trouble.  In my mind there is hardly a worse film.  If celluloid was a million dollars a foot I would not recycle this movie for the fear that one frame might survive.  It should be stored along with nuclear waste and Charles Manson in a super secure glass jail cell and hurled into space a'la Superman II.Bad movies are essential, I watch them frequently.  How is someone supposed to know what is good and what is bad if they are fed a diet exclusively of Mamet and Cohen.  It's just as bad as the person who never watches anything but Arnold and Beastmaster.  That being said, I would still avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Watch it before you read the comments","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I made the mistake of reading through the comments on this movie, which I discovered in my endless search for all things related to Dan Aykroyd, before I saw it.  Let's face it, Chevy Chase or Demi Moore are enough to kill a movie on their own, I assumed that pairing the two of them up would result in something than man was not meant to sit through.  After winning a free video rental though, I decided that it couldn't be THAT bad, and decided to give it a try.It's twisted, sick, involves a suspiciously large number of people with the last name Aykroyd, and is now one of my ten favorite movies. Not exactly high cinema or anything, just the sort of movie that used to be shown on a Sunday afternoon as a nice little escape from reality.Don't immediately dismiss this movie because of some of the reviews people have written about it, after all, there are people out there who still maintain that Titanic was one of the most sappy pieces of tripe ever churned out by Hollywood (myself among them).  Just give it a chance, if you like the usual sort of movies starring John Candy, you'll definitely like it. And remember to come to a full stop at all stop signs...  "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever watched","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, I've watched a lot of bad movies (Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, Plan 9 from outer space, a lot of cheap action movies) but this one tops all - most of the bad movies I've watched are either low-budget productions or are trash on purpose; and of lot of them are funny in a way (which certainly was not the purpose of the directors).But Nothing But Trouble doesn't match the categories - it was definitely not a low budget production with three very able actors (John Candy, Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd) and it most certainly was not funny - and the film was not trashy enough to qualify as unintentionally funny.  "},{"Title":"This movie is painful.  I feel dirty.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, to date, the worst movie I have ever seen, bar none.  If I could give it a 0 star rating, I would.  With these actors, how could it go wrong, let along become this mocking carcass of a movie?  It's revolting, yet boring and deadeningly obvious.  I would pay to have this movie purged from video stores, if only out of respect for John Candy.   "},{"Title":"Worst movie with the best cast","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I endured this movie after purchasing it in a sale bin, and now I know why it was there. I really love movies, but this one has got to be the worst of all time with such a good cast. John Candy, Chevy Chase, Demi Moore, and Dan Aykroyd take off on this horror spoof through an east coast junk yard they will never forget. I don't remember ever laughing so hard at a movie that is not funny at all. The script is so absurd I found myself rolling on the floor laughing, it was so bad. I believe the cast did the best they could with the material they had, but really......My hat is off to anyone who could stomach this one twice, but if you want a real laugh at the movie making machine that has gone completely off the wall, this one is for you. I would suggest consuming large amounts of alcohol, and watching it with a group. Just remember that those rotten tomatoes will not not do your big plasma screen any good. "},{"Title":"Sigh...","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just don't get it. I really don't understand how people can claim to appreciate black comedy or horror-based comedy, and still degrade this film. This is quite a well-made horror-comedy with a really great idea at its core. I just fell in love with the whole concept of Valkenvania that Ackroyd created a diseased, toxic junkyard of a hidden backwater so cut off from modern society that they haven't even heard about the Declaration of Indepence yet, and they're still operating under English common law that pre-dates the Magna Carta (!) (Maybe I just like it because I'm from New Jersey.) That's damn clever, people. Stop whining. The script had a lot of intelligence behind it.How about the horrible decrepit mansion/courthouse/funhouse with all the cool hidden rooms and stuff? How about the carnival ride/abattoir? How about John Candy in a dual role playing his own sister? What about an appearance by Digital Underground where they get stuck at the mansion and PERFORM THE HUMPTY HUMP? COME ON! Great jittery fun, people. If you don't appreciate this film, go back to watching movies with Madonna in them. That's what you deserve.I hope anyone with a brain reading these comments will realize that when they come across a misspelled post stating this was worse film ever that the person making the post is illiterate and has no credibility at all. If you enjoy Black Comedy (one poster compared this to Monty Python, who do occasionally trade in the humorous aspects of gore and viscera, and I think it's an appropriate comparison) at all, or Horror films, and you haven't seen this film, you shouldn't run away from it. Give it a chance. I believe I've even seen it for sale for about five bucks at the local Megalomart. It's worth five bucks, penguins. Really, it is. I promise. Of course, if you don't like horror films, avoid it like a Madonna vehicle. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrendous movie","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With all due respect to the commenter from New Zealand, I am an American who greatly enjoys dark humor. However, this movie lacks any degree of humor, dark or otherwise. The only thing funny about this is the fact that they were able to get so many of us to actually sit through this abysmal attempt at entertainment. My wife and I watched this and kept hoping it would get better and it never did, it just got worse. You'd think that at least ONE of the big names in the movie would have given a performance worthy of merit....THIS MOVIE IS THE WORST I HAVE EVER SEEN (I haven't seen Gigli yet.....)  "},{"Title":"How can a loving God allow such a movie to be made?","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I get to heaven, one of the first things I'm going to ask the Lord is how in the heck all those bad movies got made? Not the Ed Wood type, I understand those, but how they could spend 20 million on a cast, 20 million on special effects, 20 million on marketing, and only 20 cents on a script. A comedy should make the viewer laugh. I realize it is difficult to tell from reading a script whether or not it will be a hit, but surely, surely nobody read this thinking there was the slightest chance it would be mistaken for funny. Any 5 kids at random from any grade school in America could have knocked out funnier dialogue. It is rare that I absolutely hate a movie, and rarer that I leave a comedy feeling angry and despondent, but this comedy accomplished both for me.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So, you're strolling through Blockbuster looking for a good comedy. Wow, you think, this one has Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, and the sexy Demi Moore. How could it possibly be bad?That was your first mistake. I have seen A LOT of movies, and this is definitely the worst.Now you're thinking, Hey, this jerk doesn't know what he's talking about. He's probably one of those guys who only watches those snotty comedy-dramas from the 1930's and considers himself an expert on all forms of comedy.That was your second mistake. Some of my favorite movies are Dumb and Dumber, Clean Slate, and The Jerk.But this movie? It's not funny. I couldn't even decide what was supposed to be funny. Everything in this movie was just disturbing. Dan Aykroyd's makeup made me want to vomit. The entire plot of the movie was just disturbing. Trust me on this one, and don't see it. It's just plain bad. The movie is so bad, I can't describe it. "},{"Title":"Chevy, Candy, Aykroyd - what went wrong?","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently took in this notorious misfire featuring Chase, Demi Moore, John Candy and Dan Aykroyd on cable. Multimillionaire Chris Thorne (Chase) heads out with three friends (including romantic interest Moore) on a road trip to Atlantic City. Deciding to bypass the Jersey turnpike, he takes a detour through Valkenvania, a depressed coal mining town run by 107-year-old judge J.P. (Aykroyd). Once there, the group gets stopped by the town's top cop (Candy) and taken before the judge, who proceeds to hold them hostage in his oddball town.A bizarre vanity project for Aykroyd (he wrote, directed and has two starring roles), this alleged comedy left me scratching my head. How can something starring Chase, Aykroyd and Candy be so unfunny? And who actually thought having John Candy in drag was a good idea? I guess Dan Aykroyd did. His script (based on an idea by his brother believe it or not) is so patently off the wall that one wonders how execs felt the need to finance this $40 million dollar project. The main action takes place in a house filled with weird Rube Goldberg-like contraptions and machines that chew up and spit out drug dealers (including a young Daniel Baldwin). But Aykroyd misses nearly every opportunity to capitalize on this weirdness. One would think the decrepit Judge character would latch onto the nubile Moore. Nope. Instead he decides to kill her as Aykroyd leaves the romance between Chase and an in drag Candy. To show how completely off base he was, Aykroyd included a musical number by flavor of the month rappers Digital Underground of The Humpty Dance fame (two years after they were considered cool; look closely for a young, clean-cut 2Pac Shakur in the group before he decide he was a gangster).On the plus side, the film does sport some lavish production values, even if the sets look more like something out of a horror movie. Seriously, I wonder what was being slipped into the soup at the commissary on the Warner Bros. lot during this time period. Within a year, the studio released three surreal, big budget comedy box office bombs (this, STAY TUNED and MOM AND DAD SAVE THE WORLD). "}{"Title":"The horror, the horror.","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If anyone ever asked me What is the worst movie you have ever seen? this will invariably be my answer, and I have seen a lot of movies. Just look at the other comments, we are kind of like a survivor group who somehow made it through (no offense to people who survived other stuff, but come on). I still believe that Tupac's brief appearance in this nightmare was the real reason he was killed, and the same goes for John Candy. I'm sure most of the people in that theater wouldn't have minded trading places with either of them, but we will never know because most survivors of Nothing But Trouble are unable to talk about the experience later due to the extreme emotional trauma. There really isn't any way to describe what is wrong with this movie, much like there is no way to describe why you never really can get that smell of puke out of carpeting. There was a rumor that the captives at Guantanamo Bay were forced to watch this in order to get them to talk, but the government quickly got the source to withdraw the allegation as it would have been condemned throughout the world. I hesitate to even give this film a 1 rating but there are no negative numbers available, so the system is really not working. I do know this Someday we will rise up and send all the known copies of Nothing But Trouble to the deepest abyss in the deepest sea on Earth, but even when we do there will come a time in a million generations where it slowly emerges from the soulless deep and wipes out life as we know it. Alas, alas. "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nothing But Trouble is excellent comedy with a great cast which includes Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, John Candy, Demi Moore, Valri Bromfield,Taylor Negron, Bertila Damas, Brian Doyle-Murray, Peter Aykroyd, and Daniel Baldwin! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Aykroyd has a great performance and Candy is really wonderful in the movie. Chase and Moore are also very good. I think that they were excellent together. The music by Michael Kamen is good. The film is very exciting and its just so hilarious the entire time. This really is good comedy and in My opinion. If you love John Candy, Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase, Demi Moore, and the rest of the cast mentioned and great comedies then I Strongly recommend this film! Movie Nuttball's NOTE If you love John Candy then I recommend that you see the following films Summer Rental, Armed and Dangerous, Spaceballs, The Great Outdoors, Who's Harry Crumb?, and Uncle Buck! "},{"Title":"Anything but Normal!!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only just remembered about this film after I watched  The Burds again. This movie freaked me out when I was a kid and all the way through it I was praying for Mr Chevy Chase to get out of that death trap of a house and away from that creepy evil surreal family of country misfits!But at the same time this movie was hilarious from beginning to end and Dan Aykroyd as Judge Alvin J.P Valkenheiser & Bobo was pure genius.I have no doubt that this movie will become a classic and if you haven't seen it yet go rent it now! "},{"Title":"This was a funny movie!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seemed like it was trendy to knock this film. In fact I have talked to many people that went so far as to say that it was a total bomb. However, none of those people actually saw the film. If you take the time to actually watch the film, you will laugh and laugh a lot. So much talent in the cast and the talent is allowed to cut loose. Ackroyd's Judge character is one of the funniest performances I have ever seen. Chase and Candy are also amusing. The story involves a group of big city types that take a wrong turn on the way to Atlantic City and end up in a hellish community that time has forgot. However, let's face it, this is a comedy, story is of minor importance. The sole purpose of the story is to create a setting where comedic giants can best apply their trade and that is what happens. I defy you to watch this film with a straight face, you can't. It was funny!  "},{"Title":"Proving critics aren't always right.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Critics hated it, I loved it.  A really offbeat film which takes place in the New Jersey waste belt.  Chevy Chase is a Wall Street guy.  Dan Akroyd is a really weird judge.  John Candy is a cop.  This film could be classified as a fantasy.  Lots of imagination. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever made?","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  given the cast (though most at the end of their careers), this statement is debatable....a simply APALLING movie in every respect....i wouldnt wish this on my worst enemy... "},{"Title":"This a great film","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will admit that movie is not very funny, even though it's supposed to be a comedy. Its actually a great Adventure-Suspense film. When you watch it you gotta focus on the story its pretty dreary, forgot that is labeled as a comedy, because in truth it's not. It's plot is almost identical to House of A Thousand Corpses without all the gore.Dan Aykroyd also gives in my opinion the best performance of his career as Judge J.P. Valkenheiser, he also does an ample performance of Bobo Valkenheiser. Chevy Chase was excellently cast for this film, probably his best film since Fletch! (1984) (although I've only seen him in National Lampoon's Vacation Series (1983-1997), Fletch! (1984), and Man Of The House (1995) "},{"Title":"Bizarre comedy that works sometimes and sometimes fails badly.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am going to go against the grain as I so often do especially when comedies are involved and say that this movie was somewhat funny and overall I liked it. A bit mind you, it is on the line of being a five and in the neutral zone for me, but I say it did enough for me to say it was a fair movie for the most part. I will also say there are some parts of the film that make me cringe and parts of the film that are kind of irritating as well. This film is about what happens when you get caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. A group including two guys and two gals are traveling and get pulled over by a cop who ends up taking them before a judge. He identifies one as a banker for some reason and that is the end of that, he does not intend for them to leave as I would say I was screwed when the floor opened up beneath my feet and I was sent to some strange room filled with squeaky toys. Well this is only the beginning as they then must dine with the freaky judge and his absolutely strange family. And things for the most part keep getting worse and worse for two of the people, as the other two a brother and sister make a run for it. The movie gets more and more bizarre from there as there are a host of strange characters and places to see as they continue to have nothing but trouble. Like I said, some of the comedy works and some of it does not. When it fails at times it fails big time. A lot of the actors play multiple roles too, and I have to say I did not really care for Candy as the daughter of the judge. I liked his cop character better and he departs the film fairly early. Aykroyd is rather good as the fairly insane judge and as the bizarre person that lives in the junkyard. Chevy Chase and Demi Moore do all right as the couple who must live through this mess. So it has a fairly solid cast. Could have done without the music video during part of it though. "},{"Title":"A Different and Sometimes Fascinating Comedy","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd and John Candy are surprisingly the stand out for their performances and it was the typecast acting of Chevy Chase that weakened this movie in what was a fascinating balance of black comedy and Hudson Hawk (1991) eerie weirdness that doesn't quite create a consistently funny thriller. Overall, this comedy was off-beat and had a number of moments of creative fascination along with the more dumb, overacting but never terrible scenes. Unfortunately, this dark but never tasteless movie never was able to build on its premise with a completely satisfying plot ending. Candy's performance was one of his better acting jobs, playing a straight cop with a difficult role which he pulled off with panache. Dan Aykroyd's performance was almost unrecognizable and out of character, developed a dizzying different and captivating character. "},{"Title":"very powerful","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film a decade ago as a teenager.  I don't remember seeing a movie, per se; I remember it as I remember a dream, or perhaps a nightmare. It's a fuzzy yet indelible memory.  To this day, I'm not quite sure if I saw what I remember seeing.  I will probably end up watching it again to make sure, but then a week later I'll be wondering again.As evidenced by many comments and my own personal experience, this film obviously has some strong hypnotic power that infests the viewer's mind. Maybe the Aykroyds have a plan, like for world domination via secret message implantation in our minds.  They're turning us into sleeper agents to be activated when the sequel is made.If you think what I have just said is weird or surreal, then you haven't seen Nothing But Trouble yet.  "}{"Title":"Mindless Humor","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie on a Saturday afternoon on Comedy Central.  Well I'm not really  surprised it was on CC because that channel does have mindless humor showsand this movie is to boot.The plot is not interesting although the surroundings of the house wereinteresting. I liked the Bonestripper RollerCoaster concept.I think they people that stared in this took a dive though....4/10.  "},{"Title":"A good alternative to late-night infomercials.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A formula collection of many classic elements - tedious elements to be sure the idiotic acquaintances who latch on to a celebrity figure; the hanging judge in a remote town who is determined to right the wrongs of the world in his own little fiefdom.However, it's worth the watch just to see #1 Chevy Chase take the roller coaster ride to Mister Bone Crusher, and #2 to see the hip hop number done by Tupac Shakur.This movie could be a real cult classic if it were edited a bit to make it move faster - and to delete anything with John Candy in drag (may he rest in peace).  Other than that, it was not at all insulting to me as a viewer.  A definite 2 (out of 4) star movie.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Bad Movie Benchmark","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this garbage in the theater and I thought this is the worst thing ever. I saw it again a few years later and it did not age well. I have seen some bad movies but this one takes the cake. How can a movie with so many big names be so bad. Akroyd, Chase, Moore and Candy may not be the greatest thespians but they were A list actors at the time. The best I can tell is some mob boss threatened to kill Akroyd and the others if they did not use the mob bosses craptastic script.There is absolutely no way any sane person would give this movie a 10... This is akin to Kim Jong Il hitting a dozen holes in one... no one can believe that and anything greater than a 1 star is charity. "},{"Title":"If I'd worked in this film, I would have changed my name, it's that embarrassing","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh, my, this was painful to sit through. I'm just glad no one I know found out that I watched it. There are home movies with more craft, wit, and imagination than this. And this movie cost $40 million!!! The plot, and I use the term loosely, is about some people who get trapped in this speed trap town run by a psychotic hangman judge who keeps a bunch of booby traps around. We are then treated to humor and sight gags that runs the gamut from embarrassing to gross, and not once did this film make me laugh. The only people who could enjoy this are either drug addicts who tripped out while viewing or people who enjoy watching Hollywood stars make public fools of themselves. Dan Ackroyd should count himself lucky that he ever worked in how business again. "},{"Title":"Strange, weird, and darkly humored","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A horror/comedy, this film is definitely an acquired taste, much like the judge's hot dogs, apparently made from human flesh. As a fan of black, twisted comedy, I actually enjoyed this bent, twisted film.It is true this isn't the type of stupid, slapstick juvenile humor that many people were expecting from this group of actors. It isn't a laugh-out-loud ha ha kind of film. The humor comes in strange juxtapositions, irony, satire, and the type of grossness associated with any horror film (e.g. dead bodies, bones, creepy houses, cannibals, etc.). I thought overall the film was amusing, with some very funny, yet also some very uncomfortable, moments (as in any black comedy). The dinner party with the condiment train, and the Brazillionaires swimming the toxic river that smells like Sao Paulo made me laugh, and I enjoyed trying to figure out all the junk in the house (a very cluttered mise-en-scene, indeed).The film struck me as a bizarre cross between a demented Alice in Wonderland/Through the Looking Glass and The Addams Family (esp. the original New Yorker cartoons, far more disturbing than the films), along with some Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Rocky Horror Picture Show thrown in (as well as any other film with psychotic, mutant families in a rural area who capture people and subject them to torture, such as the original The Hills Have Eyes). I would agree it has some of the sensibility of Raimi's Evil Dead series; it also reminded me at times of the old midnight movies we used to see when I was younger (especially Eraserhead, A Boy and His Dog, The Corpse Grinders--a truly bad movie by the way--and Pink Flamingos).Those who think I am stretching on the Alice connection should consider that basically the characters go into the rabbit hole (or through the looking glass) into a strange alternative, topsy-turvy world based on a 16th century charter (hence the shire reeve), with its own Tweedledum and Tweedledee (the arguing twins Diane finds outside the house). As in Wonderland, this world operates according to its own medieval logic, where those who are deemed evil (including bankers), take a ride on the death-bringing Bonestripper amusement-ride-from-hell, while others are somewhat arbitrarily released if they amuse the judge. It has a twist you can spot a mile away (that's part of the fun, actually), and an ending clearly alluding to Looney Tunes cartoons.I think those who really disliked this film or were disappointed in it probably didn't get it; maybe some of those responding here were just too young when they saw it (I can see where it might give someone nightmares, despite its low blood-and-gore factor). In my view, those who marked it as the worst must not have seen a huge number of films, as this certainly isn't the worst film ever made by far (Both Ator films come to mind, as well as Manos, the Hands of Fate). I could name about 100 other films, just from the U.S., that qualify as true turkeys, far more horrid, or dull, than this film, but for the sake of space, I won't. Instead, I refer others to the IMDb bottom 100. "},{"Title":"Oh Come On, It wasn't that bad..","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I seen this movie only recently and although I admit it wasn't the Great Epic, it was entertaining. It was not awful. It could have been funnier than it was but One of the worst it's not. Just a good old fun movie. The Twins could have been hilarious, the script was a little weak but was worth a look, in Memory of John Candy who I was surprised was not given more of his comedic skills. It was Fun in a cute sort of way. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Genre confused","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was good for the first couple of minutes, and Chevy Chase did do a nice job with his consistent banter during the car chases, and that was about it.Mostly, this was a very bad film.  It is billed as a humorous flick, but it ends up mostly disturbing and overall, vicious.  It should have been called a horror film with comedy parts put in.It's inconsistency is due to the few parts of the film that simply do not fit.  The Judge's sense of humor at first makes the audience believe that he is simply a crazy old man.  The next scenes involving him sentencing a joyriding carful of druggies to be executed by having their flesh stripped off their bones makes for a sickening display.  While you do not see much except bloody bones flying out of the machine, it is the oddly perverse carnival like setting of the torture device that makes most viewers cringe.It does not fit.  Neither do the Judge's two deformed grandsons, who look like grossly obese versions of tweedle dee and tweedle dumb.  No explaination is given for their condition.Think of it as a very sick Tales From The Crypt that happens to lack that shows charismatic crypt keeper.  (Picking up my sarcasm?)Forget this, even Rocky Horror and Freaked fans won't like it... "},{"Title":"Contains some of the best comedic actors of the century","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What this movie lacked in plot it made up for in raw talent.  How could one not like the line up of this flick!!!  Next your going to tell me that Blue Brothers was bad, or that Animal House sucked.  There are only a few movies that contain the greats all together and this was one of them. "},{"Title":"A bizarre masterpiece","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In this truly bizarre film, Chevy Chase stars as Chris Thorne who takes a wrong turn off of the New Jersey turnpike and winds up in a hellhole town lorded over by a psychotic and sadistic judge played to perfection by Dan Aykroyd.This is just a weird film. You have some of the most jaw dropping visuals ever put to film, truly imaginative characters and one hell of great song by Digital Underground (look fast for Tupac Shakur). Although it takes it's time getting started, once it does it never lets up. When you come to the last scene, you will be rolling around on the floor laughing.If nothing else, the movie comes close to showing us what the original version of Ghostbusters would have been like. You have Chevy Chase (offered to play Egon) John Candy (offered to play Louis Tully) and Dan Aykroyd (Ray Stantz) all playing major roles. You even have Brian Doyle-Murray popping up in cameo. Come to think of it, this is Ghostbusters crossed with Beetle Juice.Bottom line, this movie is a masterpiece of the macabre. OK, it's not in the same league as Gone with the Wind or The Wizard of Oz but for a bizarre, weird and flat-out laugh riot this movie stands tall. "},{"Title":"Top 10 Movies","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie as a child and it is now in my top 10 favorite movies. I love its creepy/funny feel.. it's a non-stop movie that will definitely keep you interested! This is one of my favorite Chevy Chase and Demi Moore movies. The judge is one scary SOB who I've had more than one bad dream about! Then there is the junk yard that is filled with everything you could possibly imagine and two extremely scary/funny/obese brothers don't belong in their family and want to help, but are completely under the judge's control who will blow your mind. There are just so many interesting characters in this movie! It's a definite classic! If you enjoyed movies like Beetlejuice and The Addams Family then you'll love this one. I would classify it as a dark comedy! "}{"Title":"'Go suck a bug!!!'","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Obviously Frankfob didn't like Nothing but Trouble, to say the least. Sometimes a movie can hit ya like that. I couldn't wait to walk out of Gosford Park, and it got 4 stars, nominations etc. I do think I am a pretty harsh critic of a movie, and I liked NBT. I thought it was funny, and have it on DVD and watched it over a few times, and still get laughs. I thought it was original, had good one liners, and I would never have known that was Ackroyd in that makeup. Chase, Candy, and Negron at at their best. I found out where they buried Flipper, and was entertained for most of the duration. Look for a young Tupac wearing a Yankees jersey. Humpty-hump was funny, and I am certainly not a rap fan. Its not an 8 star movie, but its certainly better than a 3.7. Check it out for yourself, when your in the right mood. "},{"Title":"pretty cool movie","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I happen to like this movie, it is funny & yet stupid, but more funny. I'm glad I have it in my collection. )  I decided to watch it again & I just kept laughing, either at the dialogue, & or the movie itself. If you want to see a weird comedy that stars some pretty well known actors, give this one a try, its worth it. "},{"Title":"seemed alright to me","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film on cable when I was on holiday in the US.  I missed the first half an hour which made the rest of it seem a bit odd.  I thought it was a pretty good yarn however, although the story wasn't that original. It took me ages to find out what the film was called (I missed its name at the time), and I found it here.  I would recommend this film, and would be grateful if anyone had a copy a could buy.  "},{"Title":"Insanely clever and original, taken in the right context","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was struck by the TERRIBLE reviews this movie has been getting on IMDb...what gives? Are all readers so snobby and narrow-minded that they can't enjoy a little irony and perverse genius? Just by sheer absurdity and creativity alone this movie merits viewing. Seeing Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, John Candy and Demi Moore put themselves through this total disaster of a plot is nearly priceless.I find it enjoyable when a movie, featuring very well-established actors, can venture so far outside the box. NBT presents new surprises and ridiculous events and characters behind every turn, each one being more random and crazy than the last. It is intended to be ironic and sort of a theatre of the absurd, and as such I think it succeeds admirably.You will not find any true film value or subtlety in this movie, so just don't look for any and enjoy the ride...on the Bonestripper. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film ever made","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The worst Film I've EVER seen.I felt sick after watching it, realizing I'd wasted so much time ...It gets off to a good enough start and just gets worse from there.A couple of funny points ... and then just disgust at the poor quality of dialog, costumes and plot.There is no need to spoil the ending of the film, as the whole production is just a total misuse of funds.If more than $ 100 was spent on this, it is too much.The equivalent of $3 I paid to rent it from the video shop was $3 too much. I am unable to hide my total disgust at this disgrace. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nothing But Trouble is supposed to be a far-out, macabre comedy, and that's exactly what it is. Aykroyd's idea of a criminally insane small town judge who rules with an iron fist and will run you through his Bone Stripper if he takes a personal dislike to you is a take-off of the old stereotype of the crooked small town sheriff who goes out of his way to hassle people from out of town. Having a 6'4, 300 lb. daughter to marry-off (John Candy) was a brilliant touch. This ain't Ben Hur and it's not supposed to be.Worst movie ever? You gotta be kidding me! A literal sea of bad comedies have been made but this isn't one of them. Most movies don't even keep my attention the whole way through because they're so bad, but this one did. Something tells me that criticism came from someone who works in the legal or law enforcement field, and it hit too close to home.I think the only thing that detracted from this movie was Chevy Chase. He's not very funny and he's pretty much the same no matter what movie he's in. He is easily the least talented of the original SNL cast. I'll say it. He's a crappy actor, but this movie isn't. It made me laugh, and that's not easy to do. "},{"Title":"You know, I LIKED it.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It seems that like 25 people in the ENTIRE world liked this movie. I don't get it. This movies actually quite amusing, seriously. it's got a good number of gags that made me laugh at least. In fact, this would have to be one of the better films starring Dan Ackryod (how the hell do you spell that anyway?) Seriously, he is the reason to watch this. He is hilarious as the Judge, I mean he totally shines here. Plus, even if you don't find anyone in this cast to be funny this movie is seriously worth watching for how friggin weird it is. this is seriously one of the odder films I've seen, and for that I'll have to give it credit and say it's worth a watch. Ten times better then anything the cast stared in afterwords (except for John Candy in Cool Runnings). So don't listen to all the bad reviews on this here site and give this little film a chance. "},{"Title":"Wander off the main drag","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you've ever taken a short cut that led you through the seamier side of America, this is your nightmare taken to the extreme. One of the most frightening comedies I've ever seen. Dan Ackroyd is deep in disturbing makeup as the rural judge from hell. His performance as the mad Reeve that runs the Shire of Vulkanvania should not be missed. All the bad things you hear about New Jersey apparently originate from this Vulkanvania. Chevy Chase and Demi Moore are fish out of water thrown into an oil spill. The humor is quite dark and often over the top. Madness reigns over the fun house. Many people will not understand and hate this movie, but I watch my DVD fairly often and enjoy it every time. "},{"Title":"Enthralling!","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1st of all,I had no idea this was a comedy. I started watching it out of being to lazy to change the channel. I loved it. It was suspenseful. Thats how I would describe it,because it was just creepy,and a quick scene to scene movie. I thought it was an action/suspense/horror movie. And it would be good in those catagories.As a horror flick i give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve the bottom 100","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe that this made it to the Bottom 100. Look, it's not The Godfather or anything but it isn't one of the 100 worst movies ever that's for sure. I presume so many people rated it low because Dan Ackroyd, John Candy, and Chevy Chase have all done much better and funnier movies. Nothing But Trouble is still entertaining in parts. It can be said that it has it's moments. Dan Ackroyd wrote and directed this film too so this can't be a treasured part of his resume. That's ok though because no one can hit a home run every time. The cluttered Valkenheiser house sets are actually pretty cool. Dan Ackroyd's character Alvin Valkenheiser is the best part of the movie. Demi Moore shouldn't have even been in it. Bottom Line It's not a great film, but doesn't deserve it's place on the bottom 100. "}{"Title":"It really isn't THAT bad. Really.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah other people have said it but I think I have to say it too. This movie isn't the worst ever made. It's not a great movie, not really even a good movie but it's ok. Alot of funny parts, some parts are lame but if it comes on TV and there is nothing else to watch don't slit your wrists open or anything. I gave this movie a 10, not that it deserves a 10 but I just wanted to offset all the 1's from people who thought it was the worst movie of all time. Those people must never have seen Batman and Robin. "},{"Title":"Greatest Film of all time","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dan Aykroyd has done a superb job of writing a great screenplay and bringing together such an ensemble of great actors/actresses.  Chevy Chase, John Candy, Demi Moore, and Aykroyd himself all star in this hilarious adventure into the town of Valkenvania.  Here Chase and Moore get into nothing but trouble(thus the title) when they get a speeding ticket and are taken to Judge Alvin Valkenheiser's house, which isn't your typical house.  Full of strange people and booby traps, the two have a heck of a time getting out. For out loud laughs and one liners that will knock your socks off, check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Underrated, Unappreciated Carnival of the Absurd","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This *is* a funny movie, with gags in virtually every scene. Those who diss it must not have grown up in the same USA that I did. It's a amazing collage of forgotten/misplaced kitsch and cultural clichs. In the same way that the Ghostbusters movies are a tribute to New York City, this movie's a tribute to eastern backwoods America.In all honesty, I'd probably only give this film an 8.5 or 9, but I gave it 10 stars due to all the undeserved 1's and brain-dead worst movie I've ever seen comments.Ackroyd obviously spent a lot of time and effort in crafting the role of the wacked and wicked J.P. and constructing his environment.Others have mentioned Mr Bonestripper, but my personal favourite bit has got to be the condiments train that plays The Wabash Cannonball.I also enjoyed seeing Taylor Negron, and Demi Moore is an interesting casting choice. "},{"Title":"Nothing but Pain! The worst movie ever made","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have never seen a movie (since this was made) that could knock it out of that position. It's dumb, it's repulsive, it's juvenile. Your mouth will hang open in disbelief. It is not black humor as some assert. To be black humor, the script would have to contain at least one successful joke. The only person I have ever met who thought this was funny was a recluse/computer nerd with a bowl haircut; a guy who may have never successfully told a joke himself.If the script was typed on paper made from horse manure, I'd shed a tear for the wasted horse manure. Even a double feature of the idiotic, insipid Home Fries and Orange County can't match the sheer mind-numbing, awful, hallucinogenic stupidity of this excrescence. The only way Dan Aykroyd could redeem himself after this is if everyone who has seen this movie is allowed to give him a really solid pound on the head with a twenty-pound hammer.All copies of this movie should be placed in a burlap sack, sealed in a rocket and shot into the sun! "},{"Title":"I think a problem with this kind of comment board is that one needs no credentials.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah? You wanna comment here? Let's see some credentials. Who's the best actor of the 1990's? Keanu Reeves, you say? And what's the funniest movie ever? Weekend at Bernie's 2? Alright, you're outta here.A big problem with this comment system is that everyone considers themselves intelligent critics. Hell, Freddie Got Fingered had a 3.9 vote rating last time I checked, which is 2.9 more points than it deserves (unfortunately, 0 is not an option). One may argue that everyone has a right to their opinions. Of course that is true. But it is remarkably unfortunate that everyone has the right to post their opinions in hopes of influencing others' decisions.Then one may argue that, even though not every commenter has a great taste in movies, the people reading the comments may agree with them anyway, since they may not have the best taste either. But they why do we cater to everyone? Why do people recommend Nothing But Trouble to everyone, including smart people?Whatever. I hope the smart people have more sense than to see Nothing But Trouble. And I hope even the less intellectual movie viewer can find a guilty pleasure in Nothing But Trouble - but that viewer must realize that that still doesn't mean it is a good movie.  P.S. Yes, I, unfortunately, have seen this movie - I am writing this because a previous commenter said that many people calling this movie a bomb have not actually seen it. "},{"Title":"Nothing but flagging boredom.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Financier publisher Chris Thorne and fellow neighbour/investment lawyer Diane Lightson are on their way to a seminar meeting in Atlantic City. After taking a turn off the New Jersey Turnpike they enter Valkenvania, where they're pulled over by a police officer for not stopping at an intersection. So they are hauled back to a junky looking mansion in the middle of nowhere, where they must stand trail in front of the Justice of the Peace Alvin Valkenheiser. They soon enough discover that this absurd madhouse won't let them go so easily for breaking the law. Oh, there's trouble! Sometimes there's bad, and then there's intolerably bad. Mmmm&#133; what a ploddingly disastrous fiasco in self-indulgence Nothing but Trouble turned out to be! I've always enjoyed the comical antics of Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy, but on this occasion it's a feebly miserable venture straining for laughs and excitement. It's guilty as sin for not being funny&#133; and its supposed to be a flip-out comedy of extreme weirdness. I thought the one idea concept behind the pitch-black premise, wasn't bad and the visual playground of gimmicks had it moments. Instead of being an all out dark and disturbing broad comedy, it goes lightweight with the material that it just didn't feel right and the overwrought build-ups are too silly or gross that it has you rolling your eyes. So the ghoulish twist about it (that has that Motel Hell feel to it), is plain scary for all the wrong reasons. Dan Aykroyd (unrecognisable in his grotesque makeup) might play dual roles in the film, but he was also behind ridiculously wretched screenplay and gleefully disjointed direction. It was a messy vision that we got and he truly goes beyond with it all. It even takes time out to spin out a hip-hop tune midway through the film and this didn't help its already slack pace. The manic art-direction was fine and there are some nice camera angles on show. So, there were a 'few' reasonable aspects, but really these things are largely overshadowed by its goldmine of unpleasantness. Aykroyd's totally noisy and downright coarse performance is unbearable. Chase is his usual dryly-suave self with the occasional quick-witted response, but more often he looks awkward. If it weren't for a few of his one-liners and a radiantly gorgeous Demi Moore&#133; the off switch would've come into play. Moore is okay, without doing a whole lot. An also amusing Candy seems wasted (even if he too, had dual parts) and is the only one I feel truly sorry for in the cast. Though, again it just gets you thinking&#133; why and how they get involved in this farcical. I just don't know what to make of it. This doleful comedy exercise thinks it's funnier than it actually is and that's not a good sign when that's the case. Plain depressing on the part of the movie and that I bought it (quite cheap I might add). Ugh! "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad bad bad","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh my oh my, where to start? This thing was more disjointed than a yoga instructor's convention in Fort Lauderdale.It isn't exactly a comedy, because of the near Deliverance-like attitude of the Judge (played by Akroyd in a rubber suit reminiscent of Jabba the Hut), but it isn't a horror flick because (unfortunately) no one dies. It fails on both ends.About halfway through, you swear that Akroyd dragged Candy, Chase and Moore into this because they thought it would be a feel-good movie. Truth is, it is painfully obvious to the viewer that whoever wrote the screenplay didn't actually finish it.The bathroom humor and just plain grossness of Akroyd's character is too much, and the combination of Chase and Moore just does not work here. Candy comes off too smarmy, and having him play his sister in this thing is ridiculous. And Demi, playing cards with two ultra-repulsive children of the Judge character... the phrase, biggest waste of talent since Tom Hanks in Bosom Buddies comes to mind. It would be my personal recommendation that you refuse to pay any money to see this film, either on video, DVD, film, hand signals or papier-mache. "},{"Title":"This is one of the weirdest things I have ever seen","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't want to call it a movie, because I'm not sure as to what I just witnessed. I don't even know how to rate Nothing But Trouble. It's impossible to judge because I'm just confused. This is a first for me. OK, I'm going to try to write some kind of comment on here. Um, let's see. This movie... no. I would suggest.... no. Ahh! I can't come up with a comment on this film! I don't even know who to recommend it too because it's such a strange movie. I don't know if there can ever be such a rating on a film. If anyone is as baffeled as I am about this movie, please contact me. I'd like to know that I'm not insane or loosing my movie buffiness.???/10 "},{"Title":"C'Mon, it's not that bad!!","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago, and the only scene I could remember was the one of the Spanish brother and sister swimming across the toxic waste river to escape. And I faintly remembered seeing John Candy in this. Forever, I wondered what this was. Finally, I saw it a week or two ago, and I must say, despite the cheese, this is a really entertaining movie, if nothing else.A New York City yuppie couple (Chase and Moore) take a trip with two clients to Atlantic City. Along the way, they pass through Valkenvania, a strange little town far from civilization. A cop (Candy) pulls them over, and orders them to the courthouse. Reluctantly, the four comply, and what ensues from there is a wild night of terror and bizarre adventure.(Damn, if this movie doesn't remind me of Texas Chainsaw Massacre! I mean, TCM is a far superior film, but jeez, it's so similar! Any fan of TCM should see this, just for comparison. Now on with the review.)Okay, I know this isn't a masterpiece in filmmaking. It's pretty stupid, actually. But it's really entertaining. Akroyd, Candy, and Chase are all pretty funny, and Moore, a typically unfunny actress, holds her own. If anything, it's a movie to be entertained by. Mindless entertainment, yes, but what's wrong with that? Do you always need a thinking man's movie? Take a break from movies that work your brain, and just check this out. It really isn't THAT bad.  "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!!!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fake noses, John Candy in Drag, Humpty Hump and a pickle shooting train,need I say more! This is one of those movies that you never forget. There's nothing like watching someone shaky eating a homemade hot dog!!! Is there any other movie where Chevy Chase and John Candy wed? "}{"Title":"WORTH SOME TROUBLE!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I read the reviews for Nothing But Trouble everyone said that it was the worst movie. Well, not really. This fared pretty well to me. Most of the stuff in the movie is for laughs, not for screaming and howling. I like Dan Aykroyd as the judge. That was the funniest characters in the movie. I also liked the late John Candy as the judge's granddaughter. I liked all the gadets that were in the back. That's like things you might see at a haunted house. This was a cool directoral debut from Dan Aykroyd. This was his best since Ghostbusters and Blues Brothers.  "},{"Title":"this movie had a few funny parts but was a bust.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie could have been much better with this cast which also has rapper tupoc in it.Dan Akkroyd plays a funny charachter but the rest are pretty bad.Chevy Chase stars in another average movie to go to his collection.While Demi Moore stars in another bad movie for her I found nothing but anoying in this movie. "},{"Title":"A  mind  is  a  terrible  thing  to  waste  on  this  one  if  you  watch  it","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Dan Aykroyd and John candy 4th movie together. First they were in 1941, then Blues Brother which happened to be one of my favorite and I give that one a 10 star rating, then The Great outdoors and then this. Chevy Chase play a guy named Chis who happened to be a very nice guy who one night while waiting outside of a New Jersy hotel and meets a very nice and pretty girl played by Demi Moore. They meet up, have a very nice and classy dinner and go and have a relaxing time in his room. The next morning the both decide to take a nice trip and also take along 2 yuppy couples who are also a bunch of wyners. The 4 of them leave the hotel and end up getting on the The turn pike to New Jersey and the next thing you know they end up taking a wrong turn and end up in this tiny creepy dry ghost town call Valkrey. Think of this as National Lampoons Vacation meets Beetlejuice. After they enter the town.They get pulled over by a police officer named Dennis played by John Candy. In 1991 John Candy play a cop in 2 movies. This and Only the loney which was way better then this. So officer Dennis decides to take the 4 of them to a creepy haunted mansion and they meet this like 180 year old judge named Alvin who is also a very creepy guy and if you didn't know that his nose is supposed to look like a human penis. He decides to sentence the 4 of them to spends theirs lives in the basement of the mansion. Everything in this movie is weird, disgusting and has no point of view. The rest of this movie about trying to escape which you should be doing from watching this movie. Candy also play Dennis overweight sister who does not talk in this movie. akyrod also plays this big fat baby named Humpy who is knda like Baby Huey.Food for thought I happened to have a very good taste in movies. This movie is not for those who have a smart taste in movies like Gone w the wind or E.T. This movies is for especitaly for teenage boys who enjoy insulting people, even teenage e girls and has a dirty mind like using fart jokes. "},{"Title":"Laying the Foundation for It Came From Hollywood - 2","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's interesting to read so many comments about this film which start off something like, ok, it's not a classic or not Oscar material, etc., then go on to praise it in a backhanded fashion. I admire Dan Ackroyd's work and think this film had a great premise and promising cast, although Demi Moore's character just seemed around for the ride. Reading between the lines, most preceding reviews seem to reflect disappointment that it didn't achieve its potential. In retrospect, Nothing But Trouble would seem to work better as a dark comedy, akin to the original The Ladykillers or Dr. Strangelove. It ends up like a series of loosely connected skits with which Ackroyd can't decide whether to go for horror or humor; trying to both effectively seems beyond him (perhaps beyond anyone using this material). The violence and grim surroundings juxtaposed with goofy characters and garish colors all add up to a mess. Perhaps a result of too many components. Actually, it might have worked better as a long-running half-hour sitcom. Good thing there's cable and DVD's. Perhaps the cornerstone of a sequel to It Came from Hollywood! Now that would add irony!! "},{"Title":"Simply Hilarious","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is by far one of the most intelligently written comedy's I have ever seen. Chevy Chase is brilliantly funny, along with Dan Aykroid and John Candy. If you like Dan Aykroid and Chevy Chase you will absolutely love this movie without a doubt. What I love most is that early 90's hip-hop stars Digital Underground made a cameo and played same song which was placed absolutely perfectly.in my opinion,because they were completely oblivious to what was going on and gave it that little edge of suspense. I don't understand the hate comments against this movie but they mean absolutely nothing to me because this movie is classic none the less. "},{"Title":"A comedy that was never meant to be taken seriously","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I received this movie as a birthday gift and put off watching it because of all the negative reviews I read here. The giver insisted today that I watch it with her today. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised. While the movie will never be a comedy classic, it was still quite funny and moved along fairly well. Some things were over the top, such execution via the bone cleaning machine that that took in live people at one end nd spit out dry bones at the other. It sort of reminded me of all those Abbot & Costello Meet the (insert monster here) movies of decades past. If you are looking for an artsy sophisticated comedy, this is definitely not the one for you. If you just want to watch a movie for fun with a few bad moments and some intentionally nauseating scenes, then take a chance. I saw this movie on sale in the $5.99 bin at wally world, at that price, its worth the gamble. "},{"Title":"weird comedy","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's something about this pathetic misfire that will never leave your conscious after you watch. It's one of those weird surreal comedies that has that bad kind of sick humor that just isn't appealing. This film is so bizarre you just can't believe what you're seeing. The cast in this twisted farce is so talented,it's hard to understand what they would be doing in a film like this. The film is drenched..soaked..in wickedness. This is a dark film with comedic elements that run from mildly amusing to absurd. There's a moment in the film where the judge(covered in disgusting makeup is Dan Aykroid who I believe wrote and directed this disaster)is in his bedroom. Chevy Chase and Demi Moore are trapped in the wall(don't ask)as they watch the judge pulls his nose and ears off(!)and hacks up loogies. There are a pair of huge pig like humans,John Candy both as a weird policeman and dressed in drag(!),and this huge building which has all kinds of bizarre rooms,shoots,and courthouse. The ending is a total washout,too. Unevitably,a film this twisted will have a following. Well,there's one thing for certain,this man isn't following that crowd. BOMB/***** "},{"Title":"Please stop me before I watch it again","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ten years ago my brother-in-law and I watched this because our wives were going out and they rented it for us.  It was so awful, when our wives got back we gave them immense grief about how bad it was.  But I keep recalling the movie, and somehow now I remember it as a good one --- lots of funny bits --- and I want to see it again.  How can this be?  Read all the comments, good and bad, and it is clear that this movie somehow has the ability to burrow in to a deep and twisted part of your consciousness that is best left undisturbed ... "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever, but pretty damn close.....","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Last night, I watched the worst movie that I had ever seen. Nothing But Trouble is TERRIBLE. I can't believe that my husband talked me into watching it with him. You'd think that with Demi Moore, Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase and John Candy it would be at least kind of funny. It's not only not funny, it's a waste of an hour and a half. I was hoping that there would be at least some element of camp to it, but nothing. Another reviewer said that it was the worst movie of all time. I've seen some that are worse, but not much. Maybe it'll grow on me. But I doubt it. All in all, two out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Its No Comedy","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie because a friend suggested it. I will never watch another movie he suggests. This movie was an utter waste of time! Let me rephrase that, This Movie Stinks! The movie starts out fine, Chevy Chase and Demi More head out of town, with two friends. Along the way they take a detour which puts them in an old forgotten mining town. Chevy fails to stop at a stop sign and the local cop takes them into the judge. The judge is played by Dan Aykroyd. For reasons unknown and unexplained the judge is 106 yo. The entire movie is a twisted mix of circus freak garbage and mindless odd ideas. There is no plot, there is no character development, there is no end to the stupidness. It is hard for me to imagine what each of the top actors was thinking, to agree to appear in this film. As I watched I prayed that the movie would soon begin to make since. But instead, the movie abruptly ends at THE END and I was left sitting on my couch looking up at the clock, wondering where my evening had gone. The back of the DVD cover states that this is a comedy. This movie should not be classified as a comedy but a mentally twisted psycho horror without blood. The only thing that makes me feel good is that I didn't pay an admission into a theater to watch it. "}{"Title":"Brief and to the point","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'll be as brief as IMDb allows. This is the single worst film I have ever seen in my entire life, and I've seen a lot of bad films. I never even considered laughing once throughout the course of this comedy. Why I didn't leave the theatre is a mystery to me. If you are thinking of renting this movie, think again. Every copy of this movie should be confiscated by the Good Taste Police and destroyed. This film is a shame and a offense to the entire human race. I'd rather chew glass than sit through even one minute of this movie again. Avoid it like the plague. If you see a copy, smash it against the wall, stomp on it, set it on fire, throw it out onto the road and drive over it with your car. Do whatever you have to do to make sure that no more innocent people are ever again subjected to this torturous piece of garbage! Have I made my point? "},{"Title":"How ironic a title for a movie that brings nothing but trouble...","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Make no mistake, Nothing But Trouble (1991) is not a remake of the 1918 film of the same title, nor the 1944 Laurel and Hardy comedy unfortunate enough to bear even the slightest resemblance to this mess. No, it is simply a stand-alone comedy brought to life by the legendary New Age Comedian Dan Aykroyd (The Blues Brothers), whose SNL skits were a million times funnier than this dreck.Of course, the names are attractive Chevy Chase, Demi Moore, Dan Aykroyd, and John Candy. The finished product of their strained efforts is not.Inspiration? Who needs it! A traveling businessman (Chase) gives his conveniently attractive (and available!) neighbor (Moore) a ride to New Jersey. On the way there, he takes a scenic detour that leaves them crashing into a road sign. A desperate cop bored out of his mind (Candy) takes them to The Judge (Aykroyd), a 106-year-old frailing man with decrepid features and peeling skin. Everything about him and his dark, scary home is perverse and sickening. At dinner, Chase and Moore learn the hard way that when this guy asks if they want hot dogs, he really means it.Candy also plays another character, a mute female who has the unfortunate task of being Aykroyd's daughter. He - er, she - tries to marry Chase in the movie. Umm...John Candy, what were you thinking?It's hard to explain the sheer awfulness of this film. It must simply be seen to be rightfully understood. With such A-list talents as Chase, Moore (fresh off of 1990's blockbuster Ghost), Candy, and Aykroyd, one would expect better. Much better. The fact that Dan Aykroyd not only directed but also wrote this movie is depressingly disturbing.It's weird and over-the-top. Take, for instance, the scene involving a funhouse-type rollercoaster train that twists along and launches its victims straight into a man-eating giant lawnmower blade invention. I'm not laughing. It's actually pretty painful to watch such Hollywood talents react to this kind of stuff.The movie isn't funny. That's its main flaw. The other is that for being a dark lightweight romp it's too dark and yet, at the same time, too over-the-top. There's a scene where Aykroyd, now disguised as two disgusting freak creatures living in the junkyard outside The Judge's house, kidnap Moore and attempt to show off how disgusting they are. It's too gross and too silly and too dark and too obnoxious. For being someone who has helped cook up some very light (and great) comedies (The Blues Brothers, Ghostbusters), Aykroyd seems to be trying to change his style here. This works with some directors. But only those who have already established themselves as accomplished directors of a certain style of filmmaking. This is Aykroyd's first (and probably last) mainstream effort. Why start out on a bad note?The puzzling question remains long after the credits stop rolling. This is the first instance in which an ex-SNL alumni has gotten the chance to try his hand at directing. Sadly, it will probably never happen again.Nothing But Trouble is rated PG-13 for language, violence, vulgarity, crudeness, sexual references, and a twisted reflection upon life. It would be acceptable for most older pre-teens.0/5 stars. Turkey.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Nothing But Trouble","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Should have been called Nothing But Embarrassment. Dismal all around. I suppose the blame could all go to Aykroyd, considering he wrote the mostly anal script, directed the boredom and even co-starred with Candy, Chase and worst of all Moore, who couldn't make me laugh, even if laughing gas was let loose in the theater.  "},{"Title":"As funny as a tumor","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has the distinction of being, perhaps, the only movie done by an SNL alumni that is even worse than NEIGHBORS (though it's like comparing which is worse--the Bubonic Plague or Ebola). Now I know that Dan Aykroyd IS capable of making awful movies (after all, I saw DR. DETROIT) but this...? Hmmm,....WAIT,...I just realized something--both of these films starred Aykroid!!! These, plus Dr. Detroit make him the obvious choice for WORST actor from the original cast of SNL. And,...do NOT think that Ghostbusters makes up for these other monstrosities!! It's not even close.So, what's the (ha, ha) plot of this laugh riot? Chevy Chase (who has participated in his share of crappy or mediocre flicks) and Demi Moore are driving cross country with some friends (who they are, I don't care) and they are arrested for speeding in a crappy little hole of a town. The insane and terribly unfunny judge is, believe it or not, Aykroyd (though it's almost impossible to tell under his outrageous and fake looking make up and prosthetics). The insane judge locks them up and they spend much of the movie whining (and why should THEY, since WE had to pay to see this bilge?!). Later, some annoying drug addicts are caught and dropped into a chipper shredder. And that, my friends, is the plot--aside from the hilarious (?) performances of John Candy as both a man and his twin sister (they appear to be identical twins--an impossibility as they are OPPOSITE sexes--I assumed one underwent sexual reassignment surgery).I defy any of the readers to come up with a less funny movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Lots of Laughs!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chris Thorne meets a new woman and agrees to take her away to a business meeting. On their way in the middle of nowhere Chris runs a stop sign, instead of getting a ticket, they are arrested and taken to the local court, but all is not as it seems. Judge Alvin 'J.P' Valkenheiser runs his court a little different than most, the death penalty is often used for traffic infractions. Trying to escape Chris and Diane run into many booby traps and many other crazy things. This is one of my all time favorite funny movies. You cant beat the combination of Dan Akroyd, John Candy, and Chevy Chase. Akroyd's character Judge Alvin 'J.P' Valkenheiser, makes this movie a great one. If you have not seen it, it is a must watch. It has become somewhat of a cult classic, and I see why. The story involves a group of big city types that take a wrong turn on the way to Atlantic City and end up in a hellish community that time has forgot. However, let's face it, this is a comedy, story is of minor importance. "},{"Title":"actors directing do occasionally seem to have trouble","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not sure whether to describe Nothing But Trouble as funny or gross. Portraying yuppie motorist Chevy Chase and hubby Demi Moore getting stopped for speeding and getting taken to the weirdest courtroom ever conceived of, director Dan Aykroyd really makes it look like he has a messed-up mind. Playing the nasty judge, Aykroyd looks like the older version of Jack Crabbe in Little Big Man...as painted by Salvador Dali. John Candy, as the cop, is really the most interesting person in the movie, how he calmly says You're under arrest. As for the issue of gross or funny, there are some scenes that probably will make you at least giggle, but considering that so many scenes literally resemble vomit, I wonder why Dan Aykroyd chose this as his directorial debut. I would say that they went a little overboard with the Bonestripper.No, it's not a terrible movie (it easily beats any Jean-Claude Van Damme movie for quality). Some of the gadgets in the house were actually pretty neat. But really folks, the cast members have all done much better than this. "},{"Title":"After almost 20 yrs I still want my 94 minutes back","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before seeing this movie, I read a scathing review of it. But looking at the cast list, the creme-de-la-creme of comedy of the day, I couldn't believe the review.A cast like that can't possibly make for a poor comedy.Famous last words! Don't even watch it for free. There are much better ways to spend 94 minutes of your life. For example watching paint dry or grass grow.Of course if you're a complete masochist, go right ahead. For the complete masochistic experience, follow it up by watching Don't Mess With the Zohan (Sandler's one truly abysmal movie) "},{"Title":"On a scale of 1 to 10, this movie deserves a Zero!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the only movie that I ever saw for free, yet still demanded money back... and got it! As Beavis and Butthead might possibly say, you would think a movie with Chevy Chase, Demi Moore (while she was still attractive), John Candy, and Dan Akroyd couldn't possibly suck... but it does. By far the worst 25 minutes of a movie I have ever had the displeasure of seeing. That's right, I said 25 minutes - when Dan Akroyd pulls his nose off his face and eats it at the dinner table, I believe that is an ender. The only thing I regret more than watching 25 minutes of this travesty of a movie is not having the good sense to leave somewhere between minute 3 (when the opening credits probably ceased) and minute 10. On a scale of 1 to 10... I give this movie a well deserved ZERO!!! "},{"Title":"The above poster was right on one thing - a 3.4 is WAY off.  Should be a 1.","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This isn't a comedy, it's not a thriller, it's not an action flick. It's putrescence. The whole purpose of the movie is to see how disgusting it can get while not getting banned outright. The premise - family gets lost, run into hicks who have a human-sausage-making-machine. Family tries to make them into sausage. There's the movie. I have no idea what the actors were thinking - this isn't a comedy, it's a crappy remake of Motel Hell (which itself is a bad movie anyhow). There is nothing redeeming about it. Go see one of the many excellent films these guys were involved in. But avoid this film. "},{"Title":"weirdly decent","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie totally reminds me of the movie Texas Chainsaw Massacre  New Generation, which was made in the early 90's and had Renee zellwegger in it. This movie is as funny as that, because they both involve a backwoods creep show of a family, trying to kill normal people... the only thing this movie is missing is the hilarious antics of Leatherface. This is not a movie for everyone and considering the majority of the votes this movie received, it does not seem like many people enjoyed it whatsoever. This is a decent movie with a decent, ( if not slightly bad) plot.-Anthony P.s. Dan aykroids nose happens to be shaped like a penis in this movie "}{"Title":"Goof passports","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is a goof I did not find reported in http//amazon.imdb.com/title/tt0102558/goofsFirst scene in front of the judge Two notoriously Brazilian characters show Argentine passports to the judge!! American ignorance has no limits!. Moore sensuality neither...The movie has some interesting characters.Is this the Demi before surgery right?. I think she was fine as it was. I am writing just to fill space, I just wanted to report the goof.I could not see the whole movie, but I think it is worth viewing for its freaky characterizations (e.g. the two fat boys are terrible!, also the Judge). "},{"Title":"Hello","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" s t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a ps t u p i d p i e c e o f c r a p TERRIBLE MOVIE AWFUL AFUL AWFUL SHOULD NOT EXIST "},{"Title":"Nothing but Awful.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Once again John Candy's comedic talents go to waste with a bad script and direction. Plot has something to do with Chevy Chase and Demi Moore stumbling upon The Judge (Dan Aykroyd) and his mansion. When Judge doesn't let them go, they realize he is insane and evil and that he has some nasty habits. John Candy plays both a cop and a woman. I think that's all you need to know regarding that situation.The movie just is really stupid, dark and weird. The part where the Judge is entertained by musical folk is the point when I gave up on the movie. The idea of Dan Akyroyd also playing two inborn twins is also disgusting, as is the hot dogs scene and the entire film for that matter. If you're a fan of any of the actors involved (especially John Candy, like me), skip this one and never turn back.0/5 stars -John Ulmer "}]