[{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  House Party 2 doesn't live up to the first film but it's still a funny film. While the charcters haven't grown much since the first film Kid is still head strong and Play is still a lothario, the film does expand Martin Lawerence's part and features a cameo by Ralph Tresvant. If you want harmless fun check this one out. "},{"Title":"More Silly, but Still Good!!!!","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" After the success of HOUSE PARTY, I would expect NEW LINE to make a sequel. And I was a little scared, because the first one was amazingly great and this seemed rushed. But what I got from writer Rusty Cundieff(TALES FROM THE HOOD & SPRUNG) and director Doung McHenry and George Jackson made a good, but more silly sequel to a classic.Kid'N'Play are going to college, well just mainly Kid, to leave the world and it's problems. While there Kid learns the lesson of responsibility....the hard way. Play gives the Kid's college money to a beautiful, yet crooked music promoter(Iman). And with Sidney(Tisha Campbell) wanting to see new people, Kid comes to Play with help and come up with a PAJAMA JAM PARTY.Now this one's music is way better than the first one and is a little more funnier than one, but it just dosen't come close as being as great as the first. The hurt comes from two things. 1.)No Robin Harris to give us some more hilarious lines, because of he's death. 2.)Is the cartoon-like sound effects that make the movie just plain silly. Sometimes it works and a lot of times it don't. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but a good sequel","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Rated R for Language and Sexual Content House Party 2 is the second installment in the House Party series.There have been four movies in the series, the fourth did not feature Kid or Play and was straight to video.Anyway House Party 2 is definitely not as good as the original which was very funny and entertaining.However this does have more drama and also has some very funny moments as well.The film is about Kid going off to college with his girlfriend while Play wants him to stay and get a record deal.Kid's father has now passed away(in reality the actor who played Kid's father died).Play uses Kid's scholarship check to pay the record producer, only to find out that she is a con artist.Now Kid has a week to pay his tuition or he gets kicked out.Trying to find ways to make money, they think of having a pyjama party to raise money.Meanwhile Kid and his girlfriend break up.The film has supporting roles from Queen Latifah and a cameo by Whoopi Goldberg.House Party 2 is not as good as the original but does not disappoint.If you liked the original, check this one out. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  House Party 1 and House Party to get the same rating. # One had better music (sometimes) and was funnier, but #2 was more entertaining and fun to watch, not to mention a better plot and storyline. I like the House Parties, with an exception of #3, because I can relate to them. Also, because they make me laugh. I might like the humor and characters more because I'm a black teenager, but I think anyone over 10 and under 40 would enjoy watching this movie. I give this movie a 9 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"This movie should have a higher rating","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie doesn't have a higher rating. I mean this movie was off the chain. Almost everybody in the movie had me cracking up. The movie maybe a little more silly and heavy-handed with it's message than the first one, but on the whole it still works. The only bad side is that Robin Harris (father) wasn't able to be in this sequel, because he died of a heart attack shortly after the first House Party came out. On a brighter note, people get to see Martin Lawrence before he started racking in the big bucks. I give this movie an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"A Lost Breed","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I can't imagine a movie this fun and innocent being made today. It's hard to find a movie nowadays about young African-Americans that isn't full of crude sex or violence. The main plot point of this movie? Getting the money to pay for college.Even some of the positive movies about young Blacks being made today have darker undercurrents--Akeela and the Bee and Precious, for example. Yes, House Party 2 is lighter than air, but it isn't 100% fluff either. There are some political and cultural statements thrown in for good measure. Certainly, this is a film that captures the youthful idealism of the college years. Look at Queen Latifah's character for example. Could you take her seriously saying these things today? No, because that's a phase that people grow out of when they are removed from the artificial environment of a university and have to spend their time dealing with the real world. But in college, it can seem like you are surrounded by people focused on what is politically correct and are always preaching to others, when really, they are just trying to define themselves at a time when they could go in a limitless number of directions.Also, this movies has lots of great music, silly humor, and some fun partying. It's almost a family film, except for the language. Probably most appropriate for high school audiences who aren't offended by the cuss words. "},{"Title":"Becoming More Responsible","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The characters, both Kid and Play through plot development, and the plot itself, in which the Professor Sinclair and Mr. Lee characters are great role models for a young Black man in college, are more socially and culturally responsible than the previous movie and other college genre movies of the same period.A shining example the well-delivered speech by Georg Stanford Brown about what was and wasn't fair about Kid's having to write a paper and to prove his scholastic ability. "},{"Title":"The best hip hop movie of all time","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Unfortunately during Hip Hops aegis from 1989 to 1992, there were some horrid movies, shows and rappers that became famous off shamelessly exploiting this amazing undergrould genre. These include Hammer Man, Young MC, Sir Mix a lot and Streetfrogs to name a few, and do not even mention Vanilla Ice. Ironically I like Eminem. I am please to say the first two House Parties are not one of them. The best part about this movie is its blackness, the people are so down home its funny. Kid and Play are all right, but Martin Lawerence is superb as Bilal, loud, abrasive and full of expletives suggesting maternal incest. Also great are Full Force playing the goons, the ad lib rap in Plays record shop is not to be missed. Its a shame they become friends at the end. These goons become the Keystone cops of Blackness, and of course those racist cops. This movie is so 91 it hurts. We have all the record companies named after BBD songs, fruity shirts and flat tops everywhere. This is a time too where fluro was in and there was no commercial gangsta rap. This movie if nothing else is splittingly funny, even the fat dude having sex and then chasing everyone with a gun going Goddamn peep show mf's. This movie is slammin and is what rap is all about. Its a shame that they had to ruin it in 1994 with Immature (Where are they now?) and half ass acting. "},{"Title":"Pajama Jams pay for College?","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" To begin, House Party 2 is no House Party. In fact, those that would like to compare the two are completely off their hypothetical film rocker. These are two completely separate films. Do you know why? What originally began as a film about some soulful and youthful teens trying to get to the ultimate dance party has now transformed into this cliché morality tale that demonstrates the power of friendship and the strength of humility. WHAT! Is that why I wanted to watch this film? I apologize, but one of the few reasons that I liked House Party was because they followed the K.I.S.S. method (for those unfamiliar it is the Keep It Simple Stupid method) of film-making. In the original, becoming a lyricist, a ladies man, and having the best party in town was the root of the film. While there was a romantic side to the story, it fell second nature to the growing hip-hop scene. It was a dance film first, developed character story second. Honestly, that is what I enjoyed about the film. While I didn't think House Party was the greatest release of the century, it did have this genuine feel about it. In fact, after watching this poorly crafted sequel, I have a bit more respect for the original. Where was the dancing? Where was the creativity? Where was the same Kid & Play that I remembered from the first House Party? They were nowhere to be found in this trashy sequel.Robin Harris. We all remember him as Pop from the original film, but what we do not realize about this humorous comedian is that he subsequently changed the image of the House Party series. In the original, he was this father trying to steer his son into a path of academia instead of rap and parties, in the sequel, he plays a spirit who annoyingly hounds Kid throughout the film with flashbacks from the original. Due to his death, he brings nothing new to the table, yet this entire sequel seems to be focused around those few short words that he used in the first film. I don't mean to be rude, but I never felt that the father was such a big element in the original. I thought that Kid trying to challenge authority to attempt to find himself was the underlying meaning of the original, while in this one it is Kid repressing his true self in hopes to make his dead father happy. Where did the lightness of the original go? I watched House Party 2 thinking that there is a limit that the writers could go without making Kid seem totally whipped by his father's words, but we never hit that limit. Where, anywhere in this film, was Kid trying to find his rap roots? I needed to see a young man still interested in becoming the lyricist that he once desired to be? Why did he have to grow up so fast? In fact, the rap side-story to this film seems to be the negative element. We have gone from loving the genre to completely disrespecting it in one film. Ah, the power of the sequel.Martin Lawrence was again completely annoying to the point in which I completely tuned him out whenever he spoke. He brought nothing to the story and nothing to the main characters. Lawrence was nothing more than a familiar face for the audience to relate to. In fact, it is that dedication to familiar faces from the original that hurt this sequel. When the ultimate PAJAMA JAM finally does occur (one hour into this short film), we are hit with an barrage of repetitive scenes of aged rappers and comedians from the original who do nothing but repeat their lines, actions, and emotions from the first. While many may enjoy these familiar faces, I felt as if it were a cheap trick used to make me feel more comfortable about the film. If these minor characters had done more than just repeat their lines, than maybe I would have bought into the trick, but instead all I saw were cheap repetitive motions used by writers to fill time. I used the word repetitive several times in this paragraph because it demonstrated the annoying repetitive nature of this film and completed my point about using that element as a cheap trick. I hope it worked.In most television series, especially the cheapened kind, we sometimes hear a laugh track or a sound machine used to create some zany or wacky sound that lightens the mood and creates the viable laugh point. In House Party 2, I do believe that the sound guy was extremely drunk or possibly working his first day in the booth. There were more sound effects in this film than in a Bobby McFerrin music video. Was this a child's movie or another urban comedy? Neither Kid nor Play could do anything in this film without a zip zim or a whoosh or a ding dong noise happening somewhere in the background. This was a fresh element to the sequel which direly needed to be taken away. There is a chase scene near the end of the film which felt like Pee-Wee Herman choreographed it with all the unsettling sounds that were happening. After the first twenty minutes of this, it because increasingly annoying to the point of insanity.Overall, this sequel soils the original. The themes were sporadic (i.e. in one instance we are talking about the oppression of the African American, while in the other the directors seem to be building age-old stereotypes), the characters continued towards their bland downward spiral, those annoying, randomly placed racist police officers were back, and the dominating father element seemed too serious for the overall theme of this film. I hope this film wasn't an indication of the path of colleges in the future? House Party 3, don't fail me now!Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A quirky, witty encounter with a young Queen Latifah","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Thiz house was da bomb. The Pajama Jam was awezome. And don't let me go into the hair and make up. Seriously, though, this movie was a great way of spending a rainy Wednesday night, with a loved one, with some double cheese popcorn and lots of purple Kool Aid. There's even a fine cameo by none other that Academy Award winner Woohpy Goodberg.Thank God they invited QL (Queen Latifah) to this party! some of her later geniues can be seen in this early performance, a bit raw like Hanna Shygulla in the late Fassbinders.8 out of 8. Da rulez.Da rulez. Indeed. "}{"Title":"An insult to the civil rights movement","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As you can probably tell, I really did not like this movie. It is a collage comedy which really isn't all that funny. Moreso it is one of those black exploitation type movies made in the early nineties. As such, it wasn't corny like them, rather it simply sucked.It is about a young negro going to collage but his friend loses his scholarship cheque so he has two weeks to come up with a lot of money or be kicked out of collage. After trying a lot of other things (including making a deal with a negro who has sold out to the white man) they decide to have a huge party to raise the funds.It really is nothing but a trashy movie that tries, and fails, to sympathise with the negro position in America. Rather it seems to more try to attract pity in a rather pathetic way. I guess there was a reason why it was on television at 200 in the morning, and unlike Pump Up the Volume, it wasn't dealing with some explicit topics. "}]