[{"Title":"Rough content, but beautifully bleak and harrowing","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"71 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" People are probably right enough when they comment that this entire film essentially hinges on Harvey Kietel's impassioned performance as the corrupt and deeply troubled lieutenant of the title. Which shouldn't necessarily be taken as a shortcoming - an engrossing lead is the one key thing that any one-man character study like this needs in order to flourish, after all. Whether sobbing, howling or clenching his jaws in anguish, or else hanging his head and sipping liquor in silence, his acting here is always raw, convincing and utterly compelling; the kind of portrayal you'd be hard-pressed to take your eyes off. The exact identity of his character is never revealed, but the title informs us he's a 'bad lieutenant', a label seemingly confirmed by his tendency to indulge in substance abuse, work up heavy gambling debts and even, on occasion, pull over a couple of young female drivers and use them as motivation for his own self-pleasure. Very lurid, and yet the way that Kietel plays him also makes feel completely human. He conveys such pain and desperation behind his each and every immoral action that they never come across as nearly as shocking or vulgar to watch as they are harrowing. It's this alone that enables 'Bad Lieutenant' as a whole to reach the true extent of its potential - what could easily be read off as a plethora of fury, drug-taking, masturbation and full-frontal nudity in practice translates very aptly into a sad and striking depiction of a despondent man who's lost his ability to see goodness in anything in life, and who's sinking ever deeper beneath the weight of all those answers being continuously sought in the wrong places. As you've probably worked out by now, this isn't exactly the balmiest movie you could spending your time with (might be wrong, but I don't think there's a single light-hearted moment to be found in the entire screenplay), but if you can bring yourself to look past the sourness on the surface and instead feel sympathy for this bad lieutenant, as Kietel's involving performance invites us to do, then you'll find some considerable power lurking in its bleakness.So, while it's Harvey Kietel who really (and rightly) brings things together in 'Bad Lieutenant' and makes it the affecting near-masterpiece that it is, it would be unfair of me to completely overlook Ferrara's role in this equation. He's provided the context against which our centrepiece man must function - a world so run-down, sombre and nihilistic that trying to find redemption round here seems not only impossible, but practically pointless. The mood is well-set by the ever-overcast skies; killing, rape and robbery are rampant, and the Lt isn't exactly given a great deal to aspire to in his day-to-day life. Kietel and his character are admittedly the only things here that come off as particularly outstanding - the vast majority of supporting characters are really all just part of this one big daunting backdrop, with dialogue, screen time and development kept to a strict minimum in each case - though personally I look at this as being more of an additional strength than as a weakness. That everyone else around him always seems so distant only increases the overall feelings of detachment and isolation that draw us deeper into the Lt's outlook.Christian faith and symbolism are pretty integral to the overall themes of this movie, but even being non-religious myself I find I can still get a good deal of emotional investment in it. It delivers its underlying issues - of non-judgement and the potential for goodness in even the most repellent of sinners - with acute precision, as reflected in the investigation concerning the raping of a young nun which the plot loosely revolves around. While this heinous crime only serves to strengthen the Lt's belief in the general depravity of the world around him, the nun herself has found solace in her refusal to condemn those who wronged her, viewing them instead as victims as their own confusion and despair. There are of course some fairly sharp parallels between this scenario and the Lt's own personal predicament, which any viewer who's really come to feel for him will recognise - as displeasing as some of the things he himself gets up to may be (and the way he incorporates further crime into his efforts to uphold the law), there's that challenge lying at the centre of every scene as to whether or not we're really in any position to pass judgement upon him. All things considered, is it truly a bad lieutenant that he is at heart or just, well, a sad one?I don't imagine that everyone will quite take to the conclusion this eventually leads to (and which I'm not going to give away here), but considering just how weighty a lot of the issues it addresses really are, you never get the impression that Ferrara ever intended to come up with a cut-and-dried solution of any sorts. Instead, he and Kietel have put together a polished and powerful piece of film-making that, though it deals with some pretty disagreeable and, at the time at least, controversial subject matter, is so rich in great acting (well, one great performance, but it's easily worth the input of an entire cast) and slick atmospherics that it becomes entirely captivating. In the end, it's the surprising amount of depth and emotional muscle that it carries, and not the notorious reputation that it garnered, that 'Bad Lieutenant' really deserves to be remembered for - and remembered I hope it always will be. Another great in early 90s cinema.Grade A "},{"Title":"deeply unpleasant movie with a star performance","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Bad Lieutenant' is not an easy film to watch.  The lead character on the surface has no redeeming virtues - he's corrupt, he's sexually and morally deviant, he is really and truly on the slide.  A nun's rape is supposed to awaken his conscience in some way and affect him so deeply that he almost gets to be a decent citizen, but for the bleak and empty ending. All this would be so much hogwash if it wasn't for the stunning lead performance of Harvey Keitel, certainly taking his acting talent right to the edge to give us a nothing-held-back portrait of his character.  There are several scenes of great power (and one or two which are deeply repellent); certainly this isn't a film you can easily forget when you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Nothing bad about this movie","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"68 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gritty, raw, disturbing, and powerful.  Just a few words that describe Abel Ferrara's provocative Bad Lieutenant.  It chronicles the downward spiral of a drug addict cop investigating the rape of a nun.  It contains one of the best performances ever captured on film by Harvey Keitel.  Ferrara's masterpiece is a story of the evils of man and one mans quest for redemption.  You'll never forget this movie. "},{"Title":"Intense, subtle, and in some ways unique- Bad Lieutenant is the sleeper of 1992","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"46 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara has on his hands a small masterwork of one man's existence in the doldrums, and he has such a way of dealing with the streets as a perpetually gritty, hellish world in a movie that I didn't disbelieve it for a second. In a sense he can be compared to the likes of Scorsese, however he certainly works in a different frame of honesty in mind in depicting his lead character and those he encounters. At the core of this extremely well made, unconventional film is the best performance Harvey Keitel delivered in the nineties, a bravado piece of work in which he bares all of the qualities that can make up the badness in the lieutenant. The Lieutenant spends little time with his kids, and when he does is hardly happy, and when he leaves them he goes into the underworld to do coke, crack and heroin, gulps down alcohol like Evian, and tries to cling onto whatever dignity he has left in betting on the Mets in the championship series. When a startling case occurs - a nun is raped by two street kids - the lieutenant is on the scene, however fogged in his muck, and can't understand how somebody, even a nun, can forgive such a crime. This leads into the third act of the film, and this is where the work propels itself into a higher ground, mature, spiritual, and ultimately fascinating in every aspect. Overall, Bad Lieutenant is a lean, un-abashed first-person singular in a rather sophisticated delivery. We are delivered a character, like Alex in Clockwork Orange for example, who is not even a half-way decent person. But just by the way Ferrara and Keitel bring us into his world, and the details of his existence, a viewer can start to understand that the film works on other levels besides those of a conventional all around bad-cop story. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch - but worth it","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"44 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lets clear one thing up straight away....this is a hard film to watch.  I don't think anyone who likes it is actually saying it is entertaining or fun! This is a dark look at one man's struggle to match what he was taught about Jesus and Catholism and love with the filth and depravity in his world (the crime), his life (his gambling and drug addiction) and in his life (his desires as seen in the scene with the two girls).Basically the story follows a cop on the case of a nun that was raped.  However this is not really a sum-up of the film.  For me the main issue is the struggle of how the Nun forgives those that raped her and how the cop cannot understand why she would do this and not feel the hatred and bitterness that he does.  This is the most powerful section of the film and is even more powerful when you put the rest of the filth around it.Keitel is amazing - this is his best performance.  Whether he is crying at Jesus, masturbating over teenagers or sobbing while or drugs he is totally convincing.  His struggle to forgive and to allow others to be forgiven is part of his wider journey towards redemption.If you let it touch you then it is powerful, the end being especially moving.  If you only see what he does as actions with no feelings, no emotions and no reason then you'll probably hate it.This is not a fun movie.  Even if you like it, you'll still find it challenging viewing but ultimately rewarding. "},{"Title":"Don't expect a nice story, and you won't be disappointed.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"46 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nasty Film, shows the downward spiral of a dirty cop as his drug and gambling addictions take him deeper and deeper into despair.  There is no compassion for this man, and indeed, he asks for none.  The conclusion to the film is really the only ending that could have been believable, but still no compassion.  While this film is not one to watch for entertainment value, it is a good one to watch for plot and character acting value.  Don't expect a nice story, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Bedlam, but no Bethlehem","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What would this movie be without Harvey Keitel? It's so easy to see how this production could have gone terribly wrong. Just put Brad Depp in the lead role. There isn't a laugh in this story, and Keitel makes you believe that there isn't a laugh to be had in the entire world. His movements are sluggish, his voice an exhausted and perfunctory mumble. Except when he becomes agitated over the thought of winning money on a bet. His eyelids droop and his lips smack while a hooker puts on his tie and administers a mainliner, and afterward he slowly slumps over in his chair like a stroke victim. That scene alone, in its long takes, would have established him as a powerful performer if he weren't already recognized as one. In two other scenes he displays a hair-raising talent. The first is when he is drunk and crazed on some kind of unearthly dope with two women and we see him naked, standing in front of the camera, and he seems to rise on tiptoes, his tensed arms lift from his sides, his fingers fluttering, and his face becomes a grimace of tortured pleasure as he keens toward the ceiling. I've never seen anything quite like it. The second is even more gripping. Drunk, stoned, abject, he crawls into a church (his lapsed Catholicism has emerged only gradually during the story) and, muscular control disintegrating, he falls to his knees in the aisle and wails, howls, and ululates like a wounded animal, expressing his self loathing and accusing Christ of not helping him while at the same time beseeching his forgiveness and help. It's hard to imagine anyone doing this scene better. It brings to mind Cagney's outburst in the big house in White Heat. There are other scenes that are superficially more shocking -- the bad lieutenant whacking away as he coerces two naive New Jersey women into being naughty in front of him -- but Keitel plays the scene morosely, as if engaging in a biologically necessary but essentially uninterestingly quotidian act, something to be gotten out of the way. The film itself, alas, doesn't quite match the quality of Keitel's performance. There basically aren't any other important performances. The story is all Keitel's. There is no explanation of how he came to be the thoroughly rotten piece of moral filth that he has, but I'm not sure that's required. (Explanations for complex behavior tend to invite a certain glibness in writers his Mom always preferred his brother, or his potty training was deficient or something. We really don't need his Rosebud.) The nun who is raped is preternaturally beautiful, a glowing creature almost grateful for the opportunity to forgive. She looks particularly radiant when naked. MY nuns were never like that! And, let's face facts, we didn't need an image of the living Christ appearing in the aisle of the church, especially since he looks like a skinny, long-haired, made-up actor. The black woman, into whom he changes, would have sufficed. The most confusing and maybe the weakest part of the movie is the lieutenant's idea of redemption. Is it a good deed when you finally corner the two unrepentant skunks who raped the nun, sit down on a couch and smoke some dope with them, give them stolen money, and put them on a bus to make a getaway? That's his idea of mimicking the nun and her forgiveness? What's to prevent these two nun rapists from giving yet another nun a chance to forgive them a month or two down the road? This is a bleak and tragic story, partly because after all is said and done, the lieutenant seems to have no idea of how to turn Bedlam back into Bethlehem. "},{"Title":"Deep, dark, and disturbing--but contains a surprisingly spiritual theme. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  BAD LIEUTENANT / (1992) ***1/2 (out of four)By Blake French	Abel Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant could be a solid tale of spiritual redemption if not for the pervasive material through which the film demonstrates its immorality. It contrasts the most disturbing, obscene human behavior with compassion and forgiveness, but the extreme nature of the content and the film's insistence on it's portrayal swindles the spiritual impact. For once a movie deserves the notorious NC-17 rating-the Motion Picture Association of America's most restrictive emblem placed on movies submitted for a rating-but the story contains a message that's more humble and spiritual than most inoffensive productions about spirituality.	These filmmakers may or may not realize the potential religious impact their product is capable of achieving. It's a very religious film; churches could use this to demonstrate the power of forgiveness and the strength of God's love. Unfortunately many audiences will misinterpret the graphic adult content and strong language as excessively dirty-but this is not a dirty movie. The content is necessary for the exceptional contrast to work. It displays the goodness in people through their wrong doings. Though I still wouldn't recommend gathering the kids around to watch this movie.	Harvey Keitel plays a character whom the movie calls only Bad Lieutenant. He's at a stage in his life when human characteristics no longer matter. Filled with fury, need, and depression, his temporary remedies-sex, drugs, and gambling-no longer fulfill his hunger for pleasure. But his family doesn't care anymore. He drops his kids off for school, does bad things during the day, and comes home to collapse on the couch at night. This character does not imagine himself as anything but bad. He interrupts a grocery store robbery only to let the thieves go on a bribe. He buys drugs from drug dealers in exchange for their immunity. He stops a pair of young women in a car only to blackmail them into an unpleasant form of verbal rape. 	The story takes a twist. Several low lives brutally rape a young nun. The nun, who knows her rapists, refuses to reveal their identities because she forgives them for their crime. The bad lieutenant cannot believe a victim can forgive such an atrocity. If this woman can forgive her debtors, could anyone forgive his sins as well? 	Whether the bad lieutenant turns his life around I will leave you to discover. But this idea might be a side issue in the plot. Bad Lieutenant displays more of an interest in the dirty lifestyle of the title character than in his decision to seek forgiveness for his sins. Only during the final minutes does Keitel's character realize his choices. Surprisingly, however, the film's ending takes the easy way out in a complete refusal to look redemption in the eye. This ending blends in with the events because of stark, honest realism, but we never comprehend the character's intentions for the future. Dark and cringe-inducing, Bad Lieutenant is not a fun movie to watch and don't expect to hold your popcorn down if you walk in unprepared. Abel Ferrara and Zoe Lund wrote the script looking into deep, private crevices of the human soul. They travel to places many people will find extremely uncomfortable. It's a harrowing character study portrayed through an unreserved, courageous performance. Harvey Keitel takes a huge risk here-most actors would not want such a character to follow their public image. But Keitel does not hesitate to characterize the bad lieutenant without compromise, mercy, or restraint. Hats off to you, Harvey.   "},{"Title":"I know there is no plot however...........","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  All right let's get this out of the way. This is not a great picture. In fact I will bet 98 percent of the public would find it absolutely repulsive. Make that 99 percent. Hell, even I didn't understand it the first time I saw it. But what I realized the second time was brilliant method acting. And that ladies and gents is what makes this film shine. There is no solid plot, no supporting characters, and no reason to feel anything but disgust for Harvey Keitel. However, you find me another actor who could have dug as low as Keitel did or take as many chances and I will bet you that it will take more than the time to cook a frozen cardboard pizza. It is hard to view a soiled life like Keitel was leading without being on the road yourself which wouldn't be pretty. The backdrop of a baseball series and Keitel losing chunks of money made it even crazier. Again I have to say absolutely great acting. Keitel has so many good scenes that this may be a career role for him. I give him a multitude of credit for taking the chance to play a totally unlovable character. Watch this movie at your own risk and know going in that this is an outlier in the sense of normal movie making. Don't bother grabbing a flashlight or even a spotlight and trying to find a plot. There isn't one. Just sit back and watch Keitel spiral down like a squirrel who missed the branch.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What more can I say?  Keitel gives an astounding performance.  Then again, when has he let us down?  I was able to find some interesting parallels to Mean Streets.  Aside from the use of Pledging my Love by Johnny Ace, it explores the theme of Catholic guilt and how one's temptation and hunger for evil can weaken spiritual judgments.  The climactic scene is great, in which Keitel (literally) comes face to face with Jesus.  I wasn't a big fan of Mean Streets and think this film better explores its Catholic themes.  One may perceive this film to be sinful, and it received tons of controversy.  It's very rare that a movie is able to show rape of a nun, and get away Scott-free with the MPAA.  I think the NC-17 rating was mostly on account of the explicit nudity and sex.  I don't know why the hell people are trying to scare viewers by regarding this movie as graphically violent.  About all we really see are aftermaths of violence.  However, the language is extremely blunt, and that's about the only warning I can give.  Of course, religious activists might protest its use of footage of Jesus on a cross and the aforementioned rape scene, but they simply have to look closer at what message Ferrara is trying to bring out.  Cinema is an art form often misjudged by the prudish.  The scene where Keitel pulls the two young girls over is classic, and I loved its darkly humorous element. Bad Lieutenant is an impressive character study, and though it occasionally gets meandering and repetitive and seems to be missing something (which I might be able to identify on a second viewing), it's a moving story with terrific acting.  I wasn't too thrilled with the other Ferrara pieces I've seen, King of New York and The Funeral, but I was younger and I think I just had trouble understanding the subtle messages he delivers in his films.  Of course, he specializes in gritty urban dramas like this, being a Bronx native what do you expect, so something like Bad Lieutenant naturally wouldn't appeal to general audiences.  It's unpleasant, though somewhat humorous, but life can be the same way.  You can't spend your whole life watching The Wizard of Oz.  Every once in a while, you have to take a break and watch graphic character studies like this and learn a little something.  After seeing this movie, I'm curious about checking out some more of Ferrara's work, because I know he has talent.  I can tell this a movie I will have to watch again, because it's not easily understood the first time around, but I'm sure there's hidden messages that just flew over my head.  I still think the film could've had more substance, but it's still an impressive work.My score  7 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"Dark and unforgiving.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant is one of the darkest films I have ever seen. I don't mean dark in the way that it was shot, but in the subject matter of the film. The movie is about a cop who is probably the lowest scumball in the history of modern cinema and how he tries to find redemption in solving the case of a nun who is raped inside a Catholic church. The film is very graphic and terribly depressing but that doesn't make it a bad film. It is well written, well edited by Anthony Redman, well shot by Ken Kelsch and very well directed by Abel Ferrara. The cast is pretty insignificant when you consider the whole film is about Harvey Keitel's character. Keitel is the complete center of this movie and he holds it together. His performance is one of the best in recent movie history and this film is worth watching just to see how far Keitel will go for his art. "},{"Title":"Depravity & Forgiveness - A Unique Film","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Human beings don't come much worse than this New York City police officer, aptly played by Harvey Keitel, an actor who has never cared who he offended in any role or never backed off from a challenging role.Keitel reaches new depths of depravity in this role, which you can see in either an R-rated or a NC-17 rated version. That should tell you something about this movie, so be forewarned and read some of these other reviews, many of which are well- written. The NC-17 version probably is there because of Keitel pulling a female motorist over and then masturbating on her driver side's windshield (no, they don't actually show it). Nice, huh?At least - and this turned off the sickos who loved Keitel's immoral character - he repents near the end, hallucinating that he sees Jesus and begging for forgiveness. As bad as he is, he's always aware of his sins. Speaking of forgiveness, there is a nun in this movie who gives a demonstration of forgiveness that is astounding and is a great witness to the bad lieutenant. Thus, even though the movie is extremely sordid, there are some a few very redeeming qualities here....but so many of the opposite that I can't recommend this. Yet, it's a unique story so, you decide, but know what to expect.I did get one big laugh out one scene in the film, the one where Keitel loses a big baseball bet and shoots his car radio in frustration. Some viewers think he should have shot the people who made this film! On the other hand, I know a lot sports bettors who know the feeling. "},{"Title":"Long trawl through the gutter","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" BAD LIEUTENANT Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format MonoA dissolute New York cop (Harvey Keitel) finds redemption whilst investigating the case of a nun (Frankie Thorn) who was gang raped and forgave her attackers.Abel Ferrara's grimy little epic has been described as 'daring', 'brave' and 'controversial' by its many admirers, as though rubbing the audience's nose in excrement for 98 minutes automatically qualifies the movie for sainthood. Keitel's performance is astonishingly natural and convincing, and his various acts of debasement (whether taking drugs, masturbating in front of two young women he's pulled over for a minor traffic violation, or regressing into infantile chemical-induced behavior while Ferrara's camera stares impassively at the actor's full-frontal nudity) are quite audacious. However, the movie is little more than an endurance test, and after a full hour of watching Keitel take drugs, more drugs and yet MORE drugs, many viewers will want to throw up their hands and cry Enough already! Get to the damn punchline! And when that punchline is finally reached - after a long, L-O-N-G trawl through the scuzziest Catholic guilt trip you'll ever see - it hardly seems worth the effort. However, the scene in which Jesus (Paul Hipp) makes a fleeting appearance is strange, unsettling and beautiful, all at the same time. "},{"Title":"Addiction, Corruption, Forgiveness and Redemption","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In New York, a corrupt and abusive NYPD Lieutenant (Harvey Keitel) is addicted in drugs and gambling and has a great debt with a shark. He takes advantage of his authority to make deals with drug dealers and criminals to get drugs and dirty money and his bookmaker advises him that he owes money to dangerous people. When a nun is brutally raped by two youngsters, the Lieutenant chases the criminals but the nun tells him that she had forgiven the punks. The Lieutenant is affected by her religious principles and asks Jesus to help him. Bad Lieutenant is one of my favorite films by Abel Ferrara with a great story of addiction, corruption, forgiveness and redemption. Last time I had seen this film was on 27 September 2000 and after seeing once again, I realize that Bad Lieutenant is a timeless movie that has not aged. Harvey Keitel has one of the best performances of his successful career in the role of a dirty cop that finds redemption in the end. Unfortunately this film is only available on VHS in Brazil. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Vício Frenético Frantic Addiction) "},{"Title":"The Cinema of Abel Ferrara","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant (1992) has to be one of Abel Ferrara's most misunderstood film. The movie's filled with Catholic guilt and religious dogma. It's about a corrupt soul seeking a way to find redemption and to enter the after world with a clear conscience. Made for nearly next to nothing, Abel Ferrara and Harvey Keitel make one of the most moving films ever made.Harvey Keitel stars as the title character. A corrupt police officer who dwells in his excesses. A man who has hit rock bottom and tries to go even further. But by chance, he comes across a Catholic Nun who was savagely raped by two former altar boys. This enrages the Bad L.T. who has more problems of his own to deal with. After meeting with the Nun, she forgives them because it's what she's been taught and what she believes in her heart. After hearing the Nun's response , it drives the Bad L.T. crazy because he believes that they should get just punishment but she refuses.The meeting with the Nun stirs deep hidden religious feelings that are still within the Bad L.T. After having a deep experience with the Almighty and his son, the Bad L.T. tries to do the right thing so he can find salvation for his soul. All the while his little world that he created collapses from his past sins and vices. Abel Ferrara directs a film that he knows how to do. A gritty street level cinematic experience. There are no expensive set pieces or flashy wardrobes or special effects. It's as if Abel Ferrara is taking you on a guided trip through the deeps of a corrupt person who has a flicker of a conscience deep inside. Be forewarned because it is a rough ride and only for those who can stomach the material. The song at the end will stick around in your head for awhile. A fitting end to a great movie such as this.Highly Recommended.If you're a Catholic you'll understand the dogma more than those who are unfamiliar with the Church's teachings. They're a big part of the movie and a lot of people wont understand the motivation that drives the Bad L.T. "},{"Title":"Brilliant -- and not just a clever title","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel gives the performance of a lifetime in a brilliant, unflinchingly gritty street ballad that holds up next to Scorcese's greatest moments. A depressingly underrated character study, Bad Lieutenant is truly Abel Ferrara's masterpiece, and a high point in independent cinema of the 90's.Harvey Keitel plays a New York cop who, to put it bluntly, is a pretty awful person. Throughout the film, we watch as he goes from situation to situation exploring the depths of depravity and corruption. Ferrara keeps it voyeuristic -- Keitel is often shot from a distance, and he is presented without judgment. This matter-of-fact approach to his character is what makes this film so believable, so real. Keitel is portrayed not as a monster, but as what he is -- a human. As easy as it is to hate him (and boy, is it easy), it is just as easy to forgive him -- a point which is highlighted by the religious themes and Catholic imagery throughout. And ultimately, it really is a film more concerned with forgiveness and redemption than power and corruption. All of the evils perpetrated by our protagonist build over the course of 90 minutes and lead to a final act of humanity. He is not necessarily vindicated, but he is most certainly human.It's not a feel-good film, and it's unpleasantness is not always easy to endure, but Bad Lieutenant is a powerful, rewarding film experience. One of the absolute best of its kind. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Relentlessly depressing, sleazy study of a morally bankrupt cop...","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If there is at least one thing to admire in BAD LIEUTENANT, it's Harvey Keitel's method performance as the corrupt cop without a moral compass who goes through the film indifferent to everyone but himself, getting high whenever he's in the need of a fix, intimidating anyone under his charge--including teen-age girls in the film's most exploitational scene--and upset through the entire film over the rape of a nun who has forgiven her attackers.Keitel throws himself completely into the role, gnashing his teeth and clenching his jaw effectively whenever stirred to emote, crying like a wounded animal when he feels no justice in a world where injustices are free to roam. He's quite an intense actor and always seems to be cast in these kind of roles that show the underbelly of human beings, usually in stories of the kind that Martin Scorsese likes to tell about corrupt cops. Unfortunately, any director needs a good script.Well, Abel Ferrara is no Scorsese. He's made a cheap looking exploitation film about a sleazy subject and seems to think that the more gross it is, the more gritty he makes it look, and the shakier the hand held camera is at catching grimy glimpses of New York streets, the better it will be appreciated by fans of this kind of schlock.Summing up He's a bad lieutenant in a bad film. Too bad Keitel can't find a film worthier of his talents. All he needs is a good script. "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has a few things going for it. The acting for one, Harvey Keitel is of course brilliant, and this is after all the movie which made him. I like the way the fast-talking football radio commentator acts as glue and ferment between the scenes, and in the opening shot. And the infamous scene where the nameless bad lieutenant sexually badgers two Jersey girls is a brilliant exercise in cinematic story telling, and proof yet again that what you don't show in a movie can be much worse than what you do show.***SPOILERS ON*** (If you haven't seen the movie, the nameless bad lieutenant stops a car with a busted tail-light. As it turns out, the passengers are two out-of-town girls who have snaffled the family car to go to a downtown club, and they obviously don't want their parents to hear about it. The lieutenant then orders the passenger girl to turn around while he masturbates to the girl in the driver's seat simulating fellatio.Visually, the scene is not explicit -- you see no skin or privates. Mentally the scene makes great impact. The scene is much creepier than if they had visually shown the lieutenant raping the two girls.) ***SPOILERS OFF***But in many other aspects the movie is direly lacking. It uses a stream-of-consciousness-style of film-making where the scenes are shot in a documentary style, and you have to pick out the story from the scenes. Well, I was picking and picking and still looking for the story when suddenly the titles rolled. What I got at the end is this a super-sexy nun has been raped, but refuses to identify the rapists because she's a Catholic who forgives those who rape her (and the fact that identifying the rapists might prevent them from raping others somehow never enters the picture). The Bad Lieutenant, being a Catholic himself, struggles with this, but he eventually captures the perps and for some reason puts them on a bus. Roll end titles. The crooked copper has ameliorated himself by setting free two nun rapists.There is no protagonist, no antagonist, no suspense, no plot, no development. The movie is visually very stylish, but I never for one second believed that a real cop could carry on his excesses the way the bad lieutenant did. There are endless dream sequences where he injects freebase cocaine into his eyeballs in the company of a bevy of Nebraskan hookers whilst betting the life of his dead grandmother with the Albanian mafia on the Yankees' winning the world series, which unfortunately in itself is totally boring and unshocking to watch. There is never any moral conflict -- the lieutenant is too far gone for that. And if he's able to carry on all these excesses and STILL hold down a job as a police investigator, take care of his family AND maintain the physique of a competition body builder, then he must be doing something right. I abide by the law and eat muesli, and still look like a dead newt.Overall, despite its reputation, a bad movie with only a few good scenes. It just tries too hard to be shocking and metaphorical. "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had reasonable expectations from this movie but was disappointed. The story about a bad cop learning to forgive and clean up his act was promising but ruined by trying to be too real. The movie is absolutely and unequivocally about this one bad cop. It goes to the extent of showing minutes-long scenes of him walking like a drunkard from one end of a corridor or road or dance hall to the other end. This gets terribly boring after a while because we pretty much understand the character enough and don't need to witness everything he does short of take a crap. For a movie under 100 minutes, it speaks volumes about how much substance there is to the story. Every once in a while there are unnecessary scenes of nudity and violence that serve only to dope the audience up enough (much like our main character does to himself) to tolerate the dragging, uneventful scenes that follow. Unless you're a die-hard Harvey Keitel fan, you can afford to miss this. "},{"Title":"An American Classic","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like movies for entertainment--don't watch this. If you think the good-guys win in-the-end--don't watch this. However, if you enjoy being enlightened about meaning in-life, what redemption really means, and what the effects of experiencing crime-scenes day-after-day does to a Police officer, watch this film. Gutted of Schooly D's Signifying Rapper, this is still a great film, but it needs to be reinstated by Artisan entertainment in all future-releases. It all-but ruins the tone of the film by its absence, which is one of relentless-decline and decay. Abel Ferrara is a hero of American cinema, a national-treasure as-much as Scorsese, and a great chronicler of our sordid-times. His is a cinema of morality, and as ugly as things get in his films, he is not celebrating the scum. The genius of Ferrara is that he shows the crimes, the hatred, the violence, the disease, the sex and emotional-brutality with no-garnish or stylization--as-is. Like early-Kubrick, we get a really scary world, shot-through with dread, often lit by one bare-bulb, like a Sunday-morning hangover.There is no-doubt in my mind that this is Harvey Keitel's finest-hour, and he is a huge-part of the film. The next-time you hear some dumb-starlet complaining-about nudity, watch Keitel's masturbation-scene and his drunken-baby scene, and you tell me what a real actor is. I cannot imagine a more-fearless American actor--excepting Marlon Brando's performance in Last Tango in Paris, or Vince Gallo in his Brown Bunny. But, Bad Lieutenant is Ferrara's baby, and we should thank him for making a truly Christian film about a man's descent-into-the-muck, and his final-redemption in our urban hell. There isn't much to add about this film, it tells the story. It is ironic that this came out right-before a major drugs-and-extortion scandal rocked the NYPD (outlined at the end of Ferrara's superb Rxmas), and I recall the Police unions having a fit over this one. But it's true--there are cops like this, and there are criminals as-depicted in the film. It might be the first theatrical-film to depict so-many instances of crack-smoking, dope-smoking, and what has to be a real shooting-gallery scene with Keitel and the late-Zoe Lund/Tamerlis. The vice is endless here, just endless, and it made me feel incredible-pity for both cops and criminals, and all the wretched of the Earth. Bad Lieutenant is an excruciatingly-detailed portrait of our times, and illustrates the eternal-nature of suffering and the possibilities of redemption. As bleak as life can be, there is hope in life, and in this film. Abel Ferrara is America's finest bad-boy director, and one of the few truly independent directors left, he is uncompromising (as we all should be in this life). If you can handle the truths of our urban-reality--as ugly as it can be--this is a film that could easily sit-beside your copy of Fritz Lang's M, or any of the greatest Film-noirs. There are so-many moments that can only be described as both religious and appalling, a forgotten-part of all religions, where the divine and profane exist side-by-side, eternally. The only-other film I can relate this to is Orson Welles's Touch of Evil, and I consider them equals in quality and meaning. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but certainly not great.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've been wanting to see this film for a long time, as I have heard nothing but good things about it, but have found myself feeling sorely disappointed with it.The story revolves around a drug addict/alcoholic/gambler/pervert cop who is investigating the violent rape of a nun and seeking some form of redemption in the process. It is certainly controversial, though a good deal less shocking the one expects it to be, given the pretext.It feels like Ferrara and Keitel simply thought of all the vices they could and threw them into this character in order to make him as shocking and deplorable as possible without actually giving any thought to why he is this way. Of course, we are supposed to assume that 30 odd years as a NYC cop has turned him into this beast of a man, but that seems to me to be taking your audience for granted somewhat. In fact, it almost felt like the primary purpose of this film was to be controversial and shocking, rather than to say anything profound.Keital's character, and his performance, were so over-the-top that the film almost felt like a parody. Our cop is smacked out and unable to control his bodily functions one minute, but totally lucid the next (especially when it comes to talking his colleagues into gambling), with no explanation. In the scenes where Keitel is supposed to be exploring the depths of this evil soul and wrestling with this man's self-hatred (to quote some of the more overzealous reviewers), he scrunches up his face and makes a sort of howling/whining noise, akin to the noise an injured dog might make. Is this supposed to be career defining performance? Looked more like someone who got kicked out of drama school to me.All in all, this quite simply didn't feel like a coherent film. Of course, one could argue that it isn't meant to feel coherent, as the titular nutjob is meant to be off his face the whole time, but that would be giving this film too much credit. It is unsubtle, overplayed and unconvincing. It is watchable, like all Ferrara films, for it's depiction of a time and place and its exposition of a certain underbelly of existence, but it never really gets beyond this.See this film for the controversy, but don't expect any more than that from it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Moral depravity and corruption as a character study? Good luck. A very difficult movie to watch, it is said here, but I am bound to point out how difficult it must have been to assemble a film like this.Redemption, as shown in film, can be a powerful thing whether it be religious or moral or not. In Unforgiven, Clint Eastwood's character has been redeemed and reformed, seemingly, and walks himself into what is ultimately a replay of his sordid and murderous past. In the end he re-retreats from his reprise and disappears into the sunset. Here, Kietel's character is not interested in anyone's redemption, he is indulging in an orgy of self hate and self destruction.He violates every rule. He breaks the confidentiality of the hospital room, the confessional; he violates his body with drugs and sex and displays his depravity unabashedly whether he is stealing evidence, placing illegal wagers, or stopping two young girls in a car.And speaking of that particular scene, NO ONE could have played that better than Keitel. The anger, the sleaze, it's more self-abuse than self pleasure. All cast members turn in stellar performances in the course of playing out Ferrara's sickening, stunning and stark backdrop of filth - all his fellow cops seem to be dirtbags who drink on the job and gamble illegally as well.The ending, and the events leading up to it, make a lot more sense than has been realized. Keitel's character just gives up, and when he gets the two perpetrators, he's not looking to turn himself around, he is performing a senseless act by giving away the money and turning them loose. When he is told that he needs to pay his bookie, who will murder him without a second thought, he laughs - he doesn't care, and almost welcomes the idea of death. He makes losing bets but he clearly knows they are losing bets (the scene with the other cops shows him telling them to bet the other way!). He berates the mobster who's booking the bets knowing he will get killed.The idea of forgiving the nun's attackers is so out of whack to him... that he actually does it, bringing more focus to the dysfunctionality of his existence. He's going down, he knows it, he doesn't care. It's like reading a book and wanting to get to the end so you know how it ends. He knows how it ends; he just keeps turning the pages faster in a rush to get there.Superb. "},{"Title":"Rotten to the core!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harvey Keitel is the perfect actor for a role this intense. Not only does he evoke a sense of thorough evil, he also can flesh out the character's dichotomy between wanting to be good and realizing that he is weak. The scene in the church where he begs for forgiveness is intense.  We sense the man's deep desire for redemption. The whole movie was able to give us a view of how the evil live life.  Not for the weak hearted- a movie that will challenge your values.   "},{"Title":"The best movie Scorsese and Schrader never made","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara claims he patterned his one masterpiece after police autopsy films...or was it Bresson's A MAN ESCAPED? No other movie in contemporary cinema so perfectly conveys what New York City actually feels like; and even Scorsese himself was moved to comment that Ferrara had taken his unlikely-road-to-redemption theme to the ultimate outer limits.Flat as a home movie, or a porno, BAD LIEUTENANT exerts a stranglehold fascination. Every clunky detail is amazing a nun raped on the altar is interrupted by images of the Lieutenant's preschool kids watching a WW2 cartoon that chirps, We did it before and we can do it again! Keitel's performance convinces you that in every scene he knows exactly which internal organ is failing and why, even when the audience is left in the dark. Balls-to-the-wall in its unabashedly Martyesque vision of the Church as secret redeemer, BAD LIEUTENANT may be an even riper portrait of the shadow self of nineties America than NATURAL BORN KILLERS. It's one of those movies--BLUE VELVET comes to mind--where its maker seems to say so cogently everything he thinks and feels that you wonder why he would ever bother to make another movie. Sadly, Ferrara's post-LIEUTENANT output has borne that question out. "},{"Title":"No redeeming quality.","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It is rare for me to see a movie and essentially have no idea what the point of it was. This movie for me was one of them. I honestly don't see why this movie was ever made.Harvey Keitel did perform a stellar performance at being a Bad Lieutenant but this movie was basically about drug use, non-stop drug use, sexuality and perversion. Very little cop work took place and it was essentially a movie where you watched a few actors snort, smoke or inject themselves full of drugs.At over 20 years old as of the date of this review I never saw this movie until now. And I honestly I could have gone my entire life. Essentially is a junkie smoking up, snorting and shooting dope. That is it. There is no reason for anyone to ever watch this movie or remember this movie. "},{"Title":"Ferrara's Opus","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While I found this film entirely irresistible, I have to say that I found it's strength more on the superficial level, rather than the metaphorical. I was completely uninterested in the obvious story of the redemption of a damned soul, but I found the journey mesmerizing. Keitel is dead on here and I found myself wondering how deeply immersed in the character he actually was during the drug use scenes.(A la Estevez's drunken tirade in Apocalypse Now) The use of real locations with no extras and the quasi-impromptu dialogue are probably the two biggest assets here(reminiscent of Trash but with better production value). All in all, it's quite a trip through a life of depravity and desperation that gives a great vicarious thrill to the viewer. Don't miss this film. "},{"Title":"Unique feel and unforgettable scenes","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really wasn't expecting too much from 'Bad Lieutenant' but the experience it provided was way more than I had contemplated. As the title suggests - the lieutenant is very bad indeed. However I expected a degree of cheesiness and quips - instead we are shown a centralized and harrowing insight into addiction and the pain and depravity that comes with it. The drug taking scenes are quite shocking and unforgettable. There is also a scene where the lieutenant stops two young girls in a car that is so intense and unexpected it's truly one of the most memorable scenes I have ever witnessed on film. At the heart of it all is Harvey Keitel - with what must be one of the greatest acting performances of all time. He absolutely absorbs the role of a man who was weak enough to give into all of the temptations around him. He does things he shouldn't. He doesn't care about anyone around him. He is absolutely selfish, corrupt and completely past caring. He is a man on self destruct mode. Keitel pulls off every scene so convincingly that he is either a real life maniac or an actor of the very highest quality. Some people will not enjoy this because it does lack any storyline outside of Keitel's character and there is no background on him - even his name! However the movie is about him in the moment he is in - it's a focus on a man completely absorbed by addiction who wants to be on anything he can, anywhere he has to - to get a release outside of his own mind. Ultimately it's a very dark and disturbing story of a man in a very dark place. And quite unforgettable. "},{"Title":"honestly , just wasted  90 minutes","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Deep ?, Disturbing probably, but I think your more likely to change the channel or fall asleep. Just watched this with my wife, honestly a waste of time. I have read others comments and maybe if you are into drudge, horrible characters and depression then this may interest you. Otherwise if you see anything positive about life or just like to watch decent acting and directing, then stay far way from this piece of garbage.Basically pretty much a single character movie, plays a nasty guy, then all of a sudden realizes he is a nasty guy.Goes down hill from there with a horrible piece of acting ( IMHO) over acted. There is very very little to like about this movie. I learned nothing, the character did not touch me in any way.Towards then end was dying to just change the channel, then thank god it just ended. "},{"Title":"A much more heavier and sicker Lieutenant to Cage remake","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant would be one of Abel Ferrara's most powerful movies and best too. It's actually in another class, outside all his other flicks, which always powerfully shock as in the violence, especially his early deals. The shock matter of his films, is something you don't estimate, and this is one of his best examples, seen in the visual proof. Here's a sad tale about a lonely detective, lonely as inside himself, who's really hit rock bottom, with all the ugliness and crap around. He's kind of like the Travis Bickle character, but this one flies in a different direction, doing much more bad than good, where his good and justful deed near the end is something you don't expect, nor is his fate. This background description, is all inferred by the way he casually goes about his business through the movie, doing one unlawful thing, after another, one that's truly despicable, if not downright sick, when propositioning two young girls, into a lewd act, in exchange for letting them off the hook, for sneaking Daddy's car out. The heart of the story, amongst this other stuff, has Keitel, investigating the rape of a nun and the deformation of a church, that impels him to make what's wrong right, if claim a little bit of redemption. How the nun forgiving of these two young rapists, truly, like that proposition scene made me sick. Keitel fills a most challenging role, where he must take full bravado here, as well as a lot of bloody credit, in one of the most morbid films you'll ever see, one that totally stands alone. He's fantastic, and you got to take your hat off to him. Keitel's heroin addicted mistress is good too, where Harvey doesn't mind a ménage de trois, or taking his shirt off, and moaning pathetically to a song, in the film's funniest if guiltiest moment from the viewer's side. Although loosely remade 17 years later, if you want to be shocked, opt for this one, where for church people, whatever, as a forewarning, opt to watch another flick, may'be even the other Bad Lieutenant. The whole unhurried flow of the movie, I must say, moves beautifully through it's 93 minutes, where to this aspect, you can either like it or lump it. There's almost a brilliance in the combining of all the unlawful scenes, one after the other, where that avenging plot carries a small couple of other scenes, apart from some family ones, and some with his mate cop, warning him on the all too real consequences he'll pay, thanks to another vice. Again, I must say this film is unique, as check out why the end scrolling credits playing over a screen, without sound. A must for you sickie Ferrara fans. Mr Willing and able to shock Ferrara, you've come through again. "},{"Title":"Dark, bleak, violence and very controversial","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The 1992 film Bad Lieutenant was and still is a very controversial film that easily divides film fans and critics.Harvey Keitel stars as the Lieutenant in question, a police detective who is addicted to hard drugs, has sex with prostitutes and has heavy gambling debts. He attempts to get out of debt by betting more money on the World Series Games between the New York Mets and L.A. Dodgers, falling into a deeper void of drugs as he investigates the brutal rape of a nun (Frankie Thorn), a nun who is willing to forgive her attackers.Bad Lieutenant is a very dark, bleak film, centred around an excellent performance by Keitel. Keitel and his character goes through the ringer as the Lieutenant succumb to his drug addiction, taking its toll on him physically and mental. The Lieutenant goes through hell and we see him get more and more wound out during the film as he loses grit.Director Abel Ferrara makes a very grimy film, having a 70s look to it Sepico and Taxi Driver. The film is set in the roughest, run down areas of New York City and the city is made to be a cesspool of a place which is crime filled where people are gather round crime scenes. This is amplified by the style of direction, using plenty of wide shots and long takes, letting scenes play to their shocking conclusions and giving the actors mostly uninterrupted performances.Bad Lieutenant is very much an art house film about the decline of a man in a world of sin, embarking on sin and someone willing to forgive the people who did the most horrific act possible. It is a brutal, unpleasant work and Ferrara takes very surreal turns with his use of Catholic iconography.Bad Lieutenant is deserving of its controversial status with its violence, sex and it notorious rape scene. But it a interesting art house film as we explore one corrupt cop going into the depth of his own personal hell. "}{"Title":"+/-","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We gotta eat away at ourselves till there's nothing else declares the Lieutenant's emaciated junkie-in-arms. He goes nameless, just the Lieutenant. When the case of a raped nun comes up, he takes special glee driving home to co-workers how the corporate church is just another racket, just another user, all with a compelling gleam in his eye. He makes a good show of his faithlessness but can't really escape something so ingrained. The agonizing tug-of-war that results from these two polarities makes up the brunt of the movie the more the case of the raped sister haunts him, the more the Lieutenant dives to new depths. Unable to make a break with the Christian vampire cult, marked for life with their brand, he transforms the symbolic cannibalism of the Host body into a literal consumption of his own, spiraling in a kamikaze cycle of addiction. His quest for self immolation is obsessive, demanding nothing less than total devotion to appetite. He doesn't seem to dig any of it either, barely able to keep from exploding into incoherent rage most of the time. Self indulgence has never seemed so joyless.Again & again our noses get rubbed in how far this guy's fallen snorting coke off his kid's pictures, verbally raping two teens, booze hookers bets- it's all completely absurd, just outrageous; you feel embarrassed for the actors. The flat documentary style allows Ferrera to explore depths of self-destruction in a way not many mainstream films could; the sleaze quotient is in service to something else. It goes so far over-the-top that you're not sure where the damned line is anymore, whether you should be laughing or cringing that's when everything becomes really real. Ferrara's knocked us off our feet and we don't know where the hell this is going. When he isn't bartering away his last shreds of dignity, the Lieutenant glides through his world like a specter, hulking in some shadowy backstreet or stairwell, passed out on the couch while his family step over his drunken body. Hungry ghosts are people not fully alive, they're phantoms tormented and driven by impossible-to-satisfy cravings, seeking to plug the emptiness inside. It's like a lot of homeless people you spy on the curbside, not fully there, faded into the scenery. The living dead.The city this guy haunts is suffocating, inescapable; the noise, overcrowding and casual depravity make it modern day Gomorrah, perfect backdrop for the hell bound. Labyrinths of twisting alleys, decaying slums, disembodied radio voices- all crammed together tighter than expired sardines in a can. The place is like a powder keg, you can feel the burning fuse (the only time you get noticed in these parts is by having your brains splattered over the dashboard). The first world seems third, a cosmopolitan abyss that's barely keeping the barbarians at the gate. It mirrors the inner state of the lieutenant, one more cockroach scuttling in the dirt.He has a vision of Jesus Christ. JC appears bloodied and bruised, looking at him from between church pews, His silence driving our tormented soul hysterical. Teeth gnashing seems an appropriate description, a modern recreation from scripture 'Oh father, why hast thou forsaken me!?' That this kind of thing exists simultaneously between some of the trashiest scenes you'll ever witness is key, of course. The sacred and the profane exist side by side and like, cancel each other out into this weird, feverish lucidity. Doesn't it make perfect sense? A technicolor MGM bible romp seems about as inauthentic to the spirit of the Word as you can get if we're talking 'spiritual' sinema, here. Without the dirt the lotus don't grow.A consummate termite artist, Ferrera smuggles in real stuff beneath his b-movie shells. Even something as vulgar and test-run as Driller Killer had heavier topics on its mind than just hocking gory goods, ditto Ms.45. Bad Lieutenant carries on the tradition It's a warts and all portrait that drives home the meaning of 'Catholic guilt' like nothing else you'll see. That and Harvey Keitel's complete nakedness (ha ha) might leave unfamiliar viewers feeling guilty themselves. All of it will elicit strained giggles from those unaccustomed to such directness, such cultivated vulnerability and if we didn't live in bizzaro-land Keitel would've been the one picking up the golden statuette in 92 instead of hoo-ha Pacino. That any movie addressing religious identity and the G-word so openly got made in a proudly godless system seems pretty cool. "},{"Title":"A Mental Breakdown","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel may be one of the biggest almost-mega-stars in Hollywood history. He was Martin Scorsese's boy wonder, and was well on his way to the A-list; until the show was stolen from him in 'Mean Streets' by supporting actor Robert De Niro. The next time the two played together in a Scorsese film, De Niro was the star and Keitel was barely recognizable as a villainous pimp, and the rest is history. And yet, surprisingly, after a decade of marginalization, Keitel enjoyed a brief renaissance in the mainstream, with memorable lead roles in 'Reservoir Dogs', 'The Piano' and 'Smoke'. Stuck somewhere in between those three was 'Bad Lieutenant' - a hateful, despicable, practically insufferable film, in which Keitel pulled a performance that may be as good as anything De Niro made in his long and celebrated career.'Bad Lieutenant' is not, by any measure, a great film. Like most Abel Ferrara films it's pretentious and self-indulgent in pornographic levels. However, the script and story are sparse enough, and Keitel's performance is powerful enough, to make it an impressive experience nevertheless. Keitel proves just how much of a character actor he is in a performance so powerfully painful that it brings up memories of Martin Sheen in Apocalypse Now; Keitel's Lieutenant is a portrait of a man in a mental breakdown, and it's so breathtakingly convincing and pained that it's nearly impossible to watch. If you're entertaining any notions that 'Bad Lieutenant' is a crime drama in the vein of 'Reservoir Dogs' or Martin Scorsese's works, or even the more recent remake starring Nicolas Cage, leave those notions behind. It's a mood piece with barely any plot to speak of, and more than anything else it's a master class in acting. If you can force yourself to sit through it, you may get one of the single finest acting jobs of the 90's. "},{"Title":"The role Martin Scorsese owed to Harvey Keitel ...","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In this daring and absorbing masterpiece called Bad Lieutenant, Keitel lets all his talents exude in a virtuoso performance that oscillates between despair and ferocity with a level of pathos rarely matched by other actors. While Quentin Tarantino knew the extent of Keitel's talent and gave him the lead in Reservoir Dogs, Abel Ferrara offered him his greatest and most defining role &#x85; and whether it should have been Oscar-nominated or not is pointless, the film and the performances rise above these sterile debates.Here is a man totally devoured by his sins, by the presence of drugs and total absence of ethics. Keitel embodies both the moral and physical corruption that can invade a soul and condemn a life for endless torments. We meet this Bad Lieutenant in the last stage of his drug addiction, while his crash into criminality is approaching a devastating climax. He steals drug evidence to get money and use it to bet on the Baseball World Series' winner, the game coming to its end foreshadows a more dramatic conclusion for the Lieutenant. He's convinced that the Dodgers will win, because no way can the Mets recover after four consecutive defeats. Yet, he's constantly contradicted by a turn of events that ironically plunges him in the darkness as the sums he owes gets higher and higher. The baseball subplot mirrors the Lieutenant's suicidal impulses, and his death is so obvious that we only wait for the redemption to come. The question is when?To answer this, let's get back to Martin Scorsese, a filmmaker I admire as much as I respect, and who probably inspired Abel Ferrara in many ways. Bad Lieutenant had the same resonance than Marty's 70's grittiest and most valuable work, it aesthetically reminds of Mean Streets while the soul of the Lieutenant echoes the torment of Travis Bickle. Marty, driven by his ferocious Catholicism has always been torn between a torturing guilt and a violent desire for redemption his most memorable characters personified the effects of that torment from the bottom of their soul to inevitable blood-sheds. Bad Lieutenant is more Scorsesian than Scorsese himself, too busy taking new artistic (though successful) licenses in the 90's, the movie features an evolution whose movement is very simple to grasp, a dizzying falling down, not into madness, but into a criminality driven by an innate madness. The movie is a nihilistic escape plunging us in the soul of a character in moral pain, because he doesn't believe in his duty, in his chances for redemption, not even in the very Catholicism he tries to inculcate in his sons. Talk about an existential nightmare &#x85;And while we expect the film to show the roots, the reasons of these sins, and the eventual road to redemption, Ferrara gives another dimension to his character. The gifted iconoclast filmmaker doesn't care for indulgence, or sympathy for Keitel, this would have been too convenient. If one thing, he remains anonymous all through the film because we don't need to define him another way than by two describing words bad and lieutenant, a morally corrupted individual. So, to find him sympathetic, we must get to the most disturbing core the film. In one impressively graphic scene, two women lusciously make love while he stares at them before engaging his totally naked muscled body in a sort of desperate trance; with Keitel's distinctive groaning (that might remind some fans of Reservoir Dogs) we understand he's a man incapable of pleasure since sex isn't even enough to exorcise his inner demons. When he arrests two girls, he lets them go in exchange of a séance of exhibition and an imitation of oral sex, Keitel masturbates and leaves them after the climax, probably disgusted by himself. His face constipated by a constant expression of anger, apparently, no matter how far he goes, he never enjoys being 'bad'.Beyond their obvious shocking value, these scenes annihilate any possibility to root for the Lieutenant, but they do illustrate how desperate he is, unable to feel guilty because he's beyond guilt, he's a bad man and knows it, the source of his anger is his alienation by his own demons, and he can't even feel pleasure because pleasure comes from relief and his soul is incompatible with any kind of relief&#x85; until a 'providential' crime might show a light of hope in his path. A young and beautiful nun is raped by two hoodlums, this barbaric act was committed with such gruesome details that the film almost flirts with voyeurism if it wasn't for the fascinating response from the victim herself. The nun shows no hatred, absolutely no desire for vengeance. The path for redemption for the Bad Lieutenant would have been to murder these two guys, but some movies are deeper than that, and I almost blame Bad Lieutenant for making Taxi Driver's ending look simplistic. It doesn't take killing one or two lives to purge out the bad side of us, but something more transcending than that forgiveness, a quality that forges and defines the Lieutenant, Ferrara and Scorsese's religious beliefs.The choice of the Lieutenant is something that caught me totally off guard, and it illustrates how fascinating a character he is, he doesn't feel guilty for his sins, because he's lucid enough about his fate, but the nun's forgiveness enlightened him that there's always something good in this world if we have the courage to take the less obvious path, if two scums who ruined her life can be forgiven, maybe he's got a chance too, and the face of despair and cries that finally come off his mask is of a man who let his soul go too far and can't find peace only if it offered it &#x85; the ultimate Christian gift, something that gives a very profound, noble and divine dimension to the scene where he raises his arms, naked, in pain, seeking for help&#x85; desperately&#x85; "},{"Title":"A dark and disturbing character study","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara directs this dark tale about a corrupt, drug addicted cop(Harvey Keitel) who tries to find redemption by investigating the rape of a nun, while dealing with his own personal issues.Now I have to first say that this movie is a true adult movie, filled with violence, drugs, sex and the very mature themes of Keitel's character. The movie is very hard to watch at times, as Keitel goes through a lot of pain as his problems take control of him.The whole film is held together by Keitel's performance which is absolutely brilliant from start to finish and was criminally under-rated on release. His character is very complex both being an evil and hard to relate to cop, while at the same time a person who's made mistakes and doesn't deserve to go through all this.One thing to note about Bad Lieutenant is that it's not the sort of film that you will watch and think of as and instant classic, its a very deep movie that you need to think about and will most lightly need a second viewing at some point.The movie's camera work is also praise worthy, having a gritty and realistic feel that very much represent the character in the film. Along with the minimalistic soundtrack. The movie is overall, a movie that is hard to watch and a very strange movie at first, but a movie that will stick with you for a long time. Although it's hard to write a complete review here without spoiling the ending, I can say that just like the rest of the film, the ending feels a bit strange and out of place but it ultimately fits perfectly into the film and properly concludes the story.A great film that is a dark study of an interesting character played superbly by Harvey Keitel. "},{"Title":"Lacking on the story, but Keitel will blow you away.","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is what everybody says it is grimy, slimy, disturbing and the intense uses of drugs. It deserved its NC-17 rating; this is not for the faint of heart. Story is probably the only thing extremely lacking in this film, and though story is essential to great movies, everything else redeemed itself to earn a 7. The Lieutenant never has any pivotal moments of wanting to change, save just one brief scene. It doesn't have much to do with the nun either. Harvey Keitel's performance is outstanding and extremely believable. It's difficult to shine yourself in a light such as this, but he did it, and he had balls. So, for having a great lead role and having the courage to have content as intense as this movie has, I applaud it. It's not a masterpiece, but it's pretty damn good. "},{"Title":" Yea, tho I walk through the Valley of the shadow of  Death ","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When a man assumes the mantle of security for a town or a city, by becoming a Law Enforcement Officer, those who place the badge on his chest, assume he will live up to the Ideals of his oath. In this film called  Bad Lieutenant  written and directed by Abel Ferrara, Harvey Keitel is The Lieutenant and gives such a powerful performance in this role, it will be difficult to top himself. The story is that of a city police detective, who on the surface seems diligent and efficient. However as the audience watches, the officer reveals all of his vices, weaknesses and debilitating shortcomings, which eventually overwhelm the viewers into believing that the officer should not be investigating crime, but serving time. Keitel's character is given a crime to investigate, concerning the brutal rape of a Catholic Nun (Frankie Thorn). He is skilled enough to discover who the vicious Perps are, but in the process, we see him, smoking pot, snorting drugs, removing evidence and digging himself deeper and deeper into spiraling debt. The sum total of his criminal activities prods the audience to wonder which will destroy him first, the Mob collectors or his own depravity. Keitel is superb in this role and his efforts will insure his performance and that of his fellow actors will place this movie in the Category of being a true Classic. **** "},{"Title":"Straight to Hell","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really don't know why I like this movie. I OWN it and I still can't figure it out. I've watched it maybe 3 or 4 times, because, as others have mentioned, it is not a fun movie to watch.Another reviewer commented on the sheer ludicrousness of many of the scenes, and noted everything was played out with a total absence of irony. Well, that's Ferrera for you...he is many things but ironic is not among them. Take The Addiction --- an unironic vampire movie or The Driller Killer --- an unironic slasher flick. What you see is what you get, and it's often ugly and hard to take. Many of the scenes would be laughable if not for the intensity he brings to both the direction and the performances.This really is Keitel's bravura moment...he's completely without fear here. My skin crawls thinking about doing half the things he does in this picture, full frontal shots and all, and having it memorexed on celluloid for eternity, knowing thousands of people are perhaps watching it every minute and laughing their asses off.One thing I should note...if you're up for seeing this, try to find the original VHS NC-17 cut. The Schooly D song is dynamite and definitely adds a lot of harrowing power to more than a few scenes. It's long been removed (perhaps because it sampled Led Zep's Kashmir illegally?). "},{"Title":"Bad Doesn't Even Begin To Cover It","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An immensely rough experience from a viewing standpoint, and a difficult one to resolve from a critical one, Bad Lieutenant is a harrowing tale of a decaying man as his life spirals out of control in a brutal, and often shocking, fashion. Lasting only ninety-six minutes but feeling much longer, Bad Lieutenant sucks you in to what you believe at first to be the tale of a crooked cop before the realisation slowly dawns upon the viewer that this is going to be much more unpleasant than any gritty 'corrupt police officer' film that you'll have seen before. Bad Lieutenant is the systematic and compulsive destruction of the nameless protagonist in a film which can have you feeling as emetic as Harvey Keitel's character does on screen.Any viewer who watches this film under the delusion that Keitel's character is anywhere near comparable to his Mr White in Reservoir Dogs will find themselves in for the shock of their lives. In what is undoubtedly his most sublime on screen acting performance Keitel conveys believability by endowing his character with a harsh sense of reality leaving the cinematographic term gritty to be definitively redefined. The Lieutenant played is not merely a corrupt cop but a man who has no control over reality, a man who is an addict on all levels as he corrodes his body with the ridiculous amount of drugs consumed throughout, and burns a hole in his wallet as he gambles uncontrollably. He is a man losing his mind minute by minute, who finds himself digging a deeper and deeper pit for what is seemingly an inevitable grave.While being probably one of the most upsettingly disturbing stories in cinematic history, the one key criticism from most is the perceived wafer-thin plot that accompanies the grandeur of Keitel. In what is ostensibly a side story, but dove tails nicely into the Lieutenants tale, a nun is raped by two individuals that she herself teaches and looks after at the Catholic church and school she is apart of. Frankie Thorn as the nun, is the antithesis to Keitel's lieutenant. She commands the screen with a contemplative sense of redemption, a woman that has so little, who is then abused ruthlessly, and yet is still willing to forgive those that committed the horrors against her. As Keitel investigates, interspersed heavily with gambling, drug taking and the occasional abuse of his police powers, the link between our two key characters is slowly revealed, as Keitel is shown watching his daughter receive her first Holy Communion at the Catholic church he attends, all the while orchestrating another bet with his bookie beside him. The interesting juxtaposition is subtle while sledgehammer blatant. Keitel wears a cross around his neck and for him is the cross he bears, the shadowing hanging over him, throughout the film. It is a reminder of a previous life, and also a reminder of what he could, and can be. The further into the mire he sinks, the more he references his religious beliefs and uses them to try and convince others, while mainly himself, of his righteous creed, all the while the recovering nun draws upon her belief as a means of strength, rationale and justification.Bad Lieutenant is not your usual good cop gone wrong tale, and I would heavily warn those that are expecting shoot outs at dawn to stay well clear. Bad Lieutenant is a tale of realisation and redemption but primarily of the abuse and corruption of the human body and spirit. Keitel's character comes across as someone that tried to do the right thing yet finds himself spiraling downward while one of the more interesting points is the sense of restraint he gives his character, that for all his drug taking and gambling addiction, that he despises himself for it, that he wishes he weren't doing it, and more importantly that he has no fun doing it, but that it has just come habit. Bad Lieutenant is a hard hitting film which will uppercut those not ready for it into a depressive coma, because to be frank, Bad doesn't begin to cover how far removed from Bad the Lieutenant is. "},{"Title":"Keitel is flawless.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Kietel delivers one of the best male performances of the 90s. At times the film may seem like it drags a little bit or that something is unimportant, but it is all leading up to the final act which is one of the most remarkable I've ever seen. The final message is about faith. Early in the film, a nun is brutally raped in one of the most horrifying scenes I've witnessed, and later we see her praying in the church. Keitel approaches her and offers to kill the men who raped her, as she knows who did it, since any other cop would put them through the system and they would be back out on the streets due to their young age. She rejects his offer and this leads to a huge revelation in one of the most powerful character arcs put on screen. He sees that faith has kept her a good person, and she can live a fulfilling life due to it. She has gone through something that would traumatize anyone else, but because of her strong faith she can forgive them and move on with her life. Once she leaves, he literally stands face to face with Christ and begs his forgiveness. He realizes that he has been a horrible person and has completely destroyed his life, but he did it because he had no faith. He was clouded from his faith and lost Christ and that led to him doing so many horrible things. This revelation leads to him having God back in his life and he finds the rapists. Instead of putting them into the system or just killing them, he lets them go. He hopes that this opens their eyes to faith and in their new life they can be good people with God looking over their shoulder. He is following after the nun's example and using his newly reborn faith to forgive them and let them redeem their lives under God. Of course this is all concluded with the ironic finale, which I felt was him being a martyr. He let the men whom he knew were coming to kill him get him, in order to let the rapists go and live full lives. He literally died for their sins "},{"Title":"Tales from the Dark Side","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Unbelievably dark an depressing film about a York City cop, Harvey Keitel, who's going under from the sheer weight of problems that he made for himself over he years.Lieutenant, for a better name since he doesn't have one in the films credits, Keitel's life has been spiraling out of control since he's become addicted to both crack and cocaine. Sniffing coke in his car and smoking crack at his girlfriend's, a crack dealer, Zoe (Zoe Lund) apartment had just about burned Keitel out.As he's slowly losing control of his life Keitel decides to pull off a major coup on he mobs bookie racket by betting that the L.A Dodgers, who are down three games to none, are going to come back from the dead and beat the NY Mets in the post-season playoffs. Getting some of his fellow cops to bet with him Keitel ends up parlaying his bets where by the time the seventh game comes around he's $120,000.00 in the hole with the mob wanting it's money or else it will not only do in Kietel but his family as well.Kietel for his part seems oblivious to what he put himself and his family into with his mindless betting as well as drug use feeling that because he's a cop he's immune to mob retaliation. That impression on Kietel's part is about as realistic as him being a cop makes him immune to becoming addicted on crack! It's later when reality enters his thick skull that Kietel looks for answers to solve the mess that he made for himself and that comes with the brutal attack and rape of a nun, Frankie Thorn, in a church in Spanish Harlem.With the church putting up a $50,000.00 reward for information to who the nun's rapists are and having them face justice Kietel feels that by solving the case he's have all he cash he needs to pay off the bookies that he's so much in debt to. The only problem that Kietel has is that the nun, who can identify her assailants, refuses to press charges or reveal their identities!A truly remarkable performance by actor Harvey Kietel that has you riveted to the screen every time he's appears. Kietel's unbelievable scene at the church where he's confronted by Jesus, Paul Hipp, while what seem like in a drug induced stupor is as good if not better then Marlon Brando's performance at the funeral home, where his wife is lying in state, in Last Tango in Paris. Showing at first a deep resentment toward Jesus for his own lot in life Kietel suddenly realizes what a crumb he's been all his life and then falls on his knees begging for both salvation and forgiveness from the very person whom he just lambasted. That stunning ten or so minute sequence is worth the price of admission alone!In the end Kietel realizes that the only way he can redeem himself is to do what the raped nun want's and that is to forgive, like Jesus would have done, those who viciously assaulted her. Tracking down, with the help of a church member, the nuns assailants who were found less then two blocks from the scene of their crime Kietel has them check out of town with his stash of drug money, $30,000.00, never to come back to NYC again. This with the entire NYPD out on the streets looking for them many more then willing to exact street justice on the rapists.I's just too bad that the mob wasn't as kind forgiving and understanding to Kietel as he was to the two rapists. In the end Kietel not paying off on his bet, with the Dodgers losing the seventh game in the playoffs, himself gets a taste of street justice in front of the New York City Port Authority Bus Terminal. The very place that he just put the two rapists on an out of town bus and out of harms way! The motto of the movie is that Jesus forgives but the Mob doesn't. "}{"Title":"excellent thriller","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie is incredible. the bad lieutenant is my idol. if i was a cop i would be him. The movie is realistic and hysterical. Everyone should see this movie at least once. Also get the non-edited version not-rated. Some video store chain disappointed me with the cut-up version when I tried to watch it with my girlfriend, what a disappointment. Watch the real version and you most certainly will not be disappointed.This cops' gambling and drug habits show just how much one can spiral down into the abyss. Harvey keitel is an amazing actor,who shows off his immense skill and is totally uninhibited. Just thinking about this movie makes me want to buy it and watch it over and over. "},{"Title":"Ferrara's most successful film, with an absolutely powerhouse lead from Keitel","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not a fan of Abel Ferrara. His films are slow, mood pieces that rely on atmosphere and the development of the central character. The only problem is that I don't often find his films completely engrossing or his characters that interesting. Hes certainly fascinating, but requiring of a taste I probably don't have. That being said, Bad Lieutenant is probably his best work, certainly the one that affected me the most. The film alternates between being too low-key and too over-the-top, never really finding the right middle ground. However, Harvey Keitel's performance is one of the most compelling of the 90s and Bad Lieutenant should have been one of the most controversial films of the decade.Bad Lieutenant is a difficult film, but those who appreciate gritty cinema focusing on humanity at its lowest will be rewarded. For once, Ferrara's gritty style seems to serve a purpose, telling one of the most interesting stories about redemption ever in the movies. Keitel, as stated above, gives a powerhouse performance and really elevates this film. Without him, this film would be an interesting failure. As the corrupt cop, Keitel gives all his emotion into the role and proves hes one of the most underrated performers of his generation. Judging from this, Reservoir Dogs, and Fingers, its a shame he isn't mentioned with DeNiro and Pacino. (7/10) "},{"Title":"I have not watched this film in quite some time, but...","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...I felt it deserved a higher rating, so I thought I'd vote and comment.This movie is certainly one of the best films of the 90s, and is most definitely one of Ferrara's best efforts.The disintegration of character, followed by redemption, makes this a movie which clearly has a moral center, despite the fact that it shamelessly depicts so much violence towards, and degradation of, the human soul.The idea of a crack-smoking, gambling addicted police detective is incredibly powerful in and of itself, and Ferrara's depiction is greater than the sum of its parts, precisely because the detective in question attempts some form of redemption in the end...Also, thumbs up for the courage to put some full-frontal Keitel on the screen! This is a truly shocking moment, and furthermore a completely REAL moment...Anyone who has been in the depths of depression and/or drug abuse can identify with the lieutenant's moment of existential horror, standing in front of himself completely naked, and over the edge, etc.Dirty Harry never went so far, did he? "},{"Title":"Quick reviews!!","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Possibly Ferrara's most critically acclaimed film, but one which retains the violence, bleakness and chaos of all his previous releases. Bad Lieutenant stars Harvey Keital in the title role, a cop who continually bends the rules and abuses his authority to satisfy his own urges. Nothing makes him happy, his family are rarely mentioned, his work is only a tool for his behaviour, and the drugs he resorts to only make him worse. Baseball and betting seem to be his only interest, but even that is only for financial gain. Growing up as a Catholic, the film follows his attempt at redemption and the conclusion is suitably ambiguous in that respect.The Liuetenant's most recent case involves the rape and beating of a nun. He shows little respect or care for the victim to the disgust of his workmates, even though he admits to also being a Catholic. The nun says she forgives those who did it to her, and Keitel cannot understand this. She says she knows those who did it, but will not tell who they are. This sends Keitel's character into a spiral of anger over whether he can be forgiven for all the terrible things he continues to do, or whether he could forgive someone else. While all this is happening, he is gambling on a baseball series, but losing more money. The bad guys want their money and they will gladly kill those who do not pay back. We follow him around the city, meeting unsavoury characters, some of whom he exploits in various ways. Eventually after getting stoned he hallucinates about Jesus and begs for forgiveness. He may or may not get this from God, but the bad guys will not be so forgiving.Above all this is Keitel's show. On the screen for most of the film we see his anger, corruption, the deeds he does, his changing emotions, and we eventually feel some kind of pity for him, wondering if we could forgive him, based purely on his performance. The movie is of course difficult to watch, and there are few 'good' characters with whom we can relate to. He lets criminals get away with theft, he buys drugs off those he should be putting away, he stops teenage girls just so he can masturbate in front of them. Ferrera adds to the bleakness by mostly filming at night, and when it is light the Lieutenant is usually coming down so we do not get any respite. In the end we do not know if he has redeemed himself, though it seems that anyone is capable of being forgiven, but we know for certain that the city will be better off without him.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent realism and character","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harvery Keitel does an excellent job portraying a dirty cop. This dirty cop is not only the main character of this movie but is in fact the only real character of the film. The camera leaves Keitel only once or twice through out the entire movie. As the camera follows Keitel it tells shows his character excellently as a very realistic and trouble cop. It shows his character by following him through one of his ghastly cases. It is a very realistic portrayal of a New York City's cop struggle to stop his wicked ways with a underlining religious theme.The movie is only 98 minutes long but most likely will bore anyone who requires action and story. The content of the film earned it a NC-17 rating (My first NC-17 rental). The rating is due primarily due to nudity however it is from for a porno. I would recommend to any Harvey Keitel fans. Also recommended to anyone who enjoys character based films and as a strong constitution. "},{"Title":"Harvey Keitel, what a genius!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching Bad Lieutenant is no pleasure. It's really hard at times but it pays! Keitel's performance is unbelievable. Like every good actor he is not afraid of ugliness. In fact, he looks so completely destroyed that you think you can feel his pain everytime he takes another draught of a crack pipe. Keitel never gave a damn about commercial success and after dozens of movies you still feels that he puts all his soul in what he's doing. There are few others who manage to balance between superstardom and independent movies like this man does. That's why I love Keitel and that's why I love this disturbing movie. "},{"Title":"Keitel rips through the screen","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara is the most un-compromising filmmaker you will find. This is his film, but, Keitel is right there with him. This is an un-flinching look at drug addiction, depression ,and, corruption, all played out in unglamorous master shots allowing Keitel the freedom to sear the edges of the celluloid. Highly recommended to those who have a high tolerance to realism.  "},{"Title":"A film that stands out","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harvey Keitel is at his best in Abel Ferrara's dark Bad Lieutenant. A warning this movie is not for everyone and many may be offended by it, but those who watch it are in for one of the most intense and powerful performances ever.  Keitel really gets into the role of this crooked cop. From drugs to booze to standing around nude, the Lt. is a guy that will anger and disgust you.  He doesn't care about anything including his family.  He is gaining a massive debt from betting on baseball games.  Things are falling apart.  It gets worse.  A nun is brutally raped by two thugs in the very church she is a part of (a gruesome sequence but very real) and she forgives them for what they did to her.  The Lt. cannot understand this.  As he takes advantage of two teenage girls (another rough scene to watch) and blows his car radio away with is gun (the best part of the whole film and most amusing), the nun forgiving these evildoers still haunts him.  Eventually, after shooting up with one of his mistresses (Zoe Lund), he confronts the nun and then he finally falls apart and searches for redemption.  This leads to a startling and tragic finale.  This film is definitely worth all the hype it has gotten.  Not easy viewing but it is utterly realistic and Keitel is brilliant in every scene (though the nude scene was one i could do without).  See it and like one of the other critics said regarding the Bad Lieutenant you will never forget this movie. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, Lord. I've done so many bad things.","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel is one bad cop. That is not meant to be a compliment. He is probably the worst cop you will ever see on film. He has a drug problem, an alcohol problem, a gambling problem, he uses his badge to get sexual favors, he steals, commits adultery, well, about the only thing he doesn't do is molest children.Of course, he doesn't pay much attention to his children, as we only see them in the beginning.His demons come out when he is investigating the rape of a young nun (Frankie Thorn). Now, I watched the R rated version, so there really isn't much in the way of nunsploitation here, an I do not know if there is any more in the NC-17 version.It is not about exploitation, but about facing your demons and resolving to change and facing up to your failures. He does the Christian thing in the end and accepts his penance.Keitel was magnificent, and that is good as he is 95% of the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most daring films of its generation","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest films I have ever seen. The storyline is extremely daring and thought provoking. Keitel is at his best and portrays the images superbly with extreme reality. The brutality portrayed keeps you glued to the screen and on the edge of your seat throughout the entire movie. Watch this one and I promise that you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"One man's descent in search of redemption...","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In one of the bravest performances you'll ever see, Harvey Keitel plays the unnamed Lieutenant, a drug addict, bully, and gambler who begins to find redemption through his investigation of a nun's rape. I find this film compelling because it goes all the way and never compromises its integrity in the process. This isn't a gratuitous exploitation film but a serious examination of a man who's lost - he can't control his own vices and he obviously hates himself more than he hates other people (which is saying a lot). This is not a film for the squeamish - although it's not particularly violent and if you can't deal with Keitel's nudity you shouldn't be watching movies above a PG-13 level - but it has so many uncomfortably stark scenes and the Lieutenant is so despicable it might result in people hating this film. But I think it's a masterpiece, and Ferrara's best film by far.  "},{"Title":"Harvey Kietel's a w*nker","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Well,I guess that may be some kind of of a first for mainstream movies,where the leading man terrifies two innocent teenage girls by enthusiastically punching the monkey while they talk to him.Well,I suppose it saves him a few bucks calling a sex chat line.I can't see Cary Grant doing it. I don't mind if Abel Ferrera wants to make a cheap,nasty,sordid and degrading movie,it's what living in a democracy is all about,and I don't care if millions flock to it,that's absolutely their right and good luck to them,but,please,don't let us deceive ourselves that The Bad Lieutenant is anything other than an exploitative piece of dross. Shoddily made and appallingly acted,it is,in my opinion,sensationalist for the sake of sensationalism. I have lost count of the number of movies I've seen where the hero is a cop who ,after years of dragging through the sewers of the criminal underworld,degrades into a scumbag or asshole(spelling?) worse than any he has been dragging through the sewers after. This might (indeed it obviously does) seem like a great pitch for a movie,but it has very little to do with reality.But fleshed out,as in this case,with grainy cinema verite photography,the sort of overacting that is fondly thought of as naturalistic and grimy location work can give even a preposterous concoction like this an air of gritty realism it doesn't merit. Big Themes like Catholic Guilt and Redemption have been freely bandied about in relation to The Bad Lieutenant,but the fact is it's a trash movie in concept and execution,hiding behind the conventions of an art movie subsequently thrust upon it by some who might otherwise feel grubby about enjoying it. Don't be ashamed boys(and I suspect it's mostly boys),it won't make you go blind. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings (Major spoilers)","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferraras Bad Lieutenant is often considered one of those movies where you either love or hate it. I for one had mixed feelings about this movie. The first 15 minutes of film is just Harvey Keitel going around doing bad things. After that the nun is raped. So at this point I am thinking ok we know he is bad, we get the point now a plot will start. But that is exactly what didn't happen. Instead we are forced to carry on watching him do bad things and that is it. Another point is the lack of really bad things he does. All he really does is take drugs and steal things. The worst thing he did in the film was w**k over the two girls who he made to sexual things for him. And whats all this killer thing? At no point in the film does he kill anyone. It also seems (like most of Ferraras films) that keitel is the only character in the film and everyone else has such minor and unimportant roles. The only part the film where a plot was going on is the end in the church and the bus station. The good things about this film is the gritty realism of it. I also think Keitel is great in the role. Overall I would give this film 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Early Scorsese imitator reaches new heights in poor taste","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are reasons why certain fictional gangsters have become iconic figures in the history of American cinema and television&#x97;characters such as Tony Montana, Michael Corleone, and Anthony Soprano. The creators of these characters understood that in order for the public to accept such anti-heroes, they had to have a great amount of charm to compensate for their perverted moral cores. Why did so many of us tune in week after week to watch the machinations of stone cold killer Tony Soprano? Because he was exceptionally likable and had a personality that most viewers could identify with. If he wasn't exactly like us, Tony was more like one of our eccentric uncles. The same goes for all the principal characters on the Sopranos&#x97;there was nothing black and white about any of them. They all had wonderful shades of gray that drew us in every week.Way before Bad Lieutenant came out in the early 90s, Marty Scorsese was desperate to make a name for himself as an independent art director. He wanted to be thought of on par with the great directors of Europe such as Fellini and Bergman. While he developed his technical skills at a fast clip in his early films, Scorsese lagged way behind in terms of psychological insight. He did not understand the concept that anti-heroes need to be both amoral and charismatic at the same time. Hence his protagonists were one-note basically mean-spirited and wholly unsympathetic. The young Scorsese had deluded himself into believing that he had some great insights into the criminal personality that others of his day did not. The public, desperate for 'art', bought into Scorsese's juvenile portraits of the petty criminal. Scorsese's pretentiousness reached its apotheosis in the extremely overrated 'art' film, Raging Bull, a slow-moving, virtually plot less 'biography' of the boxer Jake LaMotta. Somehow we were asked to continually applaud Scorcese's 'expose' of Lamotta's 'sordid' nature without considering that the man might have also had some likable attributes.The Bad Lieutenant is very much akin to the awkward attempts at drama served up by the early Scorsese. Director Abel Ferrara seeks to outdo his mentor by introducing us to the unnamed Lt played by Harvey Keitel. From the outset, this Bad Lieutenant is just about as 'bad' as you can get. He curses in front of his kids, has a very bad gambling problem and is addicted to cocaine and heroin. In addition, he consorts with prostitutes and despises women. Early on there is a scene where a young police officer is about to arrest two punks for stealing $500 from a Chinese store owner. The Lieutenant intervenes by firing his gun and tells the rookie officer to take the store owner down to the precinct and file a complaint. He then menaces the punks and gets them to not only admit that they committed the robbery but hand over the cash. Instead of returning the cash to the store owner, the Lieutenant pockets the money, opens a bag of food inside the store and begins eating it&#x97;without, of course, paying for it (the young daughter of the store owner watches from a doorway as everything transpires). All this is supposed to illustrate what a degenerate Keitel's character is. Of course it could never happen in real life. A police report is always filed when an officer discharges his gun. The young police officer would not have kept silent and would have certainly reported the incident to Internal Affairs.There are numerous other incidents of the Lieutenant's misconduct throughout the film but no one seems to want to rat him out. It's as if the police department has no interest at all in reigning in this loose cannon. The subtext here is that the police department itself is completely corrupt and fails to deal with the 'bad lieutenant' because they are thoroughly corrupt themselves!Ferrara's strategy (like early Scorsese) is to shock his audience as much as possible. He's saying 'I want to show you the depths that a human being can sink to'. But such portraits are specious&#x97;it's much more difficult to depict a multi-dimensional human being who can be kind one minute and brutal the next. Even if one buys into the idea there are such worthless bad apples as the bad lieutenant, they don't walk around society in a vacuum. He never seems to interact with any members of his family or his colleagues and hence is never held accountable for anything he does.Beyond the lack of believability of his main character, Ferrara fancies himself a social critic, attempting to shed light on the sexual exploitation of women. But instead of dealing with this subject responsibly, he borders on being as guilty as the exploiters themselves! For example, Ferrara dwells on the Lieutenant's sexual fixation for much too long, with Keitel shown sexually humiliating two young women inside a car while he stands outside masturbating. More unnecessary titillation occurs when Ferrara 'gets off' depicting the slow motion rape of a nun inside a church. The Bad Lieutenant ends perversely as it began. The degenerate 'man of the law' decides to 'turn the other cheek' at the behest of the nun who wishes to forgive her attackers. In an unlikely reversal, instead of turning the young rapists in, he puts them on a bus to get out of town with the ton of cash he was planning to bet with his bookie. After all the nastiness, somehow the Bad Lieutenant is not so 'bad' after all! Still, the nastiness must not go unpunished the gamblers get their revenge and blow Mr. Keitel's errant officer away.If 'The Bad Lieutenant' has one redeeming feature, it's the clips we see of the New York Mets from the early 90s. While the comeback from a 3-0 deficit during the playoffs was invented for the film, it was still neat seeing such beloved players as Sid Fernandez show off his stuff one more time. "},{"Title":"Keitel is great, but a story would have been nice, too.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This provocative film has an almost documentary-like feel in its depiction of New York lowlife, and another credible performance by Harvey Keitel, but at times it's as stagnant as the hero's life - Ferrara holds the shots too long, as if we're supposed to look for something more into them than what is actually there. Still, the film is certainly not the exploitive trash that some have labeled it as, and deserves a solid 7. "},{"Title":"An immoral character that is faced with a deserved ending","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" No doubt Harvey Keitel is an excellent actor and in Bad Lieutenant Harvey portrays a dirty cop which is right up his alley as an actor. The Bad Lieutenant's name is not important which is more of a symbolism that this bad Lieutenant's life is not important but rather meaningless. As the Lieutenant continues to drive around New York city supposedly representing the city of New York's police department fighting crime, the bad Lieutenant is actually spiralling further and further out of control by digesting a junkies dose of cocaine each day and drinking himself into oblivion by night.The story evolves around a beautiful young nun who is raped in her Catholic church by two young men who attend the local school attached to the church where the nun is raped. As the investigation begins the nun is reluctant to incriminate the two young men who raped her. Instead, she enters the confessional and asks the priest hearing her confession to keep his oath of privacy and she will too by not telling the police who raped her as she has forgiven them already.The bad Lieutenant is not as forgiving, but as he continues to steal from local grocery store owners, rack up insurmountable gambling debts with the local bookies, commit lewd acts with young teenagers driving without a license, and take drug stashes for his personal use from the drug dealers, the bad Lieutenant chases down the nun's two rapists. As his own life is spiralling out of control we the audience wonder how the bad Lieutenant will revenge the rape of the young nun. This is not a story of redemption, but rather a story of a Lieutenant who has lost himself in the world of crime, drugs, and gambling and has lived the first 40 odd years of his life without fear of dying on the streets of New York. Harvey Keitel provides the audience with another strong performance but the story line itself is simply one dimensional and the bad Lieutenants repetitive bad habits and rants to the almighty Jesus or anyone else who will listen to him are quite frankly boring and lead the audience to the inevitable conclusion that the bad Lieutenant by title alone is not very good. I give the film a 2 out of 4 star rating for Mr. Keitel's strong acting, but I must say that writer/director Abel Ferrara's vision of a bad Liutenant in the city of New York's police force has been done many times before with better results than in this film. "},{"Title":"Difficult to watch","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The is one of the most difficult movies to sit through. The movie is about drug use, sex and perversion. There really isn't much of a story here.The lead character is one of the most despicable you'll ever see. Harvey Keitel did a credible job in the main role as a very stupid, drug-addicted, unethical police officer. This isn't a crime thriller, there's not really any suspense - it's something entirely different. Unless someone enjoys seeing a cop humiliate and degrade himself and others in multiple ways, there is no reason anyone should want to watch this disgusting movie. "},{"Title":"Not entertainment.","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Most people will dismiss this as one of the worst movies they've seen. Mainly because the movie has an amoral main character and because the movie isn't entertaining and mostly uncomfortable to watch. But with the subject being mainly corruption and the theme redemption with an unlikeable character I find it understandable. I myself love this movie since I am into heavy stuff that makes me think and fill me with dread. This movie manages both if you ask me. I feel it is such a strong movie with some existential philosophy about a corrupt man starting to feel guilt about his life. Leading to his quest for redemption. The story plays out well, showing our main character's irresponsible ways ranging from gambling, drug abuse, taking bribes to harassing young women. I think it is such a tragic movie. The director certainly did a great job if you ask me, considering the hard subject he did his job quite thoughtfully making the story and plot convincing. Leading to a movie in my opinion one of the best tragedies ever put on film.Now Harvey Keitel is an actor I have the utmost respect for. I have yet to see a bad movie he has been in. He often plays roles that are hard to play and where most actors tend to slip a Little in playing their characters, I think Harvey often does his job strongly and convincingly. I imagine if another actor tried to do what Harvey did in this movie many actors would have made the character laughable instead of uncomfortable, pitiful and convincing. He is a subtle actor even in his most outrageous roles, also quite graceful. This movie is no exception in his acting. I could relate to his character, even though he was such an amoral character with very few redeeming qualities. I only feel this way to a few actors and just to name a few like Gary Oldman, Denzel Washington, Al Pacino and Michael Caine (I didn't write them all since it isn't about them). So yes, I am very fond of Harvey Keitel. He is a rare talent that doesn't get much recognition. But he is a professional and he keeps his life private which I respect even more.This is a thought provoking movie where the audience has to take part in the Lieutenant's life which is a corrupt life. It has a simple plot in which the Lieutenant is trying to find the rapists of a nun and find redemption. The story is good in which it perfectly shows how corrupt our Lieutenant is and it is full of subtleties where the Lieutenant even though harsh and corrupt, hides a good man that went wrong ways with wrong decisions. Oh and the existential part? The lieutenant is looking for redemption and try to do one good thing in order to forgive himself, what can be more existential than that? Trying to find meaning to his life which he has been wasting a lot. What a waste his life was by the way. After each time I watch the movie I begin to feel grateful for my dull life, because although it is dull I haven't sunken as deep as the Lieutenant. So in my opinion this is a movie that has to be watched again and again. Although it doesn't fall into everyone's taste. It is a hard movie to watch after all. "},{"Title":"Do It, Harvey!","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While investigating a young nun's rape, a corrupt New York City police detective (Harvey Keitel), with a serious drug and gambling addiction, tries to change his ways and find forgiveness.Desson Howe called the Lieutenant a notch nicer than Satan in the Washington Post, and he cites Keitel's work as the film's saving grace, writing, It is only the strength of Keitel's performance that gives his personality human dimension. This is completely the truth. The film could be exploitation, something that would not be a surprise from director Abel Ferrara after Driller Killer and Ms. 45. But Keitel's performance is so strong, so authentic, that he adds a level of beauty to a character who is completely unlovable. "},{"Title":"A Film You're Not Suppose To Like","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those Pieces of Art that is there to solely evoke, not necessarily to admire or like. A through the lens, only slightly distorted, look at things that are never easy to experience at any level. Unaware Viewers may be surprised to discover that the underlying underbelly of this remarkable Movie, that is the brutal Rape of a Nun with a Crucifix participating, was taken straight out of the New York City Headlines. An infamous Crime that was a Front Page and Evening News Story.The acclaimed Performance by Harvey Keitel is mesmerizing and is as disturbing as its reputation. The Film is a natural Soap Box for dissenters and is an easy target. If you want slick Crime Movies, go elsewhere. This is Cinema Verite with virtually no Music, fancy Editing, or Glorification of any sort. it is without restraint, unapologetic Realism without filtration.The Director relies heavily on His usual Religious Imagery and juxtaposes it whenever possible with its unusually unsettling display of Human Depravity. This is a Character Study of a Lost Soul that is a Half-Step from the Grave while Sprinting towards Hell. He will Exit with one last feeble attempt at Redemption that only his Drug and Alcohol drenched, deranged Mind could see as something Noble. "}{"Title":"It's Definitely about a Bad Lieutenant...","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant is sleazy, dark tale of a corrupt, perverted, drug addicted gambler police lieutenant played by Harvey Keitel. I loved two thirds of this film before it started falling apart for me. I do like sleazy, gritty crime films like French Connection, Dirty Harry or 70's Japanese crime films.Harvey Keitel is brilliant in this film. He embodies this sleazy, drug addicted cop perfectly. The rest of the cast are fine. There are no other meaty roles, since the focus is on Keitel's character always. If you ever wanted to see Mr. Keitel's junk or see him masturbating in front of a car then this is the film for you. Did I mention the fact that Bad Lieutenant is NC-17 rated film? It's not very violent but it compensates on sexual violence, graphic nudity and other goods that make this film Adults only material.I liked the look of this film a lot. It reminds me of his Ms. 45 and Taxi Driver. I love the sleazy, dirty New York of the 70's and early 80's. It's such a rich and interesting setting that gives this film a unique atmosphere and mood. Just like Ms. 45, Bad Lieutenant is well directed, has a lot of style and sleaze to spare.There is the one huge flaw to this film that almost destroyed it for me. The part of redemption is so heavy handed and nonsensical that it's almost laughable, if weren't for the excellent acting from Harvey Keitel. My mind doesn't accept the concept of forgiveness when the subject is a violent gang rape. What I'm trying to say is that I hated the last third of the film and it almost destroyed this film for me.Bad Lieutenant is not for everybody and the NC-17 rating might scare off some viewers. If you love Harvey Keitel and Abel Ferrara then you must see it. If you like films that are willing to take risks then you must see it. For me it's watchable but the last third still bugs me. "},{"Title":"Undeniably grim and compelling.","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Co-writer and director Abel Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant is a fascinating depiction of one of the dregs of humanity; the bad lieutenant of the title is a detective played by Harvey Keitel in one of his best ever performances. This lieutenant is crooked, a drug addict, a gambling fool, and nobody's candidate for world's greatest dad. Yet it is these very flaws that make him such a memorable character, in a story where one has to wonder if the character is redeemable, until he finally starts making an honest-to-God effort to pull himself together. Now, the movie isn't altogether perfect as it gets *awfully* slow at times, but it's still extremely sobering while we see the kind of things that this character does on a daily basis. It isn't until near the end that it is possible to actually *want* him to rise from the abyss. Part of what stirs something inside of him is his investigation into the case of a young nun (Frankie Thorn) who'd been raped - and who has already forgiven her attackers. He questions why she would not want justice, and learns a pretty big lesson in the whole idea of forgiveness. And it's none other than Jesus himself to whom the Lt. lays bare his soul. While there's a fine assemblage of character actors on hand - Victor Argo, Paul Calderon, Leonard Thomas, Penelope Allen, etc. (as well as co-writer Zoe Lund, the star of Ferrara's 1981 classic Ms. 45, in a bit), this is truly Keitel's show, and he shows such fearlessness in his performance - including his infamous full frontal scene - that he just pulls you right into this seedy little world. While the movie consists more of episodes than a really strong story, these are some very striking and sordid episodes, although a faint glimmer of hope is eventually created, making the not too surprising resolution downbeat (yet fitting) indeed. With its gritty atmosphere, ideas about personal responsibility & acceptance of fate, and non-judgemental approach towards its main character, Bad Lieutenant is the kind of thing that a viewer can't easily dismiss, or forget. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A picture of depravity, only to be inflicted as possible therapeutic punishment","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant (Director Abel Ferrara) 90 mins, starring Harvey Keitel, NY cop,&#x85; hopelessly addicted to drugs, gambling, and sex, in this intense, hallucinatory portrait of sin and redemption&#x85;So says the blurb. I found it a revolting, excessively drawn-out spectacle of human degradation, which would lead one to conclude that the inhabitants of New York are living in hell. The dialogue of police and low-life characters is snarled, slurred, or Spanish; unintelligible except for the most frequently uttered verb (4 letters, of course). The demonstrations of how to absorb drugs, heating, snorting, and carefully injecting them, might be useful to the uninitiated; any benefits can barely be suggested by photographs, but the visible sordidness could serve as aversion therapy, if druggies were merely treated to an enforced viewing (twice in succession) of this 90-minute record of depravity. Love-less, anomalous sexual acts add a little to this disgust. Keitel's performance might be something of a virtuoso act, but there is no purgation, repentance or redeeming feature. The sub-human cop , in his painfully prolonged howl and wail, cannot move one to pity, or even terror. Any suggestion of redemption is too brief, unconvincing, and unmerited to emerge. A civilised judgment would be sordid in the extreme. "},{"Title":"Police Activity!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's heavyweight portrait of sin and redemption,featuring a truly astonishing performance by Harvey Keitel as aseriously out-of-control New York police officer, consumed by ablack hole of addiction and vice, gambling tens of thousands ofdollars on The World Series to pay off mountainous debts andfeed a spectrum of drug habits until the brutal rape of a nununexpectedly instills the morally corrupt lieutenant with a glimmerof humanity. "},{"Title":"Kind of hard to tell what to make of this movie...","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kietel plays LT, a cop with not a bit of morality in sight. He goes through the movie gambling, stealing, doing drugs, harassing his kids, you name it. A real bad motha. Then, he redeems himself after the brutal rape of a nun. The films goes overboard with Religious Allusions, ranging from a cameo of Jesus to disturbing shots of full frontal nudity. Whatever. Criticism time...Harvey Kietel didn't seem like a cop, but more of a gangster. He's also playing Harvey Kietel again. The funny thing is that his character is such a messed up person, but you never found out how he got to be that way. After all, he's still married, he still has kids, he still makes a decent living, so what's to fuss about? Is this a flaw in the story, or was Abel Ferrera just intending to offend the viewer as much as possible, regardless of the forming plot holes?If you know what I mean, see it, and you'll say the exact word I used in the first paragraph after the final scene. Whatever. "},{"Title":"Convincing,if flawed,tale of redemption snatched from the jaws of degradation.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A convincing,if ultimately flawed,classical morality tale of spiritual redemption snatched from the jaws of pervasive degradation.Harvey keitel's(? career best) meticulous,emotionally nuanced performance is effectively faciliated by deceptively simple,naturalistic direction(long takes,low-key lighting and editing etc..).This brave,frightingly intense execution almost compensates for director Abel Ferrara's occassionaly heavy-handed catholic symbolism.I found myself comparing-favourably-this provocative work with Martin Scorsese's own highly charged films of spiritual conflicts(Mean Streets and,in particular,Last Temptation Of Christ). "},{"Title":"The redemption of the irredeemable !!!","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Bad Lieutenant' directed by Abel Ferrara is a film which is very difficult to sit through, but still offers a transcendentally rewarding cinematic experience. The plot centers around the titular Bad Lieutenant played by Harvey Keitel as we witness the sorry state of his life and the self destructing nature of his psyche. The characters remain unnamed. The film has a very loose plot, but is heavy on thematic content. This is a film that has Catholicism written all over it in a very unapologetic way. The protagonist is a mentally troubled individual. All his objectionable antics and self- destructive ways are rooted in self loathing and guilt. He has a Catholic background. But the evil that surrounds him all the time on his job as a cop in New York has clearly made him stray away from his teachings and corrupted him in the most hideous way possible. He engages in illegal gambling, sexual harassment, addiction to all sorts of drug, etc. I believe it is the guilt of having compromised his Catholic ways that leads him to punish himself in his own way by destroying his health with an insatiable drug addiction. He believes that his past actions and mistakes have made his soul irredeemable. He can't forgive himself and so he indulges in further heinousness to make himself more worthy of judgement and punishment. But the case involving the raped nun makes him reconsider his ideas about redemption and forgiveness which involves forgiving others as well as his own self through repentance. The ending scenes of the film are absolutely perfect. The last shot of the film is fascinating and can be interpreted in two ways.Zoë Tamerlis Lund and Abel Ferrara with the script left no stone unturned to depict the depths to which the protagonist is ready to stoop to. The film is littered with disturbing scenes which are very tough to endure and sit through. The film also has very explicit scenes of drug use which reminded me of 'The Panic in Needle Park'. I think the explicitness and the disturbing nature of these scenes was essential to depict how broken he is and how much he hates his own self. The style of Ferrara's storytelling is rough, dirty and uncompromising. There are two scenes in the film which are contrasting in nature in terms of both style and content, but both of them floored me. There are certain things in the movie that reminded me of Scorsese very much. The gritty and uncompromising filmmaking, the style of shooting the New York streets, Harvey Keitel's presence and the Catholic symbolism(a bit more overt here than in Scoresese's films) all reminded me of Scorsese. Harvey Keitel delivers a tour de force performance. To a great extent the film depended on Keitel's performance to work and not only did Keitel make the film work, he elevated it to the next level. The character like Jake Lamotta in 'Raging Bull' is certainly despicable, but the script, Ferrara's direction and certainly Keitel's performance gave the character depth, layers and a degree of humanism.'Bad Lieutenant' is a tough film to watch. The camera never shies away from violence and grotesque incidents. But through the horrendous behaviour of the 'Bad Lieutenant', the film ends up being a transcendental experience of self realisation, forgiveness and the burden of guilt. The fact that I loved this film so much even without having any ties to Catholicism proves how well made a film it is. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Are you a drug counsel or a drug dealer?","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara's ultra gritty classic Bad Lieutenant holds up and in my opinion is Harvey Keitel's best performance ever. Of course, Mr. Keitel is always excellent. But here he goes above and beyond and is perfect in this role. He is a gambling addicted, junkie, alcoholic, perverted thief cop swimming in an ocean of depravity. He has a mean streak as well and is on a serious decent into his own private hell in this character study. The film takes place in early 90's NYC, when it was still a rough and dangerous environment. The Rotten Apple's most rotten police officer is on a real tough case. When a nun gets gang raped and the church is desecrated, Keitel is on the case. Based on a real life case, where the public was so outraged there was a reward for 50 g's to whoever apprehends the suspects. Even by the amoral standards of our anti hero, the Bad Lieutenant these guys are the scum of the Earth. Harvey Keitel more than does his part in carrying this film delivering a volatile, explosive performance with searing screen presence to boot. Abel Ferrara made his best film here that is hard, bleak and downbeat in its vision of a man who's life is spinning out of control. Harvey Keitel's performance is second to none and as bad as this guy is there is room for sympathy for his character as he brings not only pain, but humanity as well. "},{"Title":"No Cop Out.","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Unrelenting ugliness.Line in the movie 'Vampires are lucky, they can feed on on others. We've gotta eat away at ourselves.'That's all this movie is about. Keitel's singleminded self-destruction. Drugs, violence, women, alcohol, gambling etc. You name it, he's doing it and doing it badly.Supporting cast, story etc are all just props. Setting the stage for a harrowing portrayal by Keitel. This movie is not entertainment. Not something to identify with or enjoy. Not something to understand. Consider yourself lucky if such madness has never touched your lifeOnly thing left to do is be a spectator.Repulsive. Yet, even in the face of an overpowering urge to distance yourself, might still find yourself strangely moved.Wish them well.Thank you. "},{"Title":"Rough urban parable","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This tough feature plays out as a modern parable in the social gutter of New York. A lost soul wanders through the film, tended to by a number of Samaritan-type figures in a string of short episodes. The twist is that the needy man is in fact the statutory moral guardian, a detective, and that those who look after him are criminals.The film is shot on location and has a sense of realism, yet each frame is composed to suggest old master religious paintings; pietas, momentos mori. There is lots of Caravaggio in this film. Consequently, it's a very physical film, the lyricism delivered visually with little dialogue. Keitel is heartbreakingly good as the wretched detective cut adrift from his family and, increasingly, reality. The low-point of the film is delivered as he fails to reconcile himself to the idea of forgiveness and his pain and internal wrestling comes out as a howl. It's a remarkably well-calibrated expression of his state, repeated at the denouement as he tries to emulate the Christ on whom he calls, only for his visionary act of penitent altruism to go ignored on the hard streets of Brooklyn. The whole feature has a meditation on faith in his fragile hope placed in a series of baseball matches which not only disappoint but compound his problem. A well-considered and constructed film but not for the delicate viewer. 6/10 "}{"Title":"A great movie overall, but Harvey Keitel's showcase is the reason to watch this.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant is certainly not for the faint of heart, nor is it a movie to sit and enjoy. it's a sorrowing experience, but a very important one. It's a great character study, definitely one of the best I've ever seen. There is so much more to Harvey's character than meets the eye. He's a drug addict, a thief, he gambles, but there is so much deep within himself that we find out. I was able to see past all his shady shenanigans and watch a man suffering from pure anguish and miserable in his own life. I was actually able to muster up some sympathy for his character, especially the church scene where he berates Jesus Christ and begs for his forgiveness, it was one of the most emotionally painful and heartbreaking scenes I've ever seen. It's a character study of a man basically destroying himself slowly but surely, and the movie takes us all the way through that depressing journey. There is no happy ending, there is no payoff, it's a depressing movie all the way through.Performances. Harvey Keitel's performance should have earned him an Oscar or at least nominated. He clearly put his heart and soul into this movie, and I'm certain he suffered from depression for a bit after making this movie, I know I would have.Bottom line. it's not only an amazing showcase of acting from one of the most underrated actors Harvey Keitel, it's a great movie. It's not fun, there's not a single pay off to be had, but it's very much a required viewing.8 1/2 /10 "},{"Title":"good cop, hurt cop.","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" when i first saw this film i took it at its obvious drug-addicted, veteran cop starts getting high on the confiscated supply and descends into a nauseating grail all the way to his bottom. the movie's justification was its reality--his degeneracy looks and feels real.but today, through another eye, i saw a man ground by PTSD, years after years of homicides preaching that life means nothing, it's cheap, we're just flesh, meat on the bone.and he is finally, fully converted to this belief. and the one life that by default means nothing most of all is his own. and through his conversion he finds his grail-- his own meaningless death. his preacher prescribes the method of his execution, and the sentence will be carried out using the tools of the streets. and he accepts this, his lessons have burned him beyond his own recognition.and redemption finds him along the way. but it is too late to stop the clock. maybe, his own act of forgiveness will benefit him in his next incarnation. will he now be allowed to pass through the eye of the needle? "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you have not seen this film please disregard the rating which is ridiculously low. I will try to be strict and give this film only 9 out of 10 because not everyone in this film was so brilliant as Harvey Keitel, but hardly anyone did not do their job well. It is a masterpiece portrait of a person living the rough reality of our world coping with it in his own self-destructive way, gambling with it, dealing with it as most of us don't. Inner fight between the worst and the best in him brings him to fatal answer. Is there a way to represent the law of the hypocritical society and not be a hypocrite yourself, no matter if you can get away with something or not? Harvey answers in his brilliant way in his most probably best film. Must see. "},{"Title":"Bad Harvey","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This can be a very hard movie to take if you are not totally prepared, this movie will hit you like a ton of brick,, like a shockwave, graphic nudity, male and female. people shooting up drugs in various ways,, nuns getting raped , gambling, murder, scenes in a catholic church that will make you cringe.. Harvey Keitel gives probably the best performance of his career in this movie,, although personally i could have done without the frontal nudity,, but hey other than that , i liked the movie,, this is one definitely not for the kiddies. A Homicide detective sees the mean st's of Brooklyn and Manhattan everyday and well you start to see the effect it is taking on him,, he is working on a case where two nuns from the Catholic Church get raped. he sees degradation every day on the job,, he drinks,, does drugs,, pulls over teenage girls and well,, we'll just let you see,, anyway a pretty good character study here. excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Fuklng Strawberry!!!!","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What can i say, one of the best, brutal and realistic performance i ever see in cinema, by one of the best American actor, Harvey Keithel. There is moments in the film that are so realistic, that we ask ourselves, this cant be more real!!!. This is a mean and nasty portrait of the human condition,there limits, and beyonds. Its a spiral of corruption, violence, substance abuse, that culminates in a total desperation of the human being. No one capt the city limits like Abel Ferrara does.If you like over the edge cinema, this one is a must see. And if you like this movie i cant also recommend Taxi Driver (Martin Scorcese) ; King of New York (Abel Ferrara); MS45 (Abel Ferrara) "},{"Title":"Bad is hardly the word of it","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)Probably no cop ever sunk so low as Harvey Keitel's New York police lieutenant. He is the very personification of corruption and hypocrisy. Addicted to every street drug of note, heroin, cocaine, crack cocaine, which he both snorts and main lines. He chugalugs vodka. He neglects his family, his children. He consorts with prostitutes, two at a time. He goes to crime scenes to steal the drugs or the money. He takes bribes and stops young female drivers and shakes them down for sex.He is a Catholic that considers the church a racket. He is a cop who solves no crimes, who lets the criminals go free if they pay him. He corrupts not only himself but the entire system of criminal justice. He is appetite incarnate.But what does him in is his betting on baseball games. It is the year the Mets came from three games down to win the National League championship, and he bet against the Mets. With play by play in background in scene after scene we are reminded forcibly that the outcome of baseball games is one thing he cannot control, something that he cannot corrupt, and perhaps that is why he bets on the games.Abel Ferarra's portrait of a man turbo'ed toward hell is one of the better films I have seen recently. It is uncompromising in its cynicism. Keitel's performance is strident and intense, all consuming and depraved. He is a muscle, an artery that throbs. He is a man who will never be satisfied, who will never be fulfilled. His is the very antithesis of the nun who is raped and forgives those who rape her. She is fulfilled with the love of Jesus. But he cannot believe--or rather, what is worse, his belief is corrupted. In the end we see that he does believe in Jesus and the saints but while he cries out that he himself is weak, he blames Jesus.He meets a fitting end, but I must warn you, this is a disturbing movie and one that will offend. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh yeah, I love this movie, have seen it 3 times in the last 2 weeks. It's just incredible, how the movie shows the loss of reality, the more and more desperate situation, and the handling of that situation by the lieutenants irrational actions, caused by his loss of reality due to his massive drug consume and gambling addiction. He is falling deeper and deeper, until he has nothing left than his believe in god. He is loosing more and more the control of the situation, until he realizes at one point, that there will be no future for him. Sure he left the normal life long time before, his family doesn't mean nothing to him. And in the end, only god is left, the only one who would stand by his side, for the short rest of his life, and what comes after. But as he is a sinner, he has to react, to confess and to do something good, so that he won't end up in hell. Whether what he did was good or bad for a normal person doesn't matter, cause in his mind it was a good deed. He tried. Anyways in his drug world didn't exist good or bad, so he took the example of the nun, and maybe did it, cause she forgave them too. And she must know whats good or bad, cause as a nun she's supposed to be near to god. well, what else can I say? Great acting, great movie (8/10) "},{"Title":"Bravura performance by Keitel","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Your mainstream audience member would probably never consider viewing an Indie classic like this and that's a shame because it possesses arguably one of the best performances in a film in years. This is the type of film that signifies cinema as art instead of trying to please shallow movie goers and it allows viewers to see a brutally honest depiction of a deeply troubled character. Story is about a Police Lieutenant (Harvey Keitel) who is married and has kids but he's also a compulsive gambler with a drug addiction. He can't wait to get back on the job because he can start taking his drugs again and his betting on the Baseball Playoffs is putting him into serious debt and even his bookie has warned him to pay up because his life may be in jeopardy from those who want their money. He drinks and steals drugs from crime scenes and generally abuses his authority at every turn.*****SPOILER ALERT*****One day the Lieutenant hears about the brutal rape of a nun (Frankie Thorn) and while his life and career start spiraling out of control this leads him to start thinking about why the nun would forgive the rapists. Through the haze of his drug taking and drinking he starts remembering that he's a catholic and after visiting with the nun he starts hallucinating about the presence of God.This film is directed by Abel Ferrara (Ms. 45) who has become one of the best known independent filmmakers and this is arguably his best film to date. While some may think that a bigger budget would have benefited this effort I strongly disagree because one of the appeals for me in a film like this is the rough look of it. Also, I think it would take away from the incredible rawness of Keitel's performance who again proves that he's one of the most daring actors of our generation. Keitel throws himself into the world of a drug addict cop but the film has more to it than that and the script has these religious overtones that seem to represent that Keitel is a sick man who just wants someone to understand and justify his actions. Ferrara's film is unflinching and it gives Keitel the type of role that most actors can just dream about. "},{"Title":"the story about a lieutenant who is trashy, dirty, revolting and most of all BAD","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the most chocking films I ever seen that takes place in New York, a story about the baddest police lieutenant in the NYPD, a man who drinks, smokes, takes drugs, takes ridiculous bets on baseball games, sells drugs and destroying himself, Harvey Keitel is incredible, I should think that he deserves some oscar or something because of his incredible role as a alcoholic. Too bad they is this scene when he see's Jesus in the church in Spanish Harlem who is a bit axagerated but still it remains for me one of the best Abel Ferrarra films I ever seen ! "},{"Title":"Scary movie.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lesson on all the ways to do dope.A lesson on all the ways to corrupt your life.A lesson in spiritual stupidity.A lesson on total stupidity.I only say this because I've watched or experienced everything the Lieutenant goes through, probably we all have at some degree or another.  What really got me was the whine of when you discover that you are truly and completely squashed by life.  Raised the hair on the back of my neck, by golly.  Too real.  Too scary.     "}{"Title":"Masterfully crafted....","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ferrara's poignant and graphic portrayal of a man's descent to his own hell was delivered with a striking efficiency rarely found in an era of simple product. The various elements of topic here fit and are woven almost seamlessly into this production and the audience is drawn into its finely paced structure almost immediately. One should quickly overlook the nearly gratuitous profanity and see the picture from within a much greater context. These include the daily inner-city reality, the ongoing personal struggle of want and need, of his undeniable thirst for deliverance and redemption. The film cleverly leaves us the impression that, in his final moments, he may indeed have been. The cinematography and Keitel's performance were in no way a small part in driving home the absurdity of the human condition.  "},{"Title":"Great film, great plot, GREAT CHARACTERS!","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It could be a bukowskian story. But not. Abel Ferrara put us in the hole, in the life of a police officer that doesnt do anything good.He is drug adict, he is alcoholic, he is violent and has no respet for his family. Great work (and when i say great, i say excellent, there are no scratches) by harvey keitel. I have to recognize that i became a fan of him since this movie.  "},{"Title":"a powerful, daring film that meditates on religious ideals.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many of the reviews that I have read about Bad Lieutenant mention the scene in where Harvey Kietel hallucinates, thinking that he sees Christ. People that believe this are missing the point of the whole movie. Kietel's character, LT, does in fact see Christ  he appears to offer salvation to a man who's at the end of his rope.  The theme of Bad Lieutenant is a religious one, that all men, even a crooked cop, are eligible for redemption.If you don't believe in the ideals of religion, suspend your disbelief, open your mind, and try to understand the point the director is making. Ferrara is not asking for sympathy for the character, nor is he trying to 'convert' the audience in any way  He's just telling a story of man's need for forgiveness and redemption.Bad Lieutenant is by far Ferrara's best work, and Kietel has never been better.  This is a deep, daring, and rare film that covers topics that most film makers wouldn't even consider.  Highly recommended! 9 out of 10. (avoid the R-rated version)  "},{"Title":"Biblical Parable On Celluloid","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stark and frighteningly convincing modern-day parable of redemption.Even the lowest of the low retains a spark of humanity (although I've never seen a spark this small before!). Nobody but Harvey Keitel could've pulled off this role. Abel Ferrara keeps the story taut and compact, which is wise considering that very little actually happens. The scene of revelation in the church is worth seeing the film for on its own, and would lose all its impact if not viewed against what has gone before. Don't bother watching this film if you want Hollywood entertainment, but if you like films to be challenging and thought-provoking then this is a must-see. Stays with you.   "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad is an understatement. The lieutenant is a despicable character, a self-centered jerk who abuses his power to get free drugs, sex, and money. Considering how much drugs and booze he consumes, it's amazing he can stand up, let alone do his work. Keitel's acting is wildly uneven. He has some good moments but is laughably ridiculous when he starts to whimper like a little boy. He also unnecessarily shows his private parts. The film is basically a series of vignettes without much flow to it. The denouement is meant to be meaningful but is totally bogus and out of step with what has gone on before. Ferrara's direction is heavy-handed and indulgent. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable and Repulsive, But It Is All In Context With The Piece","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Just as it was back in the early '90s, Bad Lieutenant still stands as a film where the content is just as controversial today as it was then. The film depicts many gruelling scenes, varying from sexual deprivation, to drug abuse, but none of it is exploitive or inappropriate. When you view the film it is a fact that you will promptly recognise why the film received much controversy on release. If you are easily offended then I would not recommend Bad Lieutenant, but if you are an open-minded individual, who appreciates ultra realistic cinema then Bad Lieutenant is a vital viewing experience.Harvey Keitel stars as The Lieutenant (a name is never given), a cruel and unforgiving man who abuses his law enforcement role to gain easy access to his own dirty habits. He will see prostitutes, snort coke, inject heroin, gamble his life savings and take away stolen money for his own benefit. The Lieutenant is a stomach-turning individual who lives in a hellish world surrounded by grim crime. There is nothing redeeming about the man at all, except that towards the end of the film he starts to seek redemption and goes on a quest to bring justice to a nun who has been raped by two unknown low-lives.Built on Harvey Keitel's electrifying performance of heartbreaking honesty and convincing visceral energy the performance is unforgettable and ranks alongside the greatest acting showcases of the '90s. The performance is the driving force behind the work, how the viewer is able to sympathise (to a certain extent) with Harvey Keitel's character shows remarkable talent. Essentially, it is up to viewer to gather their own opinion on the character, being that there is a considerable amount of thoughtfulness which should be taken into account. Take for example the scene towards the end of the film where Harvey Keitel's has an emotional breakdown of guilt within the confines of a Catholic church. It is a scene of overwhelming authority, carefully dominated by both the allegory of the church and Harvey Keitel's begging for forgiveness, while facing a hallucination of Christ.The raw script is crafted with a howl of merciless rage, providing a film which is not so much narrative driven, but singularly character driven. Abel Ferrara shows a real talent for his documentary technique, naturalistic camera-positioning and extended, up-close-and-personal tracking techniques. The film has a sense of cinéma vérité, echoed within that of the hand-held shooting methods and grainy style the film consistently follows. On my viewing it felt as though the film was not forced in its attempt to be authentic, but exceedingly effortless, while being sincere about its moralistic message. Since, ultimately, Bad Lieutenant is a very spiritual film portraying a despicable man's search for forgiveness and realisation of the inexcusable mistakes he has made.I certainly would not want to watch Bad Lieutenant again, at least not any time soon. It is depressing and fearless in its context, containing scenes which will leave you feeling very uncomfortable. All the same, I strongly recommend the film if you want to watch a film which steps across the boundaries of conveying a tortured soul. Bad Lieutenant is not a sleazy film, but a true eye-opener, which carries a heavy load of appalling actions depicted throughout the entire duration. Nevertheless, it is the thoughtful analysis of a damaged, reviled man which makes it an essential, one-time viewing. "},{"Title":"An impressive film, great character study by Ferarra and Keitel","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Ferarra's gritty NC-17 tale of a lieutenant who defies all laws to get through on the streets is pretty dark but realistic. This film like no other shows the downsides of being a junkie or tweaker, people on hard drugs. The film is written extremely well, good screenplay and the direction is decent. Although at times very graphic, it is definitely a well done film. I liked the performances as well, its basically a tour-de-force for Keitel who is amazing. Its not one that i can watch over and over, but its definitely a great film, i like the style and darkness, sort of reminiscent of Taxi Driver/Mean Streets type films. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Very Dark Comedy","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In Abel Ferrerra's Bad Lieutenant, the eponymous rouge immediately transcends the 'rogue cop' stereotype by injecting heroin, smoking crack and drunkenly pouring vodka on his naked body. His somewhat unconventional approach to law-enforcement continues to include stealing impounded drugs, releasing criminals in exchange for money and using his authority to force girls to simulate sex-acts while he masturbates in the rain. This isn't Inspector Morse.The derelict slums of downtown New York have swallowed the Lieutenant's soul and vomited it down a broken elevator. His withered ferret-face is an amalgamation of decades of Class A drugs and distress. However, his disinterest in his work alters when a beautiful young nun is raped; to solve the crime would offer some form of spiritual redemption, while the $50,000 reward would pay his debt to the mafia.Keitel's incredible, emotionally-charged performance reaches its apex near the conclusion; The Lieutenant suffers a mental-breakdown at the church where the rape occurred and tearfully yells obscenities and waves his fist at an alcohol-induced hallucination of Jesus as a bewildered, elderly woman watches. It is simultaneously tragic and hilarious. The woman eventually tells the Lieutenant the name and address of the criminals; he vows to bring them to justice after he has smoked more crack. It soon becomes apparent that Ferrerra shares the same warped view of Catholic sensibilities as Martin Scorsese.The Lieutenant's quest to find the true depths of human sin and the extent of God's forgiveness will disgust, excite and involuntarily entrance in equal measure. An extraordinary film. "},{"Title":"Gritty,very disturbing in parts,but ultimately rather pointless","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIntently focusing on the seedier side of life,Abel Ferrera's deeply controversial 1992 bad cop thriller is estentially a movie stabbing at an awkward character study which seems to have come at the expense of an engaging story.The CS in question being the central protagonist,Harvey Keitel's sleazy piece of sh*t corrupt cop who gradually finds redemption whilst searching for the brutal rapists of a young nun.There is some very unflattering,disturbing imagery on offer and you are never left without the impression that Keitel's character really is the sort of twisted bent cop who probably would steal drugs off a dead man's body or force two underage girls without a driving licence to simulate oral sex in front of him to let them off being taken down the station,but on the flip side of the coin,the story lacks structure and Keitel's soul finding seem sto come from the overuse of some rather nauseating whining scenes which grate on the viewers nerves somewhat.The movie seems to rely overly on shock value and that alone won't steer a movie to greatness for everyone.** "},{"Title":"One of the most disturbing and depressing movies I have ever seen","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am shocked to see that this movie is only rated a 6.5 with IMDb voters.  Bad Lieutenant features what may be the best performance of Harvey Keitel's distinguished career as a NYPD Lieutenant who struggles with just about every vice imaginable drug addiction, alcoholism, gambling, prostitutes... and Catholic guilt.  The Lieutenant's life is already spiraling dangerously out of control when the film starts, but he finds himself real-evaluating his grim life after he begins investigating the brutal rape of a nun.  Extremely depressing, disturbing and powerful look at depravity and a tortured soul.  The movie was rated NC-17 for a full-frontal nudity scene with Keitel, but the movie is so grim and disturbing that it probably would have been rated that anyway (as evidenced, there is an R-rated version of the video that is 5 minutes shorter).  Nevertheless, it is a great and powerful film that will be engraved in your mind years after you first see it.  9/10 "}{"Title":"A dark and gritty love it or hate it character study.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad Lieutenant turns the camera on Keitel as a burned out NYC homicide detective mired in the quicksand of his own self destruction. With no real plot, Bad... strings together a series of vignettes showing Keitel's struggle with his demons including drugs, alcohol, sex, gambling, and abuse of authority. A tour-de-force by Keitel, Bad... is a critically lauded love it or hate it flick which will likely turn off many with it's bleak and disturbing look at one man's desperation with nary a feel good moment to be found. "},{"Title":"Forgiveness?","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, it's only fair for me to say that the following jottings will give away the movie's denouement.  But as 'Bad Lieutenant' is not exactly a plot-driven film anyway, and as I suspect the vast majority of people browsing this page will have seen the movie already (and quite rightly the true function of criticism, positive or negative, is to send you back to the movie, book, whatever, with a fresh view of the material - these are REviews not PREviews; and anyway, there's not much to be gained from simply learning another person's opinion), I'm going ahead regardless.There's a fundamental problem with the film's 'redemption' theme that no article or review I've come across seems to have noticed it's the BL's confusion of forgiveness with leniency.  This is clear when he asks the nun if she has the 'right' to forgive the men who raped her.  What a ridiculous question!  Of course she has the right she was the victim, she is the only one who can forgive those men.  This shouldn't necessarily mean that she thinks the men should go unpunished, that she thinks the interests of society should be disregarded; it means that she has no thirsting for retribution.  But the climax makes it clear that the BL hasn't understood it this way, and that he believes by putting the rapists on a bus out of town he has attained a state of grace, when in fact he has only discovered a new pit of misery in which to immerse himself.  (I'm sure when the nun learns of what she inspired the lieutenant to do, she'll clap her hands to her forehead.)But - and here's the real mystery - there is absolutely zero sense of irony in this final scene; the viewer is not given any hint that the BL has found a yet lower deep.  Could it be that it is Ferrera and Tamerlis who are confused about what forgiveness is, and that they truly believe their protagonist has started to redeem himself?  I think that's the case.  But this ethical muddle, far from detracting from the movie, only adds to its fascination and (and I make no apologies for using the word, because I think this is one of the very few films for which it is appropriate) its importance. "},{"Title":"Started out strong and has good performances, but the rest is fairly boring(spoilers)","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had heard a lot about Bad Lieutenant over the years and I finally watched it yesterday.I was very disappointed.The movie started out strong, we see Keitel who is a corrupt drug addicted policeman.A nun gets raped and he must solve the case.They could have built the movie on that, however the rest of the movie is him just doing various drugs and showing how he is corrupt.He ends up finding the people who raped her(it is now shown how) and he lets them go? This movie could have been much better.Keitel's acting was good as usual, however the rest of the movie was just boring.I think this is a very overrated movie personally. "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful performances in movie history. Stunning.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara is arguably the most underrated director working today. Not all his movies are completely successful, but even his weaker efforts always interesting and original at the very least. And when he is on top form he is as compelling as contemporary movie making gets. 'Bad Lieutenant' is one of his very best, and close to being a masterpiece. Yes, it's THAT good. The subject matter isn't pretty, but it is honest and real, and Harvey Keitel gives one of the most powerful performances of his career. The supporting cast includes Ferrara regulars Paul Calderon ('Pulp Fiction'), Victor Argo ('Taxi Driver') and the late Zoe Lund ('Ms 45'), who also co-scripted, but this is Keitel's show. He carries this picture, and is simply stunning throughout. 'Bad Lieutenant' is a modern classic of alienation and spiritual bankruptcy, and is not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Repulsive and exploitative.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well-conceived one-man-on-the-edge films like Falling Down and Taxi Driver can contain a lot of truth and raise a lot of questions. Sadly, the only question Bad Lieutenant is just what the hell a good actor like Harvey Keitel was doing in it.Fittingly for such a drearily exploitative movie, Keitel's performance is hilariously bad, pulling out of the hat a lot of sub-de Niro cliches and, in his character's most angsty moments, letting out a loud feral howl which made me crease up every time he started.The main problem is that the film goes nowhere. Before the film LT was an appalling, immoral cretin. During the course of the film he is an appalling, immoral cretin. And by the end - yup, you guessed it, no retribution, no reinvention, no changes. Just the same old cretin.If Ferrara was attempting to highlight something about the moral decay of the world, he should have read Paul Schrader. Schrader's Taxi Driver shows that to create a truly tragic individual means that he most have at least some moral purpose behind the confusion of emotions. LT has nothing - just some hackneyed old Catholic background which is never properly developed and a hankering for revenge against the rapists of a nun which amounts to - er, giving them thousands of dollars in cash. And slapping them lightly on the cheeks.Repulsive in its images, at times incomprehensible in its execution, Bad Lieutenant remains strangely watchable as a tribute to excess. But an unsympathetic lead, one-dimensional supporting characters, a boring plot and moments of hideous immorality do not, Mr Ferrara, a good film make. "},{"Title":"CAN IT BE THAT BAD? YES!!!","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is for the serious Keitel fan, and no one else, unless that is... you are into seeing the perverse and low life scum-bags of this earth at their very worst. If not, please do not waste your time! Watching this senseless man in this senseless film will leave you with a terrible pit in your stomach for days. The filth which it displays for the human capacity is the utterly unfathomable, almost sacrilegious! I am not the squeamish type but I for one, was left with a negative morose feeling for about 3 days following the film. This depicts a cop that has no respect for himself, his wife, his children or anyone else for that matter. This is what the criminally insane are made of! Beware! Oh, and Harvey....I knew you were strange, but why in the world did you do this film??  "},{"Title":"Sex, Drugs, and Violence was Never so Boring","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow am I ever going to raise hell with the coworker who recommended this turd. What an awful movie. This movie is terrible for so many reasons. First, it violates a personal rule of mine. For me to like a movie, there has to be at least one character that I think is a decent human being. This movie did not have that. Second, this movie is not believable. The amount of drugs and alcohol that Harvey Keitel drinks, smokes, snorts, and injects is unreal. Third, this movie is slooooooow. There is hardly any dialogue in the movie. Much of the dialogue is inaudible. Fourth, there is almost no plot or story. Characters just enter and leave the film with no explanation of who they are or how they relate to the main character. Things just happen without rhyme or reason. The movie really only has one character and we never learn anything about him except that he is addicted to everything.Usually a movie that contains gratuitous sex, heavy drug use, or graphic violence is entertaining at some level. This movie manages to have all three and be boring. Incredible! "},{"Title":"Back from the point of no return?","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great character study of a man sinking to the depths of depravity, being utterly corrupted by power - but no matter how low he goes, keeping faith that the redemptive power of religion can represent his salvation... It's raw and shocking, but heavy on symbolism and atmosphere, and strangely transformative... It's interesting to think about whether a life full of corruption can be redeemed by ignoring one's natural instincts in order to perform one good deed?Here is my favourite Harvey Keitel performance... He's played his fair share of oddballs on the margins of society who are searching for meaning to their existence... but in my opinion, never more effectively than in this film. "},{"Title":"tgchan say YES     /     www.tgchan.pl","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was looking for the link on the IMDb and I have found out that I have seen a modern reproduction of it with Nicolas Cage The Bad Lieutenant Port of Call - New Orleans (2009) At first I didn't want to watch it but when I saw my 8/10 score for the 2009 version, now I really want to see it! I wonder if the original will be as good as the remake.3 minutes - LOL I already love it! That's gonna be a wild movie... I can feel it.12 minutes - I love watching BAD alpha males doing what they do best, probably because I am such a wimp... + they spare nothing... and show everything, big kudos for the honesty 34 minutes - this movie makes the remake look like a cartoon for kids... definitely more raw and rough 1h 17minutes - there are more drugs in this flick than in Requiem for a Dream (2000) lol Damn... what a weird movie... I wasn't even bored for one minute but I don't know... I think it was pretty average... Maybe it's because of how old it is (almost 23 years) but I have seen even older ones and I loved them; Once Upon a Time in the West (1968). I can only imagine how controversial it must have been back in a day... some of the scenes were really harsh.tgchan's rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"possibilities of life's destruction","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What struck me even more than specific moments of the movie is the fact that Bad Lieutenant has been co-written by a woman, Zoë Tamerlis Lund. If you've read anything about her you'd understand how her own life story bleeds through the script. At a certain point you might even admire the passion with which she systematically worked on her own self destruction with, to vaguely quote her husband, heroin being her drug of choice.One summer in the mid-ninety-nineties i happened to be in a country where motion picture rating system had yet to be introduced. The weather prompted whole families to flock at an open-air cinema in search or refreshment and entertainment in the evening. It turned out that Bad Lieutenant has been one of the films featured. It would be interesting to know how all those people liked the movie and how it influenced the development of the youngest viewers.The reason to pull this story out is that, apart from artistic merit and portraying the dark side of life, it is questionable how rake and debauchery influence the viewers. Does it lead to some kind of catharsis or to repeating what we've seen on screen?Either way, Bad Lieutenant is a powerful movie, though not in a positive way. Harvey Keitel's performance is pivotal and you'd probably appreciate it even more if you've seen Werner Herzog's take at the same topic with Nicolas Cage. "}{"Title":"Depends on what you mean by a Good movie","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was designed to have a lot of impact, and it does. It makes you want to vomit--I don't mean that in a bad way, exactly.... It starts with a recording of a NYC sports talk-show host venting rage at how the Mets will throw the Series, and that stupid rage is the only explanation given for Hervey Keitel's beyond-damnation cop. Keitel's character fits the old stereotype of NYC cops--before their Stop & Frisk effectiveness--perfectly. He alternates between doped-up-but-alert, and doped-to-the-gills. (SPOILERS COMING) In the latter frame of mind, he blearily investigates a nun-rape crime, hoping to collect $50,000, to help pay off gambling debts. After eavesdropping on the nun refusing to name her assailants (kids she knows) to her confessor, he decides to persuade her to tell him their names using the standard guilt trips, but she refuses--she says she forgives them. After she runs away, he sinks howling to his knees, hallucinates the incarnate Christ and 'repents' that he didn't mean to be bad, just has a weak will. Miraculously, the perp identities are given to him; he groggily shows mercy rather than collect the reward; and he gets gunned down in the predictable end to the film.Good film??? On the plus side, Keitel is cast perfectly, and the film is striking. Minus I laughed pretty often at how pointlessly over-the-top it was, Keitel's performance and everything else. He displays only two expressions the whole film stolid and dopey. There are limits to how much acting skill you can show playing a doped-up character--almost as bad as playing a corpse. There's no motivation for his character, especially the mercy he shows at the end--there couldn't be. No other actor has a part with more than one dimension. Midway through the film, Keitel stops two young (?) women from New Jersey and harasses them crudely; the women claim to be teenagers driving without their father's permission but look like 30-year-old whores (and one of them plays a whore who knows what's coming pretty well; the other is just silly). The whole episode is silly--Keitel is much less brutal than seasoned filmgoers will expect, for no apparent reason. But the rest of the film compensates for this mild segment by rehashing crudities without limit or purpose.Why give it even a 6? I'm not sure--craven conformity to other reviewers? It is a sort of archetype of scumbucketry. I think you have to look at the film sardonically, as a scornful portrayal of (Catholic) faith, repentance, and resolve to do good. The only thing worse is lapsed faith, disbelief, and materialism. What a choice. "},{"Title":"A tortured soul's inferno of decadence","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel pulls out all the stops in an audacious, brave performance. Playing a corrupt, heavily multiple substance-abusing cop in NYC, he is one tortured soul, hell-bent in an inferno of decadence, neglect and self-destruction. The case of a nun's rape (in church, no less!)draws him in, though, suggesting a chance of salvation.Plays and feels like a leftover, heavy and dark Scorsese piece, replete with catholic symbolism of guilt and repentance. Still a strong, effectively gritty experience with one genius stroke that adds an unexpected, looming pitch of suspense Having Keitel's character following the world series of baseball playing in the background, on which he keeps playing a high-stake money betting battle.5 out 10 from Ozjeppe. "},{"Title":"Zoe HARVEY ABEL and KEN Kelsch kicked ass and were given every break by GOD spoilers ahead","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler Ahead......Anthony Redman edited rich ore down to a perfect flick. Victor Argo and everyone including the nun and her rapists. The guys who played every role hit their peak on camera. Wow, Paul Hipp does Jesus spot on. In a movie of hard edged reality even the hallucinations are gritty and true. No actor hits an off mark or is less than stellar. Could be that it killed Abel for he was given a free decade to duplicate this effort. Let US hope he surprises us and grows up before he grows old. Harvey's family from each kid to the Aunt are importantly and superbly cast and played. Sets props handguns cars tapes extras are each handled with care and strength. Thanks. "},{"Title":"The simple entertainment of shooting a radio","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We all know Abel Ferrara isn't the greatest of storytellers, but who really needs a good story when you're able to create such an intriguing atmosphere? Granted, Ferrara always creates the exact same atmosphere, but sticking to what you're good at is something more directors ought to try. There really isn't much plot to follow here, you're going to have to settle for sex, drugs, booze and violence. Harvey Keitel tends to over-act here and there (the church scenes!), but his character always stays believable (at least within this realm). Ferrara tries to give us a tour of every sordid back alley and sleazy bar New York has to offer, that almost seems like his life work. You'll get them all someday, Abel. If you're looking for a solid, coherent movie, look elsewhere. If you're not looking for anything at all, you might like whatever it is you find in Bad Lieutenant. "},{"Title":"A powerful tale of one man's quest for redemption...","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" **This review will contain spoilers**Bad Lieutenant is one of those movies a small number of people saw upon the initial release and perhaps at the time lived in the shadow of Tarantino's Reservior Dogs. In recent years I believe it's taken overtaken the more 'popular' movie. Director Abel Ferrera's gritty, audacious and excessive drama, set in New York during a seven game run of the World Series between the L.A. Dodgers and N.Y. Mets, revolves around a brutal rape of a young nun in a Harlem church by two of the neighbourhood's boys. The lieutenant is called into investigate. Harvey Keitel plays the unnamed corrupt and debased cop whom we discover is what the tag-line suggests. Gambler, thief, junkie. He steals from crime scenes to help his habit and even demands sexual favours off a couple of girls in exchange for letting them off a minor traffic offence in a clear case of shocking cinema. Keitel gives the performance of his life here that sees his downward spiral coming to a close after a spiritual breakdown at the church crime scene. It's a powerful tale of one man's quest for redemption after trying to understand a victims forgiving nature. Bad Lieutenant was once cruelly overlooked and I hope there is no remake of an already remarkable piece of film-making. "},{"Title":"Bleak and convincing","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel is a lieutenant in New York and is very bad indeed. His attention to the family is about none, he steals drug evidence and sells/uses it, and doesn't care about anything at all it seems. He starts gambling on a series of games between the dodgers and the mets and in the process creeps towards the bottom of his own downward spiral.Harvey Keitel does here the best role I have seen him in, he is convincing in all his despair and as a drug abuser/alcoholic like I don't know who else could do. Actually he carries the whole movie on that performance. Overall this is very bleak, down to the nitty-gritty realism of NY underground. And done with a very small budget of which I bet Keitel took the most. "},{"Title":"Let's make a movie called the Bad Lieutenant and have the main character walking up and down halls crying all the time!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   This film could have been so much better if old Abe would have just sped things up a bit! Great story, off the hook performances, explosive ending. The ingredients were all there. It just moved way too slow. Keitel cries all through this film. And it takes away from the film's quality. I mean, when the main character walks down a hall, it should not take what seems like an hour! Get him down the hall already! And with the crying, we got the point! He's an emotional wreck! He does not need to cry in every other scene! Other than that, it's a good movie. But, beware. Some parts are very tough to watch. Great date movie as well. I would definitely call this a film that makes you think. "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is awesome.  It came out in the same year as Reservoir Dogs and stars Harvey Kietel as the Bad Lieutenant who really is bad.  He steals drugs off dealers and uses them for himself and takes advantage of some young girls he pulls over in their car.  The original version with music from Schooly D was the best but the newer version has all that Saturday Night music removed.The main plot is about him trying to avenge the brutal rape of a nun in a church.  The classic line from this also said in church is I've done so many bad things and it's completely true.  Anyway this is one you've gotta check but we warned it's gritty. "},{"Title":"Sex and Drugs and Baseball","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contemplatively, this film is about three things  (Drug) Addiction, Baseball, and Religion.... the interesting thing about the film though is showing the similarity of all three of these, being an extension of the human brain for our passions, whether good, or in many cases, bad.  I am surprised that this film has not been compared to Taxi Driver, because it has many similarities.  Truly, I think this could be Harvey Keitel's best performance; it definitely shows him at his most tough and and the same time, most vulnerable.  And don't let the NC-17 rating scare you away... I've seen many rated R films with more of anything or everything bad in this film.  I think the reason why this film got that rating is because it doesn't apologize for its content and lets the viewer decide for themselves.  Really a great film.  9/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty average","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" RATING ** (OUT OF ****)Bad Lieutenant might have been enjoyable if it had more of a story. What we're left with is an undeveloped, unnamed character (played very well by Harvey Keitel), who takes a whole lot of drugs and isn't very good at gambling.  In fact, he SUCKS at gambling.  By the end of the movie, he's in $120,000 debt.  What else, you ask?  Well, there's something about a nun being raped, but you see, the case is introduced during the beginning of the movie, and we don't get back to it until the very end of the movie. Meanwhile, there's a whole lotta dead time to fill, with the main character continuously abusing drugs and gambling himself stupid.  The conclusion is inexplicable, and afterwards I felt like I sat through 90 minutes of nothing.  Overall, Keitel's performance can't change the fact that Bad Lieutenant is a disposable drama.BTW, what's up with Ebert?  Four stars?  Gimme a break. "}{"Title":"Gritty New York City film about a bad cop.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the mean streets of NYC, with Harvey Keitel as our guide on this hellish trip. We get to see Harvey Keitel abuse his body with all sorts of chemicals, coke, heroin, beer, vodka, more coke and more booze and all sorts of sordid things. We get to see a nun raped on an altar and Harvey Keitel sexually harassing two teenage girls. The ending is a suprise, playing on Keitel's character's lasped Catholicism and the ideal of Christian forgiveness. For jaded viewers only, all others will be shocked or disturbed.  "},{"Title":"A great performance doesn't make a film great","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mr. Keitel delivers a blistering performance. It really is as simply  as that. The actual film though yearning for cosmic meaning eventually realizes that tracking the day to day activities of a person who is progressively becoming unglued isn't  particular good  entertainment fodder. So we are treated to a series of brief interludes where Mr.Keitel's depravity is fully exposed. The reason for his decline - well it's rather difficult to pin point but it may have something to do with Mr.Keitel feeling as if he has been forsaken by his god. A film that is worth seeing if only to catch Harvey on a very good day. "},{"Title":"Don't Judge By Its Rating","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is rated NC-17 but one could argue that other rated R films have much more violence and sex in them. This film does have frontal nudity, repeated scenes with drug use (and not just a smoking a joint, he's busting out the crack pipe and later on shoots it in his arm) and does also have a violent scene in a church. I am not an insider with the MPAA but I can guess that it is the drug usage and that scene in the church that get the rating.With this film none of this is gratuitious. This is a very tastefully done film and the nudity is longer then brief, but still short. Harvy Keitel does an excellent job in his role as the Lieutenent. The emotion shown on screen for the life he leads is extrodinary. This movie is most likely hard to find because of the NC-17 tag, but it is definatly worth the effort. "},{"Title":"keitel","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are at all interested in seeing a performance see Harvey Keitel here.  Keitel is such an underrated actor, simply because he doesn't usually do big budget films and rather supports young starting film makers.  He gives a BRILLIANT performance.  Brando brilliant.The movie is about Keitel, who plays the title character, and has to go through an experience to try and get his life back on track.  He's bad in every sense of the word.  At times the film is uncomfortable to watch.  A scene where Keitel pulls over two girls is disturbing.The film has some weak spots, but overall is very well-done.  This could in some ways be classified with Affliction, Leaving Las Vegas, Breaking The Waves as a downer.  But I think that people miss the point with downers.  If anything they should make you feel better about your life, and in most cases they end with a revelation that is actually positive.  Leaving Las Vegas celebrates love.  Breaking The Waves does also, and is eventually very affirming.  This movie has a revelation where Keitel tries to change his path before it's too late, and depending on how you look at it, he succeeds. "},{"Title":"Horrifying, brilliant film","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it. This is a difficult, challenging film that many people will find utterly contemptible.  It deals with the darkest recesses of the human soul yet somehow manages to do so in a very spiritual way.  As many have pointed out, this is Harvey Keitel's performance-of-a-lifetime, and director Ferrara is with him every step of the way.  You could write ten master's theses about the many themes on display here--redemption, salvation, forgiveness, existentialism, Catholicism... It's an amazingly brilliant film because it unflinchingly pulls no punches whatsoever.Love it or hate it, you'll NEVER forget Bad Lieutenant. "},{"Title":"Ferrara`s masterpiece about a junkie corrupt cop","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    If you would want to include this one in a certain category,well,it can give you quite some trouble as it containes many elements of both drama,crime as well as art.I don`t really recall to have previously seen such a stunning Keitel performance,maybe only later(see Reservoir Dogs,Pulp Fiction).The story of a corrupt cop,Bad Lieutenant is also a carefully prepared drama which leads the viewer to its main caharacter`s redemption in the end,as the ultimate solution.He investigates the case of a raped nun and learns to come in touch with his innerself after having abused of both his position and people he comes in contact with.As a junkie,he comites every felony,wondering in a vicious dark hole.The superb images of Jesus(crucified and standing in front of the broken Harvey asking for forgivness)are amplifying the art of Ferrara`s masterpiece.Unforgetable!      "},{"Title":"Through the Rabbit-Hole (to Glory)","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ferrara is a very problematic filmmaker, but he really hit the jackpot with this one. I venture to say that disbelieving Catholics -- those of us raised in the Faith, still clinging to our Judeo-Christian values (the real ones, not the fairytale variety peddled by faith-healers) but unable to reconcile the world we see with the great plan our old Mother Church taught us to believe in -- are the target audience for this movie. Maybe we're the only possible audience for it. But if you belong to that group, Bad Lieutenant will hit you where you live.The Lieutenant undergoes a rite of mortification that defines the nexus of DeSade and St. Augustine. (Think Pasolini's Gospel According to Saint Matthew meets Pasolini's Salo) His mortification may by itself be believed and enjoyed by thrill-seekers, but his redemption is up there in Carl Dreyer territory -- and if you're not ready for that ride, buddy, don't bother buying a ticket.I stopped watching Ferrara's movies after this, not because I don't think it's great, but because I can't even imagine what else he'd have to say after this. From what I hear, I wasn't wrong. (Disputations, anyone?)As for Keitel, suffice to say he's the only conceivable Lieutenant. Maybe Joseph Chaikin could have hit this before his aphasia... nah, on second thought he couldn't. Brando? You'd have to catch him on his best day, and even then he might not make it. This is Method acting at the summit. We might as well go back to Commedia Dell'Arte after this (and from the looks of things, maybe we have).The best double bill for this would be with Ordet (though the Film Forum's planned Cruising/Bad Lieutenant double this Fall isn't a bad idea, either).Can't recommend it too highly, but beware. You're going through the Rabbit Hole with this one. Don't take a date. Hold hands with your soul -- if you have one. "},{"Title":"Bad lieutenant is right...this guy is crooked","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Filmmaker Abel Ferrera's BAD LIEUTENANT is quite a controversial story about a nun who is raped by two men.  She later forgives her assaulters despite the fact that she knows who they are.  Harvey Keitel plays the CROOKED cop put on the case.  I mean this guy gambles on Mets games, snorts and smokes crack like there's no tomorrow, and does things I don't know if I can mention in this review (the version I saw was rated NC-17...oooh).Keitel is very impressive in the lead role as the crooked cop trying to come to terms with himself and his beliefs.  He delivers a justifiably strained performance as the junkie cop (I wonder if Keitel really IS a crack addict...hmmmmm).  The only down sides are the scene where Keitel pulls over the two girls and blackmails them into doing what he wants (This scene is just painful and nasty) and the full-frontal nude scene from Keitel (oh no!!).This is one whacked out flick, but also one that is very powerful.  The story, performances, and soundtrack are all top-notch from master Ferrera.  Recommended, but not for the kids. "},{"Title":"OK film, no reasons","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of the didn't like the movie because of bad timing cases, but i doubt it.  The reason I consider it bad timing for me was because I just finished reading Irvine Welsh's Filth which is about a dug abusing, problem-riddled cop.  Little did I know that the two things would be so much alike.  I knew nothing about this movie when I rented it, nor do I regularly read boxes.  So, let me say that this was a thoroughly mediocre film.The movie tries to offend, shock, and disgust the audience.  Why?  It does not give any particular reason that it is doing this.  ***Spoiler***  The write has Keitel make some psychotic revelation about something, but I don't quite know what.  However, he hallucinates Jesus Christ in a church, but it turns out to be his savior anyways.  Still, how has he fallen this far?  Was it a bad childhood?  Was it just the way he was born?  There is no explanation.As a movie, it drags toward the end.  I did not care for the guy, and he did not do enough to make me sympathize.  I think that if there was a voice-over from Keitel explaining his feelings, it would have evoked sympathy for a character you shouldn't be, and thus giving you this weird vibe.  Maybe that's just the book though.  The movie only somewhat entertained me, but did not shock me.  I wondered why anybody would write a movie with so little insight into the world it mocks, or judges.  But, maybe it doesn't, it depends on the viewer, but not really.The movie hates its subject.  It hates the world.  It hates the life of everybody in it.  It hates the girls stopped, and it is made by a resentful filmmaker.  He must have been lonely as a child, maybe teased alot, and this was his expressed rage at the world.  It feels alot like it.  But, it was mildly entertaining.5/10 "},{"Title":"Prepare to be challenged","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad Lieutenant is not for anyone who wants to have their moral view of the world challenged.Sleazy as it might appear, Abel Ferrrara's New York is no different to that portrayed in The French Connection or Across 110th Street.How it differs is that the story is not conventional but serves to question the whole idea of morality and redemption, both of which are never far from Abel Ferrara's films.The contrast between the cop and the victim is very well observed, as is the questioning of who is a victim and who is the villain. "}{"Title":"depravity personified","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nameless, sociopathic police lieutenant investigates the rape of a nun.  Once-in-a-lifetime performance from Harvey Keitel plumbs the depths of corruption. Disturbing and unsuitable for many viewers. (Rating A) "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After all the harsh critisism Bad Lieutenant has recieved, I expected the worst. To be honest, I am also rather easily shocked, I am by no means a fan of violence, sex or swearing, and expected this to be full of it.I'm not sure why I even watched it, curious I guess. I'm glad I did though, for this is an excellent film. Yes, there is a lot of swearing and plenty of rather disturbing drug-taking scenes, and there is a bit of sex and violence, but it's not terribly explicit as many would have you believe.No, this film is poignant and thought-provoking. It's not about controvosy, it makes a statement, a very hard-hitting powerful statement.To think people have labelled this as nasty rubbish is unbelievable to me. Yes it has a few disturbing scenes, but it also just happens to have a very powerful meaning which leaves an impression on you. You will not forget it easily.Give this film a chance, you may just like it. Even though I'm not a fan of Abel Ferrara, I still regard this as one of my favourite films (if not my very favourite)One last thing, Harvey Kietel is awesome in this, the best performence I've ever seen. The score is great too. Don't miss this one!  "},{"Title":"The film leaves a knot in your stomach throughout and even when it's finished it doesn't go away.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film actually stirred emotions in me that I don't normally feel and I like films that can cross the line and do that...that's Abels gift if you could call it a gift.Every character is evil in it.  The world it paints is tough and grey (but it's a true reflection of real life).  You feel uneasy throughout the show.You feel absolutely no compassion for the main character brilliantly acted by Harvey Keitel.  You despise him.  You even get angry at the Nun for wanting to forgive her attackers.  You wouldn't bat an eyelid if every charcter in the movie died a horrible death.I hated every minute of this movie, the reality unsettled me.  Go rent it, full marks for the realism. "},{"Title":"a dark, realistic film about conscience","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad Lieutenenant, to me, is unrecognized masterpiece.  Here we have an excellent direction by cult director Abel Ferrara, and a haunting, terrifying, and realistic performance by  the virtuoso Harvy Keitel.  Lt, is a cop, not too  mention a gambler, pervert, and drug abuser, and a bad role model to his children (as shown in the beginning).Lt, basically, just destroys himself during the whole movie.  He spends his time, finding drugs and alcohol, and getting high all the time.  He harrasses young girls, and he tries stealing drugs from a crime scene.  And if that wasn't enough, he gambles practically all of his money, on the world series games.  Eventually, he gets in debt, and he gets threatened by his bookie, which tells him these guys will blow your house up with you and your wife and children in it.And while all this is happening, a young nun,  is brutally raped by a pair of thugs.  And Lt decides to investigate the case.  Also, if he finds the two rapists, he will be rewarded by the church, which would help him pay his debt.  And what Lt does in the end astounded me, and surprised me.This movie is the most controversial, shocking, and revolting picture I've seen so far.  Yet, it never fails to show us the reality of our world. Some people may dismiss this film as being trash.  But it is far from  it.  It is a film of conscience, of doing the right thing.  Of course Harvey Keitel's performance impressed me, (and shocked me).  He proves that he is the bravest actor there is in the film industry.  The scene where he weeps in the church in front of Jesus, is one of the most powerful scenes I've ever viewed, and it really gave me goose bumps.  I do warn, that this film isn't for all tastes, and is meant for only mature audiences, and open minded people. Do not miss this one!! "},{"Title":"Smoking Crack with Nun-rapists","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stay tuned for Relly Bad Lieutenant.Like all Ferrera films, not much happens in terms of plot development. The story is a skeleton. But, the imagery is pure blackness and Keitel is frightening a presence as De Niro's Max Keidy. A Haunting movie that stays with you for some time after the fact.  "},{"Title":"Harvey you are a bad bad boy!!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harvey Keitel deserves a special award for taking on roles and projects that other established actors would not touch.This is an extremely thought provoking film. It is about a man's descent into evil and the contradictions this brings with religion.The film was censored before it was released on Video in the UK. I cannot understand why! It is a work of art and I am sure that people view it in that way. I do not think that it glamourises drugs or prostitution. In fact the reverse is probably the case.Harvey deserves recognition for the choices he has made in selecting his movies. It is probably the case that as he is not a pretty boy like Di Caprio, he never gets the adulation he deserves. Harvey probably likes it that way. "},{"Title":"In one word - Confronting","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This cop goes through everything you don't really want to even know exists within a period of 3 or so days. The movie is offensive, but its life - it happens everyday, in every country. It's striking and powerful, and I'd almost go so far and say that it represents the 90's. See it if you think you can handle it. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Kietel","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Kietel snorts and boozes his way through the titular role in this corrupt cop drama and thanks to the power of the star, watching him makes for compelling viewing. As a film, BAD LIEUTENANT is Abel Ferrera's exploration of Catholic angst, beginning with a typical DIRTY HARRY-type vibe but eventually turning into something completely different by the end.Along the way there's plenty of explicit drug abuse and the kind of grittiness that Scorcese did so well back in the 1970s. Kietel is on superb form, and watch out for his outstanding breakdown that recalls the ending of RESERVOIR DOGS. "},{"Title":"Abel Ferrara's best film","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the most notorious films ever, 'Bad Lieutenant' is a long day's journey into night which follows The Lieutenant (Harvey Keitel) as he goes about his police work while chasing the dragon using heroin seized as evidence, injecting himself with the aforementioned drug, snorting cocaine, slamming down vodka, and spiralling further and further down into debt by consistently placing huge bets on the losing team in the World Series betwixt the Los Angeles Dodgers and the New York Mets. In what is perhaps the most disturbing scene of the film, he pulls over two club-going young women from New Jersey, and has one of them show him her ass while he forces the other to simulate fellatio. As they do this, he masturbates. That this happens on a public street is all the more unsettling.The film centres around the brutal rape of a young nun (Frankie Thorn). The two young boys who perpetrate this horrendous crime also pierce the young woman's hymen with a crucifix and steal a gold chalice which contains the holy sacrament. Assigned to the case, the Lieutenant is determined to deliver his own form of justice to the criminals; it is pretty clear from what he says to the brutalised nun at one point that he is going to kill them. In contrast to his outraged outlook, the nun has already forgiven the boys.Harvey Keitel is definitely the focus of this film and, as usual, his performance is excellent. The Lieutenant is dead on his feet - constantly dishevelled with wild scarecrow hair - and looks as though he is about to collapse at any moment. But the nun's forgiveness of the boys has a profound effect on his cynical perspective, and leads him to an act of redemption in the movie's third act.'Bad Lieutenant' is one of the darkest, bleakest films ever made. It contains sexual violence, strong sexual situations and dialogue, and graphic drug use. It is also director Abel Ferrara's finest hour; the always uncompromising director has delivered a fascinating character study about a man who wants to be good but does not know how. If you can stomach it, you could a lot worse than 'Bad Lieutenant'. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, Lord. I've done so many bad things.","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harvey Keitel plays a Lieutenant who is heavily into drugs, sex, and gambling. He has no name, and that is for a reason. This film wants to show the animosity of the character. It wants to create a sense that Keitel is playing an everyman. Not necessarily a cop with a specific name, but anyone...almost showing us that this type of corruption happens in the least expected places, by the least expected people. The film opens with Keitel taking his children to school. We are disillusioned by the idea, that he has strong family values, perhaps he isn't the bad cop that everyone is expecting. After 10 minutes into the film, that idea changes dramatically. We see him trying to steal drugs out of a car, looking at the breasts of a shot girl, by taking money from a grocery store owner, and finally by doing mass amounts of cocaine and heroine. After about thirty minutes of no story line, just graphic sex and drug use, we are pushed into yet another horrifying scene. This is supposed to be the plot of the film. An inexplicable act of violence takes place that makes Keitel reconsider his chosen path of life. His world gets changed all around as he tries to hunt down the criminals of this case, and also dramatically use religion to look back at his soul. Can both these criminals and Keitel be saved? Too much character development can hurt or help a film. In this case, it hurt it. With very small amounts of dialogue, but extra elongated drug scenes, we are forced to have the impression that Keitel is a bad cop. Alright, after five minutes I get it...but why show more? Why take about three-fourths of the film to show all of the evil deeds that this Lieutenant is capable of doing? This could have been a very dark and disturbing film, but instead it fell into the problem that 'The Deer Hunter' had. The director chose to use the leave the camera running technique. This means, that he thinks that the true nature of the character will come out the longer that he leaves the camera running during a scene. This can be true in some instances, but for this film it did not. I understood that he was a corrupt cop, I mean, I got that much from the title. Tell me more...why was he a bad cop? This might seem like a small point, but it would have helped when trying to get into the mindset of the character. I felt that the director left too much up for the viewer to assume. For the two big drug scenes, there were some random people that Keitel was with, and I had no clue who they were. Develop these smaller characters too, this will allow you to build a believable world for the main character. If you don't do this, then when your big central moment does occur the viewer will not be lost. When Keitel begins looking back at his own life actions, he begins to worry that he doesn't know what to do to make things right, or how to do the right thing. For too long he has been bending the rules, and living the lifestyle that he has become accustomed to...that when he wants to change his life, he doesn't know how to. BUT I will tell you this that by doing more drugs and by allowing crime to continue does not push him in the right direction.Overall, there wasn't enough development of Keitel's character to justify being shocked by this movie. I remember very clearly the last thought running through my mind when the credits rolled, it was...Thank God this film is over.....Grade * out of *****  "}{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is nothing short of amazing. It has probably the best acting I've ever seen, and Keitel gives the performance of his life. I was hesitant about watching it at first, because I'm an athiest and I didn't really want to be assaulted by religion. But that isn't what happened at all. Bad Lieutenant sucks you in from the beginning, and by the end, you forget you're just watching a movie. The ending (the church scene and afterwards) had me sobbing, and believe me, the last time a movie made me cry was when I was 4 and Bambi's mum died. Now, I'm just a young teenager, so maybe I'm too ignorant to know the films full power yet, but if it has moved me this much now, I can't wait to see it when I'm a bit older and wiser. Anyway, this is a great and valuable movie that everyone should see at some point. "},{"Title":"The film is a backdrop to the greatest performance in cinema history!","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is no redemption without, first, debasement; no transcendence without transgression; no forgiveness without sin. In this NC-17-rated film, Keitel is the Bad Lieutenant -- a lapsed Catholic, drug-soaked, compulsively gambling detective. He takes crack from his perps, admires the bodies of female corpses, treats his suburban family with contempt, bets himself into spiraling debt with the mob, participates in S&M sex shows with lesbian hookers, shoots smack with his junkie girlfriend (played by co-scriptwriter Zoe Lund) and snorts lines off his daughter's communion picture. There are various forms of misery, depravity and self-destructive behaviour, but being the protagonist of Abel Ferrara's film is category for itself. Bad Lieutenant is a hard-hitting drama that shows how people can positions of power can abuse their authority. Bad Lieutenant confirms Abel Ferrara's status as one of the most interesting and unique filmmakers to emerge from exploitationist-cinema America. He dips and dives, and plays heavily with the theme of sin and redemption. He does this with great confidence, ease and intelligence in two of the most engaging charcater studies ever made, The King of New York(1990) and Bad Lieutenant(1992) also contain two of the most impressive performances by two of the greatest actors who have taken many risks with their performances during their esteemed careers. With Bad Lieutenant, the violence becomes more inherent than explicit. Most of all, this character study is a showcase for Keitel. It's a brave, unbound performance that frequently has him howling in inarticulate guttural sobs. It's an impressive tour de force, one of the greatest performances in the history of cinema. You find yourself watching a great actor at work more than a bad lieutenant on the road to absolution. This movie is not for all tastes. Certainly, it is not `appealing.' But what it lacks in charm, it compensates for with audacity and single-mindedness of vision. And alone Keitel's exuberant performance is in a class of its own and will immediately engage and interest any viewer.For it's harsh depiction of sin, redemption and one of the greatest ever performances on the big-screen I have to award this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie at all costs","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The title sums this movie up in two words. He's a lieutenant and he's bad. That's it. Keitel's character blunders pointlessly from ghastly encounter to ghastly encounter, going nowhere, developing nothing. A pointless waste of good electrons. "},{"Title":"One of the best acting performances period. SPOILER ALERT!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me start out by saying that Harvey Keitel is a god. They must have statues of him in some primitive village somewhere. If they don't then they should. Harvey gives the best performance of his career and one of the greatest in movie history as the tortured character in Bad Lieutenant. This movie isn't easy to watch sometimes but it is powerful and hard hitting. You must see the unrated version of this film, if you see the R rated version you're missing the impact of the film. There is a scene in the movie where Harvey masturbates in front of two teenage girls. And it shows him doing it. Now most actors would have dropped the script right there. Not Harvey Keitel, he gets in there and does the scene with emotion and gusto. It's disturbing yet fascinating. There's also a scene that shows Keitel in all his full frontal glory. Most box office drawing actors would never show anything to the camera, let alone full frontal nudity. Harvey does all this without a second thought. He had to have won something for this and to say that it was an Oscar winning performance is an understatement. The rest of the movie is just as good as Keitel. Bottom Line Unspeakably hard hitting, Bad Lieutenant is my secret weapon when someone comes over and wants to watch a really good movie.   "},{"Title":"Mish-mash of shocking scenes","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is kind of dumb, like a slideshow of shocking scenes just to be shocking.  Keitel's demons are not really clear other than his hatred of Catholicism.  His nude scene is pasted in and pointless, and the rape scenes are over the top.  The first half of the title says it all. "},{"Title":"A New York City area sports fan should appreciate this film.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie and partly because I consider it to be somewhat of a sports movie.  People in other areas of the country wouldn't appreciate this, but if you live in the New York City area, this movie is familiar. There's an AM radio sports station located in NYC called WFAN - it's 660 on the AM band.  In the morning they have Don Imus from 6-11 and then all the rest of the time it's just straight up sports talk radio.  There are 2 guys who do a radio show every afternoon called 'Mike and the Mad Dog' and the main radio announcer you hear in BAD LIEUTENANT is Chris 'Mad Dog' Russo - look in the credits - he's there.  But Mike Francesa is not there.  I'm pretty sure Mike and the Mad Dog started around '92 so this may have been before it was the two of them.  This station can be heard as far north as Binghamton, NY and as far south as Wilmington, DE.  Anyone who is a major sports junkie in the New York area should recognize Mad Dog.  Also, if you live in the USA and have a satellite dish, the New York Yankees have their own television station called YES and they have Mike and the Mad Dog live in the WFAN studio on TV most afternoons.It's nice how Mad Dog gets tied into the plot of the movie and I wonder if Mad Dog is a fan of the movie at all or even knew he was going to be in the movie at the time?  It sounds to me like the series on the radio was the Dodgers vs. the Mets and it sounded like it was after Darryl Strawberry went to the Dodgers.  The movie appears to take place in the fall, as the kids are in school but it still appears to be warm outside.  Also, Mad Dog seems to talking about post season play as he makes comparisons to both the '54 Indians and the '86 Mets in the very beginning of the movie.  BUT - to the best of my knowledge the Mets never played the Dodgers in the playoffs when Srawberry was on the Dodgers OR in the '90's at all.  Are these GOOFS by the film makers or was this movie supposed to take place a few years before its release?But this movie isn't all just baseball - it's hardcore drug use, death, rape, nudity - I LOVE IT!  There are also some parts of comedy but overall a dark film.  Some people are turned off by this movie but I give it 10 votes.  I sort of associate this flick with FARGO - as they are both very dark but enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Powerful stuff (spoilers)","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that makes you think twice about doing drugs, or gambling. This movie is about a strung out Lieutenant who lives his life in dirt. He abuses his rights as a cop whenever and however he can. In one scene he walks up to a car with two girls, and verbally rapes them. There are many scenes that are hard to watch ( the nun rape, the verbal rape scene, when hes shooting heroin). But underneath all this grit and grime is one of the most powerful messages you will find. It hits you through Kietel's more than superb acting. Be warned though, this isn't an action movie, and not alot happens, but if you like Kietel, or are just in the mood for this. Watch it "},{"Title":"An Adult Film with an Adult theme about a really BAD policeman!","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING This film is NOT for everyone.But I LOVED it and to me, it is easily in the top 100 of Best Films ever done. It reminds me of the 1969 film Midnight Cowboy in the way that it was an adult film with an adult subject about a very bad policeman that showed you every bad inch of him.Harvey Kietel should have gotten an academy award nomination for his performance, make no mistake. Siskel and Ebert thought so back then, and for once, I certainly agree. Throughout this film, you'll hate this man, you'll feel sorry for this man, and its all because of the gritty/dirty performance Keitel gives.This Lieutenant is hard to take, he's BAD (as in awful, not funky.) The director (and a darned excellent job he's done!) takes you unflinchingly into his dealings with drugs, his drug addition, his sexual appetites, his high stakes gambling, his family life, and his gut wrenching handling of a nun who is raped. I will not lie, this is not a film for the politically correct or for those who want to see the policeman be redeemed. The ending is the saddest, pretty shocking thing you can see, but not unexpected.I recommend this film highly but only if you have the stomach for wonderful, raw, independent filmwork.  "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This boring and uneventful film is so bad after I heard the 'great' reviews, how many times is one suckered into believing that independent films can all be good? Well, there's plenty of stinkers in the lot! Don't get this unless you are a depraved sicko who likes to watch Keital in his B-day suit, a total artless flick. "},{"Title":"One of the 10 best films I've ever seen...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It makes me sick to my stomach when I see unbelievably stupid garbage like Things to do in Denver... get fanboy and critical praise while something like this was virtually ignored at the box office and (completely by) the Academy. Harvey Keitel turns in the best performance of his life as an uncompromising cop who lives on the edge. Yeah, you might be thinking, hasn't this been done before? Not like this. Nothing comes close to this swirling nightmare of a one man's redemption and destruction except for another Keitel film, Mean Streets.That said, it should be pointed out that this definitely isn't for the faint of heart or for the pc-elite. But if you want to see something real and raw, check this out. "}{"Title":"Greatest movie of redemption ever.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bad Lieutenant is one of my all-time favorite movies. The principal theme of this movie is that of Redemption, but it may not seem clear early on, as the movie shows us the life led by Harvey Keitel's character. We see him commit one heinous act after another. Things disgusting for an average person, but made even more repulsive and shocking because of the fact he is a cop. A downward spiral with a sense of inevitable finality, just like the fictional National League baseball series unwinding during the length of the movie. All of this leading up to an emotional moment of revelation and redemption unlike any other captured on film. "},{"Title":"Gritty Reality","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is defienetly one of the sleaziest films ever made but an important  one. This shows the life of a corrupt cop that hates his own life and tries  to destroy himself with drugs/hookers/gambling. He doesn't care about  anyone except his himself which shows when he swears in front of kids and  tries to steal Cocaine from a crime scene. This is very realistic and  gritty film with an outstanding performance from Keitel. This film is not  for the weak stomached and easily offended. "},{"Title":"Performance of a career","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Keitel is unbelievable in this movie.  It is almost impossible to recommend this to anyone because it is so grim and relentlessly dark, but it is very worthwhile for the mesmerizing  performance from Keitel.  He is incredible. "},{"Title":"Zoë's Veins","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you want to dabble in the extreme, you have only two choices. Either you find a world or situation or character, and you introduce us to it and in the process, some extremity is invoked, either in the message or target. In this case, what you do is intrinsic to the project. These things work, often, because cinematic coherence is what you want and extremes can be exploited more easily than subtleties and ambiguities in the narrative.Its the same with cinematic sex, I think. Or, you can simply go punk. Where extremes are the point. No reason, no creation of a world, no story other than the story of loud. These things never work for me. Its a statement that I wish not to participate in because what value there is goes to the sender.This is simply a loud movie with no center. It has an energetic and committed actor. But ho hum. We always knew he and his buddies can emote dramatically. But there is an interesting thing here. Ms. 45 was, I think an excellent movie. It had the same thing this does, a central character with explosive innards turned inside out. But it also conveyed a world. Where this one relies on the performance of ball players for reference, the earlier film situates itself in the same world the character gives us. So we get a world, not a person.Zoe Lund played the center of that film. She was an unknown at the time, and extreme person who didn't act but simply be. It was extraordinary. After that, she continued her life of intense drugs and sexual damage, but in the context of the film world. Not on screen much, but as a hanger on to the creative side.She is credited with co-writing this. Its hard to know what bits she helped with except for her own lines. She appears as a minor character here, someone that Keitel's character visits in her home to get dope. Serious stuff. She appears not as the mess that Keitel shows, but as a cool, composed vamp, assured in the path of drugs. She's made up to that sort of unreal doll style from glossy magazines.She drifts over the serving of opiates like a sort of angel. Fiery red hair and tight black sheath. For the few moments when they are both on screen, you feel you are in the world. Its made more intense if you know she was an enthusiastic, cool junkie and died only a few years later from drug-related wear and tear. Its made more intense if you know she influenced the movie. She has some lines that otherwise would be daft, cheap philosophy, but which pierce when coming from her.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Too Heavy Handed","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara is a director who shocks his audience but he's also a director who is talented . It's sad to say this but with BAD LIEUTENANT the director shot himself in the foot . It courted much publicity due to the controversy but that's to the detriment of the movie . The film is called BAD LIEUTENANT right ? You get the point that Harvey Keitel is one seriously bad ass human being . From the opening scene it's obvious this character is violent and corrupt but Ferrara fails to draw the line anywhere . Not content with letting us know the LT wants to beat up his ex-wife Ferrara soon shows us that the eponymous character is a bent cop who rolls drug dealers and takes crack . Got the point that he's a corrupt cop and an awful human being yet ? If not Ferrara shows the title character visiting prostitutes where once again he takes hard drugs . Got it ? It's later shown the LT has a gambling problem and gambling is bad . If you're not convinced he's a bad person maybe this might help - The cop stops a couple of teenage girls and orders them to simulate oral sex while he masturbates otherwise he'll charge them with illegally driving an automobile . Just in case you think he's painfully misunderstood Lt Scumbag is seen indulging in drug taking again later on So in order to let the audience know that this law enforcer is worse than many of the people he arrests Ferrara continually shows disturbing character scenes . This isn't intelligent character driven film making - It's heavy handed film making and since there's too much time dedicated to Keitel's character it suffocates the rest of the story , a story that needed much more development for it to work . I would say this is probably Ferrara's weakest movie "},{"Title":"Total crap","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone else on this site can pretend this movie is awesome... I'll tell the truth. It's a hair better than 'unwatchable'.There is absolutely no character development, aside from the main character, who is easily The Worst Human Being Ever. Half the movie, I had no idea who was who, or what was going on. The only reason I gave this 3 stars was because Keitel was very convincing and did some good acting...however, as a movie, this is awful.Aside from there being no character development, there is very little story line aside from learning how to smoke crack and shoot heroin.I could very well be missing some deep meaning underneath the movie, but all in all it's not worth the money I paid for it. "},{"Title":"Bad is the operative word when talking about this movie.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Awful, awful movie.  No real plot.  No characters to empathize with at all. Just a series of pointless disturbing images.  What makes it worse is that there is apparently no reason for what it happening.  It doesn't seem like a situation coming to a head.  Rather it is like the film makers decided that they were going to come up with a title and make a movie about it.  And that they did. "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?  This movie is soooo bad it is funny,","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It boggles my mind that any sane individual could watch this movie and feel anything else other than, And the point is???? It is like someone took the most ridiculous elements of semi-decent cop drama movies and TV shows and dumped them into the dialogue and screenplay of this HORRIBLE film. There is no point to it - it is just an endless stream of Harvey Keitel doing vile and repulsive things for no established reason. Then the wailing he does over and over again - I mean, it is pointless. My husband and I couldn't help but laugh for a solid five minutes as he wailed in the church, cursing God and then doing the obligatory repenting. None of it was believable, and why would anyone care five minutes into this piece of garbage, anyway? I'm seriously concerned about anyone who could find something redeeming in this film. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to give this movie a zero but the voting only allows me to go as low as one.There was not reason for this movie and no reason for anybody to be subjected to it (unless it is part of a punishment for some horrible wrong-doing). How could anybody find anything redeeming about this piece of trash? "},{"Title":"Ugghh!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It was nominated for awards, so I guess I just don't get it, but I normally enjoy heavy-handed drama and intense character studies.  This film, however, was simply lost on me.  I didn't perceive a single redeeming quality.  In his defense, Harvey Keitel was excellent, as usual. "}{"Title":"Bad Lieutenant = Bad Movie","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. All I saw was a bunch of drug using and violence. No point whatsoever to this film. Don't bother wasting your time watching this. 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dope, Booze, and Scenery-chewing","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was highly recommended to me by a couple of ex-doper friends (and I'm not too sure of the ex status of one of them), as the most realistic depiction of a dope binge on screen. If they say so. Watching an irresponsible cop destroy himself with ingestibles (and smokables, snortables and shootables) while he ignores the crime all around him has a morbid appeal, for a while, but I got bored.But wait! even such a man can be redeemed by the example of a saintly nun, with the help of Jesus Christ, who climbs down from his crucifix and watches Harvey Keitel whimper, cry and groan, demonstrating what a lost soul he is, and generally chewing the carpet like a ham actor possessed. To be fair, he was doing only what the wretched script required, and much of his performance was brilliant. (Either that or he really was doping up a storm, as my friends insist.)  But his bravura performance doesn't come close to making this film worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bad as he . . . wants to be?","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One thing I will say about Bad Lieutenant is that it was cool to see the movie's events play out during the Mets/Dodgers playoff series. Between that and the bets being placed on the games, it's not everyday you see baseball so woven into the fabric of a non-sports movie. It's nice.Along with that, I'll definitely say that Harvey Keitel's performance is unequivocally the reason to see this movie. He's unhinged, way off-course, on the raggedy edge. And the movie's title is an understatement. He's straight-up vile, a vigilante cop that dabbles in your seedier vices, pilfers money from robbery scenes and extorts underage girls to get off. He's something else. And my burning question the entire time was Why?. Why is he so bad? Too many years on the street, too many divorces? But we're not given that information. He's just bad . . . because.But his misdeeds are so outlandish that the lurid and shocking reputation this movie has attained just gives way to over-the-top. By the time he's weeping at the feet of Jesus, it's absurd. I don't think laughs are what Abel Ferrara was going for with that scene. I know this movie's about redemption (in the Catholic sense), but there's nothing to feel for this guy. He's cardboard.5/10 "},{"Title":"Religious redemption","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara's 1992 film Bad Lieutenant is about a police officer addicted to both cocaine and gambling, a man that constantly abuses his power for his own benefit, seemingly without any fear of retribution. His actions are never remotely appropriate for a person of his position, so much so that it's quite hard to believe that his superiors allow him to keep his job. Ferrara and crew aren't concerned with plot holes, however, for they have a loftier goal here the film is about redemption of a specifically religious type.To be even more specific, the film is about redemption in the Catholic faith. Early in the film the title character scoffs at Catholics, greatly angering some of his fellow officers. Nevertheless, it's this officer who is charged with investigating the rape and brutalization of a nun, a crime that took place in the church sanctuary itself. Eventually he comes to realize that the nun is fully aware of the identity of the men who victimized her but is unwilling to aid his investigation because she has forgiven them. This in turn leads him to wonder if he himself deserves forgiveness.This is a very didactic film and the lesson it seeks to teach is this even the lowest, most despicable sinner can redeem himself through faith in God and forgiving those who have wronged him. The majority of the film exists only to establish that our bad lieutenant is indeed among the lowest of the low. In the end, he finds that he has a chance to forgive someone else and in so doing give another person a chance to learn the same lesson he has before it's too late.The problem with Bad Lieutenant is that it requires the viewer to accept some basic tenets of Catholicism as divine truth. Outside of the context of the religion's ideas of forgiveness, the lieutenant's salvation is just another example of shoddy police work. I don't think it's at all presumptuous to say that most viewers are going to have a problem with forgiving violent criminals who are more likely than not to continue committing crimes; in fact, even a last minute change of heart like the lieutenant has hardly seems to make up for an unknown but undoubtedly lengthy period of immoral behavior.On the bright side, the film is acceptable on a technical level. Ferrara knows how to frame a scene and he's quite adept at incorporating his religious imagery in an effective way. Another virtue of the film is the better than average performance from the always impressive Harvey Keitel. Still, even these qualities aren't enough to save a film that skews more toward sleazy than entertaining and puts entirely too much focus on sending a religious message. "},{"Title":"An anti Christian allegory set in a coked out early nineties crime drama.","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film presents us with a complete antithesis to the trite good vs evil crime drama. Bad Lieutenant explores a world were good and evil is only a state of mind and throughout this film Harvey Keitel shows very in terms of morality. His character is a foil for the common righteous detective, always chasing the bad the guys in the name of justice. Instead Harvey Keitel's characters exhibits only the worst human traits. He is a consistent gambler, alcoholic, drug abuser, and sex addict. No justice or reason can be found in this darkly painted world of New York city during the early nineties. Mirrored by a failure of an exonerated athlete, the cop character in this film explores his own short comings throughout the movie. In one scene a small shimmer of hope can be seen when Harvey Keitel calmly walks up to a pair of obviously under aged girls. He shows concern for their welfare and threatens to tell their parents. However this charming scene is interrupted when Harvel Keitel demands they degrade themselves by slowly showing their body parts. The scene then climaxes when he asks one girl to mock fellatio, while he then proceeds to masturbate in the middle of the street. Heavy catholic overtones run throughout this movie. Sacrilege also can be an almost painful experience as nuns get raped and even Jesus himself becomes to the recipient of Harvey Keitel's bickering. In the end faith is denied, the promise land is never reached, and redemption is never given. "},{"Title":"BAD LIEUTENANT (Abel Ferrara, 1992) **1/2","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" On the one hand, this is an admirable example of tough, uncompromising film-making about important issues (the struggle of Catholicism and Justice in an increasingly corrupt and depraved world) with a great, harrowing central performance by Harvey Keitel. Conversely, however, it takes itself so goddamned seriously and shoves the viewers' face so relentlessly into the cesspool existence of its leading character that, if one is to avoid feeling suicidal by the end of it, he has to let out the occasional chuckle at the self-indulgent and overbearing seriousness-cum-shock value of it all.Keitel plays a cop who is not above (on a daily basis) betting his entire life savings on baseball games; or drinking himself silly from the moment he opens his eyes; or making deals with small-time dope peddlers to grab a part of their stash; or snorting coke while driving a car and practically in full view of his entire household; or smoking crack in discotheques; or shooting up heroin in a dilapidated apartment with a similarly wasted whorish junkie (played by co-writer Zoe Lund, previously the star of Ferrara's MS. 45 1981); or abusing his status in society by molesting (and much more besides) two underage female drivers; or hurling insults at a delusional vision of Jesus Christ in a desecrated church; or...well, you get the picture. Yes, indeed - this is one really bad lieutenant, folks. Don't get me wrong this film is very well done in most departments and has several powerful scenes interspersed throughout; what is questionable (and objectionable) is why it feels the need to show all this and nothing but for its whole 96 minute stretch. I guess one should not forget to mention that Harvey indulges in some mercifully brief full-frontal nudity while doing a drugged-out rooster dance (or something) and that he is given to uncontrollable sobbing fits at particularly strenuous points in the narrative.The current case Keitel is supposedly investigating is the brutal rape of a young nun in the above-mentioned church by two teenage acquaintances of hers; when he sobers up a bit, he visits said church, finds the nun and vows that he will personally avenge her honor but, when she tells him that she has already forgiven them their heinous act, his one hope for redemption is shattered resulting in the sacrilegious martyred Jesus Christ verbal abuse/hallucination already alluded to above. This segment here is clearly the core of the film and its undeniable highlight; what follows - Keitel tracking down the teenagers and hauling them off of the streets on the first bus out of NYC and his hasty death at the hands of (one supposes) the aggrieved and unseen bigwig creditor who is breathing down his neck throughout the film - is almost anti-climactic in comparison. "},{"Title":"The King Of Controversy at his best!!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Minor Spoilers.Abel Ferrara - the man who brought you The Driller Killer, The King of New York and The Funeral, has been dubbed the king of controversy for his ability to deliberately challenge the viewer with shocking scenes and subject matter.Harvey Keitel - One of today's top actors, starring in Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction and Taxi Driver, can play psychotic, bad tempered, brutal roles perfectly with ease.When two controversial forces unite together to make a controversial movie, is the final result one worth the hype?The answer is yes, and the final result is Bad Lieutenant, Ferrara's finest film since King of New York and one of Keitel's most memorable performances.Keitel plays the Lieutenant whom the title refers to. The tagline basically sums him up Gambler. Thief. Junkie. Killer. Cop.... Addicted to crack, coke, heroin and alcohol, in one particular scene he steals cocaine off of a dead person and sells it to a dealer. His methods of justice are extreme and he is extremely ill tempered. He has a gambling problem, so bad he bet $120,000 dollars on a baseball game.The best place to hide is behind a badge.However, when the LT. is drawn towards the case of a nun(Frankie Thorn) - whom had been viciously gang raped and shall not name her rapists - the lieutenant becomes addicted to vengeance and rediscovers Catholicism in hopes of redemption.A powerful film with scenes of sexual violence, hard drug use and religious imagery, Bad Lieutenant is challenging to watch - even for the most hardened viewer. In one particular scene, the lieutenant forces two joyriding teenage girls to stimulate oral sex while he masturbates.Entertainment - ***** The Story and its powerful climax will leave you speechless.Acting  - **** Harvey Keitel at his best, with strong support from Frankie Thorn.Cinematography - ***** truly expresses the twisted world of the drug addled Lieutenant.Value - ***** Worth the average DVD price tag, you will be proud to have this in your collection.Overall - ***** Another Masterpiece from the king of controversial "},{"Title":"Boooring","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was really disappointing. Ebert said that Keitel did a great job acting....nope, he didnt. Anyone could have played his character. He mostly just made blank faces and pretended to be out of it. He swore alot and made a lot of mean faces...that was good. But besides that, the movie was a bore. He should stick to playing a minister that has to fight off vampires.  "},{"Title":"AWFUL!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like Harvey Keitel's work so I thought this movie would be tolerable at worst. I was wrong. This is the most shallow movie I have ever seen. The title of the movie sums up what you will watch. There is no develop- ment of character. All you are watching is a disgusting human being that uses his badge as a free pass to behave how he wants. This material is definitely beneath Keitel. Why was he in this?  "},{"Title":"One of the most boring films ever.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film the other day on t.v and I had heard so much about it being thought provoking and dramatic...and I thoroughly enjoy heavy dramas however I was extremely disappointed with this film.Many people have been writing about how amazing it is but all I found it to be was a corrupt cop (brilliantly played by Harvey Keitel) going about his daily life taking drugs, having sex with prostitutes etc. and briefly investigating a rape of a nun.I don't recommend this film at all, but that might just be me. I seriously don't see how this can win awards and be called a masterpiece as I just find it tedious and strange. "}{"Title":"Harvey Keitel's Best!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't care about anyones comments about how sick this movie is! I liked all the eerie New York settings, especially those of the church. The only sick and grotesque part was Keitel's masturbation scene. I think that could have been eliminated for sure. I think that infamous scene received this movie's NC-17 rating.Who Knows?10/10 "},{"Title":"An unforgettable film","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film only twice, and then a few years ago, but it still is like yesterday, a quite unforgettable film. Keitel gives his most groundbreaking performance. For me, the whole theme of personal redemption was the most striking thing about the film. The NC-17 version has a couple scenes in it that you won't believe are happening, but they aren't crucial to the plot or anything. Clearly not for anyone under 22 (just to be sure), but a remarkable study in a man's personal destruction and redemption. Moving and unforgettable, I would definitely rent it. ............................................................... "},{"Title":"Bad cop, No donut!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Bad Lieutenant is funny in it's twistedness. Harvey Keitel puts in his second best performance after Reservoir Dogs. He plays a cop who stares at murder victims' breasts, peeps at a naked nun, steals from thieves, gambles illegaly, harasses women and does a larger variety of drugs than anyone has ever done in any movie before it and has only been equaled by Johnny Depp in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. This movie also features a song I've entitled the Harvey Keitel song because it plays during his nudie scene in this and it is also in either Mean Streets or Who's That Knocking At My Door. I love this movie. Anybody looking for a wholesome movie look elsewhere. WARNING Harvey Keitel is fully naked in front of the camera in the NC-17 version. If you don't care or can bear with it than get it. There is also an R rated version. "},{"Title":"Bad Lieutenant-Has Redeeming Qualities **","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel proves over and over what a sleazy person can really be.Here he plays a member of the police force who is sinister and an absolute disgrace to the uniform he wears.Keitel has the sleaze factor down pat in all of his performances.Despite acting as a complete low-life here, he gives in to the wishes of a molested nun by freeing the two guys who molested her in the end.Naturally, a sleazy and decaying New York is shown at its low in morality. This is with a parallel story of the Mets coming from a 3-0 deficit to beat the L.A. dangers in a playoff and therefore advance to the series. I guess that similarly, the lieutenant can overcome his problems by what he does for the nun at the end.A seedy and rather very depressing film, made somewhat better by Harvey Keitel's shattering performance. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was boring to watch and it was very sad to see that what seemed could be an okay kind of guy struggling by doing exactly everything he shouldn't be doing. Harvey Keitel did however put on an exquisite performance as can be expected and the only let down was mainly due to the script itself. He even did that notorious whine that he put on at the end of Reservoir Dogs which makes it appear that he really got into the role. Don't get me wrong, this isn't the worst movie I ever saw, but it's not good by any means either. I guess I had too high hopes after seeing some of the actors and reading about it. Overall not a very worthwhile flick.Final SummaryMovies  I'd never pay ticket price to see this in a theater.DVD Purchase  Not even if it was a 'Walmart' $5.50 deal.Rental  Only as a last resort!  "},{"Title":"Absolutely absurd!","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are so many films that are insulting to New York City and, especially, the NYPD. This one is really over the top in that respect.I am a resident of NYC. My father, uncle, grandfather, and great-grandfather were all police officers. They put their lives on the line each day they went to work. I'm sick of films that depict the police as if they are typically immoral and corrupt. This film does so ridiculously.Harvey Keitel's character never seems to ever check in with a superior and seems to only work an hour here and there in between drug and alcohol binges. Do any of you who felt this film was gritty and realistic truly believe that any NYC cop can be a severe pot, crack, meth, heroin, sex, and gambling addict; as well as a corrupt and immoral alcoholic - and still be able to continue his job? What???Plus, have any of you ever seen a church that's (apparently) open 24 hours and so completely lacking in any sort of security, or any sort of worshipers or staff that, in it, a screaming nun can be raped by two thugs? Each time Keitel's character enters the church, it's empty - except the time that there are the cops and the priest who just happened to be discussing the rape with the victim nun (who seems crazy, as well). I mean, think about it, folks. Ridiculous! I've seen two of Abel Ferrara's other films - Driller Killer and Ms. 45. This dude realllly seems to hate NYC. Who would ever live in a place that's as horrible as these films depict? Although I sort of like Ms. 45, as it seemed more like fantasy than reality anyway.I give the film 2 out of ten stars. I couldn't give it a 1 because Keitel is such a great actor.This is my very first review after enjoying this site for several years. I'm, obviously, not a professional writer or critic. But the horrible depiction of cops in this film was enough to prompt me to write about it here. I'm done now! = "},{"Title":"Compelling as a show-off acting prospect for Keitel...otherwise, a pointless and ugly fulmination","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel does strong work playing a hard-drinking and drugging police detective in New York City whose attempt to bring in the two teenage thugs who violently raped a nun is stymied (both physically and psychologically) by the victim herself, who sees it as her duty to forgive and protect them. Profane, deliberately ugly and off-putting modern-day melodrama from director and co-writer Abel Ferrara certainly offers Keitel a chance to stretch his acting muscles; however, Ferrara's mixture of sexual perversity (complete with gratuitous nudity), self-pity, and religious rage isn't always a heady one. One can sense the 'controversial' mechanisms at play in Ferrara's handling, which buckles the mediocre talents of the disappointing supporting players. Ferrara's technique of holding shots for long periods of time become excruciating for all the wrong reasons--one can practically sense the actors losing their concentration. The overwrought opening sequence (a few relatively simple shots of Keitel driving his boys to school) typifies the rest sloppy, unfocused, and not terribly convincing. Many professional critics praised the film's rawness...and it is indeed raw. Still, the gutter-entrenched accouterments (with coke-sniffing and heroin injections) are finally pointless in this portrait of a soulless man. Once we understand he's a perverted creature in a perverse society--and that things are never going to improve for him--there's nothing left to debate except the film's technical skill, which is marginal. * from **** "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot of The Bad Lieutenant, if it actually qualifies as one, goes something like this A nun is raped in the sanctuary of her church by a couple of bad dudes. Harvey Keitel takes the case but is mystified when he discovers the penguin won't be pressing charges because she forgives the little rascals. The movie culminates with Keitel shuffling off into the sunset stammering to himself as he tries to understand the victim's logic. That's it, but none of that is really important. The premise merely serves as a vehicle for Harvey Keitel's character to display his ravenous appetite for drugs and kinky sex.Don't be misled by my terrible rating. This film effortlessly achieves so bad it's good status, and thus is well worth watching. From the rape sequence in the church (involving the unusually attractive nun and set to Led Zepplin's Kashmir in music video fashion), to the aggressively committed Keitel (to what is anyone's guess) flapping his outstretched arms and squealing for the camera in the nude, The Bad Lieutenant is a random, pretentious affair that confuses camp with real art. The more over the top it gets, the more seriously the film seems to take itself...a surefire formula for unintentional comedy! Hilarious!!! "},{"Title":"Keitel Great but Movie a Downer","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel plays the amoral title character in the original version of Bad Lieutenant, directed by Abel Ferrara and written by Zoe Lund, an actress who starred in his previous film, Ms. 45. Her biography lists death from heart failure due to cocaine use at the age of 37. This was obviously a deeply disturbed woman.Keitel drops off his kids at a Catholic school at the opening and snorts some coke to start his busy day, protecting the good citizen's of New York City. He follows a drug dealer into an apartment building and gives him a bag of narcotics from a bust. He smokes crack, negotiates payments with the pusher, then has sex with two women; what a morning.His first case is the rape of a nun by two boys who used a crucifix during the assault. During his interview with her, she says that she has already forgiven them. He, however, does not share her Christian nature.Our hero is also a compulsive gambler with large bets on the New York Mets. At one point he is down $30,000 and his downward spiral continues with drugs. He returns to the church and finds the nun who was raped kneeling at a pew and praying. He asks her if she would like him to kill the culprits for her. She says no and he breaks down and has visions of Christ, who he begs forgiveness. He tracks down the rapists and has a strange moment with them. Although Keitel is great, the movie is depressing as hell. The remake with Nick Cage worked better for me. "},{"Title":"Too Much Bad","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant (1992) *** (out of 4) Harvey Keitel gets the title role in what is probably the greatest performance in his career, which is saying quite a lot when you look at everything he's done. He plays a morally corrupt and soul less detective who starts to think about his life while investigating the rape of a nun. Ferrara and controversy go hand and hand together and this film certainly hit theaters with a storm of it. I remember the release of this film very clear and how there were some protests and while critics disagreed on the actual film there was no question about the power of Keitel. Over the years I've come to see this film to be quite campy due to an incredibly bad story and some really silly dialogue. It's really amazing at how over the top this story goes yet not too many people ever bring it up. I understand we're dealing with a bad guy but Ferrara takes that badness to a whole new level. Within the first twenty-minutes we see him doing three types of drugs, stealing money, gambling, going off on a profane rant towards his kids and that's just the beginning because more follows and all of this is at the start of the movie. We then get the infamous scene where he pulls over two teen girls and sexually assaults them and at some point you have to ask yourself where the director is going with all this badness. If this guy had been this bad then he would have been dead a lot sooner than the events in this movie. What was the point of all this stuff? Why go on such an over kill? I have no idea the reasons behind it but I just can't take the film as serious as the director wants me to because of it. The main and only reason to see this film is because of the hard hitting and incredibly brave performance by Keitel. He certainly goes places most actors wouldn't dare and one must applaud him for that. The way he slowly but surely cracks and breaks down is hard to watch but Keitel hits all the right notes. His confrontation with Jesus is a very haunting scene and you really feel as if this character is at his last wits and destruction. "}{"Title":"This is the type of movie some people might need cliffsNotes for (spoilers)","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Remember when, in high school, you had to read those famous works of literature?  A lot of it didn't make much sense without those little books yellow  books we all bought called CliffsNotes.  Once we bought the books, all of a  sudden, we were given insight and could appreciate the work as it was meant to  be appreciated, seeing all sorts of things that went over our heads when we skimmed through it the first time.  In this review I'm going to provide these notes  for you and I'll try to do it in such a way so that I'm not giving away much of the  story.  You can read this review first, and then see the movie, picking up on an  important theme, or see it first and then come back and read what I'm going to  point out in the next paragraph. Amazingly, everyone that has written a review seems to have misunderstood it to some degree.  You can find many things to enjoy about the film and still like it,  but some familiarity with christianity helps in giving the viewer insight.  What do  we know about the life of Christ?  He died for our sins, giving up his own life for  others, making the ultimate sacrifice, right?  rgiveness is a very powerful  theme in Christianity.  Watch this movie, and look at the protagonist as  someone who can, potentially, become the most unlikely Christ figure and it will  be one of the most unpredictable and ironic movies you have ever seen.  Also,  keep in mind that the bad lieutenant, towards the end of the movie, has money  that could buy him out of all of his problems.  It is also enough money to buy two  boys out of their problems as well, but can't save all three of them. We all know  what the Christ-like thing to do would be, but does the protagonist decide to do? The movie takes a lot of chances, and raises a lot of questions.  You can feel the  film taking you in directions that few have explored before.  It's very controversial, and any movie that raises so many questions about religious values is going to be very polarizing.  I have great respect and admiration for  film makers that roll the dice and take a chance when making a movie, when they could probably appeal to a wider audience by playing it safe.  How often do  you feel a sense of deja-vous when viewing a movie, like you've seen it before,  even when you haven't?  I guarantee that viewing this movie will be a very unique and memorable experience. "},{"Title":"Can't really see why anyone would like it.","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Lieutenant is set in New York City where a nun (Frankie Thorn) has been brutally raped & beaten in Chruch on the altar. The cops are on the case including a Lieutenant (Harvey Keitel) who happens to be bad but due to her religion she forgives the rapist's, the Lieutenant can't understand why. When he's not being a cop, which isn't very often, this Lieutenant takes drugs, drinks, steals, abuses suspects, takes advantage of his authority in ways he really shouldn't & racks up some serious gambling debts to the kind of people who will shoot you without even thinking about it if you don't pay up. This guy's life just isn't that great & it's about to get worse before it gets any better...Co-written & directed by Abel Ferrara one has to say that I really can't see where all the praise for Bad Lieutenant comes from, from a personal point of view I just find nothing here to enjoy & for me that's the key as to whether I like a film. I don't want to sit down for over an hour & a half & watch crap like this, I don't want to see scenes of Harvey Keitel naked, or taking hard drugs in a variety of different ways or stealing from the people who he is meant to protect & abuse his power & the trust people put in him. Bad Lieutenant is a pretty downbeat character driven study of Keitel's corrupt cop & his miserable drug addicted existence. To be fair Bad Lieutenant is the sort of film which would put most people to sleep, there's no story to speak of, just a few almost seemingly random & unconnected incidents that Keitel becomes involved in between getting high on drugs & alcohol. Bad Lieutenant has no morals, this is a film populated by lowlifes from start to finish. Oddly Keitel's character goes nameless which one could see as a symbolic film-making gesture as Keitel's bad Lieutenant is no longer the man he once was, he is an empty shell with no name or personality totally taken over by his addiction to drugs & alcohol. His love of baseball & gambling could also be symbolic, since he has no friends the one one thing that he likes & relies on keeps letting him down as his gambling debts mount up & thus add more trouble to his already depressing existence. The film also has a stab at some religious symbolism at the end, once the bad Lieutenant gets down on his knees & ask's for God's help he gets it when he is given the identity of the two rapists on whom he could collect thousands in reward money only for him to let them go free for some odd reason I can't quite figure out. The film has a slow pace, not that much happens, scenes of Keitel shooting up & drinking get old very quickly & the story is very weak as the film solely focuses on Keitel's character much to the detriment of the other's.Although very controversial on it's release there's really not that much here to get upset about apart from the drug taking scenes some of which leave little to the imagination, so much so on it's initial release here in the UK Bad Lieutanant had a couple of minutes cut out although the most recent release was passed uncut since it's not as graphic as many claim it to be. Other than that there's an unpleasant but not overly graphic rape & some full frontal nudity including Keitel himself. The film has a very basic, gritty documentary minimalistic look & feel about it with hardly any music in it as Ferrera lets the ambient sounds of New York provide his soundtrack.Apparently shot in 18 days on location in & around New York the film has a very basic & somewhat unappealing look although I am sure that was entirely deliberate. The one area where Bad Lieutenant scores good points is in the acting department, Keitel is very good in this & puts in a memorable & intense performance while Stella Keitel his real life daughter actually plays his daughter here. Co-writer & co-star Zoë Lund who is seen shooting up on several occasions actually died of drug overdose problems in 1999.Bad Lieutenant is not a fun film but then it was never meant to be, it's a hard to watch drama (hard to watch because it's boring) that I honestly don't understand how anyone could truly enjoy. There's no entertainment, no action, no laughs, no fun no nothing so again why should anyone watch this film exactly? I have no idea. Set to be remade as Bad Lieutenant Port of Call New Orleans (2009) with Nicolas Cage in the Harvey Keitel role... "},{"Title":"Sorry, it's also a bad movie.","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Harvey Keitel is the titular Bad Lieutenant, a nameless character whose moral self-degradation becomes the focus of Abel Ferrara's controversial 1992 motion picture. In one scene the Bad Lieutenant pulls over two teenaged girls who have borrowed their father's car. He promises not to arrest them if they do something for him. What follows is heavily responsible for the MPAA's NC-17 rating.Bad Lieutenant follows this man through his own personal hell &#150; drug addiction, alcoholism, self-loathing and sexual perversity &#150; in an effort to examine the inner workings of a corrupt cop on the brink of death.Keitel gives a good performance, his eyes lost somewhere in between hope and despair, but is too much of an exhibitionist &#150; his seemingly mandatory full-frontal nudity is unnecessary and showy. Keitel's career has always been a successful one, but also unreliable and uneven. His performance here is believable, but despicable; that's the point, of course, but to some degree even the most unlikable cinema icons (such as Robert De Niro in Taxi Driver) had a certain level of humanity in them that we could relate to. I didn't have any compassion for Keitel's character, and as a result his performance failed to captivate me in any way.The film is competently directed. I wasn't deeply offended by any of the content found within. I did, however, get the feeling that those involved with Bad Lieutenant were primarily interested in being controversial, and not telling an honest story. This film takes too long to do nothing of any real importance.It sets up Keitel as the Bad Lieutenant. They are free to do whatever they like with this. So, he's on drugs, swears at his kids, is a pervert and so on and so forth. However, once we understand that he's sick, there's no need to beat a dead horse. Bad Lieutenant stays in one place too long, repeating itself, rather than proceeding. Most of the film is an examination of his moral depravity &#150; there should be a flip-end to the coin; the redemption period is a throwaway effort kept tucked away at the back of the picture and by the time it rolls around, we don't care anymore.The preaching is too heavy-handed and as a result the film lacks the conviction it should possess. It is as if the cast and crew are too insecure with their project to let it stand on its own, so Ferrara inserts unsubtle religious iconography into his picture as some sort of last-ditch effort to provide a Christ-like redemption for the Bad Lieutenant to pass through. Religious symbolism in cinema often works as a metaphor for personal forgiveness and self-retribution. In Bad Lieutenant, the concept is taken far too literally &#150; even a couch in one scene of the movie bears a religious symbol on it &#150; and as a result comes across as being too thick, too overburdened, and too distasteful to find any sort of value in. "},{"Title":"Bad Lieutenant IS BAD!","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" How bad can it be? Well, it's Oh my God bad. So bad in fact that after finishing the movie and ejecting the DVD, the DVD went directly into the trashcan. This movie is Abominable, alarming, appalling, atrocious, deplorable, depressing, dire, disgusting, distressing, dreadful, fearful, frightful, ghastly, gross, gruesome, grungy, harrowing, hideous, horrendous, horrible, horrific, horrifying, nasty, offensive, raunchy, repulsive, shocking, stinking, synthetic, tough, ugly, unpleasant, unsightly. There. Get the picture? Zero out of Ten stars. "}]