[{"Title":"One Of Eddie Murphy's Funniest Films","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After a terrible 1991 loanout to Hollywood Pictures for the weak comedy The Distinguished Gentleman, Eddie Murphy returned to Paramount the following year and gave one of his all time best and funniest performances in this romantic comedy with a twist. Murphy portrays Marcus Graham, a New York advertising executive who is known by many people throughout New York for being a notorious player, a man who will date a woman, get her into bed by the end of the first date, judge her by the lovemaking and then dump her. Marcus is quite happy with having this rather low lifestyle and way of treating women. He goes around proudly reporting the previous night's results each morning to his friends (David Alan Grier, Martin Lawrence). One day, an attractive young woman (Robin Givens) becomes the advertising company's new boss. Marcus naturally feels that she will be his next target for romantic using and gets more than he ever bargained for when she winds up being the first woman ever who can see through his tricks and try to get back at him for it (hence the title). Murphy is absolutely hilarious in his role as a player who gradually learns to get lessons in treating women right and Halle Berry has a early leading film part as another work colleague who eventually comes between the Murphy/Givens love affair. Several other popular character actors and actresses make appearances here too.   "},{"Title":"A great comedy which seemed to be one of the last good ones with Murphy","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reginald Hudlins Boomerang is probably Eddie Murphy last good film to date. In this story of a marketing executive who is also a player. Murphy is great in this role, funny and full of hilarious one-liners. The film is written well, very funny, direction is decent and acting is good for the most part. Although Givens is not the best female lead, Halle Berry was great in her role. Martin Lawrence and Chris Rock were absolutely hilarious, and David Alan Grier was good as well. The film is not to be taken to seriously, and although not at the caliber of Murphy favs of mine coming to America and  beverly hills cop, Boomerang is still a must-see for any Eddie Murphy fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Martin Lawrence is hilarious","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film may have it's problems, and apparently many people saw them first hand and stayed away from the film. And I have to admit that the first time I saw this film I wasn't too enthused with it. But after I saw it a second time I fell in love with it and I now own it on video and have seen it quite a few more. And the reason is simple.First of all it is an excellent romance. Eddie really surprised me with his ability to write a story that actually had me touched. He is especially good as a player who gets played but actually falls in love. Murphy has shown a different side to him here and it is also one of his funnier films in quite some time. He is assisted in the comedy department here by two very funny guys, David Allan Grier and Martin Lawrence, the latter stealing every scene he is in.Martin Lawrence has never been as funny as he was in this film. He was great in Bad Boys, but his supporting turn here as Gerard is a classic. There is a true camaraderie here between the three friends (Murphy, Lawrence and Grier) and their conversation and actions around one another has the easy flow that longtime friends exhibit. They play jokes on each other, they make fun of each other and they are supportive of one another. But Lawrence has all the funny lines. From burning his dinner when his friends come over, to his hilarious observations about racism (the game of pool is racist because the white ball knocks the **** out of all the coloured balls, including the black one) to defending his unfortunate lack of lovemaking in the last few years, his interpretation of Tyler is just perfect.Boomerang is also blessed with a truly mellifluous soundtrack. With P.M. Dawn and Boyz To Men, among many of the stars, lending tracks to the film, it reminds me of the soundtrack to Last American Virgin in the sense that there are so many of today's superstars of music on the soundtrack. With Babyface producing, this is another winning production from him.Boomerang solidifies Eddie Murphy's return to the king of comedy. He did rebound nicely after this film and it is good to see him going back to what he knows. A very, very funny film.9/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie shines in this sexy and stylish comedy...","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of Eddie Murphy's best performances in one of his least seen films was the 1992 winner BOOMERANG. This smart and sophisticated romantic comedy stars Eddie as Marcus Graham, a womanizing advertising executive who loves the thrill of the chase where women are concerned, but once he has completed the chase, he is ready to move on. His sexual exploits have made him the center of his circle of friends (Martin Lawrence, a paranoid racist, and David Alan Grier, an insecure milquetoast)who live vicariously through him and admire his style as the ultimate player. Everything changes for Marcus when he acquires a new boss named Jacqueline (Robin Givens), Marcus is enamored of Jacqueline, but is completely thrown by the fact that Jacqueline is a female version of himself, a player who avoids commitment and uses Marcus when it is convenient for her. Throw into the mix another co-worker of Marcus named Angela (Halle Berry) who is nuts about him, but he doesn't know she's alive. Everything works here and it is so refreshing to see a movie with a predominately black cast where the characters are people with brains and real jobs. Murphy exudes mass amounts of sex appeal in one of his best roles and Halle Berry, though allegedly playing a plain Jane, just couldn't come off that way if she tried. There are some wonderful comic bits contributed along the way by Grace Jones, Geoffrey Holder, Tisha Campbell, and the legendary Eartha Kitt, memorable as an aging cosmetics queen with the hots for Marcus. A winning and original take on the Battle of the Sexes that is entertaining from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Eddie's last good film before his four year slump","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boomerang was Murphy's last good film before he hit his slump. The film directed by Reginald Hudlin gave Murphy the chance to spit many one-liners and the chance for us to see two people who would be big ten years later Martin Lawerence and Halle Berry. If you've never seen this film check it out for some good laughs. "},{"Title":"Boomerang","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A marketing executive quickly learns that what comes around, goes around when this Don Juan's new boss turns out to be a Don Juan-ita. Eddie Murphy gives the finest performance of his career as Marcus, a player who meets his match with Robin Givens, but finds love in Halle Berry. Murphy barely drops the F-bomb in the film and the character is well developed by Murphy himself, who had a hand in the writing credits for the film. A fun film that features a great supporting cast of David Allen Grier, Martin Lawrence and John Witherspoon.  "},{"Title":"Robin Givens is the highlight of a very funny and sexy film.","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Eddie Murphy romantic/sex comedy Boomerang is, quite simply, a thorough and total joy. Murphy portrays longtime womanizer Marcus Graham with his usual charm and poise. Halle Berry is absolutely appealing and absolutely warm as the girl who prompts Marcus to clean up his horny act. Martin Lawrence and David Alan Grier provide ingratiating and stylish buddy-support. Lela Rochon and Eartha Kitt are, respectively, magnificently kittenish and magnificently cougar-ish as women with whom Marcus scores. Yet the film's greatest asset, its leading lure is Robin Givens's portrayal of Marcus's boss/female counterpart Jacqueline Broyer. She is by turns sexy and stylish, sultry and commanding, seductive and polished. We immediately see why Marcus falls under her spell and, when she dumps him, not only do we not turn against her, we admire her independent spirit and her no-bullshit attitude. Really and truly, by and of itself Boomerang is a sexy, charming, absolutely joyous romantic/sex farce; with Robin Givens on board, however, it achieves genuine cinematic greatness. "},{"Title":"Underdeveloped Romance !","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What this movie is about? The story of a liar who lives a lying world then finds truth finally? A lover man who's torn between 2 different women? The friendship of 3 guys? Actually the movie itself doesn't know otherwise it could've been more coherent, enjoyable and complete.OK, it's a story of a man who sells everything until he himself becomes a merchandise to be sold. And as a romance, supposedly romance !, the movie pushes this lead to learn about himself as lost person without real love in his life. BUT this movie so lousily sinks itself in a lot of details, un-comic characters, many conversations before hitting the right nerve.It was too late for (Halle Berry) to discover that she loves (Eddie Murphy) or that he loves her; it seemed a desperate attempt for making a third act more than being the movie's main core for god's sake! Not to mention, the matter of so ugly (Robin Givens) on screen, portraying a femme fatale as well ??!! The inhumanly dreadful sight of (Grace Jones) who's one of a few emetic people I've watched in my entire life. The long conversations scenes which with the tepid, nearly dead, direction so the truly dull pace the whole thing looked close to pointless for most of the time. Many characters like (the mail-boy Chris Rock, the mad model, the French artistic director, the old-deceived neighbor, the friend's parents, or even the annoying employee of the clothes store&#x85;) all of them took more time on the screen than what the original story, any original story, did take or should've taken.I pitied the charming and talented young (Berry). Although, she was a perfect princess of innocence, but this dumb script and that endless digressions wasted her utterly. The movie didn't give her space to appear right, or to appear right as someone would love the lead (she advised him how to seduce her boss by Jazz !?). I think that it must've been clear to her, so somehow us, how she got something for him from the very start, and how she must take over the screen at least since the second half. Instead of that they threw some real naive stuff to her (like the clueless first dialog between her and Murphy), and treated her like minor character (the heroine's sidekick) all along to suddenly remember her just before the very end! Although the intense performance that she delivered at the scene of her emotional explosion was the best, most strong anything, of this movie.. still one of the worst movies she was in!After many hits in the field of action and comedy, why not (Eddie Murphy) takes on romance. It was a bold attempt. Yes, he's a good actor along with being big star, but the movie wasn't that good (the word is  broken up). I think it got something with (Murphy) himself as the story's writer, and maybe his fear that the movie could be just romance without comedy, to end up as jammed comedy with not-real-laughs that belated the romance if not suffocated it. I loved a few of his moments here; on their top of course is the shot in which he finds the money for his fatigue besides the bed from his female version who's now treating him like a whore, notice how Murphy &#x96; silently &#x96; pulls the sheets on his chest, sad with weak feminine look in his eyes; actually with wicked little reactions he mastered like these, he's one of few comedians who can make comedy brilliantly with or without talking.Anyhow, it seemed like many incomplete movies in one, or boring stray comedy. I know that it could've been nice romantic comedy but what I've watched was an ideal example for underdeveloped one or a movie with dysfunctional personality. I read opinions about (Boomerang) as smart movie&#x85; please, it's anything but smart! P.S  at one scene (when the lead was being dumped) we see the lights go off at the top of one skyscraper. At later scene (when the lead hugs his friends) we see the lights go on at the same skyscraper !??... Naaa.. Don't bother, it's part of this movie's naivety ! "},{"Title":"Not sharp &#150; but funny and quite sexy","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marcus is a player who woos and beds women with great ease &#150; but never settles down with any.  When a company merger sees him working for the glamorous Jacqueline, he finds himself being played but still falling for her.  However a relationship with the more stable Angela beckons if he can change his ways &#150; but will Jackie allow him to leave her?Part of the Eddie Murphy come back after the years of Harlem Nights, Golden Child, Another 48 hours, BHC 2 and other weak films.  This and the Distinguished Gentleman saw him try to come back with a fresh approach.  Boomerang is a good film &#150; it uses Murphy's playa persona and turns it on it's head to good effect.  True some of it is plain silly and it is quite predictable but it is pretty enjoyable and quite sexy too!Murphy is good simply because he is the butt of many of the jokes via his playa image &#150; plus it's good to see him be outdone after so many big-headed films.  Givens is very good as the man-eating boss but I found Berry to be too sweet to be believed &#150; but though she was the better looking.  Lawrence and Rock are well used in small roles but Kitt and Grace are pointless and stupid cameos.  Witherspoon is very funny and I personally love to see Lela Rochon in anything (and those aren't her feet).Overall it may not win any awards or being shockingly innovative but it's fun, sexy and has a good bagfull of laughs in there. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy once again shines in a romantic role while still being funny in Boomerang","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having only heard and seen clips of this movie for the last 20 years, I finally watched Boomerang on Netflix Streaming just now. Once again, Eddie Murphy got together with his writers from Saturday Night Live-Barry W. Blaustein and David Sheffield-and made another romantic comedy that turned out to be a success like their previous one in Coming to America. And once again, they got a fine supporting cast accompanying them like Lela Rochon (having previously appeared in Murphy's Harlem Nights), Robin Givens, Martin Lawrence, David Alan Grier, Chris Rock, Grace Jones, Eartha Kitt and a newcomer named Halle Berry. Oh, and Tisha Campbell also appeared before her teaming with Lawrence in his upcomimg series Martin. This time the director picked was Reginald Hudlin with his brother Warrington as co-producer after their success with their debut feature House Party. Like Coming to America, this was a nice change of pace for Murphy from his previous wise-ass characters but with both funny and touching scenes. Really, I had a good time watching this. So on that note, I highly recommend Boomerang. Oh, and the person who played a commercial editor looked familiar so I looked at the cast list and found out he was played by the one and only Melvin Van Peebles! "}{"Title":"Players get played too","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Man has this movie aged well. Boomerang was crass, raunchy, vulgar and funny as hell to boot. It was Eddie Murphy in top form just the way we like him.Plot/story Marcus Graham(Eddie Murphy) is a marketing executive with a player mentality who meets his match with a gorgeous boss by the name of Jacqueline(Robin Givens). Marcus eventually tries to cope after getting p-whipped and played by Jacqueline.Opinion Boomerang was funny as hell back then as it is funny now. The interactions between Eddie Murphy, David Alan Grier and Martin Lawrence characters are funny as hell. Grace Jones's character Strange' is a riot. I still lmao at the restaurant scene where Strange' loudly proclaims her favorite part of the female anatomy 20 times in front of everybody. Eartha Kitt's Lady Eloise is a hoot also. John Weatherspoon is just as funny as David Alan Grier's character's father. Boomerang works because it doesn't just rely on the comics being funny alone(like most comedies do). Its material is funny in its raunchiness and the chemistry between everybody works. I would strongly recommend this movie any day over the recent busts that Eddie Murphy has starred in. 5 stars.Rest In Peace Eartha Kitt. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Obviously, based on some of the other comments I've read, this movie isn't quite understood by many. Well, myself, I loved it! To me, this movie was something a lot of sistas loved seeing. A playa get played. The humor isn't everyone's taste. But if you're into black comedy, this is one of the better ones. A classic! Eddie Murphy is handsome and debonair in this movie role. Martin Lawrence is hysterical. David Allen Grier plays a convincing straight man, with his dorky clothes and the uncomfortable way he deals with Halle Berry. Eddie's parents. All I can say is, no matter how many times I see it, I end up on the floor, side-splitting. The way the father says Coooordinate became slang for dressing well, in the early 90's. I still use it, from time to time, myself. Lastly, I can't help but appreciate the way this movie, for the first time, really brought to the big screen the fact that African Americans don't all work in restaurants, grocery stores and hair salons. Some of us are actually entrepreneurs, business executives and some large cooperations are black owned. I think that's my favorite thing about this film. I highly recommend it if you are an Eddie Murphy fan and can appreciate some raw black comedy. "},{"Title":"Very funny romantic movie","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boomerang is a very funny romantic movie. I like the way this film blends comedy with romance, not many films are like this. Every character is unique and different. Eddie Murphy, David Alan Grier and Martin Lawrance make a great trio, They are the ones who made this movie funny. John Witherspoon who played Mr. Jackson is also incredibly funny as well. Boomerang is not about the plot but the texture and characters which made it a great film. "},{"Title":"Mediocre as Both a Comedy and a Romance,","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boomerang is a very poor movie with a storyline that never really goes anywhere or gets very interesting but a good comedic cast.I felt like they thought they were being a very different and unique romantic comedy,and while it isn't like any other one I've seen,thats not particularly a good thing.It goes on for way longer than it needs to and I didn't feel a lot of sympathy towards Eddie Murphys character,which is difficult because we follow him for the whole film and are expected to like and feel sorry for him.The best parts were the scenes between Eddie Murphy,David Alan Grier and Martin Lawrence,they seemed to enjoy each others company and clearly got to improvise their lines together,which was great because the scripted scenes are not very funny.It has some good moments,but Boomerang dosen't succeed very much as either a comedy or romance and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. An ambitious,womanizing ad executive meets his match when he gets involved with three different women.Best Performance Eddie Murphy Worst Performance Eartha Kitt "},{"Title":"Boomerang's a Romantic Comedy Classic","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boomerang is one of the best examples of a movie that while watching it, it's to some extent ultimately unsatisfying, though nearly intentionally so for bettering the viewing, as it never fully fulfills your desirability towards the story or toward the characters, but it keeps you invested, and the movie ultimately sticks with you, leaving you yearning for more, kinda like, the characters themselves know that they're on the very verge of something greater in their lives and right now they're just messing around having some fun in the moment and you're there enjoying their experiences with them but you want to head to that better place too.Boomerang remains really appealing for its stylish, sophisticated, sexy, down-to-earth, kick-back vibe. It has just enough comedy with just enough romance. It's hip, it's smart, it's sweet, it's funny, it's freaky, and it's an original piece of film.Boomerang teaches you the way of a gentleman player, and as you enjoy it, it really pushes you to fantasize about your own love life. There's no pressing plot line, there's just a strong emotional attachment to the characters who all kinda kick it through the whole movie, making it very relatable. Eddie Murphy knew the vision he had in mind. Eddie came up with the story, saying he'd wanted to do that type of character; Murphy played a similar role in The Distinguished Gentlemen that same year, 1992. Murphy makes the movie as Marcus. In playing Marcus, Murphy tones down his comedic talents and timing in an interpret understanding that the character, Marcus, isn't as funny as he is. This is brilliant for the movie. If Murphy had went out on a high note on all of his funnier moments, which he could have easily done, Boomerang would have had a too cheesy comedic element, and it would have lost its smooth and suave attractiveness. Robin Givens is great, really great for the viewing. Do you understand that Givens is great for the viewing? David Alan Grier and Martin Lawrence are both so hilarious, if you don't know, and their characters are a lot of funny too. Halle Berry is amazing, so really sweet. She seems most at ease as Angela, a fine part for her, as Angela may be Halle's one character closest to her real live self. Halle Berry is the finest woman ever. Chris Rock and Tisha Campbell are good and funny and strengthen the movie with their small supporting parts.Boomerang is a good movie to just let go and enjoy it. It's sexy and it's real. Boomerang has a strong cultural click. Boomerang, Boomerang, Boomerang, Boom-Boomerang, Boomerang, Boomerang, I really love this movie. Can't you tell? "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie overall","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Typically I don't like Eddie Murphy since his range is so limited and his humor wasn't funny in 1980 and hasn't changed much since then however....he breaks that mold and does a pretty decent job. He pulls off suave without being smarmy and except for the middle part of the script where he fails to see he's being played it works.It doesn't hurt that the movie has some gorgeous ladies (Halle, Robin Givens, Grace Jones). As a player Eddie shows some great style as not seen since the Tao of Steve.An underrated movie and worth the time to watch. "},{"Title":"Sexy, seductive, witty, glamorous, and hilarious","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BOOMERANG is one of the best Eddie Murphy movies I have ever seen. I laughed really hard when Marcus (Eddie Murphy) said, Kirby! In my opinion, all the women looked very beautiful in the dressy clothing they wore, especially Christie (Lela Rochon) and Jacqueline (Robin Givens). Another thing that made me laugh were the confrontations between Marcus and Yvonne (Tisha Campbell). I especially loved Tyler (Martin Lawrence). His act was really funny. It was funny, but a little crude. This movie was very sexy, seductive, witty, glamorous, and hilarious in my opinion. In conclusion, I recommend this movie to anyone who's a fan of Eddie Murphy. You're in for a real treat and a lot of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Boomerang","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't understand the meaning of the title (probably relating to throwing something away, and getting it back), but I recognised many of the African American stars in this film, and I enjoyed the fair amount. Basically Marcus Graham (Eddie Murphy) is a successful advertising executive, and also a hit with the ladies (womaniser). After a company merger he finds that his new boss, ravishing Jacqueline 'Jackie'/'Jack' Broyer (Robin Givens, former wife of Mike Tyson), she is treating him the same way he would. He thought he was in love with her, and for a while he was (presumably), and his work is going downhill, but then later he starts dating her more quietly attractive assistant Angela (Halle Berry), who was dating one of his best friends. In the end, after some negative turns and rejection, the eventually get back together, and they (supposedly) live happily ever after. I can definitely agree with the critics that Grace Jones as Helen Strangé and The Emperor's New Groove's Eartha Kitt as Lady Eloise give the film a buzz. Jones being, well, herself (putting on a French accent) is funny taking her knickers off in public, and demanding sex with Murphy, and saying pussy a lot, and Kitt with her funny nymphomaniac (desperate for sex) character, really husky voice, and sexy legs and body (even here 65, she's still foxy). Also starring Jumanji's David Alan Grier as Gerard Jackson, Martin Lawrence (just before his breakthrough in Bad Boys) as Tyler, Live and Let Die's Geoffrey Holder as Nelson, young Chris Rock (not long before he started stand-up comedy) as Bony T, Tisha Campbell as Yvonne and Lela Rochon as Christie. Sure, it's slightly long, but don't let that sway you. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Sexy, seductive, witty, glamorous, and hilarious","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  BOOMERANG is one of the best Eddie Murphy movies I have ever seen. I laughed so hard when Marcus (Eddie Murphy) said, Kirby! aggressively. In my opinion, all the women looked very beautiful in the dressy clothing they wore -- Especially Christie (Lela Rochon) and Jacqueline (Robin Givens). Another thing that made me laugh were the confrontations between Marcus and Yvonne (Tisha Campbell). I especially loved Tyler (Martin Lawrence). His act was REALLY funny. It was funny, but a LITTLE crude. This movie was very sexy, seductive, witty, glamorous, and hilarious in my opinion. In conclusion, I recommend this movie to anyone who's a fan of Eddie Murphy. You're in for a real treat and a LOT of laughs, so, go out to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.    "},{"Title":"One Boomerang you don't want come back to you","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For a long time I've always knew and remembered about this film because it features the hit song End Of The Road by Boyz II Men but never really watched the film itself. Well, at one night I decided to dive into this movie to see what this Rom-Com film is like. Oh...well after watching the entire film I can honestly tell you now that this movie is actually bad, it's as bad as Steve Irwin getting a stingray barb up the life force. It just baffles me that such a classic song would be featured in a train wreck of a film like this.The story is as boring as a soup opera and the film is severely lacking in the comedy side of things, the things that are supposed to be funny are just not. Sadly the funniest thing in the movie was this strange disturbing advert they show mid way through the film to promote the company. The worst character in the whole film is Strangé (Grace Jones), she dresses up like a freak and all she ever talked and shouted about was dirty sexual things and rudely calling out different people in an restaurant gay after Marcus (Eddie Murphy) declined her ridiculous offer of sex.Bottom-line, Boomerang has too much romance, is plain boring due to the lack of comedy and the story just wasn't very interesting.One last thing, why is the movie called Boomerang? There's no Australians, kangaroos and boomerangs in this. If the movie were a boomerang, I would throw it away into a bin. "}{"Title":"The worst movie Eddie have played in - try too hard and don't deliver","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A man have a high class life style, chases women, have sex with them and check their feet _after_ sex to see if she is the perfect one...Do yourself a favor - so not waste time to watch this movie. Watch another of Eddies movie - or a newer with Hally Berry.- It tries to hard to be funny, and is not. - The sex scenes are boring, don't deliver. - The romance played just have no substance.All the classic personalities are there, the man who uses women for sex, the woman who uses men for sex, power play at the C-level, the parents, the friends, the best friends who like same girl, the beautiful sweet girl, etc. It has all, but no real story and fails to put substance into anything.It tries too hard to be funny, sexy and romantic - and is not. After ca 1.5 hour of misplaced racial humor, bad jokes on sex and romance we get to the end, Thanks....Skip 1.5 hour into the movie and just watch the last part. Here the beautiful girl get captured by the main actor who finally realize that he loves her - and that while having sex with another girl.However, I feel sorry for the sweet innocent girl, to get the man who only have been using women for sex until then - and only judging them based on the toes on their feet. "},{"Title":"Unsure Of Itself","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This romantic comedy/drama never found its feet thematically. The essence of the narrative is Marcus Graham, the leading role played by Eddie Murphy, who is known for his slickness with the ladies when he meets his match in colleague Jacqueline, starting the morality play regarding relationships which is severely undermined and contradicted.Since the morality play forms Boomerang's primary theme it should have been handed better. Once Jacqueline began to reject Marcus Boomerang solicits sympathy towards him as being emotionally abused. Considering Marcus' previous actions had been satisfying his needs at the expense of women, it was very hard to feel sympathy towards him and produced nothing for character development. Especially as he betrayed Gerard, one of his best friends by sleeping with Gerard's love interest. It contradicts Boomerang's intentions as to some extent Marcus never changed his ways and as a result Gerard, who was the most honourable character and the type of personality Boomerang vainly strived Marcus to be, to the wayside. It churns itself out into an overdrawn story trying to keep hold of the audiences' attention but only highlighted Boomerang as a flawed film.When Boomerang was not focusing on its primary theme, it was mostly filled with characters whose sole aim seemed to be acting out situations for nothing more than comedy. Eartha Kitt as randy Lady Eloise whose blatant attempts to seduce Marcus came across as more repelling than funny, Chris Rock as assistant Bony T whose personality traits offered nothing more than a few laughs and Yvonne (Tisha Campbell - Martin), Marcus' former flame and coincidently next door neighbour who spent her time insulting him and warning potential suitors about his womanising. In spite of the screen time these characters had, it felt they were only filling void spaces to keep viewers entertained when Boomerang was meant to be dealing with relationship issues. Even Helen Strange, played with direct ferociousness by Grace Jones and offered a great critique on the ridiculous personalities of the advertising/fashion industry, came across as style of substance increasing Boomerang's superficialness in trying to present in depth the complications between men and women.Overall it's not surprising reflecting over Boomerang's theme and narrative that the conclusion is one of imbalance. If a different, more serious approach was taken without the starling contradictions and aiming for entertainment value rather than being earnest, Boomerang may have been a better film. "},{"Title":"Boomerang","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite Eddie Murphy movie, it had me laughing from beginning to end, especially the Thanksgiving scene, John Witherspoon is a fool, BANG, BANG, BANG though I already knew that when I seen him in Hollywood Shuffle, remember Winky Dinky Hoe Cakes? However, I had a problem with how Marcus played Christie, I have a peculiar foot fetish, had that been me and seen those corns on her feet, I would've had those toes in my mouth, but that's another story, anywayz, I also enjoy seeing Halle in that movie back when she was a real sister. I can't front though, I took some pointers from that movie on how to be romantic, without being chauvinistic. Martin Lawrence was in pure form, so was David Allan Grier, I'd have f**ked him up if he try that karate s**t as a matter of fact, I'n going to watch it when I get home today, we'll never see Eddie that funny again, I just wish that he would go back to his roots and do stand-up again. All in all, Boomerang is in the top 5 of my all time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"This movie is all for the players!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being successful is everything a person could be. But when that successful person is a complete player, their world will come spiraling down on them. Eddie Murphy plays Marcus Graham, the playboy exec who really sees the light on his ways. Wooing and cooing women is more of his job than his marketing biz. Geoffrey Holder is Roger, this guy is really more hormonal than moral in every way. I've enjoyed everything Holder plays The Voodoo leader in Live and Let Die, Punjab in Annie, The best part of him is when he says, Marvelous and his trademark laugh, HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Grace Jones, the outrageous singer/actress never lost her touch. Playing the raunchy Strange, made everyone uneasy. Especially when she takes off her panties and rubs it all over Lloyd's(Leonard Jackson) face. I would freak out as well. What's worse, she grabs Marcus and he reacts Hey, what's the matter with you? Then she flashes her crotch at Marcus which is really distasteful and virtually unpleasant to patrons. I would go to the restrooms and yak my appetizer in seconds. This movie is funny, yet shows meaning what it's like to be played by your own game. What go around, comes around. Rating 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One Of Murphy's Funniest!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boomerang is one of Eddie Murphy's funniest films. It works because the film is loaded with comedians Martin Lawrence, Chris Rock, John Witherspoon practically steal the film from Murphy.Marcus Graham (Murphy) is a ladies man He can be romantic, but dumps them after he gets them in the sack. He meets his match when Jacqueline Broyer (Robin Givens) comes into the picture. Not letting the fact that she's his boss get in the way, Marcus tries to seduce her. Things don't work out the way he hopes when in pursuit of Jackie, his work and life suffers. Then, to complicate matters, he gets involved with Angela (Halle Berry), despite the fact that his best friend Gerard (David Allen Grier) wants to see her.Funniest scenes 1) Thanksgiving Dinner. Gerard's father speaks his mind. And when he does, is sooooo funny! 2) Lady Eloise (Beautiful as always Eartha Kitt)is seduced by Marcus in order for him to go higher up in his job, but it turns out that she is a little off.3) Strange (Pronounced Strawn-J, and played wickedly by Grace Jones). ANY scene she's in is hilarious! The music in the film is even better. With songs from Boys To Men (End Of The Road), PM Dawn (I'd Die Without You), as well as Babyface and Toni Braxton, it gives the film a cool sound.Clearly at this point in his career, Murphy was trying for a new image. It was a good effort and the film is proof of that. "},{"Title":"Funnier Every time I Watch It","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Boomerang is one of those Eddie Murphy Classics. It's a story about a Womanizing man (Eddie Murphy) who meets his match (Robin Givins), and gets a taste of his own medicine.I loved the idea of showing this scenario with affluent young black executives instead of the stereotypic ghetto love atmosphere white America likes to see us in. Black Executives do exist in record numbers (just had to throw that in).This movie becomes funnier every time I watch it. That Bang Bang Bang scene is the funniest thing ever but there were big laughs through out the entire movie. Eddie did a great job on this one. "},{"Title":"Good Movie..Some great side performances","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this film. In fact I must have liked it, considering over the past couple of months I have been remembering some of the scenes from it, which leads me to believe this is a must have in my DVD collection.I found this movie to not only be moving, but had some really great performances. Lets leave out Mr. Murphy for a moment and think about some of the others who really gave it their all. For instance, the lovely and talented Halle Berry. I think this movie really was able to show some depth, which helped in kick starting her movie career. David Alan Grier, well I think he did such a great job and probably not given as much credit as he should have had when this movie came out. Bravo Mr. Grier! You were the man up on that roof! OH! and lets not forget the lovely and very funny Tish Campbell! Every time I think of this movie.. I always remember her because she is sooo crazy. I just giggle thinking about her over-the-top character in this movie!!! And now, Mr. Murphy. You know, I have always had mixed feelings on many of his films. I cannot say I am always one to be up for watching any of his movies.. except for this one! There is just something about it. Maybe it is his extreme sensitivity in this film that gets me every single time. At some point you get it. You understand why he thought about women the way he did, and you get the feeling once he changes that tune! I almost felt like I was intruding on a couples argument when Halle Berry's character gives him her famous quote in the movie.PS great music choices.... Boys II Men! Ahh the 90s -) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, Eddie Murphy at his peak!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film surprised me. I wouldn't expect a film starring Eddie Murphy, Martin Lawrence, David Alan Grier, Halle Berry and Robin Givens to be an amusing, quirky, and well-acted film. Each of them have talent in their own right, but are normally type-cast actors who are predictable in terms of what to expect. Well Grier, Givens and Berry gave no surprises. And Martin Lawrence, though he played his role to a tee, was pretty much Martin Lawrence. The real surprise was Murphy. This is the true Eddie Murphy charisma. A character that is beyond what I would normally expect from him, this film proves that he has talent, and was pretty much the peak of his career. If for no other reason than because it's not simply another goofy comedy a la Golden Child or Coming to America. Those films are really funny, but here, Murphy proves that he can act, too...and I don't think he's ever done it again. The problems with this film were few. The supporting cast were fairly strong...even though some were quite predictable in terms of character, they still worked out well. Robin Givens was a bit one-dimensional, but she served her purpose well. David Alan Grier was a weakness; he went overboard in this role; he played the same role in a much stronger manner (also opposite Halle Berry) in Strictly Business. And the smaller roles were all amusing Grace Jones was hilarious, especially the restaurant scene! Leonard Jackson's facial expressions were priceless, John Witherspoon was great (as was the whole Thanksgiving dinner!!) and Geoffrey Holder was funny and charismatic as the quirky commercial designer, Nelson. So what were the problems? Well the length was an issue. This film could've been 20-30 minutes shorter; two hours is just too much. Start by cutting out the sex scenes, they were yawnable and pretty much useless. Look It's Robin Givens in her panties. Look it's Robin Givens in her panties again. And guess what? Yup, three time's the charm, Robin Givens in her panties once again...granted, Robin Givens is quite the looker, but not on top of Eddie Murphy. And this film really didn't need it. While we're at it, you can take out the whole Eartha Kitt-Eddie Murphy seduction scene. Could have been done in a quarter of the time, and frankly the whole scene still makes me shudder;) As well, the cinematography was poor, with generic shots an choppy cuts (and worse fades). Now, I don't expect art-school experimentation, nor do I expect Coen Brothers quality, but they could've at least made it look pretty. The scenes are nice, but they do nothing with them. This is textbook film-making. All in all, the film is a fun watch. The scenes that are on are *really* on; absolutely hilarious. As it is the film's quite good. Cut out even fifteen minutes and the film would be so much better! 7/10 "},{"Title":"*** out of ****; Grade B","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Murphy plays a suave ladies' man who loves them and leaves them, until a chic executive captures his heart, only to stomp on it as he has stomped on many others.  Witty, bright film is overlong and has some stale patches, but boasts a remarkable cast and lots of laughs.  Givens and Berry are very good in their yin-yang type female roles; Kitt, Holder, and Jones steal scenes with little effort. Murphy is playing new notes here - he's refined and graceful - and is quite good at them.  "},{"Title":"Good looks aren't everything","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, this movie has some nice visuals. Interieurs, light, even the clothes of the cast look like they were made for each other. The appeal is so perfect, it reminds you of a commercial, which unfortunately holds true to the rest of the film as well. The actors so much try to look swell, sophisticated and suave that it seems they forgot they not only portray the clothes and fancy apartments, but actually characters that interact with each other. This keeps them flat and it is not easy to establish a relationship to them, which also lets most of the humoristic points of the story fail. If you really are into watching movie-length commercials an evening with 9 1/2 weeks might be more enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Lessons in Love!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great Eddie Murphy romantic comedy.Without a doubt this is the sexiest role of Robin Givens career and the best she's ever looked.The main point of the film aside from Murphy's comedy and Givens beauty is that love is blind and good things come to those who wait. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies...Period","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Where do I start? Wow. It is rare that a movie can make me smile but at the same make me really laugh. No fake laughs but real laughs I seen this movie a number of times and it never gets old. The cast is so superb... I mean come on Martin( who is actually funny in this movie... okay he was funny in blue streak also) David Allen Grier ( Very underrated talent...funniest cast member on in living color) and of Course Eddie Murphy. Then the other supporting cast was hilarious. How can anyone not love this movie... and my god I can quote it all day long. This movie is a perfect example of relying on the surrounding cast members and not one star to bring in the funny. Worth the view.. "},{"Title":"Some humor, though mostly boring","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The scenes with the male actors (Murphy, Greer, Lawrence) have some humor. The jokes are OK, the actors are good, and they have very nice chemistry together.The love scenes, which there are several of, are very lame. Adrian Lyne should have brought in to direct them.The scenes of Murphy with the female characters are boring and repetitive. It becomes a struggle to get through them after awhile, which is a problem as they make up most of the movie.Score and soundtrack are nice, very early-90s.Some of the details are neat, such as the advertising spots.Most importantly, Eddie Murphy is portrayed as a huge stud. And quite effectively so. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Eddie is at the top of his game in this one. Great Laughs and Great Women. Halle Berry, Robin Givens, Eartha Kiit, and Grace Jones give tremendous performances. The storyline is very creative and there is a true lesson to be learnedL Plays do sometimes get played. I watched this movie in the theater when it first was released and I have watched it on video and now DVD every year since. This is a true classic with something for everyone. I especially like the style and class of the characters. They are all professionals who enjoy a good time. You can tell that they had fun making this move. Martin Lawrence and Chris Rock are hilarious in this movie along with Eddie and David Allen Greir. "},{"Title":"Just a Classic","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't say that I've seen this movie less than 50 times since I saw it in the theater. This is CLEARLY one of the funniest movies of all time. We'll never see a comedic ensemble of this caliber again. It's Eddie (albeit before he became unfunny), pre-coke Martin, pre-toothjob Chris Rock, Eartha Kitt(!), the dude that played Punjab in Annie... Forget that some of these people are now some of the biggest stars in Hollywood, this film is HILARIOUS. Eddie even shows a little acting range with the romantic scenes. From the establishment of Murphy's character as a player to the classic conversation at the Thanksgiving table, this picture delivers from beginning to end. The jokes were funny when I was a kid and they're still funny now that I'm grown. By the way, Tisha Campbell manages to be the funniest character in the film, which boggles the mind. And the soundtrack was great... and Grace Jones was funny as sh*t... and why don't the Hudlin Brothers make more movies? "},{"Title":"one of the best 90's movies EVER","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is Eddie Murphy at his best...not to mention Martin Lawrence, Halle Berry, Grace Jones, Ertha Kitt...HELLO!?!? This is a high quality flick, no question about it, well written, HILARIOUS, and definitely able to bring back fond memories when you see some familiar faces at their best (some less familiar now), and hear the soundtrack...Toni Braxton, PM Dawn, can't do better than this movie. Period. (unless maybe you are talking about coming to America....there may be some competition there). And in addition to being funny, and having some great acting (say what you want about her, but nobody plays a b$@%# like Robin Givens), its a romantic comedy with an actual plot that makes sense. Amazing. "},{"Title":"This was a great movie!  Period!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I LOVED this movie. The musical score was great and it was wonderful to see people of color in a positive positions/roles. There was a laugh a minute and I thought the acting was good. It is my favorite Eddie Murphy movie. I do think you have to bring something to this movie to enjoy it though...y'all who know can relate.Besides the above, it was great the way they flipped the roles of the characters and brought out the stereotypes typically portrayed in movies. I think this accentuated the comedic effect. I wish that Hollywood would bank role more movies like this. Movies that make you feel good and make you laugh without resorting to placing people of color in a box. Allow us to reflect and express ourselves and our full range of experiences. "},{"Title":"characteristic of Murphy's low period","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As Eddie Murphy may win an Oscar tomorrow night, it's surprising that he once starred in movies like this (then again, things mostly haven't changed much, as Norbit is supposed to be pretty terrible). Boomerang has got to be one of the poorest excuses for a movie that I've ever seen. It's just another movie where Eddie Murphy plays a successful man looking for a way to bed a beautiful woman. Otherwise, almost nothing happens in it. It was so bad that I didn't even bother to watch the whole thing, and usually I'm very patient with movies (I even watched a stinker like Town & Country the whole way through). I don't care that this movie gave David Alan Grier, Martin Lawrence and Chris Rock early appearances, or that Grace Jones actually manages to elicit a few giggles. You will do FAR BETTER to just avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Bad!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of only two movies I have ever walked out on. Not even close to the worst film I've ever seen, but definitely one of the worst films I've ever seen in a theater.Honestly, I don't remember much about it, just that it annoyed me so much that I had to leave immediately. I certainly have nothing against Eddie Murphy. He's been in some of the funniest movies ever made. He's even made some good movies not too long ago, and was nominated for an Oscar just this year. The cast, as well, is made up of talented people. Chris Rock and Martin Lawrence, et. al. Should have been a good movie. But they blew it.Stay away. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Halle Berry","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the 90's, Eddie Murphy was succeeded by the talents of Denzel Washington and Wesley Snipes because of the milestones set by Spike Lee. The 90's was not the decade for comedy-drama that Murphy had defined for the 80's, but was now a platform for black talent in America to have a voice in Hollywood. At the forefront of this trend was Denzel Washington and Wesley Snipes under the direction of Spike Lee, and whereas Murphy was non-threatening with his comedy-dramas in the 80's, Spike Lee was in your face. However, his films made money, and audiences became accustomed to seeing Wesley Snipes in urban dramas such as 'New Jack City' instead of watching the non-threatening Murphy in second rate films such as 'Boomerang'. For the 90's, Murphy was relegated to the video shelves rather than cinema screens. The only redeeming qualities about this film was the cast. The up and coming Halle Berry. The controversial Robin Givens (ex-wife of Mike Tyson). Martin Laurence fresh from working with Spike Lee. And the legendary Eartha Kitt handing on the baton to the 90's generation. "}{"Title":"The worst movie EVER","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the WORST movie I have ever sat through.  We were supposed to laugh at how sexist Eddie Murphy and his sidekick found women to be nothing more than sex objects.  Whatever formula they used for this did not work.  On the contrary, it was incredibly offensive. I almost walked out of the theater! "}]