[{"Title":"Dude, it's simply one of the funniest ever made.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"54 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  And I've seen it MANY times.  Still makes me laugh out loud.  I was surprised when it didn't make AFI's top 100 funniest movies list.  I can't believe it only has a 6.4 . It should be much much higher.  It is simply hilarious. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie. I am sure most people would disagree with me but I would probably put it in my list of the ten best comedies I have ever seen, all time.This is Bill Murray's best work since Ghostbusters, at least as far as comedy goes. I also liked him in Broken Flowers and Lost in Translation but those were more dramatic roles.I loved the way that Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss played off of each other. I don't want to say too much or I'll give away what happens between them through the movie but I thought they did a fantastic job at creating comedic moments. The scenes where Bob horned in on Leo's family moments and right into their home were incredible. I laughed out loud through the entire movie. And it's a good family movie anyone can enjoy.Ten out of ten from me. "},{"Title":"What about Bill!","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It might be a little simplistic to call this Bill Murray's Movie,because in truth,this film works just as well because it has a fantastic support from Richard Dreyfuss,Julie Haggerty,Charlie Korsmo,KAthryn Erbe and director Frank Oz. Still,you cannot watch this film without feeling like Murray's complete abandon in this film is what gives this film its pep,spark and life. This might be one of the more energized performances of his long and well-padded career.Dr.Leo Marvin(Dreyfuss,who has settled into being the 'Uptight fuddy-dudd' roles from here,as opposed to the more restive,youthful roles of past movies like Jaws and Goodbye Girl)seems to have it all. Loving wife,healthy,normal kids and a career that is on the verge of taking offa comfortable private practice in New York and a self-help book about to be published nationwide. At the last minute,he accepts another colleague's patient(for whom he does not wonder as to why his peer is so breathlessly trying to pass this patient off to him)one Bob Wiley(Murray). Bob doesn't have anything wrong with him;he has MANY things wrong with him. Multiphobic,clingy and more than a little under-developed in his sense of emotional attachment,Bob misreads the good doctor's brush off(As the doctor gets ready for a Labor Day getaway with his famille)as being a cure-all,and is immediately smitten with the doctor's methods,approach,diagnosis and treatment. He decides he's going to insinuate himself into Dr.Marvin's life(in somewhat of a mixture of gratitude and need),and follows him to the rural,New England lakeside vacation where the Marvins are staying.Alvin Sargent and Laura Ziskin's story and script make the actors' moves and lines so easy you'd almost think there were elements of improvisation. But Murray and Dreyfuss are(and not to belabor a point here but...)the key here. Murray's socially oblivious and free sense of bonding clashes DRAMATICALLY with the button-down professionalism of Dreyfuss' doctor,and as Muray thinks himself Better,Dreyfuss' shrink seems to be getting worse,confounded by his unwanted patient's persistence and loyalty. While the unabashed enthusiasm of Murray's character might drive away some viewers who might see this as annoying or too much, Murray fans and,I think,fans of sort of odd,non-formula comedies will DEFINITELY appreciate the whole story and rhythm of this film. Perhaps it's a bit too early to state this(though this film,which I first caught in the theaters in first release sixteen years ago,has had more than a decade to simmer in the memories of moviegoers),I feel this is something of a modern comedy classic. I've seen this film no less than three times and,to chime in with an IMDb message board poster,this IS a truly re-watchable movie. "},{"Title":"Hysterical! A film that can be watched over and over.","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I personally think that this irresistible film is one of the best comedies of the 90's, though with this one, I can safely say that that's just my opinion. This is a movie that is so funny, that it never loses it's ability to make you lose control of your motor functions, even after the 15th viewing.Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) is a lovable, but deeply troubled man who has probably the biggest multi-phobic personality you could imagine. He also has a habit of getting really attached to people within the first few minutes of meeting them, and it's heavily implied that he's driven multiple therapists out of business due to his annoying dependency. And the successful therapist/best-selling author Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) is about to be the next victim. After his first interview with Dr. Marvin, Bob is immediately attached, and is worried when the doctor leaves for a month long family vacation, preparing for a promotional interview on Good Morning America. Bob cleverly tracks down Dr. Marvin at his lake house, and instantly becomes good friends with the rest of the family, while the doctor doesn't approve. Bob soon becomes a house guest who acts like a part of the family, and is 100% oblivious to Dr. Marvin's sinister hatred of him...Totally brilliant premise, that is very well executed. I still do think the ending, while still funny, could have used some work. Bill Murray is at his absolute best here. He's such an over-the-top, yet believable character, who you just wouldn't be able to resist how friendly he is. Richard Dreyfuss is in my opinion the funnier of the two. His facial expressions just scream repressed rage, and his loss of sanity, slowly occurring throughout the movie, is perfectly timed. You barely notice his personality change. It just happens. One minute, he seems like the ideal therapist, but before you even realize it, he's a sinister maniac, who now requires more therapy than Bob. Bob on the other hand, goes the opposite way. By driving him crazy, he unwittingly manages to become saner, and conquer many of his fears. And has absolutely no clue how much Dr. Marvin hates him, even when Dr. Marvin has extreme outbursts at him right. Dr. Marvin couldn't possibly express his annoyance more clearly, and the idea of his rage never crosses Bob's mind once.That is where the movie gets it's humor. Even as he unwittingly humiliates someone on national TV, Bob never loses his charm. The interview scene is in my opinion, one of the all time classic comedy moments, and director Frank Oz just nails it. In the hands of any other filmmaker, the scene could have deteriorated into mindless slapstick. Bob humiliates the subject of the interview just by being Bob. And believe me, he is not someone you would want to be guest interviewing with. It's amazing how funny it can be just by watching a family grow to love someone who the man of the house hates with a passion, and getting mad when the dad acknowledges his annoyance. I highly recommend this laugh-a-minute comedy, and give it 8/10.It is rated PG for Language, and Thematic Elements. It would easily be rated PG-13 today, even without the language. "},{"Title":"Murray Good At Being A Whack-Job","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"41 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie the first time I saw it, laughing most of the way. By the second look, Bill Murray's deliberately obnoxious-pushy character now started driving me crazy, too. No longer was it just Richard Dreyfuss being tormented. By the third viewing, I'd had enough.Murray, Bob, is so annoying, so irritating, that you either laugh or want to kill this guy yourself as he hounds his psychiatrist all over the place. Kudos to Dreyfuss to put up with, even if it's just acting. Murray certainly did his job well in this film. He was the perfect actor to play Bob.Highly recommended for one but beware Bob may drive you nuts, too. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray in one of his most endearing roles","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedies like this aren't made anymore,  simply because the common movie  watcher might deem such entertainment  boring due to no use of semen or other  bathroom humor archetypes. What I  especially enjoyed about this film was  the interaction between Bill Murray and  Richard Dreyfus. It also brings out a  question Does bliss really exist within  the confines of personal aggrandizement,  or does it exist within the lack of societal  pressures? A great little movie which  should be watched by all. "},{"Title":"better than anyone might expect","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray really does his best when playing outright wacky characters like the one in What About Bob?. In this case, he's a mentally unstable psychiatric patient who follows his psychiatrist (Richard Dreyfuss) on vacation and practically takes over. In a way, the whole movie's sort of silly, but it shows how the psychiatrist is basically a pompous dweeb and Bob is the world's most lovable person, if not quite all there. It's really neat towards the end, how the psychiatrist starts losing his mind in frustration. All in all, it shows that Frank Oz is quite capable as a director, and that Murray and Dreyfuss are two of the greatest actors of our era. Also starring Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo and Roger Bowen in his final role. "},{"Title":"Fabulous and fun!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob? is one of my all time favorite movies. I never tire of watching this delightful comedy. It is Bill Murray's best performance. The dynamic between him and Richard Dreyfuss is perfect and makes the movie such fun to watch. Bill Murray's characterization of the neurotic Bob is on target. And as Bob becomes more whole in personality -- healing b/c of the interaction with Leo's family -- Leo descends into a jealous-madness. The dichotomy is so amusing to watch.But it is Bob's relationship with Siggy, Leo's son, that is the sweetest unfolding - and is the main cause of friction with Leo. Bob's ability to effortlessly charm his whole family drives Leo to distraction. One of my favorite scenes is where Bob has Siggy teach him how to dive&#133;priceless! "},{"Title":"Only a 6.7?!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gee,...considering this is probably Bill Murray's funniest comedy and it is rated so poorly, no wonder he's recently taken to making odd and very unfunny movies. After all, with WHAT ABOUT BOB?, GROUNDHOG DAY and THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE, he was responsible for probably three of the top comedies of the 1990s...yet all are rated relatively low on IMDb. I just don't get it.Bob is one of the most annoying and compulsive patients any psychiatrist can have. He's needy, histrionic and sneaky, so when his brand-new therapist goes on vacation, Bob connives to find Dr. Monroe and vacation with him and the family! Now this stalking behavior isn't particularly funny, but what makes this such a great comedy is that Dr. Monroe is a sanctimonious and pompous jerk and it's fun to watch Bob make Monroe's life miserable!! Plus, unlike some comedies that let up, in this film every time you think things can't get worse for Dr. Monroe--they do!! This makes for a funny and deliciously black film--one that can't help much make you chuckle.By the way, I was a psychotherapist and now teach psychology instead of work with patients. When the film came out, many of my colleagues were scared to death by the film because it did hit close to home, while others thought it hilarious. Having never had a patient like Bob, I guess it was pretty easy for me to laugh at the whole thing!I have to go now--I'm about to teach my class about death therapy. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray at his best!","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob? is a laugh-out riot with Bill Murray playing the title character of Bob Wiley, a somewhat neurotic nut ball who's in need of therapy in order to calm his nerves from all the fears he has from germs, elevators, and God knows what else. Richard Dreyfuss plays his psychiatrist Dr. Marvin, a pompous doctor who can't value time with his family until his book becomes a hit and has a chance to talk about it nationwide. It's when Bob and Dr. Marvin meet face-to-face where the barrel of laughs begin with the patient making his life upside down while winning the hearts of his family, enemies and everybody around him. I've been a fan of Bill Murray since his performances from Ghostbusters to Caddyshack and he never disappoints. "}{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" l wasn't sure if I wanted to give this movie 7 or 8 points till seeing the last 20 minutes. There Richard Dreyfuss has been in full cry. I needed to laugh so hard, that I am forced to give this movie 8 points. As a movie itself, if I use all criteria I use on other films, this movie would not deserve 8 points. The story is predictable (I knew exactly how it was going to end from the very beginning), camera work, music and characters are not actually special. All has been there before, and was copied again and again afterward. But as a comedy, this movie totally did what it was supposed to do. It was absolutely hilarious!Sometimes the humor was a bit too silly, and Bill Murray has been overdoing it from time to time - and I still needed to laugh my butt off. Watching the way smaller Dreyfuss beside the tall, dumb looking Bill, screaming and shouting like an angry dwarf, was a way too funny image. "},{"Title":"Two richly comic performances from Murray and Dreyfuss...","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not since Jack Nicholson played a manipulative, obsessive-compulsive, germ free freak in As Good As It Gets, has any actor shown such ability as BILL MURRAY does in WHAT ABOUT BOB? to play a neurotic man from the city who has to talk himself into having enough courage to leave his apartment. He's a lovable enough guy, though, who talks to his goldfish and has an otherwise amiable disposition.Murray is able to draw a fine line between being obnoxious (which he certainly is to Dr. Marvin, played by RICHARD DREYFUSS), to being a charming oaf who wins the approval of the doctor's vacationing family after faking his own suicide with the man's answering service in order to learn where the doctor's vacation spot is.Of course, all of its grossly exaggerated--as any story would be that deals with a man who drives his own psychiatrist crazy, or at least over the edge, as Murray does. By film's end, Dreyfuss is a wreck of a man who even goes so far as to attach explosives to Murray to get rid of him! And naturally, all of his schemes to rid himself of this clinging neurotic are useless. Murray turns up like a bad penny even after the doctor has assumed him dead--and the vacation home is reduced to zero in an explosion.Hilariously funny material is given a real boost by the performances of Murray and Dreyfuss, who play off each other with goofy insolence and, at times, in touching and poignant ways. Murray hasn't given this fine a comic performance since GHOSTBUSTERS and Dreyfuss matches him every step of the way.Julie Hagerty is fun as Dreyfuss' feather-brained wife who enjoys the amiable side of Murray's personality and his utter unpredictability--the very qualities that drive Dreyfuss further and further off his rocker.I found myself laughing out loud at some of the shenanigans--and all of it is very worthwhile to watch and totally unpredictable. "},{"Title":"Baby Steps its way to HILARIOUS!!!!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob? is a wonderful comedy! I am really surprised that its storyline concept has not been done before. In this movie, a prominent psychiatrist Dr. Leo Marvin, (played by Richard Dreyfus) is gradually and consistently annoyed and disturbed by a VERY pesky, and determined patient! Bob Wiley, (played by Bill Murray.) The chemistry between the two actors is wonderful!The story involves the good doctor Marvin getting ready to go on vacation. But he has one last VERY neurotic patient to see, Bob Wiley. Bob is paranoid and neurotic about public places, touching things, has hot-sweats, fainting spells.....everything imaginable! He feels Dr. Marvin can help him! But UHHH OH!!! Dr. Marvin explains that he's going away on vacation for several weeks. To help him, he gives Bob his new self-help best-selling book, Baby Steps, detailing how to work out your problems in small, easily manageable stages. But that's not good enough for Bob! While he tries to use Baby Steps to overcome some phobias of getting on an elevator and a bus in public, he CAN'T be without his doctor, no matter what!Bob fakes his own suicide to get Dr. Marvin's answering service to give him his private number up at the lake. Armed with Baby Steps he manages to get up to the lake and see Dr, Marvin. But Dr. Marvin doesn't see patients on vacation.......EVER! However, Bob won't leave Dr. Marvin alone! Not only that, he begins to charm and love Dr. Marvin's own family who responds lovingly to Bob! Soon Bob is helping the family and they love him, and this is making poor Dr. Marvin.......INSANE! In one of the best scenes, Dr. Marvin's book Baby Steps is nationally accepted to be discussed by him on a TV talk show. The show wants to do a segment with Dr. Marvin at his lake home. But one hilarious problem is What About Bob? Will he go away and stay away for the interview?Yea right! Bob has now become a permanent patient in Dr. Marvin's life! I love this movie because of the great interactions between Richard Dreyfus and Bill Murray. Equally effective is Julie Hagarty, the zany stewardess from the Airplane movies as his wife. The film is almost perfect. The only downfall, is that it gets a little silly toward the end. But this should not detract from a solid comedy film. It is VERY, VERY funny! "},{"Title":"My Family Film","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was a small boy back in the mid 90's and thinking how great it was back then. This was a film that I watched all the time with my family and I consider it to be on of my family's personal favorite films. I believe that virtually every family has that small collection of films that they have watched countless times and What About Bob is that movie for my family. Along with National Lampoons Vacation I can safely say that What About Bob has shaped my life because of its genius script and acting methods of both Dreyfuss and Murray. Overall this is a great little gem of a movie that deserves to be watched at least once. "},{"Title":"Leo Marvin Was A Happy Man. A Successful Man. A Sane Man. Until the Day He Met...Bob.","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet Leo Marvin, noted psychiatrist, author of the best-selling book Baby Steps, he's got a loving family, a summer home in Lake Winnipesaukee, and was going to be interviewed live on Good Morning, America. Could live be any better? It could, but it's about to get worse. Enter Bob Wiley, a paranoid, obsessive-compulsive man with multiple phobias ranging from elevators to diseases. He feels that if he fakes Tourette's Syndrome, he won't actually get it. And he carries his goldfish with him everywhere he goes. Bob met with Leo that afternoon and he spelled out his twisted life, involving his divorce over his wife liking Neil Diamond. Leo taught Bob to not worry so much about the big things, but to instead take baby steps. He gave him a copy of his book, then they parted ways. Leo left for Lake Winnipesaukee with his family, but soon enough, he started receiving phone calls from Bob who requested another session. Leo refused him...twice. Not until he returned from vacation. Bob was overly-determined to speak to Dr. Marvin, so he pretended to be a detective and told the exchange switchboard operator that Bob Wiley committed suicide and managed to get Leo's address from her. When Dr. Marvin heard of Leo's alleged suicide, he was saddened...for a minute. He didn't want it to ruin his vacation.Bob reluctantly boarded a bus, another of his many phobias, and headed for Lake Winnipesaukee, Maine. Once he arrived, he immediately tried to locate Leo by screaming his name in public. Leo was anything but pleased to see Bob. His efforts to dissuade him and send him back proved futile. Bob managed to charm Leo's wife Fay, daughter Anna, and son Sigmund. Bob went sailing with Anna by tying himself to the mast, and he taught Sigmund how to dive. All the while Leo was upset about Bob getting involved with his family and despite his protests, Bob ate dinner with them and spent the night. The next day, the Good Morning, America crew arrived to film Leo. They insisted Bob be in it too. Bob tried unsuccessfully to make Leo look good, but instead he upstaged him. A humiliated and infuriated Leo coaxed Bob into the car where he dropped him off at a mental institution where he stayed...for an hour. He charmed the staff so Leo had to take him back. He tried ditching Bob again on the way home, but he got a speeding ticket as well as a flat, Bob hitchhiked and beat him home.Leo had had all he could take of Bob and suffered a nervous breakdown. It was time for drastic measures. He broke into the general store and stole high explosives. He coaxed Bob into the woods where he tied him up then strapped the bombs over him. Bob, thinking this was a genius form of therapy, managed to get himself untied then walked the bombs back to the house...which detonated 10 minutes later, blowing the Marvins' beautiful summer home to bits. Dr. Leo Marvin suffered a severe nervous break-down and catatonia after that. But the real salt in the open wound was that Bob met Leo's sister Lily and the two just hit it off, so they decided to get married. Leo's will to object at the wedding drove him out of his psychotic state and returned him to normal. And so, Bob, Lily, Leo, and the family lived happily, and sanely, ever after.What About Bob? It's a funny movie! Bill Murray was funny. I normally don't find him to be that funny, but he was sure good in this movie. Richard Dreyfuss was a riot. He was really good too. When the guy from Ghostbusters and the guy from Jaws come together, there's no telling what will happen! Also in the cast Julie Hagerty, the cutie from Airplane!, as Leo's ever-patient wife. The kid from Hook plays Sigmund, Kathryn Erbe is Anna, Fran Brill is Lily, and Roger Bowen, in his final film role, plays Phil, Leo's doctor. Bowen is perhaps better known as Col. Henry Blake from MASH. He passed away February 16, 1996 ironically one day after McLean Stevenson, who played the same role on the TV series. Both had heart attacks; I think the funniest part of the movie is when Leo is shaking Bob awake, shaking him and bouncing him continuously, then the alarm goes off and he wakes up. Murray and Dreyfuss made a great team. So if you like either of them, or you like director Frank Oz (performer of such famous Muppets as Fozzie, Miss Piggy, Grover, Animal, etc.) or you like comedies of this genre, then What About Bob? is for you. It's entertaining to watch as Bob improves psychologically, while Leo becomes more and more unstable. From 1991, What About Bob? I recommend it. "},{"Title":"a riot","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Why don't they make movies like this anymore as a norm? Today's comedy is so low-brow and vulgar, in my opinion. Date Night was a film that seemed like a throwback. What About Bob was made in 1991, and it's super-funny.Bill Murray plays a completely neurotic, dysfunctional personality who appears to have driven his first psychiatrist out of the business. In the opening frames, we see the doctor frantically packing as he calls psychiatrist Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss), whose book, Baby Steps, has just come out to excellent reviews. Leo's at the top of the world. He won't be for long.The former doc has passed on a patient, Bob Wiley (Bill Murray), to Dr. Marvin. Dr. Marvin patiently listens to Bill and all his many, many problems, finally stating that he can help Bill, but he's going on vacation with his family and will see Bob upon his return. That's what he thinks.Bob manages to find out where the good doctor and his family are staying, at a lake, and, after several days of trying to board the bus to the location, manages to swallow his fears and get on. Dr. Marvin is shocked and a little disturbed to see him, especially because he's due to appear on Good Morning, America and has been practicing what he will say and doesn't want any problems.Unfortunately, Bob is embraced by Leo's wife and children (Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo, and Kathryn Erbe), who are nuts about him. Bob even manages to charm the crew of Good Morning America and gets to be on the show with Dr. Marvin, who is thrilled - not. Dr. Marvin himself becomes increasingly dysfunctional as time goes on and Bob just won't go away.Absolutely hilarious comedy, made all the better by the fact that everyone plays it totally straight, not going for laughs. Normally I am not a huge fan of Richard Dreyfuss, but he is perfectly cast as Leo Marvin. Bill Murray is wonderful as a likable, manipulative, obsessive-compulsive, dependent neurotic who just won't take 'no' for an answer.Lots of laughs, including Murray's opening scene, Dreyfuss trying to convince himself that Bob can leave because the rain is letting up while it's a monsoon, and many other scenes. If you want to laugh, don't miss this. "},{"Title":"Funny And Nice","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob? is a great, good hearted film with a lot of laughs. Bob is a great character in how he endlessly annoys and irritates Leo. Murray does a great job with his role. The Bob character brings a lot of laughs to the film. A personal highlight of mine is the shirt that he adorns and his reaction to the idea of it.On the downside, there is nothing that really feels new with this movie. Don't get me wrong, it is a very good story, but it just felt like something I have seen a dozen times before.This movie is definitely a nice watch and will leave you feeling good and happy. Worth a watch, especially for the brilliance of Murray. "},{"Title":"It's a comedy really for Murray fans,..not much else","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There have been movies released before about crazy or uncontrollable characters let loose to follow a certain somebody and drive them up a wall. The most recognizable of comedies that had this kind of set up were films like Ben Stiller's dark comedy The Cable Guy (1996), Duplex (2003) or Kurt Russell's Captain Ron (1992). Both of which were about main characters' mental issues that somehow were able to get away with everything, meanwhile simultaneously annoying the living crap out of the person they cling on to. This is no different on a narrative level; the formula is all there. The only change are the leads, their positions on the social ladder and the location. The real element that will win over its viewers will be Bill Murray - if you're a big fan of him.To be realistic it is not a bad performance and Bill Murray doesn't play the worst character. However, he's still not that likable. In fact, none of the characters any actor plays is that likable. The day before Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) leaves for vacation, a fellow psychiatrist transfers one of his patients, Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) to be checked out. After visiting Dr. Marvin, it is revealed to Bob that Dr. Marvin is going on vacation. With that, Bob does everything he can to see his Dr. again for psychiatric help. Tom Schulman best known for writing Dead Poets Society (1989) and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids (1989), penned the script for this comedy with the legendary Frank Oz directing.The strange thing is, like stated before, the execution isn't anything new. The direction is too well known - crazy person introduced to potential host, host becomes victim of crazy person's antics while nobody else believes them. Unlike The Cable Guy (1996) and Duplex (2003) which were mean spirited comedies and Captain Ron (1992) being more dimwitted than anything else, this just plays out irritating. Thankfully, Bill Murray's character wasn't written to be mean spirited, in fact his role is more innocent by nature. The problem is he just doesn't take a hint when someone says leave. With that Bill Murray comes off as more obnoxious than anything else. He's not sick-minded or a jerk, so that kind of makes him acceptable but not likable really because there's little to sympathize for. Bob could be a likable character if he was written more as a character than knows he's causing trouble but can't help it. Instead, Bob causes pain to others and doesn't even notice it. Then again though, that may be due to his dumb surrounding characters.It truly is amazing to how oblivious people can be. Since when are family members so accepting of a professional's patient to show up on vacation, sleep with them in the same room and eat at their table. Not to mention teaching their kids bad words. Doesn't that raise a couple, if not more than a couple red flags? Haven't they heard of the phrase, don't bring your work home with you? Dr. Marvin seems to be the only one who notices and understands that. It's weird because everyone else is so accepting of Bob and yet they don't deal with him in the same manner as Dr. Marvin. Plus, some of the smallest things Bob does everyone finds it hilarious, especially Mrs. Marvin (Julie Hagerty) who is quite annoying too. Saying MmmmmmMMMMmmm after every bite of food at the dinner table really stirs up that many chuckles ? It's because of their lack of concern and care for the victim that makes them unlikable as well and contain no charm. Clearly stated in the movie, one of the reasons why people like Bob is because he's fun and old man Dr. Marvin wasn't. Maybe writer Tom Schulman was trying to get the message across; that you can't live life being a stick-in-the-mud all the time (meaning relax now and then). But aside from one subplot about Dr. Marvin's son trying to learn how to dive, there is no indication of Dr. Marvin being a father who can't have fun. The only reason why nobody finds Dr. Marvin fun is because he's trying to get rid of a patient that is following him and can't get rid of. Wouldn't that make you act rotten too? These supporting characters are so thickheaded. The only actor that is funny on occasion is Richard Dreyfuss. The reason for this being that even going back to the years of Jaws (1975), when Dreyfuss got frustrated, his yelling was more comical than it was dramatic. Nonetheless, since this is a comedy, Dreyfuss is funny in a number of areas because his character has no other way of dealing with the problem (being Bob). Cinematography this time by Michael Ballhaus wasn't anything important, it doesn't showcase much. The music however, composed by Miles Goodman is alright, although it does sound very close to that of his more popular score a year later from The Muppet Christmas Carol (1992). It's not terrible but it isn't good comedy either, unless you're a true Bill Murray fan.Hardcore Bill Murray fans should have no problem with this but if you tire of formulaic host comedies where some crazy person makes everyone turn on the already label victim, it'll be a frustrating sit. It's not the worst because Richard Dreyfuss is funny and Bill Murray's role isn't mean spirited, but the whole play out is just annoying to sit through anyway. "},{"Title":"Funny But Perhaps a Little Overrated","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Successful psychotherapist Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) goes on vacation with his family, only to be followed by a kooky patient named Bob (Bill Murray). Much to Leo's frustration, his family welcomes Bob with open arms. Amazing performance by Murray. Dreyfuss does well with a rather unlikable part. I have to admit some of the comments I've read here seem like hyperbole to me. I mean, I wouldn't say this is Bill Murray's best performance by a long shot nor would I say this is one of the funniest movies ever made. Unless we use one of in a very broad sense, in which case every good comedy is one of the funniest ever made. The point is that exaggerated praise can sometimes harm a perfectly good movie because people read these reviews and think this is going to be Airplane! or Duck Soup or something, only to find it's just a funny movie that is not the defining moment for anyone involved. It's good and it gets better as it goes along but please keep expectations reasonable. Nobody is reinventing the wheel here. "},{"Title":"Great odd couple pairing","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) is a wacky oddball. Doctor Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) is a confident NY psychotherapist who is looking forward to a Good Morning America appearance to push his book. A colleague pawns Bob off to Leo as a new patient. Bob is immediately attached to Leo and his book's advise of Baby Steps. When Leo tells Bob that he's going on vacation with his family, Bob can't take it and tracks him down. Leo thinks his life is great, but not everything is going as well as he supposes. His townie neighbors hate him. His son is afraid to dive. His daughter hates to be over-analyzed and has normal boy troubles. His wife could do with more consideration from Leo. And worst of all, everybody loves Bob.Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss make for a great odd couple. They are both doing something within their skill sets. Bill Murray is especially wacky in this, and Dreyfuss plays annoyed very well without being completely unlikeable. One could certainly understand Leo's point of view, but it's also obvious how wrong he is. "}{"Title":"Very funny or very irritating, depending on the viewer","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This relatively simple, good Frank Oz comedy is to me one of Bill Murray's best. In here, the former 'Ghostbuster' star is Bob Wiley, a good-hearted obsessive-compulsive who tracks down his new psychiatrist when he goes on vacation with his family; his annoying but good-hearted actions, coupled with the doctor's upcoming TV interview, cause the man to slowly go crazy himself.I find this film rather polarizing, exactly because of Murray; or, to be more precise, his character. Bob Wiley is good-hearted and enthusiastic to a fault, to the point of being obnoxious. You can't help feeling sorry for the psychiatrist (a very good Richard Dreyfuss) for having to put up with him. And Murray, himself, does a great job; he is not obnoxious in an overly cheerful/clownish way (like Robin Williams, for example), but rather in the comedic OCD way his character is supposed to be. His is merely great acting; a bit TOO good acting, though, as sometimes I myself felt irritated with Bob.Richard Dreyfuss does a very good job too. His character, an overly-uptight and arrogant 'genius' psychiatrist, is shown in a way that we should feel he deserves the hell Bob inadvertently brought him; yet, because of Bill Murray, we can't help sympathize with him. Still, his breakdown moments are hilarious and the interactions between Dreyfuss and Murray are perfect.The supporting cast exists, but it is really Murray's and Dreyfuss' show.In the end, it comes down to how you cope with Murray's character. Whether you can stand him and laugh, or whether you find him so irritating to the point of being unbearable. I certainly found it quite funny and liked it, and would not hesitate to recommend. "},{"Title":"A Really Outstanding Comedy!","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes,Groundhog Day is an outstanding movie,a masterpieceYes,Vacation and Christmas Vacation are very funny and masterpieces, too.Yes,Billy Wilder is my favorite film-maker and his movies,especially Avanti and One,Two,Three are masterpieces not only of comedy,but of cinema.But I think What About Bob would be the one comedy I would choose if I were allowed only to watch one single comedy for the rest of my life.How can that be?First of all,What about Bob is a pure comedy,from the beginning to the end.Groundhog day is no pure comedy (remember,for example. Bill Murray's different attempts to commit suicide) Avanti and one,two,three are no pure comedies either (although some might not agree with me) They have obvious political (and other) undertones. The point is The story of What about Bob is so outstanding funny,that only the story of Groundhog day tops it. Other reviews wrote already about this story,so there's no need for me to do it again. What I,however,want to write about is the performance of the both main actors. Bill Murray played very well-as in Groundhog day.I read that at first Robin Williams should have taken over the part of Bob Wiley,but,frankly speaking,I can't imagine that he could have replaced Bill Murray properly. The performance of Richard Dreyfuss however was really outstanding and might have come as a surprise,because Dreyfuss,in contrast to Bill Murray,wasn't known as an excellent comedian.But maybe exactly that was the reason for his excellent play? A weaker performance than Dreyfuss' one (as Dr. Leo Marvin) could have easily spoiled the whole movie,despite the funny story and despite Bill Murray.The interaction between Bob Wiley and Dr.Leo Marvin is,in my opinion,absolutely essential for this movie.So,very well done,Richard! I read,that Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss didn't get along with each other very well during the making of this movie.Well,this might have additionally improved the mentioned interaction... Psychotherapists might not like this movie.After all,doesn't this movie make fun of them? Yes of them,and NOT of -let's say mentally challenged-people like Bob Wiley.Apart from that I remember Karl Kraus' words psychoanalysis is exactly the disease which it believes to be the therapy for One of the highlights of this movie is,in my opinion,the scene with Good Morning,America If you were Leo Marvin,could you ever forgive Bob Wiley?Which raises a question (a good one to be discussed in the forum,in my opinion)Who would you prefer as your neighbor,Bob Wiley or Leo Marvin? It's easy to say Bob Wiley.After all,this answer makes a good impression-didn't't several reviews portray Leo Marvin as a negative character? However,after giving it a longer thought,I nevertheless would prefer Leo Marvin,because I believe it would be possible to ignore him,if he really was an unpleasant character.However ignoring Bob Wiley...do you really think it would work and that he would ignore YOU?... "},{"Title":"A Winner!","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'What About Bob?' Directed by the talented Frank Oz, is A Winner All The Way! Its a heart-warming, funny film that hits all the right notes. And the performances, are WOW!'What About Bob?' Synopsis A successful psychiatrist loses his mind after one of his most dependent patients, a highly manipulative obsessive-compulsive, tracks him down during his family vacation.'What About Bob?' works from start to end. The narrative never falters, its actually a flawless comedy. Tom Schulman's Screenplay is enjoyable all through. Oz Directs the film beautifully & churns out superb performances.Performance-Wise Bill Murray & Richard Dreyfuss are outstanding. Murray, A Genius, plays the lovable Bob with absolute flourish. Dreyfuss, An Oscar-Winner, is a knockout as the tempered & nervous psychiatrist. Murray & Dreyfuss share an amazing chemistry on-screen & are a delight to watch.On the whole, 'What About Bob? works big time. "},{"Title":"What About Bob? What About Bob","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are many classic films out there in the world and truly this movie deserves mention. With the many one-liners and the excellent acting throughout this movie will have you laughing many times. For those of you who don't like the actors or a particular actor your missing a masterpiece. Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfus made an odd but masterful team and the supporting staff like Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo, & Kathryn Erbe, blend in well. Marcella Lowery & Lori Tinn Chen provide great albeit brief bits as well. The writing, the directing, the acting were A+. If you never see this movie you will have missed out on something. If you come across this movie someday never knowing what it is, and you watch it, you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Frenetic","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While this movie is a vehicle for Bill Murray, it's hard for me not to really sympathize with Richard Dreyfuss. I have always been one of those people who has found it hard to say no. Despite Bob's issues, they ultimately affect a whole group of people and make life miserable for others. While he is lovable at times, he really is a sociopath and the good doctor should have been able to see that and find a way for him. The movie is well paced and fun, despite the constant discomfort it produces. Murray couldn't have been more frenetic, ingratiating one moment, wildly dangerous the next. Dreyfuss is at his pompous best. He has made a career out of playing victimized men who often have it coming. The two of them in the same room make for a nervous energy that overwhelms the watcher. "},{"Title":"Is this a radical new form of therapy?","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A nice surprise was to notice that Frank Oz is the director of this movie as well. He has also done the Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, a movie I have in my top 5. What is common in these two movies, is for sure, the great locations both of them are filmed, as well as the chemistry between the protagonists. Also the soundtrack of this two movies is very similar. During the movie is amazing how your compassion shifts from Bill Murray to Richard Dreyfuss and vice versa. At the end of course Richard Dreyfuss is to be pitied. Admitedly in the beginning what takes place in New York can make you think is a so and so comedy but when the action moves at the country house of the doctor then the movie becomes a masterpiece.The reason why the film works so well is not the slightly humdrum script, but the central comedic performances. Murray is fantastic as Bob, a highly annoying character that you end up liking. However, the unsung hero is Richard Dreyfuss as Dr Marvin; he is excellent as a man driven crazy by Bob's incessant nature. The chalk and cheese comedy double act is a staple of comedy and when they are done as well as this you can see why. This is an excellent comedy that has heart, laughs and great performances.Overall rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray, Richard Dreyfuss, Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo and Kathryn Erbe star in this 1991 comedy. This begins in New York where we meet Bob Wiley (Murray), a misanthrope who meets psychiatrist, Leo Marvin (Dreyfuss) who is about to spend a month on vacation with his family in New Hampshire. After Leo tries to help Bob with his illness, Bob tracks him down at his lake house and starts getting on his nerves. Hagerty (Airplane) plays Leo's wife, Fay, Korsmo (Dick Tracy) plays their son, Siggy and Erbe (Law & Order) plays Anna, their daughter. This is a good comedy and Murray & Dreyfuss are great in it. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"GIANT Baby Steps","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bob is a character no longer on radar who is hounded into a psychiatric practise of a therapist who has a strong career plan. He seems to be guided by the negation of a green-eyed devil, or rival interest, for treatment of a hypothetical condition.One day, Bob is surprised to learn his therapist, Dr. Leo Marvin, is the author of best-seller 'Baby Steps' a form of therapy used for those who need to make challenging small changes in life.However, Bob may be unaware of who his enemies really are. It seems that Bob is only suffering from making less famous people look bad.When Dr. Leo Marvin leaves for his country home to promote his book in the company of his perfect family, Bob decides he can wait no longer for his favourite 'Baby Steps' and hops a bus to surprise his most believed in healer.On arrival, Bob is found to be the man who should have always been there, and is almost instantly a family member. Dr. Leo Marvin conversely is completely undone and destroyed by the introduction of Bob and invents hideous plans to ruin Bob forever.With no avail the plans are returned to haunt Dr. Leo Marvin who quickly goes insane. 'Believing Bob' and family remain unconditionally lovingly supportive and united.A very hilarious gag-fest with some pleasant surprises. "},{"Title":"A movie about a mental patient that is actually light entertainment!","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In fact, it is such light entertainment it is one of the few films that mental hospitals will let their patients watch! And no, I don't know this because I was an inmate.It's the story of two men - Bob and Dr.Leo Marvin. Bob is a man so tied up in his obsessive compulsions he can barely move. Thus he works at home in NYC and lives a simple life. However, he does see the value of therapy and apparently has been through a number of psychiatrists, all of whom he pesters to the point that they pass him off to someone else and leave town.The latest doctor to be duped into taking Bob (Bill Murray) as a patient is Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss). He has precisely one session with Bob, gives him a copy of his latest book - Baby Steps, and tells him he will see him next month because he is going on vacation. This sends Bob into a panic because the one constant in his life has been his tenacious hold on his series of psychiatrists. Bob's decision - he will baby step his way to New Hampshire and go on vacation where Dr. Marvin is.Now you see, Bob is actually quite likable to anybody who is NOT a psychiatrist, and he quickly bonds to Dr. Marvin's family and even helps the Marvins' son with some of his hang-ups in a way that Leo has never been able to do. You also have to realize that, like Bob, Leo is a guy with a lot of rigid rules about everything himself. In many ways he is as hung up as Bob is, but in socially acceptable ways. The result is that Bob violating all of Dr. Marvin's rules slowly drives Dr. Marvin nuts, while basically adopting Dr. Marvin's family makes Bob much better.I'll let you watch and see how this all turns out. Let me just say that this is not One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest - it is a comedy for the entire family and a very good one at that. A ten year old could watch it and not be stressed. Kids much younger than that could watch it, but they just might not get it. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Richard Dreyfuss","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Richard Dreyfuss did played Dr. Leo Marvin. I'm sorry about he sued Disney. But, he can't do it for the law. He has to promise it. Let me get an idea with him. I can ask him about that. Maybe, a sequel for Dr. Leo Marvin. I call the sequel movie, What About Bill? with it. It's a story about a young oprhaned boy, Bill Henderson, has been divorce his family to adoptive with Dr. Leo Marvin was upset with Bob Wiley. Bill and Dr. Marvin are adopt the Marvin's family on vacation. I can't afford to Richard Dreyfuss sued Disney, I agreed to Richard Dreyfuss with Jimmy Bennett. I watched a movie, Poseidon back in 2006. It was neat the shipwreck was big rogue wave for the ship turns upside down. I hope Jimmy Bennett will played Bill Henderson who were grow heartbroken and sadly for his family was divorce until he's growing worse, furious, angry, upset, spoiled, and misunderstanding for Dr. Leo Marvin was not relaxed and happy for Bob Wiley. And Richard Dreyfuss reprises for Dr. Leo Marvin who were upset, anger, worse, and badly for Bob Wiley until he's growing furious, madly, livid, perturbed, and misunderstanding for Bill Henderson was upset and shouting and angry. Bill and Leo becomes enraged to fight on each other. Bill was in Brooklyn Bridge to kicked and splashed to the water and Leo followed to kick with him. They've been turned into the two dogs for stop fighting, they've come attacked to each other. Bill and Leo are yelling to each other to leave. Bill is in Central Park at night, asleep on the bench, crying for a fight. Leo felt very, very, very sad in the alleyway. They've become to apologizing in this morning, until they returned to Marvin's house, turns back into the humans. Have a nice day. "}{"Title":"Bob's Your Uncle","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Disheveled and germ-phobic Bill Murray (as Bob Wiley) follows disinterested and egotistical New York psychiatrist Richard Dreyfuss (as Leo Marvin) to the latter's New Hampshire vacation home. There, the mentally challenged Mr. Murray proceeds to drive Mr. Dreyfuss crazy. There are two types of people in this world, explains Murray, those who like Neil Diamond and those who don't. That being said, this sort of comedy is a lot like Neil Diamond. Naturally, Bob would be a perfect part for 1960s super-star Jerry Lewis...What About Bob? gives its bankable star a goofy and endearing role in a mainstream vehicle. Director Frank Oz had just successfully served up Dirty Rotten Scoundrels for Steve Martin. Comedy screenwriter Tom Schulman aces his script. The formula calling for an actor co-star is filled exceptionally well by Mr. Dreyfuss. His reactions are what gives the early parts some laughs. Murray's psycho is silly; he's always better playing smart, and gets better in later scenes. Fewer extreme close-ups would have been a nice idea.***** What About Bob? (5/17/91) Frank Oz ~ Bill Murray, Richard Dreyfuss, Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Successful but egotistical psychotherapist (Dreyfuss) is pushed to the edge when an overly-dependent new patient suffering from multiple phobias (Murray) tracks him down during his vacation and befriends his family. The plot outline comes across as a clichd thriller, but it's actually a refreshingly original comedy, thanks to Murray's performance as the titular character who is unwittingly manipulative and narcissistic. Filmed on Smith Mountain Lake in Moneta, Virginia, which is a gorgeous substitute for the Lake Winnipesaukee setting. The replay value and timelessness are amazing, with many brownie-points going to the brilliance of Frank Oz's modesty as a storyteller. Erbe, Hagerty and Korsmo are all great in their supporting roles.**** (out of four) "},{"Title":"This comedy by director Frank Oz can easily be enjoyed with family !!!!","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although films about doctors and their professional relationships with patients in a hospital setting are very common, one rarely gets to see what happens in their personal lives when they are not in a medical institution. This gives rise to create a film solely about doctors and patients who are active outside medical establishments. A film of this kind enables viewers to understand that doctors and patients are continually devising ways to invent better methods of treatment. This is one essential element which can help viewers to know more about a doctor and his patient as two distinct individuals with clear ideas. What about Bob ? is a film which depicts what happens when a patient emerges as stronger than a doctor ? American actors Richard Dreyfuss and Bill Murray are perfect in their roles as a serious doctor and a gentle but scatter brained patient. They share an extremely strange doctor-patient relationship built on mutual trust which is threatened due to the sudden arrival of the patient at doctor's vacation home. Watching this film would be fun for viewers as they would get a chance to learn that some experts are absolutely clueless when troubles come as it is not possible to solve all the problems in the world with only bookish knowledge. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie! So funny!","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my opinion this movie is ace! I have watched this over and over and every time i watch it I'm always laughing my head off!!! My family love it too its such a funny movie!!! I recommend if you haven't seen it to see it because I'm sure you will find it funny!!! Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss are hilarious together!!! I think this film is perfect for the family or even for couples i never get fed up of watching this as it always does not fail to entertain all of us! One of my all time favourite's for a comedy and i think it has such a moving story to it also, behind all the jokes and laughter the story behind it is really good and entertaining ) "},{"Title":"The patient is empowered","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What about Bob is an interesting movie about a man who is dependent on his paranoid personality disordered psychiatrist, Dr. Lee Marvin. Frank Oz, the director of the movie may have gotten some inspiration for the movie from Mary Chase's play, Harvey from 1944. One of the famous quotes from Mary Chase's play was Doctor I've wrestled with reality for 40 years and I'm happy to say that finally I've won out over it. Is Bob cured in the end? Is the psychiatrist really a paranoid personality disordered individual? Or is it better to experience individuals as individuals rather then placing them in a DSM-diagnosis box, and labelling individuals this way or that? This movie seems to explain traits of mental illness in a very concise way. This movie would be great when explaining some traits of obsessive compulsive disorder, such as when Bob has problems opening and closing doors, is very afraid of diseases and germs and uses a Kleenex when opening doors and using phones. If this is a comedy or a tragedy is up to the viewer to decide; and if this movie is an accurate depiction of serious mental illness or traits of serious mental illness is really up to patients/consumers of the psychiatric community and/or psychiatrists to decide. There is a lot of information to be processed and the story-line is integrated in such a way to keep the viewer on his/her toes until the very end. "},{"Title":"What About Leo?","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frank Oz directed this comedy that stars Bill Murray as Bob Wiley, a neurotic, needy and lonely man who has seen many psychiatrists, but feels most comfortable with egotistical Leo Marvin(played by Richard Dreyfuss). However, after Dr. Marvin takes a month-long vacation with his family in rural New Hampshire(where he expects to be interviewed by a network morning show) he is stunned to find that Bob has somehow followed him there, and refuses to leave, even ingratiating himself with his wife and children, and that's just the beginning... Amusing comedy with terrific performances, and a most sly premise, which could easily have been turned into a suspense thriller involving stalking! "},{"Title":"Dreyfuss' movie more than Murray's","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For starters this movie is so funny I was convinced I was having a heart-attack, but that's not the point I'm going to make.Murray makes this movie funny, but Dreyfuss makes it hilarious. At the beginning Bob is the crazy one, but slowly the tables are turned and Dreyfuss becomes the crazy one. Dreyfuss aces the role of a completely sane guy descending into madness and his tantrums are gold.I've seen this movie a few times, first time I laughed at Murray most, the second time Dreyfuss. Apparently the two didn't get along on set, but on screen the chemistry is almost perfect.Bit of trivia to finish off, I read a book on psychology not long ago and it specifically references this movie to being a guide for teaching depressed people on how to change, using Bob as a model patient. "},{"Title":"Funny every time it's on","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Someone gave me a copy of this movie as a gift, and it is a treasure. I'm not one to watch the same movie over and over, but this one is irresistible. I really have no choice in the matter. I think I've even called in sick when it came on cable and I started with a few minutes of it - even though I own a copy of it for crying out loud.I feel this is one of the top comedies in many years. Bill Murray really shines here. And I think I laugh as much at Richard Dreyfuss' portrayal of the shrink as well. It's a very funny concept and very well executed.They want you to write at least ten lines for a review, but that is ridiculous. I used to tout this site to others for info on movies, but it has become almost unusable in terms of getting reviews/updates done. I see a lot of info out of date of missing. Why? Because users find it too difficult to make updates. I suppose I'll just start using and recommending other review and movie info sites. "},{"Title":"She never says that......","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bob Wiley is a neurotic man who has a habit of clinging onto his therapists. His last one, not being able to deal with him, sends him to Leo Marvin. After having just one session, Bob thinks the world of Dr. Marvin. However, the doctor's leaving to spend the rest of the summer with his family, which throws Bob into utter despair. He calls the doctor constantly demanding to see him, but the doctor cuts Bob off. He manages to find out where he is and goes there. The doctor's family takes a liking to him but the doctor feels that he is just intrusive. And no matter what he does, Bob just won't go away, and everybody thinks that Leo is the problem.....Bill Murray playing a mental patient is as good as De Niro playing a psychopath, no matter how crass or silly the film is, you can guarantee a good performance.Luckily this is one good comedy, and in 1991 there were a lot of sleeper comedies that did really well. Murray as expected is excellent, and Dreyfuss is just as good. Think of Dreyfuss as the straight man to Murrays comic, then you have the film (probably the reason why they didn't get on.It's a simple story, made into a laugh out loud movie thanks to the two central performances and the straightforward jokes.It's just set up after the next, with Leo becoming increasingly frustrated, and bob becoming more endearing. And just when you think it couldn't get any worse, it does.It's good family fun, with good performances and more than six good laughs.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Middle of the road Murray","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray's a bit of a special actor, typically positioning himself as a mischievous trickster, a meta-actor who occupies some invisible space between audience and the film he's in. Your classic Murray character has an ongoing, silent conversation with his audience, telling his own story quite apart from the film he's been dropped into.What about Bob?, directed by Frank Oz, is one of Murray's weaker comedies. Here he plays a man with social anxiety problems who seeks help from a psychiatrist, played by Richard Dreyfuss. Murray inadvertently drives Dreyfuss mad and Dreyfuss, of course, inadvertently cures Murray. The film plays with traditional doctor/patient roles further even at the start of the film Murray is in many ways less mentally ill than Dreyfuss, who is narcissistic and bitterly unstable.The film's plot echoed its behind the scenes goings-on. As Murray improvises heavily, rarely does the same take the same way twice, he'd get into frequent clashes with Dreyfuss. Frank Oz's direction is competent but ordinary.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"What about Bob?","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I missed an opportunity or forgot to watch this film, so when it was on again I was certainly going to give it a chance, seeing how it was rated well by the critics, and had two good stars, from director and former Muppet performer Frank Oz (The Muppets Take Manhattan, Little Shop of Horrors, Bowfinger). Basically Bob 'Bobby' Wiley (Bill Murray) is the good-natured but highly troubled man, he has multiple phobias, is very neurotic, and has ultimately irritated many doctors who try to treat him. The latest psychiatrist to be referred to him is New York based and egotistical Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss), he quickly sees why Bob has got on so many doctors' nerves, he is unknowingly annoying, and as he is going on vacation with his family he for the moment refers him to his Baby Steps book. Bob tries to live with the advice of the book, but being highly reclusive, and seeing Leo as his hope for a better life, in desperation he takes the drastic action to use manipulation to find him while on vacation. He finds the doctor and his family, wife Fay (Airplane's Julie Hagerty), son Sigmund 'Siggy' (Hook's Charlie Korsmo) and daughter Anna (Kathryn Erbe) in a peaceful New Hampshire lakeside cottage. Leo is gradually becoming increasingly angered by Bob's constant intrusion, but his family are embracing the man who they say as just desperate for help, and they are charmed by his kind personality and sense of humour. The big reasons Leo doesn't want Bob around are because he is expecting a television crew to be visiting the house to interview him about his Baby Steps book, and of course his family seem to be spending more time with his patient. It comes to the day of the television interview, and Leo is humiliated by Bob appearing with him, the highly annoying man does give good face to his book, but of course the doctor is not as admired, and he really snaps with his patience. Leo has had enough of Bob, and truly going berserk he plans to kill Bob, and even though he was unaware that his family kindly told him to go, he takes Bob out into the woods, tying him up with explosives. After seeing this as some kind of treatment and way to see that he can go on without Bob returns to the house, after managing to untie himself, but he also left the explosives in the house, and in the end Leo only comes out of his catatonic state after Bob gets married to his sister Lily (Fran Brill). We are unsure how the rest of the story will pan out afterwards, but the final text also said that Bob was bringing out a book called Death Therapy, and that Leo was suing him for the rights. Also starring Tom Aldredge as Mr. Guttman, Susan Willis as Mrs. Guttman, Roger Bowen as Phil and Brian Reddy as Carswell Fensterwald, M.D. Like Caddyshack this is another completely different character for Murray, normally playing sarcastic and witty, here he is unknowingly funny and highly annoying to people and his antics cause chaos for Dreyfuss, who is also good as the control-freak doctor slowly going insane with hatred for him, it is a good simple concept of the slightly crazy patient turning his doctor crazy, and it makes for some good physical and dialogue jokes, a fun comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"Criss-Cross","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For me the entertainment value of a movie comes in the form of how well a character is defined and to the extent and how well the change in him or her is defined. What sets apart this movie is that it is the first time I have seen one where two characters criss-cross; the patient character turns into the doctor character and the doctor character turns into the patient character. I finally realized this when Bob said, For an episode of this kind, don't you think Librium would be a more effective management tool? This is a classic and is in my Top-10. When I was in counseling school, Dr. Leo Marvin was used in many answers offered for questions about who came up with which theory. It is on my counselor-approved list www.ReviveTheFlame.com "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Richard Dreyfuss plays Dr Leo Marvin, a very successful (and rather smug and self-satisfied) psychiatrist who has a self-help book Baby Steps just about to come out. Leo has agreed to provide emergency cover for a colleague, under which he sees Bob Wiley (Bill Murray), a man whose psychological hangups more or less prevent him from living any normal sort of life. He is utterly dependent on the support of his counsellor, and has the annoying habit of hooking his dependency hooks into such people more or less instantly on meeting them. So, although Leo thinks he has successfully divested himself of Bob by introducing him to the Baby Steps concept, he is annoyed to discover that all he has managed to do is give bob a tool which enables him to leave the city and follow Leo to his holiday cottage on the lake. This is particularly annoying as there is to be a TV interview at the lake house to publicise the book tomorrow morning. It is even more annoying when he finds that his family (including his son, who has hangups which his father has caused, rather than cured) like Bob very much.This very funny movie is based on the joke that Bob gets saner and Leo gets crazier, and each causes the change in the other. Bill Murray's Bob is delightful - yes, he is annoying, but he is desperate to please, he is prepared to work hard at improving himself, and he is a nice guy. Leo, conversely, pretends to be nice, but is actually quite an unpleasant fellow, a character trait which is brought out under the annoyance caused by Bob.This is one of my favourite comedies, and I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"I'm sailing, I'm SAILING!","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This must see move is for hydrophobes to learn effective techniques on how to sail the open waters while facing your fears of the man-made lakes of our nightmares. Completely sensitive to mental illness and Bill Murray shines as a burgeoning reformed socially dependent guy with so many misfiring synapses, it's a marvel that his central nervous system even functions.Not only will you gain deeper insight into the genetically miswiring of a curious mental patient, but you'll most definitely learn the ultimate method for getting those reluctant friends or family of yours who are reluctant to brave the placid shores of tiny glacial lakes on your watercraft of choice.Watch the movie, buy some hemp rope and hit the lake with your reluctant guest strapped to the mast. And watch Bill be rehabilitated in such realistic and therapeutic situations that you may even cure your own darkest fears and demons through observation and copious note taking. Have pen and paper within reach to record the wisdom and insights that no film has dared to tackle to convey to an ignorant public of mental health as this one so bravely does. "},{"Title":"If you dislike Dreyfuss, this film is perfect","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is very layered, but one layer is a hilarious smack in the chops to richard dreyfuss. I can't think of anyone I'd rather torture dreyfuss with than bill murray (who normally makes me gag as well). It seems obvious that both of these guys are parodying themselves, and the funniest part is that dreyfuss must not have actually gotten the full impact of the slam when he agreed to take on the role of Dr. Leo Marvin. Kudos to the script writers; they must hate dreyfuss as much as I do... I also loved Julie Hagerty as Fay Marvin (Fay - lol, they didn't miss a trick) and Charlie Korsmo as Siggy (a little over-the-top, just like the rest of the film). "},{"Title":"Good Morning America's here!","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Alvin Sargent and Laura Ziskin wrote this quaint story. Tom Schulman wrote the witty script. It does not seem like his other work&#x97;not exactly, though he has a history of great work. Frank Oz, director of The Indian in the Cupboard and of numerous Muppet productions, directed. Bill Murray, Richard Dreyfuss, Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo (who apparently is a genius), Kathryn Erbe (later from Law and Order), and everyone else (of course). I mention everyone else because players of large parts to small give radiant, believable performances. Think of Tom Aldredge and Susan Willis as Mr. and Mrs. Guttman. Think of Marcella Lowery, as the switchboard operator. The sense that these are people one might actually know seems to be an important aspect to the effectiveness of the movie. Mr. Murray and Mr. Dreyfuss justly earned high praise for their work here, but again this is an ensemble work. Still, it is hard now to think of Woody Allen, Mr. Oz's first choice for Dr. Leo Marvin, being right for the film&#x97;at least, now after we know the work of Mr. Dreyfuss. German cinematographer Michael Ballhaus, who worked with Fassbinder of all people, never intrudes into the manic playfulness of this movie. That a Fassbinder photographer shot this film somehow amazed and amused me. Master British film editor Anne Coates makes the cinematic narrative tight and fluid. Read her list of editing achievements. The restrained musical score by late Miles Goodman, understated against the manic force of the screenplay, goes almost unnoticed. You might recall his work with the television series James at 15. The location shooting was not at Lake Winnipesaukee. My nephew attended high school near there. Fall came too early for the shooting. Instead, the location is at Smith Mountain Lake near Moneta, Virginia. The location works well. I have no idea how this ensemble created this charming, almost picturesque movie. It is not romantic like many great films by Woody Allen or Bringing Up Baby. It is not anarchic. It comes close to but never transgresses that limit. It comes close to nihilism with an odd sweetness but never becoming quite sentimental. Chaos looms at the edge but the decency and honestly to Leo's family keeps that from every happening. The film seems unique to me. I do not know of any other work quite like it. Those who have seen Mr. Oz's The Indian in the Cupboard know that this picture is not some sort of accident or stroke of luck. It is an effective criticism of shallow popular psychology. It is not a put-down of psychotherapy. I find in it a vibrant joy that recalls that of Bringing Up Baby, another one of my favourite comedies. Like screening that classic film repeatedly, watching this one just improves with multiple viewings. Leo, I see salt and pepper. . . is there a salt substitute? Perfection! "},{"Title":"What about Eminem?","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know, once I read this movie's synopsis, I instantly wanted to see it, considering I found crazy people really really funny. Besides, I used to frequent therapy sessions, so I would like to see how cinema used to portray this kind of relationship. However, in my humble opinion, What About Bob? is just unfunny. Instead of having several hilarious scenes, like most Frand Oz's movies, we have plenty of irritating scenes in which the psychiatrist is discredited for all his family and friends. I know, it was supposed to be funny, but Dr. Leo Marvin is SO wronged that we feel actually sorry for him-- I do, at least. Also, Bob is an implausible character, given that sometimes he's extremely paranoid about getting diseases and dying, whilst in other times he just plains dumb, like when the doctor fastened bombs all around him. Regular movie, don't expect too much-- Frank Oz has been involved in better projects, trust me. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob? (1991) *** (out of 4) Bill Murray plays the obsessive-compulsive Bob, who finally cracks and ends up following his new psychiatrist (Richard Dreyfuss) on vacation. Once at the vacation resort Bob finds himself getting better by getting closer to Dreyfuss' family but soon the psychiatrist is the one losing his mind. This film often gets overlooked and while it's far from a classic I can't help but find it mildly amusing in its own way due in large part to the two leads. This is certainly Murray's show from start to finish but all of the supporting characters set up the jokes for him but Murray is the one hitting them out of the park. Just take a look at the scene with Murray and the family around the dinner table when Murray keeps making annoying sounds. The viewer might find Murray annoying while doing this but the way the family reacts to him is the reason we see him so lovable. I think just about any actor in Hollywood, past or present, would have turned Bob into an annoying character so the credit has to go to Murray for never crossing a certain line that would turn the viewer off. Instead Murray makes him very lovable and most importantly makes him funny. Dreyfuss never really gets enough credit for his comic timing but he works very well with Murray here and the two make for some great laughs. The movie starts to run out of steam during the final fifteen-minutes and I've never been a fan of the ending but this is a nice entertainment for the family. "},{"Title":"What Indeed","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1991, Bill Murray was the king of comedy and could do no wrong. 'Scrooged' still lingered warmly in people's memories and while 'Ghostbusters II' had not duplicated the success of the original, it wouldn't be exaggerating too much to say that Murray had much to do with the attention it did receive. Little surprise then that Hollywood felt they could contrive any storyline no matter how hackneyed, throw him into its polluted waters, watch him soar to the surface and make the whole endeavour swim. For 'What About Bob' is a very by-the-numbers sojourn to Odd Couple territory, while at the same time taking the somewhat disturbing premise of a highly invasive stalker whom we are encouraged to think of as 'wacky', while the victim, by cleverly stripping him of all but two dimensions, is painted as the antagonist, and whom is expected to 'correct' his viewpoint until he finds his tormentor as lovable as the rest of the characters. You can almost hear the director encouraging the audience with 'Come on, look at Bill Murray's face. Isn't he silly?' And in response, Richard Dreyfuss as Dr Marvin groans and seethes in frustration, only to be admonished by his wife in much the same way that Sylvia Field did with Joseph Kearns thirty years earlier in 'Dennis The Menace'.Essentially, the film requires you to side with the lead character as misunderstood not because of any reasons the script may suggest, but because it's Bill Murray, and Bill Murray is funny, and anyone who doesn't agree is apparently taking it too seriously. Not one of us! Not one of us! Which is presumably just as well, since any deep - and by deep, I mean shallow end of the kiddie pool - analysis of the premise invites frustration and dare I say it, madness. And Bill Murray is funny. He had me in 'Ghostbusters'. The man has wit and presence. He's someone you want to watch. Richard Dreyfuss, meanwhile, makes for a perfect Mr Wilson, getting almost Jon Lovitz in his delivery at times. Maybe this is 'Dennis' for the 90s, and who better than Frank Oz to direct the whole endeavour away from 'Girl, Interrupted' territory like Cookie Monster side-stepping sugar addiction by rolling his eyeballs around like a damaged gyroscope? There were times I did find myself laughing very much with the leads, moments where their talent managed to rise above the constrictions set in place by the undecided mish-mash that was the direction to good effect.I do think that any and all themes should open their doors to comedy, so I can only conclude that the fault lies in the execution, the attempt to produce simply unoriginal, cookie-cutter cinema, while a more intelligent approach attempting to understand its material could have satisfied my comedic expectations. The hand of Harold Ramis seems an obvious choice, as the director of the far superior 'Groundhog Day', not to mention the screenwriter of 'Analyze This' (an equally formulaic, but more assured production). And I'd still have wanted Bill Murray. Either way, the major Murrayphiles will doubtless be entertained by what they do find here. After all, there are two types of people those who polarise viewers' opinions of 'What About Bob?' and those like myself somewhere in the middle. Wait, that's not it... "},{"Title":"The Beautiful Mrs. Anita Pelaez And Her Wonderful Key Lime Pies","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It just doesn't get any better than seeing the gorgeous Mrs. Anita Pelaez over at her and her husband Captain Kutchie's place..Some Folks Also Call Him..The KutchMan others call him The Kutchmon!&#x85;Most Just Call Him The Most Interesting Man In The World&#x85;.(Anita and Kutchie Pelaez's Key West, Key Lime Pie Factory and Grill)&#x85;Just watching the lovely couple baking together all those Yummy Key Lime Pies at their Key Lime Pie Factory and Grill in Asheville. &#x85;It's always worth the trip to visit them in they're Historic Key Lime Pie Factory and Grill&#x85;It should be on everyone's bucket list for sure..And The World's Best Key Lime Pies!..YUM-YUM-YUM&#x85;..Talk About World Class What An Understatement!&#x85;&#x85;.AAHHHHH!&#x85;.The Magic Of The Lovely..Mrs. Anita Pelaez And Her Delicious Key Lime Pies Baked With Pure Love&#x85;Always&#x85;&#x85;40 Years And They're Still Going Strong&#x85;.&#x85;.May GOD Continue Blessing Anita And Kutchie Pelaez and They're World Famous Key Lime Pie Factory And Grill Where The Personalities, Ovens And Smiles Are Always Warm And Inviting. Kutcharitaville You're The Best We Love You!&#x85;.&#x85;Now You Know Who Is The Hottest!&#x85;And Baby Let Me Tell You, Mrs. Anita Is No Act&#x85;She's The Real Thing Baby!&#x85;&#x85;.Located Near The Biltmore House And Estate&#x85;.. &#x85;.Who Could Ask For Anything More?&#x85;Anita's Key Lime Pie&#x85;(Hell Yes!)&#x85;.Just Think, Kutchie's Goody Goody Cheese Burgers, The Original Cheese Burgers In Paradise! &#x85;.That Alone Is Quite A Pretty Big Deal If You Ask Me. &#x85;.Hell,..It's A Pretty Big Deal Even If You Don't Ask Me....And Watch-Out For That Guy Named BOB. It's Spelled BOB Frontwards And Backwards/Get It BOB, And BOB!...WOW! "}{"Title":"Bill Murray","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" a lighthearted comedy about a man with an undisclosed mental illness and his physchiatrist . it is really never disclosed in the movie , what exactly the illness is that Bill Murray's character has,, the movie is very funny,, has lot's of interesting points,, I guess for me it was a little hard to watch Bill Murray in that type of role... Richard Dreyfuss on the other hand was a ball of laughs,, his character is the polar opposite of bill murray's,, he's the shrink and he's gotta find a way to cure bob of his disease.. well he goes on vacation to get away from everything , especially bob,, and low and behold who shows up at the shrink's door but the patient himself,, Bob.. very funny movie at times,, just a little of a hard watch the first time,, maybe when I watch it a 2nd time I will understand it ,, and like it better. "},{"Title":"This is horribly funny","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Probably one of Bill Murray's best performances as a crazy person.It's very dark humour people and it beats anything done by Adam Sandler or Seth Rogan in the last few years.Imagine if you will, somebody so mind numbing and persistent that you will be driven insane, even though you may be brilliant and intelligent.It's cheesy, it's silly, it's pure delight and with Baby Steps, you too can learn plenty from this movie.Will this be the best movie you ever see? Probably not...But for it's time, it is amusing, charming and even to some degree helpful - as long as you know how to view it. "},{"Title":"Baby Steps","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What about Bob is such a funny film. Not only is Bill Murray hilarious in it, Richard Dreyfuss is hilarious also. I could just picture Bill Murray playing a mental patient and he does it very well. I could just picture Richard Dreyfuss playing an angry therapist. And he does it also. Richard Dreyfuss plays Dr.Leo Marvin,a therapist who has just become successful after his new book Baby Steps. Bill Murray plays Bob Wiley, a crazy person who is afraid of germs and many other things. Bob goes to see Dr.Marvin one day. Dr.Marvin and his family are going to New Hampshire for a month.Bob needs to talk to him and goes to extreme measures to find him. Bob even fakes suicide just to find out where he is. So he goes to New Hampshire and meets his family. Dr.Marvin's family loves Bob but Dr.Marvin can't stand him. He goes to extreme measures to try to get rid of him. Dr.Marvin even tries to kill him. Blow him up. Frank Oz has directed some funny films. I loved Death at a Funeral and I think he even directed Bowfinger.I wish Bill Murray was still acting. Not that he's retired but that he's not in much nowadays. Bill Murray gives one of his best performances.What about Bob deserves a ton more than a 6.7. I think it's a 10. "},{"Title":"What about watching this movie and I promise you won't regret it!","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is definitely one of the best comedies and whenever I am discussing movies with my friends and we come across it, my friends say that it is definitely one of the top comedy movies. Murray and Dreyfuss, you would find it difficult to chose which one to like over the other. Well, I did , I liked Dreyfuss. Such an amazing performance ... Bravo and hats off Dreyfuss.I lost control when laughing, I honestly lost it when watching the scene of Dreyfuss waiting for the rain to stop so that Bob can leave the house and not stay the night. Another scene that was as funny when Dreyfuss is preparing himself for the interview and Bob steals the lights from him. I actually watched What About Bob like 10 times or more and never ever until this far my enthusiasm towards this movie lowered down.It is really hard to talk about all the funny scenes in the movie for they are plenty and I don't think that any comedy movie had this huge amount of funny scenes same way as What About Bob? On a scale out of 10, it is definitely 100 I give to this movie. "},{"Title":"First--class Murray","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is surprising how well did Maltin know to choose the best of Murray's performances, in that short article; I happen to have seen all four movies, and consider them four Murray hallmarks--What About Bob?, Mad Dog and Glory, Ed Wood and Groundhog Day&#151;all between '91&#151;'94. Murray is an outstanding, stupefyingly excellent comic, delightful and original&#151;and my favorite one, as well. He deserves all the honors; and let us add Lost in Translation&#151;the capital chamber piece; yet his filmography, so distinguished and choice,is comparatively small.But then almost everything he did is first&#151;class, and his choices are keen and sure. Never coarse, his characters are _quirkily urbane and elusive. "},{"Title":"A very so-so affair that lacks material worthy of the stars' efforts","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dr Leo Marvin is a successful psychiatrist who has just published his book and has Good Morning America coming to his holiday home in New Hampshire to film him talking about it (something they have only done before for Dr Ruth). Shortly before he heads off for his vacation he agrees to take on a patient from another doctor and meets with Bob Wiley. He hands Bob a copy of his book, Baby Steps and ushers him out. However he has no idea how needy Bob is and it isn't long before Bob is calling Dr Marvin's service trying to get in touch with him by any means necessary. When this fails Bob manages to find the Marvins' address and turn up unannounced. When the rest of his family take to Bob, Leo finds he is stuck with him while the TV interview gets closer.Just in case you are in any doubt about where this very obvious comedy is going let me just say that I might not be able to avoid spoiling this for you. I have put a spoiler warning on the review but to me nothing I'm saying cannot be foreseen by any casual viewer after only 10 minutes of running time. Suffice to say that Bob endears himself into the family and teaches Leo himself lessons in life. The narrative flow provides nothing of surprise or particular interest along the road to the obvious and it is hard to really get engaging in it due to the total lack of spark or wit in the script. The delivery itself feels very safe, very middle-of-the-road but for constantly aiming for the safe middle the film winds up being pretty dull and lacking in anything that is that funny or sharp. Sure, it is amusing enough if this is what you want but I couldn't help feeling that it was just plodding along with very ho-hum material.So far so what, but what annoyed me somewhat was the waste of the talented two leads. At one or two points Dreyfuss and Murray work really well off one another but for the majority they are working with average characters and average material. They deliver with energy and talent but generally the tools aren't there for them to do anything that special even if I did appreciate their efforts. The support cast are somehow cast at the tvm level even if they do a so-so job. When the only other face you recognise after the lead two is Airplane's Julie Hagerty then you know you are in the sh1t &#150; beyond her the only person I knew was a guy from Oz as the TV show director.Overall then a very middle-of-the-road comedy that lacks anything that sharp, interesting or funny. I wanted it to be more than it was. The two lead actors also want that too but, despite trying really hard, the material just isn't there for them and the support cast aren't able to do anything to help them out. A very so-so comedy but it might distract if you are in a relaxed mood. "},{"Title":"Just wait, it gets better","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Right when I began to watch What about Bob?, I didn't think much of it and was getting kind of bored with it. But right at the end, it got much funnier, especially with Richard Dreyfus's character. Despite What about Bob being incredibly predictable, I wouldn't mind giving this movie another watch again. The movie is pretty funny and very heart touching. As silly as it may sound, it makes you question of who is truly insane and who is really normal? I just loved that all Bill Murray's character needed was just a family who loved him for him. He was a lonely, but such a lovable character. He and Richard together were just great and I would highly recommend this movie for a good laugh.7/10 "},{"Title":"It's About Loving it While Living It !","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 1991 was a nice year. It gave us films like (JFK), (The Silence of the Lambs). Action movies  (Ricochet), (The Last Boy Scout) and (The Rocketeer). Action comedies (The Hard Way), (Naked Gun 2). Or comedies (Life Stinks), (City Slickers) and (What About Bob) which is one of the best comedies I've ever seen. It's interesting indeed, but not for its lovely laughs only. I asked myself a lot  is it a movie about how the psychiatrist can be more mad than their patient ? (it means that the scriptwriter HATES his psychiatrist passionately!). Or is it a mockery out of some annoying persons that the only right dealing with them is by killing them ?! Actually, it's just about living life enjoyably, not taking everything seriously.Although I watched it one time, and that was years and years ago, but I can't forget Bill Murray's groaning while eating (I discovered that this is something really relaxing and satisfactory, but not everybody stands it !), and the way Dreyfuss was dancing in the moonlight happy because he finally killed Murray (definitely the peak of this movie's fun). The cast did it wonderfully. The 2 leads weren't more cartoonish (it's strange how it didn't lead to cartoon series after ?!). Still what I loved the most is when we catch on the plain meaning of it eventually as the tense, nag and unnatural person is the actual mad. And that loving life crazily is one rational way to enjoy it. It's one of few times when I have nothing bad to say; maybe the easy coincidence when Murray finds the doctor simply by calling his name in the bus station, and that's it!Finally, why I think that after 20 years comedies as fine as this became too rare nowadays ?! "},{"Title":"Very Funny!!!","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found this on TV last night, so I thought I'd check it out. I am very glad that I watched it because it is extremely funny! Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss were awesome together. Bill plays Bob Wiley, an obsessive compulsive man who seeks Dr. Leo Marvin's help. When Dr. Marvin goes on a vacation, Bob tries to call him, but Dr. Marvin doesn't like to deal with patients at home. Bob even pretends to be a police officer in order to get Dr. Marvin's address. Bob finds him, and Dr. Marvin thinks it's highly inappropriate, but his wife, his son, and daughter all start to like Bob. Bob even helps Dr. Marvin's son to dive, which he was afraid of. Dr. Marvin really wants Bob to leave because he has a TV interview with Good Morning America about his new book. Dr. Marvin really starts to lose his cool when Bob is in TV with him and won't leave because everybody seems to like him. Dr. Marvin is pushed over the edge and begins to think of ways to kill Bob, but his plans fail. If you love comedy, Bill Murray, and Richard Dreyfuss, you'll love WHAT ABOUT BOB?!!! "},{"Title":"It is my favorite film","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" People think I'm kidding when this is the movie I choose, when asked what's your favorite movie? but I'm serious. There are deeper films. There are funnier comedies. There are funnier Bill Murray comedies. And yeah, I've seen everything from Lumire to Ridley Scott. And still, I put this film as my overall choice, when forced to choose, because it is flawless and universal.The problem I had when I came to this realization, was that the films I would expect to be my candidates, all had some problem. There was some flaw in the plot. Or it was a film that stood for something but lacked value as a vehicle for entertainment. Or it has a blue screen effect that I can't stand to see the edges of. Or there are other technical issues. There's almost always something that keeps films that I secretly *want* to put in my #1 slot, out of there. Or maybe it's a little too controversial for every situation where let's watch your favorite film comes up.The point is, What About Bob? rests atop a long, long tree (not list) of my favorite films. I can watch it again and again. I can share it with any company. I quite proudly choose this film as my all time #1 pick. "}{"Title":"Simple, funny, Odd Couple style of comedy...IT WORKS.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here is a movie that works right from the very beginning and should be the catalyst for future comedies. It has been a LONG time since I have seen a GREAT comedy. All of the GREAT comedies are in the past - Animal House, Caddyshack, Stan and Ollie, Chaplin, Stripes, Groundhog Day, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, The Odd Couple, It Happened One Night, The Graduate, Some Like It Hot, Ghostbusters, Duck Soup, Bringing Up Baby, just to name a few, as well as this film. Movie makers could use a good lesson in how to create a GREAT comedy. This movie should be the benchmark. Bill Murray is the Bob Hope of the Boomer Generation. I LOVED him on SNL, on the golf course, as well as other films that I mentioned. He KNOWS, LIVES, and BREATHES comedy, and I have yet to find someone with his genius and charisma.This is a movie that has a little of everything - The Odd Couple, in particular, where fussy Felix Unger drives his sloppy roommate, Oscar Madison, to the brink of insanity. The same formula applies here, only on a LARGER scale. Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) is celebrating the good life - great career as a psychiatrist, family, children, wealth, and most of all, his new book, Baby Steps. Everything is splendor until Leo meets his new patient, Bob Wiley (Murray). This is when sparks fly. Leo agrees to see Bob for a brief introductory visit and prescribe Baby Steps. Bob suffers from every type of mental illness in the book. He also craves attention, and suffers from hot sweats and cold sweats. The list goes on and on. Leo tells Bob to read Baby Steps and he will see him again in six weeks. Bob feels Leo is the only one on Earth who can cure him. He loves Leo so much, that he doesn't want to shake him - not for a second.Leo is ready to take his family on vacation, and Bob will try everything in the book to make sure he doesn't let Leo out of his site. Bob follows the family to their lake house retreat. Startled by Bob's persistence, Leo tells him to keep reading Baby Steps and all of his problems will be solved. This isn't enough for Bob, so he decides to take a break from his problems, too, and join Leo and family on their vacation. Leo's family LOVES Bob, however, Leo is losing his family because they think Bob is a better family man than Leo. This drives Leo to the brink of insanity and he tries almost anything he can imagine to get rid of Bob, even if it means murder.A classic.Score 10/10 "},{"Title":"Very bad farce","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Silly, cheesy, predictable, not funny farce with a stupid unrealistic plot, dreadful characters, acting terrible. I absolutely do not recommend to watch - I couldn't even finish the film!Many people commented, that this was one of the worst films they have seen - and I must agree. From the beginning the plot was shabby, predictable, and unpleasant to watch. Bob gets attached to his doctor, who would like to have family privacy on holidays. Bob does some very bad things to find out where the doctor lives - but no one in the film reflects these bad things accordingly, and the family start to like Bob even though they know what Bob did and how he behaved. When he finally gets to meet the family, he behaves like a over-friendly weirdo, but the family like him nonetheless. Totally unrealistic with giant plot holes - classical farce, but not funny.Oh and apart from the characters of Bob and the doctor, the film is badly casted with annoying actors. "},{"Title":"Incredibly witty movie with two master comedians","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Incredibly witty movie with two master comedians. It is a smart, tight and well-thought of script that keeps you focused as the story goes crescendo. Oz keeps us swinging between irritation and hysteric laughter all the way; he's in control of his viewers. Richard Dreyfuss', - my favorite actor - facial expressions and body language in this movie are to be taught in drama schools while Bill Murray never ceases to impress in his roles as the funny but exceedingly irritating (Groundhog day) guy who you wan to strangle but then say - he's not that bad after all, until you wan to strangle him again. I usually never see movies again but I have seen this one 4 times already. One of my top 10 comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"Lovably Nutty Comedy Of Harmless Loonytoon Following His Shrink On Vacation","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dr Leo Marvin, a brilliant but terribly vain psychiatrist, is looking forward to the publication of his book and a vacation in the country with his family. However, Bob Wylie, a referred patient with extreme anxieties who is convinced Dr Marvin is the only man who can help him, follows him on vacation and simultaneously ruins Dr Marvin's holiday and hits it off with his family.This is basically a one-joke movie - Dr Marvin can't get rid of Bob (The man is human crazy glue !) - but it's such a funny idea, it's beautifully made and it features a terrific pair of nutty performances from Dreyfuss and Murray. There's a tremendous rhythm to the movie too; Dr Marvin starts out well-balanced and gradually goes insane, while Bob starts out bonkers and gradually becomes normal. Murray as Bob has the flashier role, full of body twitches and quirks, with his eyes cast down like a child's and a monotone, but Dreyfuss is the real joy of the picture for me. Dr Marvin ostensibly has everything in life; he's wealthy and he has a beautiful family and successful career, but he's really a pathetic figure, basking in his own self-importance, constantly preening, impatient and a not very good father. His descent via Bob's influence from clipped, mannered, coiffured man-about-town to cackling homicidal maniac is a hilarious gem of a performance. The direction is first-rate, and the movie features great location photography by Michael Ballhaus and a very enjoyable light score by Miles Goodman. A tremendous black comedy about how people, more than anything else, can drive you crazy. "},{"Title":"Hidden Knowledge","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Actors have a few choices to make that are life altering. One of these is to decide which  of the small number of positions they will take on just what an actor is.Many of these can be aligned from the extremes of `instrument' to `composer.' The  `instrument actors' are those who believe their job is to be an interpreter of whatever art  has been created before they arrive on the scene.Then, in regular quanta, we have discrete types of actors who add something of  themselves, sometimes emotional `truth` (in lessor actors passion disguised as truth).Toward the far extreme are actors who put themselves somewhere between a performing  instrument and a creator. The simplest of these are that actors who say; `this is me, and  this is the character and you know that I know that you know I'm just playing a part...'  Usually, these are comedians, brought in to enliven an otherwise dead vehicle.But sometimes we get an actor who has made the very risky choice of always taking that  in-between space, the space between the movie and us, and using it to create a dialog  quite apart from the story in the movie. Bill Murray - since `Groundhog' - has made  this choice, and developed some tools to pull it off.That's why Wes Anderson, and other filmmakers who play with that space (Jarmusch,  Coppola) like him so much.That's why he was cast as Polonius in the radical `Hamlet' of 2000. And that's why he's  in this trifle. The form is a conventional one unlikely interloper seeds wisdom. But the  business about analysis gives Bill his lever to have that analytic hidden dialog with us.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"I rented this on the strength of the comments here","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But it wasn't much kop.  The acting is great, the premise is unusual, but the lines just aren't up to it.  Bill Murray is a comedy genius, but even he can't generate many laughs.Don't get me wrong, it's not dismal.  It's just not really funny. "},{"Title":"One Of My All Time Favorite Comedies","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so, this is one movie I never grow tired of.I saw it in the theatres at least three times and I can't ever tear myself away from it when it airs on television.Bill Murray usually has some pretty good movies but he really topped himself in this one. His character is a psycologically disturbed man who grows overly dependent on his psychiatrist, played by Richard Dreyfuss, to the point that when the psychiatrist goes on vacation with his family, Bill's character tracks him down at his vacation home and just can't take the hint that he isn't welcome to come around while the good doctor is on vacation, although the doctor's family seems to have the opposite feeling for Bob. They   grow attached to the guy and welcome him in almost as part of the family.In the end, it was good to see how Bob bonded with the family so much that not only were his own psycological problems indirectly taken care of, but he also managed to inadvertantly take care of some of the younger son's emotional and psycological problems. Bob and Sigmund (played by Charlie Korsmo) became almost like brothers, even to the point that when Dr. Marvin wanted peace and quiet, Bob was Quiet and Siggy was Peace (big chuckle).Try seeing the film with the family. I am sure the kids will enjoy it as much as the adults. "},{"Title":"Laughter all About....","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murray has always been the master of the art form of comedy.  He shows he still is in What About Bob?.  IN fact, this whole movie is a tribute to his gifts as a vocal AND a physical comedian.The surprise is Richard Dreyfuss.As Bob Wiley, Murray seeks out the help of Dr. Leo Marvin (Dreyfuss) for a cure to his seemingly endless list of phobias (exploding bladders and Tourette's Syndrome, for starters).  At first, Marvin is professionally helpful but aloof until Bob ingratiates himself onto him AND his family at their New Hampshire vacation house, by the end Bob finds himself growing more free from his restrictions as the good doctor seems to adopt some phobias all his own, paramount among them being Bob.As Marvin, Dreyfuss plays an arrogant know-it-all boor whose above-it-all air is put to the test by the earthy good nature of Bill's Bob.  As the doctor slowly freaks out and loses his cool on an ever-growing basis, Dreyfuss shows himself to be an expert at the slow burn, which he masters all the way through this movie.Of course, Hagerty plays Marvin's quiet wife Fay very well, wondering what in the world he could have against such a nice guy as Bob.  Korsmo, as the death-obsessed son of the doc is great and has a terrific line about his obsession (Maybe I'm in mourning for my lost childhood.).The Good Morning, America interview is a classic scene, as are the scenes with venomous locals like The Guttmans (Burn in H**l, Dr. Marvin!) and such simple scenes as Bob saving Dr. Marvin from choking, going on a New York-to-New Hampshire bus ride and making such tired gags as dry heaves funny twice (nice going, Bill!).It's an ensemble piece, all right, and this ensemble makes it all worthwhile, with Frank Oz' distractingly laid-back direction a major asset throughout.  See if you don't agree when you see the last two scenes in the movie.What About Bob?  You mean - HOW About Bob!Ten well-adjusted stars for What About Bob?.  Baby step out and buy your copy today! "},{"Title":"What about Bob, Hilarious","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What about Bob should be rated among the top 20 comedies of all times. The movie has a truly original, brilliant and satiric script. For those who love modern psychology it is a must see. Every scene is hilarious and it has been done in such good taste. If you feel like laughing until your chest is about to burst you should rent this movie. The movie is about a charismatic and nice guy played by Bill Murray who's life is miserable because of his obsessions and limitations seeking the help of a famous top New York Psychologist played by Richard Drayfus. Out of desperation, Bob chases his psychologist to his private vacation place where 90% of the movie takes place. The psychologist desperately tries to get rid of Bob, while the doctor's family love the guy who by the way finds the way to achieve better relationship with the doctor's wife and children than the doctor himself. Every scene is memorable. Enjoy it! . "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Quite possible the funniest movie of all time.  Watch it and if you don't like, watch it again.  Must be seen several time before you get everything. Dreyfuss and Murray are at the top of there comedic game. Oh Fay, this corn is scrumpous, is this hand-chucked? "}{"Title":"full of hilarity, irony, and wit","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have only met one person in my life who did not find What About Bob starring the one and only comedy king Bill Murray, completely and utterly enjoyable and hilarious. The movie starts out with Bob on the way to his new psychiatrist, Dr. Leo Marvin. Bob is a very panicky, nervous, hypochondriac patient, (but very funny!) and that's apparent within the first minute of the movie! Dr. Marvin introduces Bob to a new method of self-discovery and a feeling of control by name of Baby Steps, Dr. Marvin's new bestselling book. Bob feels so great after this appointment that he can't bear the fact that Dr. Marvin will be gone on vacation for a month. So, Bob, desperate as he is, decides to do whatever it takes to be with Dr. Marvin. After several failed attempts to weasel the information of where he's staying out of Dr. Marvin, he finally hits on one-- a suicide attempt-- and finds out that the residence of his home is at Lake Winnepasakee. So Bob, afraid of being alone, ends up, to the psychiatrist's utter dismay, at the doctor's lake house. Bob innocently becomes the houseguest who always has some reason to stay, will never leave, and greatly endears himself to the family-- all but Dr. Marvin himself. Dr. Marvin will do anything to get rid of Bob, but every time Bob just thinks it's some kind of new therapy. Through the movie, we see Bob without meaning to turning bad into good, while on the other hand gradually driving Dr. marvin to insanity! This movie never gets old. Full of laughs-- a movie you can quote from over and over again. Do yourself a favor and watch it today!  "},{"Title":"An unwanted guest makes chaos of a family vacation.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely funny. Sometimes a little dumb. Full of knee slappin', belly shakin' and throbbin' headache laughs. When a mental patient(Bill Murray)finds out his new therapist(Richard Dreyfuss)is leaving on a much needed family vacation; patient Bob stalks Dr. Marvin. Bob endears himself to the doctor's family and thus it is harder to tell him that he is driving his doctor bonkers. Physical and witty written comedy keeps the viewer in stitches.This appears to be some of the best work ever for both Murray and Dreyfuss. Also appearing are Julie Hagerty, Kathryn Erbe, Charlie Korsmo and Roger Bowen.Hilarious situations and a likeable pest; not that everyone needs one. "},{"Title":"a Psycho-Comedy","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Bob'(portrayed by Bill Murray), is a psychotic, in every sense of the word. He has been thrown out of more psychiatrists offices then most people have seen in a lifetime. Those visits, combined with the psych pills that Bob has been popping for years, have produced no results.After being dismissed by his most recent psychiatrist, he is referred to a new shrink, 'Dr. Leo Marvin' (Richard Dreyfuss)--let the fun begin! Bob decides to become 'Leo's' new best friend. Leo's wife and children have no problem with that--much to Leo's dismay. For that matter, most people seem to enjoy Bob's company--which infuriates Dr. Leo--who feels the need to seek revenge.I highly recommend this comedy to all. Enjoy this hysterical breakdown! "},{"Title":"My no-questions-asked favourite movie when I was growing up","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Laugh out loud from start to finish, an absolute classic, in my book at least. Murray was the perfect casting as Bob, a paranoid over-grown child who follows his doctor, Dreyfus, to the family holiday home. Love the bit where the two first meet, love the bit when Dreyfus finds Bob at the lake place, love the boat bit, love the death medicine bit, love the swimming bit, love the chicken bit, love the mental hospital bit, love Dreyfus birthday bit, love the Good Morning America bit, love it all, really. The set on the lake just adds to the laughter somehow, such calming scenery and then there's Bob, sending it all to hell. I'm laughing right now just thinking about it. There's so many good ideas in this movie. The script is inspired, fast paced and extremely well thought through, someone spent a lot of time in the thinking chair. You could argue that the films downfall is it's a bit immature, but it's obviously not aimed at a mature addience, my dad hated it. If you take it seriously it won't work. Loosen up, get some popcorn and tell the neighbours your watching the best comedy of the early '90's, and they'll understand why the ambo's are on standby ready for you to choke on your popcorn in laughter. "},{"Title":"Bob takes apart Dr. Marvin piece by piece","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray as the narcissistic and manipulative patient completely takes apart the pompous psychiatrist, Dr. Leo Marvin, played by Richard Dryfuss, piece by piece, or in Baby Steps. I thoroughly enjoyed watching Dr. Marvin come apart and in the end completely decompensate because of this patient from whom he just cannot get detached. While Dr. Marvin becomes manic and murderous, Bob is perceived as innocent and victimized, and becomes a part of the Dr's family, eventually marrying his sister. Dr. Marvin goes mad, but What About Bob? The family is appealing, and welcomes Bob as an equal and dedicated friend, while some neighbors nurse a grudge against the Doctor. They aid and abet Bob in his ingratiating approach to the Dr. The film is engaging, funny and terribly satisfying. "},{"Title":"Very Very Funny!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob? (1991)This movie was just plain hilarious. Bob Wiley (Murray) is a man who has many many problems, he has tourettes, he is afraid to touch anything because of germs, and on top of that, he's afraid to leave his apartment. He then meets psychologist Leo Marvin (Dreyfuss). He begins to rely on Leo when ever he has a problem, and while Leo is on vacation, Bob goes to his vacation house and irritates Dr. Marvin while Bob charms his son, daughter, and wife.This movie is hilarious! If you haven't seen this movie yet, see it NOW! I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"What would we do without what about bob?","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the first Bill Murray films that I saw and still has to be the funniest and most under-rated of Murray's career to date. Richard Dreyfuss does the dead pan serious comedy incredibly well and proves that there are people out there that can do serious and comedic acting. Short of mocking mental illness this film helps to accept mental illness as an illness and not just a taboo. Bill Murray is convincing as neurotic Bob Wiley and manages to not only make you love him to bits but also find him one of the most irritating people you could ever be unlucky to meet!I can't recommend this film enough! You would never have thought that a guy that voiced a muppet could make such a funny, heart-felt and touching comedy. Gimme Gimme Gimme, I need I need I need!  "},{"Title":"Dreyfuss and Murray were perfect together","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The unusual relationship between doctor and patient made one of the best comedies I've ever seen. Mental patient Murray followed his psychiatrist and family all over while they were on vacation, aggravating the doc to no end, but endearing himself with the rest of the family. Every time the doctor turned around, there was Bob. It drove the guy to distraction, and with each distraction I laughed even harder. One of those rare films - a comedy which is really funny. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Great dialog. It's so funny you'll get a good laugh just from reading the quotes section. Bill Murray's best(draws the brilliant Groundhog Day) comedy, and a part that fits him like a glove, the mental patient suffering from numerous phobias, extremely intrusive, but funny and sarcastic(as ever). Richard Dreyfuss also extremely good as the Psychiatrist who loses it as his most recent patient follows him on vacation to his summer house and conquers his family only to make him look like a schmuck. Julie Hagerty you might remember from Airplane does what she does best, look sedated and altogether from another planet, much to the upping of the stakes of this brilliant comedy.Paraphrasing Dr. Marvin - it's just crazy enough to be fun. "},{"Title":"It's not the patient that's going crazy but the doctor!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film will make you smile and laugh. Bob Murray is brilliantly funny and wonderful as Bob Wiley, the compulsive addictive man who is afraid of germs and people. His relationship with the wonderful Dr. Leo Marvin played wonderfully brilliant by Richard Dreyfuss is great as well. I can't forget the supporting cast of characters. Leo's wife Fay played beautifully by the talented Julie Hagerty. I always she deserved better roles. This role shows her talent in comedy as well. Kathryn Erbe plays the daughter, Anna, just as well. I always forget the actor's name who played Sigmund Marvin, the younger son. I love Fran Brill as Lily Marvin and I wish she did more stuff. The film is written with a lot of wit and sensible humor. Doris Belack has a nice small role as a psychiatrist in the film as well. It's not the patient who's crazy but the doctor who goes ballistic. I love the Guttmanns who own a caf in town and whose wish was to own the summer home that the Marvins spend at Lake Winnipegsaukee. The scenes in New York City never really bother me. It could have been in Boston as well. I love the lake and the story and the characters to watch it again and again. "}{"Title":"Fantastic comedy","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This 1991 film features a wild-eyed, desperate, but yet somehow likable Bob (Bill Murray), a psychiatric patient who will not be denied treatment, in spite of the fact that his new therapist, Leo Marvin (a very tightly-wound Richard Dreyfuss) is on vacation. Bob drives Marvin increasingly to grasp at straws as he tries some peace and quiet away from the overtures of the patient who seems to be replacing him in the affections of his wife and children. The film depends on the hangdog likability of Murray, and the obliviousness of the Marvin's family to their patriarch's insecurity about this intruder's inroads on their affections. Dreyfuss deserved more credit for his performance. His role requires a performance in which the performer's emotions are increasingly directed internally. Marvin does not want to openly admit that he is threatened by his amiable patient but at the same time, this is part of the nuisance that Bob embodies-that and the fact that he will not leave his therapist alone on vacation. Dreyfuss is very good at depicting both of these strands of his character's personality. He should have received more credit for a masterful performance. In fact, the Academy should recognize such skill. But unsurprisingly, this does not happen. My primary reservation about this film is that his family is so oblivious to his insecurity. Admittedly, his character is made self-sufficient, accomplished, and arrogant, but all that said, it is astonishing that they do fail to see the emotional burden that is building up in the head of the household. He is quite clearly more and more annoyed and they are on vacation. His irritation should not be so hard to understand. That said, the two leads' performances are excellent and the ultimate endorsement of their ability is that, as unlikable as Marvin is, you start to sympathize with him as the movie continues, so irritating does Bob become. This is an enjoyable and light-hearted comedy from a masterful director in Ivan Reitman (who mines similar territory several years with equal success in Analyze This and who also helmed the excellent Bowfinger, another excellent comedy). Reitman has an excellent understanding of the nature of his material and makes all the right points and elicits excellent performances from Murray who is hilarious as the patient in need of psychiatric help and from Dreyfuss. "},{"Title":"Made-for-Murray Movie","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray plays another incarnation of the same persona he does so well, the needy con man who instinctively knows how to exploit everyone's weak points to wreak havoc whilst making his antagonist look increasingly unreasonable and WHO JUST WON'T GO AWAY. In this film, he's a psychiatric patient who uses his plethora of neuroses (and his pet fish) to con his way right into his therapist's family and to drive the good doctor crazy (and thereby engender a deft role reversal) in the process.Murray is a master at creating characters who simultaneously irritate us *and* endear themselves to us. What's wild about the way he does it is that Bob projects the utmost innocence and sincerity all the while. Any fan of Murray's work will instantly see the parallels between Bob and his roles in movies such as Ghostbusters or the SNL Awful Lounge Singer.Dreyfuss plays a surprisingly excellent straight man as Bob's (not entirely) hapless shrink, given that Dr Leo is himself a bit of a caricature (a bit obsessive about his book, for instance). Also liked seeing Julie Hagerty (Airplane), who does a good job as the Doctor's wife. "},{"Title":"hilarious and therapeutic","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I would recommend What About Bob?, because it is hilarious, and because it is therapeutic. However one must have an ironic sense of humor to enjoy the film to it's fullest.In What About Bob? I liked the acting as well as the plot. There was a sense of connection with the characters due to the proximate ranges which were intimate or personal. This caused me to relate to them and feel for them, which is what Frank Oz must have wanted the audience to feel.Watching, What About Bob?, so many times I have nearly memorized the script. I personally enjoy the film so much that I had already tried to break it apart into what I felt were the basic elements of all movies plot, acting quality, and scene build up. Watching the movie after taking Film and/as Literature, I began notice the symbolism of the film in the photography, mise en scene, and the movement.To me this film was so funny that I was laughing almost the entire time, every time I watched it. I seem to enjoy the switch between paranoia from Bob to Dr. Marvin. I just can't get enough of the strangeness in the characters. It was therapeutic in the fact that it was all about therapy, and laughter is the best cure for anything, or so they say.However if you don't have an ironic sense of humor I would not recommend this film as highly to you. It would take away from the end result and the final opinion.Personally I loved the film and would give it an excellent rating, just for the sake of spreading laughter. "},{"Title":"Murray at his Demented Best...","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A laugh-out-loud movie from start to finish, WHAT ABOUT BOB? is the story of a successful psychiatrist, Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) who has just written a best selling book called Baby Steps and is about to be interviewed about it on GOOD MORNING America when a colleague refers a patient to him by the name of Bob Wiley (Bill Murray), a nut who is suffering from just about every phobia imaginable. Dr. Leo has an brief introductory session with Bob, gives him a copy of his book and tells Bob he will see him when he returns from his vacation. Well, Bob is not having this and follows Dr. Leo to his vacation hideaway and insists they start treatment immediately, but as nutty as Bob is, he manages to completely charm Dr. Leo's wife (Julie Hagarty) and his kids (Kathryn Erbe, Charlie Korsmo)to the point where they don't understand why Leo doesn't like the poor schlub. This supremely entertaining comedy has a smart script, amusing set pieces,and all the performances work. Bill Murray gives one of his most deftly demented performances since GHOSTBUSTERS and Dreyfuss underplays beautifully as Dr. Leo, never allowing Murray to overshadow him on screen. Murray and Dreyfuss make a surprisingly coherent and effective comedy team and make WHAT ABOUT BOB? a clever and entertaining screen comedy that pleases from opening scene to closing credits. "},{"Title":"What About Bob? Review","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The doctor/patient relationship between Dr. Marvin and Bob was quite interesting and quite comical at the same time. However, as we all may know, that type of relationship goes against the rules for a doctor/patient relationship. We must take into account that this reflection of the relationship was merely for entertainment purposes. No doctor in his right mind would allow one of his clients to interfere with his day to day routine, and especially during vacation time. I also can't believe that a client would go so far as to follow his doctor to his vacation spot just to get some help. I should hope that the client would get alternative help from the therapist suggested by his primary therapist. As for Bob and his problems, the doctor mentions he has multiple-phobia personality. I do not believe that is an actual diagnosis, but he did fear many things and he was also a bit obsessive compulsive. Bob had to do things a certain way, for instance not touching things with his bare hands for fear he'll catch some sort of disease. Also, the doctor had a bit of a controlling problem. He wanted things to go his way and if they didn't, he would have a nervous break down. I think the doctor was a bit egotistical as well. He seemed to care more about his book, then he did his own clients and helping others. I'd like to hope that there aren't psychiatrists, therapists, or psychologists who are like that. All in all, this movie made for good entertainment and I hope people take this light-heartedly and do not believe that this is how psychology is practiced. "},{"Title":"Well I Liiked It.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob - Bill Murray, Rich Dreyfuss, Charlie Korsmo.The Plot - Bob Wiley a man with a fear of everything annoys a doctor while he is on vacation. ReView - I thought it was very good. Bill Murray was a genuius in this m ovie. I thoink this should be released on DVD Special Edition for special purposes. I think that Bill Murray played an exellent part. I thought WHAT ABOUT BOB was so good I bought it the next day.I give this movie a 10/10I liked the fact that Bill was a funny guy in this. And I think many people should see it. "},{"Title":"What About Bob ? Is a classic !","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No need for spoilers, don't believe what anyone says about this  movie just see it first and decide for yourself. I've seen this movie and showed it to friends many times.  What About Bob ?  is expertly written, acted and directed. It is one of Bill Murray's best films, I only have to look at his face in the first shot and I'm laughing. This film works on many levels, firstly its genuinely funny, the story and screenplay are rock solid, who ever cast the movie deserves an Oscar and the performances are brilliant by all of the cast. Frank Oz would have had fun doing this movie, I can't believe What About Bob ?  was unnoticed when it came out, it deserves much more recognition. Get it out today !!!! But What about Bob ? !!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"What about Gil?","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Shame the goldfish had to die when the house went up. Or weren't we supposed to notice? Oh, no, I guess not! Tough luck, Gil. You were expendable!Other than that, a pretty good comedy. Those expecting quotable Caddyshack nuggets should look elsewhere. This film is actually designed as a coherent story, with a beginning, middle, and end. So tough turkey!The funny thing for me about WAB is that the best thing it has going for it are a performance by an actor I'm not crazy about and a screenwriter who's principal success is a film I hate. People talk about What About Bob? as a Bill Murray comedy, but the best performance in it is that of Richard Dreyfuss, who generates sympathetic frustration with the audience as Dr. Leo Marvin and carries the intricacies of the plot in a way Bill Murray never has to. More to the point, Dreyfuss manages to do this by simultaneously underplaying and overplaying his role. He simmers effectively at the dinner scene and on Good Morning America, then goes the other route and outhams Herbert-Lom-as-Chief-Inspector-Dreyfus in the Pink Panther films as he introduces Bob to the wonders of Death Therapy.The other surprise is that this was a Tom Schulman script. Yes, as in that guy who wrote the schlocky Dead Poets Society and won an Oscar for it, actually put together a funny, coherent, movie-ready storyline that makes for one of the best comedies of its time. Shut me up. You are that good. Just not in that movie.The best part of this aggravation comedy is that it's not certain who you will identify with. Bob is clearly a good-natured, harmless type, and you are rooting for him from the beginning. Yet it's hard not to see Dr. Marvin's side as his patient takes every liberty permissible. The scene that brings me over to Bob is when Dr. Marvin gets the call about his suicide, then claps the light off with the bromide that it shouldn't ruin his vacation.But it's no good being so bloody-minded. The fact is Dr. Marvin isn't so bad for a shrink; he deserves better than what he gets at the end. A better comedy would have provided better for our principal nutter, given him a happier out than what he ends up with.I especially like the family, particularly Julie Hagerty as Mrs. Marvin. Not a big name, no, but anyone else notice she stars in three great comedies Airplane, Lost In America, and this? Actually, I'll rate What About Bob? above Lost In America.The direction by Frank Oz is great. Not his best comedy, that would be Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, but close. Anyone else notice how well he shoots water in both movies?A pretty nice entertainment, other than the fate of that goldfish. I guess it was for art's sake.  "},{"Title":"Bob rocks!!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I loved it and through the years have seen it more then once. This is one FUNNEEE film!!! It really is worth seeing again and again-which is a major thing because there aren't to many comedies that can stay both interesting and humorous the second, third or fourth time around. What About Bob is a comedy classic.And the reason it is such a classic is mainly due to Bill Murray. Murray has created an unforgettable Character in the Kooky Bob. He is truly an unforgettable movie character.There are a lot of comedies that I think are overrated and not as funny as they should be. This was a surprise and a good one. It's just a quirky, fun, highly original film. I do not know many who have not seen this but if you haven't-rent it! Preferably immediately or at a time when you just NEED to laugh!! What about Bob will have you in stitches!!We miss you Bob!! What about a part two? !! "},{"Title":"Pleasant, but a tad contrived.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" **************MILD SPOILERS AHEAD***************************************What About Bob? is a cute comedy starring Bill Murray, Richard Dreyfuss and Julie Hagerty.  It's watchable in a laid back sort of way.  It's kind of bland, but the actors do a decent job.Richard Dreyfuss plays the psychiatrist who is full of himself.  Bill Murray is the patient that just won't go away.  Julie Hagerty is the psychiatrist's wife.  All in all, the movie was a tad contrived and failed to take me into it's reality or give me any true belly laughs, but it was pleasant.I give What About Bob? a 75/100.  It's just average and not one of Bill Murray's best roles. "}{"Title":"One of the lightest (and best) pieces of entertainment...","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob is a very light piece of comedy without any offensive humor (maybe a few suggestive remarks, but it's very mild) that doesn't fail to do what a movie should do; entertain. I seperate art and entertainment in movies, and in the category of art, What About Bob is not even thought of. In the entertainment game however, it becomes a masterpiece. The humor is barely smart enough for adults and the younger viewers could be entertained by Bill Murray's erratic and boisterous antics. So if you are looking for a nice, relaxing comedy that won't offend you (Unless you are touchy on the subject of mental illnesses), do not miss What About Bob. If you're looking for A Clockwork Orange, don't even glance at the movie box.NC  "},{"Title":"Don't Hassle Me, I'm Crazy","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WHAT ABOUT BOB? Directed by Frank Oz. Starring Bill Murray and RichardDreyfuss. First viewed 5/23/03. This is an extremely funny movie that walks the dangerous line betweendarkness and light. It was pointed out in earlier comments that the plotof this movie could at first glance seem like that of a thriller, and inmany respects it did remind me of such needy-stalker films such as WITHA FRIEND LIKE HARRY... and the masterpiece TALENTED MR. RIPLEY. Goodcomedy direction is always underrated, and the direction of this film byFrank Oz is pitch-perfect, to a point. Up until that point he perfectlyhandles the darker subtext of the film to create a light, funny and evensweet comedy. It is unfortunate that the film changes tone and becomes abit poor and mean-spirited at the end, but it is forgiveable, as it is anatural progression of the film's events. Bill Murray is brilliant inone of his better roles, and Richard Dreyfuss is extremely hammy but noless amusing than his counterpart as the psychiatrist driven  "},{"Title":"Very Fun,and Cute little movie","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bob is a sweet guy. Who is afraid of everything. When he sees his new shrink Dr Leo Marvin. He feels a bit better after he tells him to do everything in Baby Steps. Then Dr Marvins off on a much needed vacation. Bob gets scared,and follows the good doctor to his vacation home. Dr Marvin tries desperatly to get Bob to leave. But Bob stays,and drives the doctor into insanity. I thought What about Bob was very fun. Frank Oz is a great director. There hasn't been a movie he has made that I havent liked. Bill Murray is great as Bob. And Richard Dreyfuss is even better as Dr Marvin. See it because it is a very fun movie.3/4 "},{"Title":"What Without Bob?","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob?Bill Murray plays Bob a claustrophobic, paranoid, delusional, compulsive, schizophrenic freak. Richard Dreyfuss plays Leo Marvin a great psychologist famous for his baby steps theory. Bob visits Marvin, who informs Bob he is going on a family vacation and will schedule an appointment when he arrives back. Bob, being the impulsive man he is, hunts down Marvin via various techniques, all the way out to Leo's family vacation spot in a sweet old town in the middle-of-nowhere. Soon, Marvin realizes that Bob is not going to let him go--so Marvin snaps, and goes crazy. He can't stand Bob. Bob is unintentionally gaining the favor of his children and wife, and he also spends the night at Marvin's house. Marvin loses it. Bob doesn't stand a chance. Or does he?This film comes off more as a horror than anything. In fact, it would have good potential as one. But instead we are treated to an equally-compelling comedy that loses steam and credibility at the end. Fortunately, the first three-quarters of the movie makes up for the last quarter.Bill Murray is the perfect choice for Bob a sweet, good-natured man with a kind heart. He doesn't intentionally cause mayhem in Marvin's life; he just does.Richard Dreyfuss surprises as Leo Marvin. Who would have thought that the man could be so funny?And Frank Oz, director of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, Bowfinger and I believe voices characters in Sesame Street, directs this film just right. There's a side of lunacy, paranoia, cartoon, but most of all family in the way he presents everything and everyone.I particularly like one scene where Marvin's child (that kid from Hook) is going to bed; Bob is sleeping in the room with him, and they have an intimate conversation regarding death. Bob gives the kid high hopes for a future without really trying to per say. Not only is the scene ironic, but it's a bit touching.Unfortunately, the last twenty minutes or so rapidly excels towards over-the-top craziness. It's a bit like the ending of Clifford with Martin Short and Charles Grodin they both would be more fondly remembered without the bad endings.Overall a fun film, that would have been about ten times better without the ending it contains. It still has a great re-watch factor, however, and scenes like the dinner at Marvin's house plenty make up for the bad outcomes. On the plus-side, comedies like these really aren't made anymore.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"This movie rocks! People need to loosen up!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  HOW CAN YOU THINK THIS MOVIE IS UN-FUNNY?  This is one of the best Bill Murray movies out there. I just can't stand people who over analyze comedies. If they make you laugh, they are great! and What About Bob is hilarious!  Everybody's a critic. Lighten up and have fun and stop bitching about good comedies! "},{"Title":"Chasing the blues away","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are two obvious pitfalls a successful comedy really must avoid.  One is sentimentality and the other is silliness.  Both present serious temptations for the movie makers, the writers and the director.  In the case of sentimentality, they must ask themselves how a comedy can be any good if it isn't about something.  If it doesn't have a serious component, it can't be any good, right?  And movie makers too often overreach themselves and fall into the trap.  (As Good as it Gets has a dog crying in one of the sad scenes.)  Not that sentiment and comedy can't be successfully blended but unless you're Chaplin it's usually not worth the attempt.  As for silliness, well, somewhere on the slope of that pit lies The Brady Bunch and its sequels, and, near the bottom perhaps, The Jetsons.What About Bob? teeters on the brink of the Brady Bunch Pit at times but never topples over.  The story is the kind that a committee might come up with if asked to choose a topic for a family comedy.  Guy becomes attached to his psychiatrist, follows him on vacation, makes a nuisance of himself, but brings family together and all ends happily.  Plot number sixteen in the shoebox labelled funny plots.  Actually, this is done pretty well.  The opening sequences poke some obvious fun at Murray's phobias, and there's an amusing scene in Dreyfus's office.  Murray claims that he left his wife because -- There are two kinds of people in the world.  Those who like Neil Diamond and those who don't.  Dreyfus, the shrink, is in therapist pose, cheek propped on the palm of one hand, and he replies something like, Let me see if I understand this.  You're a multiphobic, compulsive anxiety neurotic, and YOU left HER because she likes Neil Diamond?  Once the superficial jabs are out of the way the writers have to work harder, otherwise what they've got is a one-joke plot that has to be strung out over an hour and a half.  The tactic they use is to shift the attention away from Murray's symptoms and focus instead on small-group dynamics.  And they do it successfully.None of the situations, none of the gags themselves, are breathtakingly funny but they are all consistently amusing.  Dreyfus's family bonds with Murray at their house in New Hampshire.  They come to appreciate his endearing child-like quality.  He moans with pleasure over Julie Hagerty's fabulous dinner, teaches Dreyfus's son how to dive and how to stop worrying about death, entertains the daughter, and all the while driving Dreyfus to distraction just by being there.  (Ooops, watch out!  That slope is slippery.)  Finally crazy, Dreyfus attempts to blow Murray up by tying him to a log in the forest and draping twenty-two pounds of black powder over his shoulders, set with a timer to explode in an hour or two.  Dreyfus succeeds only in blowing up his own house, which he filched with a bag full of money from a local couple anyway.  And Murray's character is engagingly dumb.  Dreyfus is his reluctant host at the family dinner.  Hagerty offers Murray another piece of chicken and Murray accepts with fulsome gratitude.  As he takes the chicken, Murray notices that Dreyfus looks up from his plate glaring at Hagerty, and notices too that she scowls back at him.  Completely misinterpreting this exchange, Murray asks Dreyfus, Did you want the breast?  Later Dreyfus marches Murray off into the woods with the intent of killing him, and Murray asks if this is some new kind of therapy.  Yes -- death therapy.  It's a sure cure.  Funny, right?  However, in real life it is no fun to live with someone as neurotic as Murray.  It's a condition that demands a great deal from others.  Trust me on this.  I speak not only as someone who had to live with a neurotic for years, but as a neurotic myself.  Fortunately this movie depicts nothing that resembles real life, where Murray would be more or less disabled by his psychopathology and would find very little to be cheerful about.  (The baby steps therapy, insofar as it's described at all, resembles a technique borrowed from operant conditioning and called desensitization.  It seems to have had a pretty good success rate with phobias.)  If you want a serious undertone you can probably find it in the relationship between Dreyfus and his family.  He's a rich, narcissistic workaholic who, as his daughter informs him, is no longer fun to be with.  He's reduced to a neural shambles by the end of the movie and recovers during a wedding ceremony, but the whole family doesn't rejoice and come together for a weepy group hug, thank God.The plot is so obvious that much of its success rests with the actors and they pull it off.  Murray has often been painful to watch, as if he thinks that vacant smile is itself amusing.  But he does a good job here.  And so does Dreyfus as the straight man who is turned into a figure of laughter.The kids can watch this and they'll probably get a kick out of it.  You don't have to know anything about psychiatry because the jokes don't get into it.  Adults will probably enjoy it too.  Nobody will pop a gasket laughing, but the film is consistently amusing.  These days, that in itself is enough to make anyone tear up with thanks. "},{"Title":"This is great!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie and it is by far one of the craziest out there! This modern day Freudian begins to question his own sanity (and anal retentive behavior) when a patient named Bob follows him and his family on vacation. All he wants is some quality time away from the hustle and bustle of daily life and all Bob wants is the attention of his therapist breaking all bounds and rules in the process. Like many others, this breaks all ethics outlined by the APA yet that is the beauty of fiction, anything goes! Bottom line It is funny and one that will lift anyone out of a funk! Bill Murray is a scream, a must see!  "},{"Title":"I laugh out loud every time I watch this movie!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie strikes my funny bone and I laugh and laugh every time I see it.  Bill Murray is great as Bob, a neurotic but good guy who gets the best of his pompous psychiatrist, played by Dreyfuss.  Too bad the movie itself has a split personality, and towards the end has some unnecessary violence and malice.*****spoiler******I stop watching when Dreyfuss breaks into the gun shop.  Its at this point the movie takes on a mean, dark tone and it seems almost like another movie. Its rewind time!  "},{"Title":"great","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is a classic, all inspiring comedians should have to watch this movie. we all have a relative who sticks to us like bob sticks to leo marvin. you can only feel sorry for leo for a moment,and you have to cheer bob at the end when he out does leo by marrying lily, the should treat us to a what a bout bob two ,( leo's revenge ) "},{"Title":"Cool film with Richard Dreyfuss in top-form!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this is a pretty good film and I gave it 8 out of 10! It's pretty funny and I can't avoid identifying myself with Dreyfuss' character and get irritated on Bill Murray's character. I never really noticed Dreyfuss' acting before, but this is one the few films I've seen where I can say that a person did some good acting! "}{"Title":"If you need to laugh...WATCH this movie.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The chemistry between these two actors (Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss) is fantastic. This is one movie that most people missed out seeing when it came out but really should see it. Excellent! "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy is a very hard craft to master. Either you have it or you don't. Comedy is not something you can just do, it is a natural gift. Bill Murray has it while Richard Dreyfuss does not. But nevertheless Murray is terrefic as he holds the whole thing together as a lovable neurotic. Murray is Bob who is sent to Dr. Leo Martin (Dreyfuss), a self indulgent shrink, after the DR. treating him mysteriously quites. But there is only one problem the good doctors is going on a months vaction and won't be able to treat Bob until he gets back. Not being satisfied with this Bob shamelessly does everything he can to try to find out where Martin is staying including getting some girl off the street to pretned she is the doctor's sister and pretending he is an agent investigating the suicide of Bob and must see the doctor for questioning. Once getting the adress he embarks on his journey to find his good Dr. Martin is less than impressed to see Bob show up to interupt his vacation and does all he can to get Bob to just go away but that is harder than it appears. After an elerly couple who dispise Martin for buying their dream house that they were saving up for give Bob a lift to Martins doorstep everyone falls in love with Bob but Martin who wants him out of his life. But with the presense of Bob and the good things that seem to follow him everywhere he goes shows that maybe it is really Martin who is the one in need of a little therpy. The results are very warm-hearted and often hilarious as you instantly fall in love with Bob and even Dreyfuss is often times more annonying than he is funny and Murray is typically goofy there is nothing not to love in this great light hearted comedy that is sure to please the whole family.   "},{"Title":"WHAT ABOUT BOB WAS SO FUNNY I COULDN'T STOP LAUGHING","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob Was So Funny I Couldn't Stop Laughing I Give It 5 Stars This Movie Should Have Won An Oscar.I Can Watch This Movie Over Over And Never Get Bored Watching It.From Kirsten "},{"Title":"Feel good movie!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film didn't have me slapping my knee rolling with laughter; it did more than that. It's a super feel-good film. I think a lot of folks can identify with Bob Wiley's neuroses, although his were exaggerated to the max. I felt sorry for the Dreyfuss character (Dr. Leo Marvin), but somehow Bob remained so lovable throughout you couldn't stay annoyed with him. I've seen this film so many times I've lost count. I love it, my kids love it, and everyone I've talked to loved it. The supporting cast is excellent. I gave it a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   At first glance, you would think a plot involving a patient stalking his psychiatrist as more of a thriller than a comedy. But beneath this utterly scary scenario is a hilarious romp that stays harmless until the dark, somewhat irksome end. Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) is an unemployed man who just dealt a painful divorce. After an appointment with a well-known psychotherapist (Richard Dreyfuss) Bob puts so much trust into the Dr. that he follows him to his New England retreat and drives his life absolutely crazy (though the family thinks he's a lot of fun.) The `this is a robbery' line in `Quick Change' was classic but `Bob' will remain as Murray's finest movie (and role.)  "},{"Title":"Bring on the fun and bring on the hilarity!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can I say about What About Bob. A few things actually. This movie is without a doubt the funniest movie ever made. There have been a few that have come close...but none have been able to conquer Everest Bob. I am not embarrassed to say that I have rented What About Bob over 50 times. I am not humiliated to say that I have over 100 movies in my video library and they are all What About Bob. The D.V.D...got it. A poster of Dr. Marvin strangling Bob....it's on my wall. This movie keeps me laughing long after I have shut down the beta. I suggest to everyone that has not yet seen this movie to rent it. Actually just go ahead and buy it...Blockbuster may not guarantee it but Big V does and thats all you need! "},{"Title":"Ridiculously Great!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is in my opinion that Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss shine extremely bright in both of their characters and make them extremely believable people.  This movie is so funny it can be watched many times and you will never get tired of it, just like Groundhog Day.  This would probably get up there in the Film Comedy Hall of Fame if there was one. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray, Born to play Bob!!!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the only modern comedy that my dad finds funny.Recommended for anyone in need of good laugh. Who else but Bill Murray could play Bob? Brilliant comedy I found Richard Dreyfuss was quite brilliant too as the the straight man. Not many modern comedy movies as clean as this. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of my personal favorites. If you haven't seen this movie, definately check it out! It is one of Bill Murray's finest works. The DVD for it isn't all that great though. Not many extra features. If you are looking for a great comedy, and you havent seen this one, you must go for it. "},{"Title":"BILL MURRAY AND RICHARD DREYFUSS ARE A GREAT TEAM","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What else can i say this film is so funny, I love Bill Murray films first off and this clinches my love even tighter as Bill Murray plays a patient to Dreyfuss and what happens when he spends a vacation with his doctor and his family.Richard Dreyfuss is also excellent in this film as the psychiatrist who slowly turns insane himself because of Bob.Basically if you haven't seen this film GO RENT IT! trust me. "}{"Title":"The Perfect Comedy!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have watched this movie several times and still find it to be the funniest thing I've ever seen on film. In fact, I think I laugh harder every time I see it.Richard Dreyfuss and Bill Murray will have you rolling on the floor as this movie progresses. Dreyfuss is Dr. Leo Marvin, a widely respected psychiatrist whose fame is spreading after writing a best selling book about therapy, while Murray is Bob Wylie, an extremely neurotic new patient who is afraid of life itself and who can't let go of his new doctor, even after Dr. Marvin goes on vacation. The supporting cast (which includes Julie Hagerty as Dr. Marvin's wife, Fay) is solid, but the movie really revolves around Dreyfuss and Murray.The most impressive thing about their performances is the way in which they are able to flawlessly exchange roles in a sense. Beginning with Dreyfuss as the completely focused psychiatrist and Murray as the unbelievably crazy neurotic, over the course of the movie the roles change, with Dreyfuss ending up as the insane one and Murray as the normal one. It's fascinating (and funny) to watch Dreyfuss portray Dr. Marvin slowly slipping away, while Murray is perhaps even more subtle in showing the changes in Bob - changes that become obvious by the end of the movie.In short, this is great comedy, and features two superb performances from two fine actors. It is indeed - in my opinion at least - the perfect comedy. I rate it as a 10/10. If you're having a rough day, rent this. You'll feel better. "},{"Title":"Hilarious as heck!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     This was another favorite movie of mine when I was in junior high.  I still love it to this day.  Richard Dreyfuss plays Dr. Leo Marvin, a psychitrist who's a pariah hated by his community but loved by his family, and especially loved by Bill Murray's character, Bob.  Bob is a hideous neuortic who literally follows Dr. Leo everywhere he goes after reading his book, Baby Steps.   Bob even follows Leo to his summer home, and becomes the life of the party with the family!  Everytime Leo tries to get rid of Bob, he keeps coming back and becomes overly attached to him, and assumes Leo's attempts to be rid of Bob is some new type of 'therepy'!  Bob drives Leo over the edge!  Richard Dreyfuss and Bob Murray were in rare form in this movie!  There was even a scene where it's Leo's birthday and there was a party going on, and Leo sees Bob with his sister, and shouts, Get away from my sister!   I also liked the Buddy's disease scene.   Don't miss out on What About Bob!  Catch it when it's on network television or rent it at your local video store!   This movie will put and keep a big smile on your face!  In fact it's the funniest movie of 1991! "},{"Title":"Very funny indeed!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has got be be one of the funniest movies I've ever seen!Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss are great together, they stick to each other like glue. I don't think anyone else could of equaled their acting abilities. Bill Murray is great as the weird and persistant Bob Wiley and Richard Dreyfuss is brilliant as the short-tempered, helpless Dr Leo Marvin.This movie is different from most comedy/comic childrens movies.  This movie has something special.8/10 "},{"Title":"great fun!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is my kind of comic movie the kind that provides constant laughs and makes you laugh just thinking about it afterwards.Excellent comic performances by Richard Dreyfus and (of course) Bill Murray, terrific writing, great script...all in all a truly funny movie.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Roses are red, violets are blue, I'm a schizophrenic, and so am I.  So says Bill Murray's character in this hilarious comedy with Murray in perfect form.  He is in perfect form because this is one of his most zany roles, right up there with Stripes, Rushmore and even the stupendous Ghostbusters. Frank Oz directs Murray as a mental patient who stalks down his doctor (played well by Richard Dreyfuss) while on vacation and while he makes good with his family, he goes even crazier than the Bob character.  Pure belly laughs included, even if it gets a little dumb at times. A- "},{"Title":"Frank Oz must've been the source of the old SesameSt humor","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out and thought it was outrageously funny.   It never struck me why until I watched it with my kids years later. Frank Oz is a comedic genius with a biting edge; the same edge that Sesame Street USED TO have before it was Elmo-ed to death.(it upsets me that when I watch Sesame street now, characters are over-cute & lack true humor)My kids picked up on this also...my 4-year old even got the peace & quiet joke and walked around the kitchen one morning yelling DR. MARVIN!!!!Frank Oz can animate any character (from the talented Bill Murray, to the stifling un-funny Richard Dryfus) whether the character is flesh or fur in a way that no one , save Jim Henson, can.Mr. Oz deserves a tribute for showing hilarity/suffering in a touching but not cutesy, way.  "},{"Title":"This movie will baby step its way into your heart!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie stays high on my list of favorite comedies for all time! Whenever corn is served around our house, someone will always ask if it was hand shucked. Other references creep into daily conversation and always get a giggle! When a movie can impart itself as much as this one has, it gets an above average rating from me. Everyone knows someone like Bob - basically a harmless guy who always seems to come out of any situation looking good while common sense should tell you otherwise. He's a little like Forest Gump in that way. The only person in this film with common sense is played by Richard Dreyfus, who is Bob's analyst.  Extremely well done, a movie I never get tired of watching! "},{"Title":"Bill Murray is God!!!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This may not even be his funniest film!! And it was still one of the best comedies ever!!! He plays narrotic to a tee!!! And Richard Dreyfus is perfect as the overly up tight Dr. Marvin, who hates Bob tremendously!!If you've never seen this film, your missing out on a great one!! I saw it again (for the 50th time) and I still laugh my butt off!!!! Absolutely great!! "},{"Title":"Very, VERY funny flick!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WHAT ABOUT BOB is one of those movies that, after you watch it with a group of people, you've heard so many memorable lines that you quote pieces of its dialogue for days on end with one another, and no one else has any idea what you're talking about unless they're a fan.  You know the type of movie I'm talking about.The acting is excellent (Murray and Dreyfuss, although an odd combination, work really well together) and it seems to get funnier with each viewing.  I still chuckle to myself thinking about it, and how Bob repeatedly refers to Dr. Marvin's family as The Fam.You definately shouldn't pass this one up.  It's a comedy classic, right up there with AIRPLANE in my opinion. "},{"Title":"This movie cracks me up!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob? is a painfully funny movie that made my sides ache. Aside from Naked Gun 2 1/2, this was the funniest movie of 1991. Bill Murray has always been one of our best comic actors and he has a field day here as Bob Wiley, a quirky man with problems. That is until he meets his new psychiatrist Dr. Leo Marvin, played by Richard Dreyfuss in an uproarious performance. They meet for a session, then Dr. Marvin devastates Bob with the news that he's going on vacation for a month. What is Bob to do if a problem arises? Simple, he finds out where the doctor is vacationing, and decides to go there and meet him in person. Once Dr. Marvin sees Bob in town, he begins to head towards insanity. Things get even worse for Dr. Marvin when Bob starts to integrate with the doctor's family. And this is where What About Bob? gets really funny. Bill Murray is funny as always and Julie Hagerty (Airplane!) has some good moments as Dreyfuss' wife. But the best, (and craziest) performance goes to Richard Dreyfuss. He goes way over the top in What About Bob? and is absolutely hilarious in the process. He yells and shouts alot and his yelling and shouting had me reeling in laughter. Dreyfuss is one of our finest actors, and What About Bob? is proof. A few silly moments here and there, but overall, a very enjoyable, lightweight comedy.***1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"Recipe for laughter","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  2 cups Bill Murray 1 cup Richard Dreyfuss 4 gallons laughter	Mix Bill Murray with 1 tablespoon neurotic, mix  Richard Dreyfuss with 1/2 cup stress and combine.   Pour laughter on and just chill.   	I enjoy Richard Dreyfuss' work and I also like Bill Murray(although I frown at his appearance in Space Jam).   Murray seeks psychological help from Dreyfuss, but Dreyfuss is on vacation.  Of course, that doesn't stop Murray from annoying him to the end.   	The rest is just fun watching this unravel.  This will make time pass by.   "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This goes down as one of Bill Murray's most memorable comedies. The story follows Bob, a multiphobic patient who fears everything from getting into elevators with people to fear of heart attacks. Bob follows his new psychiatrist, Leo up to his summer home with his family. He ends up driving Leo nuts but the family loves him. This is one of the movies to be watched during a rainy day. Clearly one of the funniest movies with Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite comedy.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie.  I usually don't enjoy Richard Dreyfus' work, but in this movie he's great, as the short-tempered, self-centered, pompous, stressed Doctor Leo Marvin.  I always love Bill Murray, and he's at his best as the neurotic, but lovable Bob Wiley. "},{"Title":"Touchstone brings you another hit!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Murray and Dreyfuss work beautifully together as doctor and patient.  Bob Wiley (Murray) is a neurotic, but lovable, character who finds hope and a friendship with Dr. Leo Marvin (Dreyfuss), who is jealous of Bob's new relationship with his family.  Rated PG for profanity and mild violence.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those type of movies where you just can't stop laughing even if you have seen it over 20 times! Bill Murray plays great as Bob Wiley who just wanted some attention from a doctor. I mean come on he makes a fake phone call and pretends to be his Dr. Marvin's sister and then shows up at his vacationing home in Lake Winnaspasake, New Hampshire. I hope I spelled that right. The best parts of the movie were when Bob was eating at the table with the fam and every time he would take a bite out of his food he said mmmm that was hilarious. Then when Good Morning America showed up Bob was hilarious. Great movie I will never get tired of the laughs in this one  "},{"Title":"Can always count on Murray","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What makes this movie so entertaining is the two leads. Bill Murray is one of the funniest actors around and with Richard Dreyfuss the sparks really fly. I've never seen a bad performance from Bill Murray.Great stuff. 7/10. "},{"Title":"ha ha ha ha ha!!!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There really isn't much to say about this movie, other than it's so blasted funny!  I can see how some people won't like it because it has little substance or dramatic effect, but sheesh, it's supposed to make you LAUGH! And it certainly succeeds.  My favorite image is that of Dr. Leo Marvin, Bob's sane psychiatrist, bouncing frantically on top of Bob (the nutty one), yelling Cock-adoodle-doo! in an attempt to wake him.  Talk about role reversal. "},{"Title":"What a hoot!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poor Dr. Marvin!  Bob ruins his life - and does it so hilarilously!  I laugh out loud every time I see it, particulary the choking scene, where Bob saves Leo's life. Love the disgruntled couple who help out Bob, love Siggy, the son. love the Mom, daughter, the house, and the scenery at the lake. On the top 10 list in my family. We watch it every couple months.  When the kids have friends spend the night - they usually get out the What about Bob? video.  Good investment.     "},{"Title":"This is truly a comedy classic!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow! I just saw this movie and it was great! Great performances, great dialogue, great everything!! Probably my favorite comedy ever! I recommend this for everyone and i think that this movie should truly be PG-13 because of language. Irregardless, this is still a great film. Bill Murray was fantastic and so was Richard Dreyfuss. I do think though that other than them, the acting wasn't so great. And Frank Oz could have done a better job. Julie Hagerty was OK and so was Charlie Korsmo. I still don't get why Bob was so paralyzed from the outside world. I think the director could have done a better job explaining it. Oh, well. Everyone should see this film and enjoy it!! Today!! "},{"Title":"What About Bob? starring Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss is about a","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob? starring Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss is about a guy name Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) who seeks out professional help for his multi-phobic personality. Bob finally met Dr. Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss), a narcissistic psychiatrist whom he thought could cure his disorder. However, Dr. Marvin is going on vacation and he wont be able to see Bob until a month later. The exciting story begins...From a general viewer's perspective, I thought this movie was very comical; mainly because of Bob's annoying character and his multi-phobias and because my ex-boyfriend has obsessive compulsive disorder. Bill Murray did an excellent job portraying a person who has obsessive compulsive disorder. Although he has multiple phobias, Bob was very lively and seems to be very optimistic about life. He taught Siggy that there's worse fear than death, like Tourette's syndrome. I thought that was straight-up hilarious. However, there's one thing that still confuses me. Is it that easy for someone who has obsessive compulsive disorder to get over his obsessiveness and compulsiveness that quickly? Thus, this leads me to the conclusion that Bob does have obsessive compulsive disorder, but only to a certain extent because it seems like once he finds someone that he trusts, all his fears seem to set aside. Bob needs to be around people; he has the need to connect to people, especially how all his previous doctors neglected him. This shows in the scene where Bob was walking back to the Guttman's house, and he said to himself I'm alone... But it was ironic that Dr. Marvin's family needed Bob in their lives too. being a psychology major, I thought this movie does not depict any truth about psychiatry. First of all, what kind of therapists show fear towards their patients? Well, maybe if the patient is trying to harm his therapist. But in Bob's case, the therapist that was treating Bob before he handed Bob to Dr. Marvin was afraid to continue treating Bob because he wouldn't leave the doctor alone? Another thing I would like to point out is Dr. Marvin's abuse of authority when he put Bob into the institution. In addition, It was wrong of the head of that institution to accept Bob without pre-screening. Furthermore, I thought it was ironic when Dr. Marvin had his manic attack and a colleague of his (Dr. Phil I believe) was going to prescribe him Prozac, then Bob suggested to prescribe Librium instead due to the symptoms that was shown by Dr. Marvin, and Dr. Phil took his advice!?!? Having a nonprofessional prescribing drugs was pretty absurd. This movie stereotyped psychiatrists as people who don't really want to help their patients; they just want to popularize their names and sell their books. Dr. Marvin haven't actually help Bob one bit. He kept referring to his book Baby Steps.Although this movie is a comedy, I still think they need to try to make the movie not too hollywood. There is more to psychiatry!!! "}{"Title":"A very funny movie, especially for shrinks and their patients.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are two kinds of people in the world ... those who like What About Bob?, and those who do not!  This movie does for psychotherapy what M.A.S.H. did for the US Army.Coming as I do from a family full of psychotherapists ( 4 of them ! ), I found this movie rolling-on-the-floor funny.Bill Murray is his usual comic self, and Richard Dreyfuss is brilliant as the terminally uptight therapist, Dr. Leo Marvin.If you've ever known a shrink, personally or professionally, do yourself a big favor and see this classic comedy. "},{"Title":"what about a nice, breezy comedy?","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Somehow my memories of this were stronger---or funnier---but in recently checking this out for the first time in about ten years I now feel it's pretty breezy.  No gut-busters, but a LOT of smiles.  If a movie can achieve that for me, I'll enjoy it.  I don't think I just smiled at a movie as many times as this one.  I laughed hard a few times, but found myself grinning a lot, with one of those Ohh, no! expressions on my face.  Mostly because the film plays on those kinds of situations, with Murray---a cloying, co-dependent psych patient---always stunning his new shrink with embarrassment.  After a lot of digging, Murray finds out where Dreyfuss is vacationing.  Based on Dreyfuss staring at him and making only one assessment during an initial meeting, Murray deams Dreyfuss a genius.  So he's really intent on beginning the doctor-patient relationship with him. Dreyfuss makes many attempts to brush him off, but Murray won't give. I'll stop there since that is the basic plot repeated for the ninety minutes, and get into some of film's minuses the fact Dreyfuss' family---and everyone on the island for that matter---take an instant likeing to Murray is unrealistic.  He's either annoying or weird around people, which should turn them off.  Now most of the time, they are absent when he's REALLY weird or annoying, which is witnessed by Dreyfuss.  But even the family dinner scene for example, should've turned them off.  Murray's endless Mmm, mmmmmmm, mmmmmmm while eating would make any sane person put-off.  There also two near fatal mis-steps for the film the first would be Murray's initial consultation, which runs far too long, and lacks laughs.  In watching recently I was wondering how I ever got through it.  Then there's the finale, which lapses into mucho contrivance, with attempted murder and exploding houses.  Tack on Murray marrying into the family and I'm sure the theater was rolling its eyes.  It's as if screenwriter Schulman got stuck for a final fifteen minutes and said Ah, what the hell, let's throw credibility out the window!.  The two stars later said much of the dialogue was ad-libbed, and it's not surprising.  At times with one of them stammering for words, or reiterating a joke over (I sailed, out on the water, away from the doc, on the water, in the wind, off the land, ya know...)  And also that those close to Dreyfuss---his family and a later colleague---would let him get away with SCREAMING at them is far-fetched. But the film generates enough amusing zaniness for a recommendation, as long as you're not expecting high-larity. "},{"Title":"Superb comedy!  Bill Murray's best.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a beautiful, quirky, bittersweet comedic venture, directed by Frank Oz and starring Richard Dreyfus as the anal retentive, controlling but successful psychiatrist and Bill Murray as the almost paralyzed multi-phobic personality with a strong need for family connections. I prefer Murray as the comedian. As the straight-guy, I can't seem to buy into his performances. Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) has problems. Life in general is almost impossible and social interaction is all but impractical for him. He fears...everything. A divorced basket case who claims his wife left him for Neil Diamond, he has no prospects for work, love, friendships, or any of the human comfort we all need...except the attention of his diverse assortment and long string of psychiatrists.Dr. Leo Marvin (Dreyfus) is the unlucky psychiatrist who is next in line in the treatment of Bob's many severe phobias. But just as Bob begins to reach out, he discovers that his new friend is going on vacation.In a fit of depression and mania, he tricks Dr. Marvin's answering service into giving the location of his whereabouts and shows up in the center of town, screaming desperately for Dr. Marvin.Dr. Marvin arranges to contact Bob at the restaurant in town under the agreement that Bob will return to the city. The Marvin family is surprised by Bob's knock at the door, and they immediately fall in love with his quirky, lovable character. Dr. Marvin, who is none too happy about this development, starts driving a wedge between Bob and his family.Unfortunately for Leo, the family fails to understand his concern and dotes on Bob, creating an even stronger bond than the one Bob has already developed in his mind.In a last-ditch effort to rid himself of Bob for good, (and because Leo feels betrayed by his family in favor of a mental patient) Leo betrays Bob's trust in an attempt to have him committed. By this time, Leo is a definite candidate for Dr. Buddy Rydell's unorthodox intervention. (See Anger Management for the low-down on Dr. Buddy Rydell.) This effort backfires and the results are hilarious and snow-balls down hill for Leo from there.The wonderful, classic Bill Murray style colors this gently jaded comedic endeavor. I thoroughly enjoyed this work. Some have said that it mocks those experiencing mental problems, but if anything, it endears them to our hearts. Watch the movie and you, too, will love Bob.It gets an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Bill Murray, always underrated","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie is so great!  it's quick, surprising, and gets better with each viewing.  i thought this was going to be a stupid movie about a crazy patient stalking his shrink, but it's so much more.  it's the timeless tale about a psychiatrist whose ego destroys him.  it's about the definition of crazy.  it's also a quick and clean screenplay.  great scenes- Bob meeting Dr. Marvin, Bob teaching Ziggy how to dive, Bob on the morning show, Bob and Ziggy discussing fear and death, and of course the unexpected ending. Dreyfuss and Murray were awesome! "},{"Title":"What About Him?","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Famous New York psychiatrist Richard Dreyfuss cannot shake the titled character (Bill Murray) in this hit-and-miss comedy. Dreyfuss and his family go on vacation to Murray's despair and he decides to track the good doctor down and make his life a living hell. Naturally everyone else loves Murray, but Dreyfuss slowly becomes the crazy one as Murray's antics come through fast and furious. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"What About Bob?","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Murray meanders through the material here in  goofy fashion, while Dreyfuss is about three seconds away from a heart attack. There are some fun moments, but altogether, where is it going?  Director Oz tries to show us a madcap look into human illness, but it doesn't hold up for an entire movie.Someone should have taken some baby steps to a better story idea...or at least a better conclusion.   "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST movie of all time","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies of all time. Bill Murray plays an excellent role. Lots of quotable lines and hilarious scenes will keep you laughing for weeks on end. I own it and watch it at least once a month. Good morning Gill, I SAID good morning GILL. See it and own it  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully HILARIOUS movie","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My family and I loved this movie. Bill Murray has never been funnier. We also watched it with our cousins, who are tough to please, and they were rolling on the floor with laughter. This is a great movie if you want to laugh REALLY LOUDLY! I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants or needs a laugh. In the movie, the actors play their parts so well, you wonder if they aren't like that in real life. i especially liked the corn-on-the-cob scene, it was great. If you need a movie to please kids and adults alike, this is it. I give this a ten-star rating, as this is the best movie I have seen up to date. It was fantastic! "},{"Title":"A Bill Murray movie that's hysterically funny!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" WHAT ABOUT BOB?, in my opinion, is a Bill Murray movie that's hysterically funny! It left a big smile on my face! The funniest thing about this movie, in my opinion, were Bob (Bill Murray) and Siggy (Charlie Korsmo) jumping up and down on the beds yelling profanities. However, if you ask me, Dr. Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) should have had a little more patience just like Fay (Julie Hagerty) was telling him as they were getting ready for bed. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Bill Murray, I highly recommend this film! You're in for a real treat and a lot of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Over and over again","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is one of those few movies I can watch over and over again without getting tired laughing at the same scenes. (Especially that gorgeous interview Bob gives to Good Morning America).  "}{"Title":"Its a Classic!!!!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is so funny.It's Bill Murray's best since Meatballs.It is a real treat to watch.I think a sequel to this would be great. (Bob spends Christmas with Dr.Leo Marvin & Family).      "},{"Title":"One of the all-time best","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everyone I talk to has a list of movies that they can watch over and over and not only enjoy again and again but find something new to enjoy with each subsequent viewing. This movie often makes those lists. It certainly makes mine. It'd better- my kids watch this one about twice a week! "},{"Title":"Silly Billy","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" WHAT ABOUT BOB? (1991) **1/2 Bill Murray, Richard Dreyfuss, Julie Hagerty, Charlie Korsmo, Kathryn Erbe. Fish out of water comedy with manic depressive phobia afflicted psyche patient Murray hounding pompous shrink Dreyfuss during his family summer vacation with humorous results with oblivious, good hearted Murray driving slow burn Dreyfuss off the deep end. Just seeing Billy in a 'Don't Hassle Me, I'm Local' t-shirt puts a smile on my face. "},{"Title":"Should have a health warning","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As you will definitely bust a gut laughing!I spent 2 weeks in hospital after seeing it. Bill Murray is great but Dreyfuss just had me in stitches. Its a pity this film is so unknown,none of my friends seem to have seen it,i have never seen it on TV or even read anything about it on magazines.but i am sure it will become known in time as a comedy classic.Definitely one of the funniest films i have seen. "},{"Title":"Still Funny","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was 11 when I saw this in the theatre. I loved it then, and I still love it now.  There aren't too many movies that you laugh at when you're 11 that you still laugh at when you're 18. "},{"Title":"Funny, but serious also.","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, What about Bob is really funny. But there is something that mustn't be missed.  It keeps asking us who is really and badly insane, Bob or the doctor?  Who is the one that makes the people, at least in the movie, laugh and happy?  Cleary, the movie also gives the message. It is a warm heart(for example, love or friendship) that can cure the patient not a cold mind( for example, the theory of the famous Freud or the doctor). You can see how the symbolical meaning is conveyed even through the statue of Freud throughout the whole film if you see it carefully not just laughing.  Laughing and meaningfulness work together in the movie. "},{"Title":"What a laugh!  Great flick.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What an underrated comic gem this movie is!  I still watch it a few times a year.  Bill Murray was at his peak and Dreyfus was a splendid and hilarious foil for Bill.Baby steps through these comments...  "},{"Title":"The kind of witless farce talented actors usually run from...","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Thank God Bill Murray doesn't have to make films like this anymore! A relentlessly unfunny affair, What About Bob? resembles a movie in limbo half farce, half dark comedy, and neither half successful. Richard Dreyfuss plays a prominent psychiatrist, currently on the bestseller's list with his new self-help book Baby Steps, who has a patient referred to him by a colleague on the verge of collapse--and for good reason it's phobia-prone Bill Murray, an anxiety-ridden big kid who needs lots of attention. He soon gets it after joining Dreyfuss and his family in New Hampshire at their vacation home. There's a good movie in here somewhere, but the results seem to show no decisive captain of the ship (it's certainly not director Frank Oz, who crawls through a dreary opening set-up, only to take us out to the country where sunny days are followed by stormy nights, a TV camera-crew shows up unannounced, and the staff at a medical hospital have nothing else to do but sit around and josh). Perhaps portions of the film were reshot against everyone's wishes, which might explain the unfunny tension coating the production like so much ill will. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It has its moments but is ultimately unworthy of its two incredibly talented stars","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What About Bob is a film that I loved when I first saw it at a younger age and was less discriminating. Viewing it today, I feel it has its moments but is ultimately unworthy of its two incredibly talented stars. Both Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss are great actors and do the best they can with the usually mediocre material. As far as Murray is concerned, I'd rather watch Groundhog Day over this anytime. The characters aren't interesting or developed, and the co-stars are weak all around. Julie Hagerty is a likable enough screen presence, but has never impressed me as an actress (with the exception of the spoof Airplane, in which he shortcomings were turned into assets).There are undeniably some very funny moments, not because of the script but because of the two stars precise comedic timing. The characters are simplistic and the screenplay is clichd. A lot of the humor comes across as being overly saccharine. Frank Oz's direction is dull and workmanlike. Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is a much better film of his. Plus, the less said about the annoying music score the better. Watch this for some laughs but don't expect anything more. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Can't give it away...","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What was this trash? Why was it made? I like Bill Murray, generally, although most his movies are bad. I liked Richard Dreyfuss in Tin Men and Jaws. However, during this comedy I laughed not once. I smiled not once. I tried to sell it cheap. Twice. I could not. Need I say more? "}{"Title":"An okay Bill Murray movie","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murray alone made What About Bob? a very funny movie. He can play insane very well, maybe because some of the things he does in real life can be labeled as insane. I enjoyed this movie, which is not surprising since I enjoy many Bill Murray movies. However, this is not A+ Murray material. Richard Dreyfuss is a major distraction for me as he seems to be overacting on every line he delivers. He has been much better in other movies. I can't figure out why he is so poor in this movie. If another actor were to take Dreyfuss' place, then perhaps What About Bob? would be a movie I could watch over and over again. But for now, I am content having seen it once.  "},{"Title":"I'm still laughing","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie, I was laughing so hard I cried the first time I saw it. I still watch whenever I'm having a dull day.It's a great movie that must be seen not analyzed. "},{"Title":"Funny but annoying","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure it has some funny parts and also is cute at times but I can't understand why no one in Leo's (Richard Dreyfuss')family couldn't understand why Bob was annoying Leo. I guess you just gotta go with suspension of disbelief and enjoy the funny parts.  "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am not a fan of Bill Murray. In fact, I mostly don't like his films at all. There are very few exceptions... this is one of them. The basic idea of the film is somewhat original... I haven't heard about any other film with the same premise. The plot is pretty good, and develops nicely. The pacing is mostly good, most of the film is entertaining and interesting. The acting is good, pretty much all the way. Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss have a surprisingly good chemistry and compliment each other quite well. The characters are somewhat well-written and reasonably credible. One thing I didn't care too much for was the fact that there wasn't really anyone to relate to... everyone is an extreme. Murray is an exaggerated mental patient, who suffers from just about anything you can think of. And he's the main character... apparently, we're supposed to feel for him, despite the fact that he's more annoying than any other character. Dreyfuss is apparently supposed to be the villain, as he is the only person in the film that hates Murray(who is 'our hero'). Everyone else loves Murray and has different amounts of dislike for Dreyfuss... including his family. I know that that's the point, that the film is supposed to be like that, but when you don't like the main character, every character besides him is paper-thin and empty and the villain is the only slightly understandable character, the film loses a chunk of its audience. Murray has proved that he can be himself, his usual annoying self, and yet make the audience like him in films like Ghostbusters and Groundhog Day. Why couldn't he be like that in this one? The film almost fails as it has little to no memorable parts and none of the characters are particularly likable. However, the humor does work, most of the time, and this saves the film, together with Dreyfuss' and Murray's on-screen chemistry. I recommend this film to fans of Bill Murray and his type of humor. Just don't expect to be very impressed or even able to remember this a day or two after seeing it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"No brains involved in this production","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What About Bob? is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Sure, Bill Murray did a good job, but the humor was low and the plot very untasteful. Someone earlier said that this movie must be seen and not analyzed. That right there was enough warning for me not to see it, but did I listen? No. I just had to see the star of Groundhog Day--a far, far superior film--in another so-called comedy. If you haven't seen this movie yet, don't. Spend your valuable time elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Much not very funny silliness","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This plays like a long situation comedy, except that after the first few minutes any basis in reality, no matter how exaggerated, is lost. Bill Murray, as Bob, suffers from multiple phobias and, after an initial brief interview with psychiatrist Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss), he becomes so dependent on him that he pursues him to where the Marvin family is away on vacation. To set up the premise of the movie Murray plays Bob initially as mentally disturbed, but his personality quickly changes into that of an irritating, socially inept child. Bob ingratiates himself with Marvin's family while in the meantime driving Marvin nuts. Unfortunately I came to view Bob pretty much as Dr. Marvin did - his behavior was totally inappropriate and I wished he would just go away. It is beyond me why Marvin's family did not also feel this way. In an era when the work of Freud has been greatly discredited this movie seems compelled to propagate the stereotypical image of a psychiatrist as one who worships at the feet of the master, having busts of him in his office and in his vacation home, and even naming his children Sigmund and Anna. Things turn absurdly silly toward the end.Outside of its contrived humor not being particularly funny, the reason I really dislike this film is its portrayal of mental illness for humorous effect. Anyone who has known a phobic person understands the pain and suffering caused by the illness and knows that there is no cure by taking a few baby steps over a period of a few days, as implied in this film. The same criticism goes for making fun of Tourette's Disorder. "},{"Title":"ugh","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A wretched, wretched film that I recommend NOT seeing. I hated it. Bill Murray is capable of much funnier stuff! I'm not sure how this script was ever approved by movie execs, but someone must have been feeling drunk that day. I'm also not sure how they got Richard Dreyfuss or Bill Murray to star in the film. Maybe they had some really good blackmail on the two of them, or they just needed some beer money? "},{"Title":"Quite possibly one of the most mind-numbing films of all time.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The subject line says it all.Watching this film was agonizing. I think this is the result of my inability to find Bill Murray remotely funny.If I were Dreyfuss, I would have shot Murray's character a third of the way into the film.This movie was given a 1.  This is my official selection as the worst movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"General store is still there!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I enjoy the movie EVERY time. Always funny and refreshing even after dozens of viewings.Loved the movie and scenery so much that I even try to stop by the the little town and the general store where it was taped at least once a year.No it's NOT in New Hampshire but in Moneta Virginia! Friends of mine took two days to drive around the lake in New Hampshire looking for the store and cafe....just to find out they were looking for the building in the wrong state! It's great to know the building is still there and you can stand outside and yell DR. Leeeooooo Maaaaarrrrvvvviiinnn!!!A classic movie that is great for the whole family and worth seeing two, three, even four times. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film 'What about Bob' is one of the most dreadful movies I have ever seen. Its a story about a psychiatrist named Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard Dreyfuss) who goes on holiday with his family, only to have one of his disturbed mental patients Bob Wiley(Bill Murray) constantly stocking him by following him around wherever he goes. Dr. Marvin tries so desperately to lose him and tries to seek help from his friends, family and the police, however, they wouldn't sympathise with his problem, as they were too ignorant to notice that Bob was a menace.This is the most stupidest and yet disturbing story I have ever seen in a comedy film. Where's the justice in Bob getting the best of Dr. Leo Marvin and by making everybody think that Dr. Marvin was the antagonist and that Bob was the victim. Throughout this film I was on Dr. Marvins side, as I was hoping that everybody would sympathise with him and be rid of Bob. Instead, it went the other way as everybody ended up loving Bob and hating Dr. Marvin. This film has the most disappointing conclusion, I have ever seen in a movie. Although, I'm aware that most people like this film, let me just ask you all one thing. If you were away on holiday from your job and some mental patient (like Bob) was following you around stocking you and not allowing you to enjoy your holiday, how would you like it if you were in that situation - like Dr. Marvin was? I don't think you would like it. Anyway, if you haven't seen this film and would like to, don't bother, as its a load of garbage. "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly awful film. Annoyingly predictable. Normally excellent Bill Murray running out the wacky thing for one of the last times before he saw which way the wind was blowing and moved into more serious/dryer (better) roles i.e. Maddog and Glory for one. Blatantly obvious why bombed - not a cult classic. Stick to Ghostbusters or Groundhog Day for funny Bill Murray. If you still feel the need to know what the film is about in a nutshell Richard Dreyfuss is an uptight,pompous therapist and Murray is a wacky patient with personality disorder(s) who won't leave him alone. Murray brings chaos into his life and Dreyfuss' family fall in love with him. Again - truly awful film. There are two types of people - ones who like this film and etc. etc.   "}]