[{"Title":"Great Movie and hey, THEY CAN ACT!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"64 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is NOT a chick flick.  True, it is rife with sentiment but is not sentimental.  It pushes the envelope in several ways but the thing that really gets me is how much better these English actors and writers are than we are.  I shudder to imagine what pablum (e.g., Ghost) would have come out of Hollywood.  The humor and imagination that has gone into this film is amazing and then, there's the Bach.  I mean, listening to Bach on the cello is worth the price of admission in itself.  The little bits and pieces of how a shattered life is put together is touching but never maudlin.  The ghosts who are always cold (well, I mean they're dead, aren't they?) and who are hooked on videos of classic movies (OK.  Is it High Noon or Fitzcarraldo?) is great.  If you can watch the closing scenes without chocking up and getting at least a little teary, you are made of pretty stern stuff.  I love this film and highly recommend you see.  I plan to watch it again and again... "},{"Title":"A lovely examination of grief and grieving.","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"51 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A nice look at what it means to lose someone, and to be the lost as well. All too often (as in the treacly Ghost) we are treated to a fantasy version of love and loss, where you get to have your cake (looking fab in that graveside outfit) and eat it too (dead person is wonderfully available as he guides you to your next, even better for you, love). Here, we see a woman who cannot let go, who is so paralyzed with grief she cannot live the life left to her. The man she lost untimely loves her so dearly he returns, not to take up where they left off (which is all she asks), but to guide her back into life, life he can never have again. What makes this movie admirable is the deft and sensitive rendering of the act of letting go, from both the point of view of the lost and the living. "},{"Title":"Not Ghost","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Anthony Minghella, the film director, is a sneaky guy. He sets up Truly, Madly, Deeply as a 3 hankie weeper as Juliet Stevenson mourns the death of her young husband, inadvertently asphyxiated by an endo tube after getting a sore throat. She isolates herself from her friends, gets snappy with well meaning relatives, bawls at the first cords of an overheard cello (hubby played one and she accompanied him on the piano), and winds up on a therapist's couch. Ah, she had such a sweet, caring, satisfying relationship with this talented, intelligent, good looking man. How tragic that his unfulfilled life should be cut so callously short leaving this truly wonderful woman bereft and in despair. So, here we are, the audience, blowing our noses, wiping our eyes, feeling her loss and wondering ourselves how we would handle such a dreadful event. We think of the lovers, spouses, children in our lives. How close and intimate we are with them and how close all of us are to being summoned by the Grim Reaper without notice. Our sympathies are totally with this grieving young woman. Imagine our glee when out of nowhere the decedent appears, back from the beyond, in the flesh. Amazing. We vicariously feel the thrill the wife feels as she leaps into his arms, madly embracing the man she thought she'd lost forever. He's back. All of him... and there's Minghella's rub. It soon becomes evident that the husband has returned, not to haunt her or torment her, but only to be himself and with a totally unexpected agenda. He returns with his good habits (they play the word games they always used to pass the time with, they frolic, they joke and laugh and look deep into each other's eyes) but he also brings along his bad traits, and it's difficult accommodating oneself to his pushy, egotistic behavior, even if he is a ghost. Patrick Sweazy made a back-from-the-dead flick (Ghost) where he hovered over Demi Moore and made her widowhood bearable. She always knew he was there. And what a wonderful guy he was. Sweetness and light. But TMD is no Ghost. Menghella says, instead, wait a minute. The one we grieve for was a multi-dimensional person. How soon we forget the bad and glorify the good. After the honeymoon is over, the widow in his movie begins to feel a bit crowded. Her husband's always complaining about how cold the flat is, turning up the heat, sneezing from the drafts, shoving up against her in bed with his clammy body. He's learned Spanish but his accent is atrocious. He brings back some friends with him, a motley crew, all polite, but given to watching videos (I Vitelloni, Hannah and Her Sisters) at all hours of the day and night. The husband rearranges the furniture. Then, she meets a wonderful man in a restaurant. He works with the disabled and does magic tricks. He wants to date her. She's attracted to him. But what does she do with the living dead hubby at home? How can she entertain anyone? Must her life now accommodate his death? Her therapist is noncomittal. The denouement is absolutely spot on. "},{"Title":"touching portrait of a real relationship","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a beautiful little movie. Juliet Stevenson (as Nina) plays one of the most authentic female leads I've ever seen She bawls full-out, complete with fluids; she looks like a man in bad lighting; she's passive aggressive and irritable and loveable and likeable and real. Likewise, Alan Rickman's character, Jamie, is peevish, like all of us, self-centered, like all of us, but beautiful and unique and again, real. Unlike the schmaltz we're fed here in the states, where dialogue consists of rehearsed speeches (think Jerry Maguire) and love seems skin-deep, this is a couple that seems not only to love each other but to genuinely like each other; a couple that has their own language, as long-term couples do (and it's not translated, which is so refreshing), a couple that can be silly with each other and irritated with each other within minutes; that can have spats that are not high drama or the beginning of the end or anything other than the end of a long day in a too-hot apartment. The ending broke my heart yet seemed like the most natural and right course of action. Truly stunning.  "},{"Title":"Didn't come off as hokey...","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A man who comes back as a ghost to assist his grieving wife... it could have been really cheesy, but Rickman and Stevenson pull it off! I loved this movie and I'm not normally into romantic comedies. The comedy is subtle and doesn't dominate the movie. If you're looking for a happy-go-lucky, laugh a minute movie, look elsewhere. Stevenson's tears and grief are very realistic and you truly feel her desperation. Yet, though there is sadness and even the ending is bitter-sweet, you don't leave feeling depressed and there ARE laughs along the way. Rickman and Stevenson's singing scene is tremendous and a must see for all Rickman fans! It is strange to call a movie about a ghost realistic, but it is. The relationship between the two leads is very realistic and the chemistry is incredible. All in all a charming little flick to watch when you feel like cuddling up and watching a good love story. "},{"Title":"Thank you for making this movie!","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had no idea it was going to be as good as it was.  The two leads, Stephenson and Rickman, produce such a quality together that it flowed very nicely and I did not want it to end there.Overall, spirit movies have their own presence and I hate to say this, unbelievability.  However, this movie was different in that Rickman's Jamie was so believable.  It's probably because it was Rickman, who is by far a great spirit, in my opinion.  It was very poignant in bring about the message to leave the past as past, and live for the present.  Grief brings out a reflection of past and how sometimes we could have made things different.  This was more of an embrace on living life to it's fullest, while you still have it.  Minghella is an artist!Truly, the ghosts were fantastic!!  It added more to Jamie's plea for Nina to experience life again without him - he had his life, and she needed hers in her world.   "},{"Title":"Wow!!","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Now, I like a weepy, I'm not ashamed to admit it. I actively seek out those films that are most likely to make me cry. However, more often than not, I end up disappointed because usually this type of film is either wildly melodramatic or painfully sentimental.That's what I was expecting from this, to tell the truth. A woman overcome with grief at the death of her boyfriend? Give me a break!... I was in floods by the end, and promptly watched it again.This film is testament to how well us Brits can do when we put our minds to it. It's charming, funny, warm and absolutely heart-breaking. All the performances are grouped under an umbrella label 'very good', with one notable exception that of Juliet Stevenson as Nina. She is magnificent, and is, at times unbearable to watch. I'm still absolutely astonished at her performance. This is a woman who has had her heart and soul ripped out I love this film. I'm getting a lump in my throat just thinking about it. It's wonderful! (Blub! *Sniff*) "},{"Title":"Unbelievably great acting","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is truly (madly and deeply) one of my top 10 of all time. It shows an honest portrayal of what life must be like for someone whose lover has died. Juliet Stevenson is amazing as a woman still dealing with the death of her husband (Alan Rickman - always great).I'm not going to get into the plot because this would just be full of spoilers, and I would actually recommend not reading the back of the video/DVD box either, just to be surprised.One should definitely have on hand a few hankies or a large, full box of tissues. As the other commenter said, this isn't a film where one cries, this is a film where one sobs. I have never seen an actress cry on screen in such a heart-wrenching, convincing way as Juliet Stevenson. And lest you think this is just a weepy, the movie is also full of fun, humorous scenes. "},{"Title":"Unusual and moving movie","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This one of the most memorable and touching movies about love and loss that I have ever seen. It does fall a little into the trite towards the end with some of the side plots, but the essential message is there from beginning to end. There are people who you love who leave deep and indelible pieces in you, but the essence of living is painful and individual.The characters are well drawn and the performances by Rickman and Stevenson are nothing short of inspired. Rickman in particular has an ambivalent character- he has the attraction of a unique and fleeting genius, juxtaposed with the temperamental flightiness of a hot house flower. Stevenson's dealings with this paradox of a person and her relationship, forms the driving force behind her quest for meaning.There are moments of humor and extreme poignancy in this movie. The use of Bach and the poetry of Pablo Neruda is both organic and brilliant.The trite parts are largely collateral. The movie rather than being PC is idiosyncratic with unusual characters. "},{"Title":"Not a chick flick, necessarily","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I suspect it helps to have lost your wife or husband to let this film have its effect. What is it they say? Been there, done that and in spades, also losing a child. For we in this club, this film is a truly great experience.You do want to scream at the heavens with your anger, like Nina does at the shrink. Then there is that short scene where the exterminator leaves the apartment and mentions his wife, dead since 1978. Nina realizes that he is a member of the club too, and that feeling is one any person who mourns knows. Yes, it is a little too pat that Nina has these just-right friends, and has all the right PC attitudes, and her love was this artistic cellist and she finds another gentle soul, but death is not excluded from her ranks.I love the American film with James Caan and Sally Field, where Caan comes back but it is the comedy in it that I like. When they get down to the treacle, it is just that; but in that penultimate scene in TMD, where Rickman assures Stevenson that she is ready to go on by reciting that poem in Spanish, the message has such meaning. "}{"Title":"Truly, madly, fantastic","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not sure where to start in a review of the movie, Truly, Madly, Deeply.Between a magnificent score, the impeccable performances of the two leads and the unspoilt raw emotion, this movie will appeal to anyone. Well, in my mind, it should appeal to anyone.Juliette Stevenson's performance is unbelievable good. I doubt many could have captured the pain she expressed in the now famous piano/cello scene. Grief at its finest if grief can ever been seen this way.As for Allan Rickman, the role seems perfect for this actor of limitless talent. The chemistry between he and Stevenson is obvious to most and touching to those who are a little more in tune with such a feeling.In between many highs and lows of gut wrenching emotion, this movie has lots of light and cheerful moments that truly add some balance to this real life drama.Love and loss are, in some, the most raw and powerful of emotions. This movie stretches love and loss to its limits. And just when you think you've seen and felt enough, a little more is added in for good measure. After all, love and loss hurt - in differing ways.Some will relate to this movie. Many will be touched by its expression of devotion and the human challenge of moving on. But, for me, the important message from the movie is that we can all move on and live...its just harder for some.See this; its magnificent. A definite 10/10... "},{"Title":"Tears, snot, pain - what a wonderful film","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having spent some time in the States, I got to watch the brilliant review programme starring Siskel and Ebert (rest in peace, Gene). I've now got a rather dated copy of Ebert's book, and his review of this film matches my opinions perfectly.Comparisons of this film and Ghost are fatuous, since the similarities are only superficial. Yes, the main protagonists are a couple where the man dies and returns as a ghost, but that's about it. Truly, madly, deeply is wonderfully involving - it has that indefinable something that makes you care about the characters, and pray that the film makers won't cop out and go for a stupid ending.Fear not, they remain true to the rest of the film. If you only know Alan Rickman from his 'baddie' roles in films like Die Hard and Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, this will come as a complete surprise. He plays the recently departed Jamie, who must hang around as a ghost until Nina (Juliet Stevenson) finds happiness. The film is slow-paced, but that doesn't matter - it's a wonderful character study.Of course, it's helped by having Nina played by the utterly wonderful Juliet Stevenson. In the early scenes, when she's grieving for Jamie, her pain is almost palpable. Forget Demi Moore-style teary-eyed, looking ever more beautiful grieving - this is the real thing, floods of tears, almost incoherent, looking like crap, snot-nosed AGONY. The transformation when she realises that Jamie is still around is a joy to watch - as is most of the film, actually.'Ghost' for adults? In a way, but I think it's comparing apples and oranges. It's a masterful character study, with a great script and a cast on top of their form. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Truly Madly Deeply is on my 10 all-time favorite films list.","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Truly Madly Deeply is one of my all time favorite films. My first viewing was over 15 years ago in an art movie house in Northampton, Massachusetts. It wasn't until when I viewed it the second time, somewhat more objectively, that I realized it was a truly intelligent vehicle to address one's grief, no matter what the loss. The stages of grieving are now well known to those in the therapeutic community and beyond, thanks to Helen Kubler-Ross's noted work on death and dying, but this film through its comedic value, excellent writing and acting is one of the few films that gives us a a step-by-step portrayal of these stages, climaxing with Rickman's giving permission to Nina and to all of us who have suffered a loss to let go of the past and begin to truly, madly, deeply live once again. "},{"Title":"Truly Madly Deeply A Wonderful Movie!!!","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't catch this movie until it came out on cable. I don't know what I was expecting but I wasn't expecting what I saw. I cried and cried and laughed and cried from beginning to end! Alan Rickman is just the most wonderful actor. He is so talented at EVERYTHING he does! When he kissed Juliet Stevenson my heart pounded and my breath caught in my throat. It was such a beautiful, tender, loving, and yet still passionate kiss and so therefore believable of two people who loved each other so much. What I got out of this movie is the need to be able to grieve, but the necessity of being able to move on with your life while still accepting that someone you love is dead but not gone and knowing that you will always love the person you leave behind while learning that it's OK to live your life and find new love. This movie has become one of my all-time favorite movies. If you have not seen it yet, you MUST see it! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a nice simple little film that follows the premise of many others before and many, no doubt, to come Ghost of partner returns to comfort the one left behind. It is only when you come to comment on it that you realise what an extraordinarily complex and skillful film this is. The skill of Rickman, Stevenson and Minghella is shown in the way they have made the complexity so simple and approachable. Rickman is a metaphor of Stevenson's grief but he is a real character, not a cypher, and she reacts to him as such. Both performances are tours de force. Maloney's character, by contrast, is real but in a magical way (literally so, when he intervenes in a dispute) so the insubstantial comes over as real and vice versa. The audience's sympathy at the end is for Rickman as he watches his lover walk away with her new partner. The new relationship that he has fostered so carefully seems like a betrayal. It was a star launcher and people who see it now should remember that Rickman and Stevenson were, at the time, virtual unknowns. Minghella was known as a TV director (it was made for TV). It showed that Rickman was capable of more than oleaginous villains and that Stevenson could 'do' film if she wanted. It is one of the best 'chick flicks' ever made (I'm hedging my bets here - I'm sure there are other good chick flicks). You can't compare it with blockbusters but I would put it in the top ten. It will probably be remade, in the way these things are but it is the performances that make it great, not the story and they are spectacular. "},{"Title":"What happens to love after we die?","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Coming as it did around the time of the execrable Ghost, this movie was the saving grace of hoards of movie lovers who puked vomit at the Patrick Swayze / Demi Moore goopfest. Taking instead the intelligent approach (You're dead ... and you're still into party politics?!), Anthony Minghella showed the all-too-human side of grief - and the inevitable moving on. Inevitable perhaps qualifies as a spoiler so I apologise.But what makes this movie one of my Top Ten ((if you care, my others are The Princess Bride (Life IS disappointment, Highness. Anyone who says differently is trying to sell you something), Fight Club (for many things), Primal Fear (We were DANCIN' Marty!), Dogma (oh, just about everything), and more)), is the relentless moving on of LIFE. The sentimentality is strong - hence the previous reviewer's reliance on the term chick flic - but rather than having one's love come back from the dead to avenge something (The Crow, anyone?), the dead come back solely to show that they're, well, dead. The message of the movie is The best thing you can do is celebrate the life of the deceased, mourn their passing, and (as Pablo Neruda says so much better) continue to go on living.As a movie ostensibly about death, it makes the sensible statement that if you are not dead, your feet shall continue to march. A life-affirming statement - without forgetting the debt we have to those gone who have helped us, in whatever way, to continue to march.For those who entered the movie fray around Die Hard ... it's the opportunity to see the main bad guy be the main good guy. For those tired of over-Botoxed, under-fed bimbettes in lead movie roles, it's the chance to see Juliet Stephenson, up close, in tears snottily, radiant after being up all night and then dancing in that uninhibited way we seem to only do once or twice in our entire lifetimes ... without having scarily perfect anything. "},{"Title":"The Thinking Person's Ghost","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Writer-director Anthony Minghella is best known for rather large-budget literary film adaptations such as The English Patient, (which garnered the Best Director Oscar) and The Talented Mr. Ripley. That is all the more reason to check out his first effort behind the camera. Originally produced for BBC television, Truly Madly Deeply genuinely demonstrates Minghella's meticulous touch with character relationships. Juliet Stevenson is Nina, a translator who hasn't quite gotten over the untimely death of her cellist husband Jamie, played by Alan Rickman (who have an exquisitely natural rapport). Nina hears his voice at night -- but then he begins to appear during the day, as well. Soon, Jamie is around all the time, and, while comforting for Nina, her euphoria soon wears off, once she realizes that he is, in fact, truly gone. Minghella distinguishes this otherworldly situation intellectually. While films such as Ghost appeal to the masses with its sappy sentimentalism, this film addresses the reality of the situation. From Nina's withdrawal after one of the most gut-wrenching grieving scenes ever at her therapist's office, to Jamie's reappearance and the prospect of living with a ghost and the socio-economic relevance of Latin American immigrants in London &#150; the film is far more realistic than any of its kind. Juliet Stevenson's intelligent, vulnerable performance is quite powerful and Alan Rickman's divine rendering of the cello-playing ghost, Jamie are simply unparalleled. Anyone who has lost a love to an untimely death will surely relate to this film. The addition of Jamie's various new ghost pals is a delightful comic relief and the new love interest character is a useful metaphor that guides her on the journey of letting go of the past and onto the future, which, when you think about it, is actually very profound. It is Minghella's skillful rendering of this material with all of its nuances, that, while fanciful, does not seem contrived, and differentiates it as a one of a kind film of its type. "},{"Title":"Isolation","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Anthony Minghella's beautifully conceptualized debut demonstrates the isolating effects of grief and the regenerative powers of romantic fulfillment as a means of transcending from within the drudgery of life's repressive routine.In an early scene we see Nina, whose lover died an indeterminate period of time ago, sobbing inconsolably, trying to explain the bottomless grief she's feeling to her vaguely incompetent psychiatrist. Her face fills the frame, her features twisted, moisture heavy on her skin. The camera remains unwaveringly fixed on her throughout this harrowing outburst, never cutting away to offer relief&#151;she's physically and emotionally isolated, her grief abstracted.Such a scene is emblematic of Minghella's strategy in these first several reels. We are provided small hints of the tragedy from concerned acquaintances, but the lack of prosaic flashbacks, of the kind of visual inserts that conventionally accord shorthand empathy, similarly isolates us from her longing, leaving us wholly dependent upon Juliet Stevenson to convey the depths of Nina's despair. In order for this conceptual risk to pay off, an inordinate trust is required between director, audience and especially performer, and Stevenson is equal to the task. It's a commanding performance in which all character-building affectation is forsaken for a series of moments in which she is starkly present, dictating the pace, making us captive to her every move. In this manner, the film ceases to be an artifact of self-fulfillment on which we write the rules, but becomes a living thing that dictates the rules to us.From this place of disconnection arrives a providential revelation, which I will not reveal, that changes the context of our identification with Nina and extends to her the promise of fulfillment. Between these two extreme states&#151;longing and jubilation&#151;can be found the heart of the story and a gloriously multi-toned narrative, a colorful gallery of nuanced eccentrics, and a perfect, heartbreaking ending. "},{"Title":"Do you want me to go?","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Nina's Juliet Stevenson life is torn apart with the unexpected death of her lover, Jamie Alan Rickman. Stuck in a rat infested flat and under expensive therapy, Nina's grief is suddenly stopped in its tracks when Jamie comes back into her life as a ghost. Just as Nina meets Mark, a potential suitor.For his first feature film, director and writer Anthony Minghella chose this touching, and often funny, tale of bereavement and learning to love again. Written in the main for Stevenson to showcase her talents, its strengths lie in the actors performances, the sensitive writing and its low key moody production ethic. Often it's been tagged the British answer to the Moore/Swayze movie Ghost. That's a lazy link and a touch misleading, as this is, if anything, the anti blockbuster movie, while the respective plots bear little resemblance. And besides which, this was made quite some time before Patrick and Demi were playing slinky round the pottery wheel.Stevenson is marvellous, she gives Nina real depth, and in one grief stricken scene she delivers one of the most believable enactments of that emotion ever put on to celluloid. Rickman shines as he gets his teeth into something outside of the bad guy roles he was still is known for. Watch out for a poem (La Muerta) segment shared between the two, pure class. And as Mark, Michael Maloney is hugely effective in what is the tricky third wheel role. While the impressive acting on show is boosted by Barrington Pheloung's poignant, rhythmic musical score.There are a number of interpretations put forward as to what Truly, Madly, Deeply is about. But really it has to be down to the individual viewer to make their own deductions. What isn't in doubt is that for anyone who been deeply in love or has lost a loved one to death, this film can't fail to ignite a number of emotions. Even as the comedy takes a hold, comedy which sits nicely within the structure of the tale I might add since some critics were baffled by the blend, one just knows we are being guided to a telling point where the story finishes for the protagonists, but goes on for us viewers long after the credits have rolled. To first time viewers I say, banish any hope of Hollywood histrionics and flourishing visuals and let Minghella and his wonderful cast take you by the hand. For the rewards are there for the discerning adult. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Simply Sweetly Beautifully","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is truly remarkable. It's seemingly effortlessly acted by a stellar cast including the always fabulous Alan Rickman and Juliet Stevenson. Minghella developed this originally as a radio play (his others include the excellent Cigarettes and Chocolate), and here it is excellently adapted for the screen and directed by Minghella. Alan Rickman is never disappointing, but his turn as Jamie is truly surprising and beautiful. Usually cast as a villain, he is so excellent in this very endearing role. Juliet Stevenson is equally good, and the two of them have excellent chemistry. The film is never better than in the scenes between the two of them. It cannot really be compared to GHOST based purely on subject matter. This film is infinitely more intelligent and engaging. Do NOT miss it. You can buy the DVD from Amazon for under $12! Don't miss it - you'll want to watch it again and again with the one you love. And if you pick up the DVD you get Minghella's commentary.  "}{"Title":"A story about real, deep love.","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I must give this movie the highest rating. It captures the whole aspect of Truly Madly Deeply so well that I cried out loud and have never forgotten it. I have been married for 34.5 years to a man who has been everything - lover, companion, best friend, etc. When I saw this movie we were already on the verge of moving him into a nursing home due to Parkinson's' disease. I was not able to do this for another 2 years. At the time I cried, out loud because I totally understood the sentiment. Now I am in the moving on mode and believe me, this is not easy and I simply cannot imagine ever feeling the same way about anyone. But, I am old enough to know that life really does move on. I was so amazed that the writers, directors, actors, captured the entirety of real, deep in love. If you have never experienced this, do not give up. If you have - well i need say no more. We are a very lucky minority. "},{"Title":"A romantic, sweet, unconventional tale","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This wonderful romantic little British story is a bittersweet, touching story everyone will enjoy. I was very surprised somehow that it was directed by Anthony Minghella. The main stars here, Alan Rickman and Juliet Stevenson, are perfect! The character of Nina is in therapy because of her enormous grief over her lover's sudden passing. Stevenson is very believable as Nina. While her chemistry with Rickman is obvious, Stevenson's best moments may actually be in an outdoor scene where she, rushing along, attempts to sum up who she is to a potential new love interest who refuses to give up on the elusive Nina. She even tells him her astrological sun sign! (Capricorn.) This movie is one of the best British comedies from the late 80's. I plan to buy it on DVD in the near future. This one's a keeper! "},{"Title":"Touching & Moving..","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was given this film as a present on my 17th Birthday - a bit cynical to watch such a soppy love story, i decided to go it a go one evening..and didn't take my eyes off the screen until the end! This movie is fantastic! As a product of the late 80's myself - it is a film that makes me wish i still lived in that era!Some of the best quotations! - that make you realise how important insignificant things are in a relationship (Watching the clouds go by on a lazy autumn morning, sitting up all night chatting etc) This film fills you with nostalgia; my fav part has to be the end..having gone through a rough break-up recently, i can empathise with the feeling of 'letting them go' and moving on.. My feet shall want to walk to where you are sleeping - but i shall go on living Watch this film - it'll make you think... "},{"Title":"Truly My Favorite","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If I'm ever forced to compile a list of my all time favourite top five movies, it will vary from week to week &#150; maybe even day to day &#150; and certainly depend upon my current mood and degree of cynicism. But I'm absolutely certain that Truly Madly Deeply will always be in there. I simply love this film. (And hate the version that Hollywood made of it, Ghost.) I watched it again recently, and it was like visiting an old friend. I must have seen this film 10 times yet I seem to be able to glean something extra from it every time. To me, that is the mark of a real work of art, to be able to revisit it and find something new; to still be moved even though the work is familiar.Truly Madly Deeply stars two of my favourite actors, Juliet Stevenson (Nina) and Alan Rickman (Jamie), and is touching and bittersweet without ever being mawkish. They were a well-matched couple, in love, and he died suddenly, leaving her utterly bereft, almost unable to comprehend what has happened. Overwhelmed by grief, she cannot get a grip, until Jamie comes back from the dead to comfort her. The performances are truly stunning, especially Stevenson. I challenge anyone not to be utterly riveted by her scene in the therapist's office, where we see her anger at Jamie, her dead lover, for dying. She draws the viewer into her misery and desolation in a way that is rarely achieved on screen.But it's also a funny movie, touching and life affirming. We see the little, silly, personal details and games that make up a love affair; the stupid stuff that makes it real; trying to out-do each other in expression of their affection (I love you truly, I love you truly, madly, I love you truly, madly, deeply, etc as they watch the clouds go by), we see Nina clinging to the remnants of the life she had with Jamie, the appalling rat infested flat, the cello. It takes Jamie's return from the dead for her to start seeing that it wasn't always perfect, and life without Jamie might be possible. Finally she starts to move on, and we know she is going to be OK. In the meantime Jamie is freezing cold (after all, he is a ghost) and turns the flat into a sauna, and his dead friends &#150; who are all movie buffs &#150; are watching videos in the living room in their bathrobes.Of course the story is a bit hokey, but this is very much a performance driven movie. I watched this film again not long before I went to see Look Both Ways, a much more recent Australian movie about death and dying. Neither has much in the way of plot or action, but both are perfect examples of how even the old clichés and truisms of life can be made fresh and true by intelligent writing and the sheer veracity of the performances. They are both a tour de force in acting. Watch them both. "},{"Title":"Bittersweetly wonderful","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It was Howard Hawks who said that the formula for a great movie was three great scenes and no bad ones. Anthony Minghella's Truly Madly Deeply could probably multiply this formula by two or three, but if forced to narrow it down, this is what I give for the Three Great Scenes 1. Nina(Juliet Stevenson)and Jaime(Alan Rickman)singing the song by the window with ecstatic abandon.2. Telling life stories while hopping(hopping?!) 3. The translation of the Neruda poem The Dead Woman, and the revelations it brings for both characters.Highly recommended, and not to be confused with the similar, more seen but inferior Ghost. And also, I think that Juliet Stevenson has automatically become one of my favorite actresses because of this film; she's marvelous. "},{"Title":"Truly moving, truly funny","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Juliet Stevenson's achingly real portrayal of a woman bereaved will  move even the stoniest of hearts. The movie combines the deeply passionate intimacy of its two leading characters, Nina and Jamie, with an oddball sense of humor that keeps it from becoming maudlin. This is a memorable portrait of two people's movement, finally, beyond the grief that separates them. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film on my local public broadcasting station and was mesmerized. The lead actress was incredible. I could feel her sense of loss, and even betrayal, at the death of her partner. Her depression and withdrawal from the real world were totally believable. His reappearance and was a great plot devise for allowing her to regain her sense of self. The second time this came on, I watched it again (it is rare for me to see a film twice) and made certain that my partner watched it with me this time. It touched real emotions that someone who has experienced loss can completely understand. "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful, warm acting in a love-after-life story that puts Ghost to shame.  Alan Rickman really delivers one of his best performances and Juliet Stevenson is perfect.  This movie made me ache with sorrow and cry with joy for the beauty of life and the capacity of people to live through pain and find beauty.  I can not recommend a movie more highly. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films around to help grieving process.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fine film, one that anyone who has lost a loved one, could benefit from watching. Even those who have not been saddened by loss may gain insight into the many wonderful and complex  aspects of relationships that this film portrays. For me it helped gain insight into personal loss and I recommend it to friends who are going through difficult letting go times. The casting and acting couldn't have been better. It blends such heavy duty emotions with heartfelt humor- Kind of Like Real Life!!!! Highly recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"From Alice's Mum and Dad (or) I Blame the Government","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So, this movie. It was excellent. I stumbled across it in my local video rental store and, after being denied the pleasure of buying the movie by the owner, I simply settled for renting it. I've always been a bit of a Rickman fan and, though it was not my intention to rent this movie (I was actually looking for An Awfully Big Adventure), I leaped at the chance to see it. I am now glad that I did.The first time I watched the movie, I cried during a good twenty minutes of it. As soon as the movie was over, I watched it again. And again. In fact, as I began watching it for the third time, I began scouring the internet for ways to download clips and audio files.I must say that this movie is definitely not a chick flick, as some have accused it of being. It is a movie for those who (like myself) have experienced someone very close to you dying and know what sort of pain that leaves. The sort of pain that leaves you wishing they would return to life, and then realizing that both of you would be happier if the deceased were in fact deceased.This movie contains wonderful comedy, beautiful romance, a fabulous duet, political statements, and flawless acting/casting. This is a movie to either watch with your significant other, or to watch on your own (or with a pet) when you simply need a nice, long reality check.**SEMI-SPOILERS FOLLOW**On a more personal note, my favorite part of this movie was when Jamie first reappears to Nina, and as she realizes that he is, indeed, in the room, she simply falls apart into his arms crying. I must admit that if someone close to me were to come back to life, that I would react in the same fashion.My favorite quote It's like standing behind a glass wall and watching everyone else get on with missing you. "}{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film! It is so good! While not a masterpiece, it made me laugh and cry, usually simultaneously. I think most men would probably call it a chick flick. I don't wish to reveal the plot, which IS a little far-fetched, but the director and two lead characters really make it work. I found it to be very believable and i actually could put myself in Mina's shoes. I'm sure many people wonder what happens to loved ones after they pass on.Juliette Stevenson is very good, as well as Allen Rickman. (Although I like him much better as a villain!)I try and catch this flick whenever it's on. "},{"Title":"My feet will want to march to where you are sleeping.......","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This gem of a film came out around the same time Ghost was making such an impact. If you missed it the first time around you might want to look for it next time you rent a movie. Nina is grieving over the death of her lover Jamie. So much so that she barely functions. Just going through the day by day routine. In a riveting scene she breaks down to her therapist. I miss him! Back home she listlessly plays the piano when suddenly she realizes she hears cello music accompanying her. To her shock and overwhelming joy Jamie has returned. It doesn't matter that he's a ghost with cold lips. They pick out shapes in clouds. They play silly word games (it's where the movie's title comes from) and sing and dance around the flat with abandon. However reality refuses to be put off and as Nina starts to become part of the living once again she is given a chance for a new relationship and has to decide whether she can once and for all let Jamie go. Juliet Stevenson and Alan Rickman are brilliantly touching and funny. "},{"Title":"So nothing lasts even death","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I started watching this movie recently because of Alan Rickman. I only wanted to see his movie choice and I loved it. About this movie, it's a loss. The interesting part is that it's easy to remember one at their best, but hard to tolerate one at their worst. When someone is gone, usually we think of how good they were and forgive all their mistakes. It's easy because it's the last time. But when you are living with them again, after the first few days of happiness there goes irritation. Was it like that before? And I don't know if Jamie meant to invite their ghosts over to irritate Nina so that she could move on, or things just happened the way it was because Jamie was real, he kept it real. But it sadden me when she finally moved on.It killed me when he read the poem in Spanish and asked her Do you want me to go? I could of given this movie more than 8/10 but I'd rather not. It's to real and too hurtful. "},{"Title":"Bereavement/Moving On Tale Slowly Gets there","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" An early 90's movie I'd just seen for the first time, Truly - Madly - Deeply is an interesting spin on ghost story and bereavement. At it's core it's about moving on, and it does a fairly good job establishing character motivations and emotions. Particularly the lead, Juliet Stevenson gives a good emotional performance needed to authenticate the themes of the movie. But the movie has a moping aimless feel at times punctuated (spoiler) by the ghosts themselves in the movie. The audience can figure out why they're there, but it sort of makes you wonder, is that all? Truly, Madly, Deeply runs a slow storyline that might try your patience. It's low-key but does a good job imparting the lead character's struggle with soft romantic dialog and humor. Not bad. "},{"Title":"A delicate film for those who've loved and lost.","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A well-written, tender loving story of a lonely woman who misses her long-time lover who has died, and mourns him caring more for his memory then her own life. This film is sweetly told by actors who really care for the tale and show it in every emotion they evoke and portray. Do the dead re-visit the living, does life go on without horrific feelings of guilt and remorse? These questions are woven into a complex piece and answered so skillfully and compassionately, that one doesn't notice the time goes by so swiftly, the audience wishes it could go on forever. Alan Rickman gives a stellar performance along with his dance partner, Juliette Stevenson. It may be viewed as simply a chick-flick but has such depth that even the male persuasion will be moved. Don't miss this cinema. "},{"Title":"I don't THINK this contains a spoiler????????????","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time last night, but would like to see again. I think Jamie comes back to settle Nina's woes over his death, when it's so obvious that she's obsessed with his death. Of course she's happy at first, but I think she comes to realize that she has so many friends, and a life to lead. Upon meeting a new man, and seeing the birth of one of her student's babies, she realizes this, ands states such to Jamie, who has already brought friends to her flat from the other side, (One time when she complains that she doesn't know them or what era they're from, Jamie suggests that she talks to them more, but she is not interested...........so none of us have any idea when they died or who they are, except for hints from the era of video tapes they enjoy so much, as they huddle by the fire wrapped in tons of blankets) She also realizes this when she makes her statement of wanting to be alive when the whole dead group tried to re-arrange her flat, which she was more attached to as being HER OWN then she realized, I believe. (There's a scene of getting rid of a red carpet that she gets upset about, at the beginning of the movie, a short statement is made by Jamie about how she still likes the horrid color red, which was probably one of many little issues they had when he was alive, but they don't go in to when he was alive very much..........only a bit upon they're reunion) I like it especially, because it doesn't give that ghostly feeling, such as walking through walls, or not being able to touch one another, they ARE able to touch. Why he brings friends from the other side, I don't know. The only sign you get that he HIS in fact a ghost, is the fact of he and his friends' constant complaint of being cold all the time, which she does starts to complain about, since she's overwhelmed by how hot it is all the time since their arrival. (among other intrusions) Another thing that you wonder about, and never really know, is this all in Nina's mind?? Or did he really come. Because he's there, she no longer lets people in to her flat, so nobody else actually sees him. And early in the movie (before he comes back), she mentions to her shrink that she hears him on occasion, such as complaining about her never locking the back door. (and finding it odd that he speaks in Spanish in these illusions................which he tells her he's been trying to learn when he returns) She never really asks him to leave, but when it appears that he's gone, she seems happier and more settled about life in general. She made her peace with the reality of the situation, I believe. I found the movie so ingtriging and different, which is why I'd like to see it again...............maybe even tonight!!! "},{"Title":"Clinging to the wreckage","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Anthony Minghella's (1991) film takes us into the life of a young woman named Nina (Juliet Stevenson) and the death of a young man named Jamie (Alan Rickman).It's set in London, within ten or fifteen years the film's eventual release.Written and directed by Anthony Minghella, it's pretty much his own personal vision of this woman's experience of grief at the premature death of her partner, whom she loves.As the film plays out, we follow the course of the her initial shock and disbelief, through her efforts to come to some sort of resolution with the shattering loss with which she struggles to contend.The film is powerful because it fully reenacts all of her imaginings and recollections, inter-cut with her actual surroundings and survivng relationships. But it does this so skilfully that the audience is often unsure what is actually 'real' and what is 'imagined'.For Nina, of course, it is all real and it is all part of what is left of her new life, alone.Unexpectedly, her new life becomes populated with a series of people to whom her remaining friends and family are completely oblivious. While for Nina, they are fascinating and compelling and fill the slowly-healing wound that was created by Jamie's death.But even in death - and within Nina's imagination - Jamie's life continues apace and threatens to engulf the huge and empty space he has left unoccupied in her life.This is a great film which finally delivers the context in which the words 'Truly, Madly, Deeply' became an integral part of the relationship which ends as the film begins.Like John Mortimer's view of his own life we hover invisible, nearby, and accompany Nina lost in a stormy sea - clinging to the wreckage. "},{"Title":"A wonderful story","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Just another example of how the English tell a better story than Hollywood does these days. Chances are anymore, if a movie comes out here, it's already been done in British form(anyone see Fever Pitch? The one with Colin Firth, not the one with that chump Jimmy Fallon). And in this case, coming out after Ghost and totally wiping the floor with that piece of dookie! Alan Rickman remains to this day one of the most talented people to grace the screen. And that scene at the therapist... that's how real people cry. That has got to be the truest expression of the pain of loss that I have ever seen. A beautiful movie, funny and moving. "},{"Title":"I like Nick Hornby+Gangster/Thrillers...","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I hadn't seen Truly Madly Deeply since my parents used to watch it, way back when I was Ye High(imagine someone holding their hand comparatively close to the floor). Not since I was old enough to decide I hated chick Flicks and everything calling itself romantic. I Started watching it, thinking I'd have outgrown it,and at best it'd be nostalgic...I WAS VERY WRONG!By the time Nina breaks down to her therapist I'm crying.I don't cry at films!Not giving anything away, if you haven't seen it(-see it asap!!)But Rickman plays it fantastically, and I can't remember last time I saw someone play a scene like J.Stevenson does...Every Scene!The best partit's really funny,(honest)!It even makes the Walker Brothers sound good o,- V.o Right, now that's outta my system...lets see;Tarantino Boxset... "},{"Title":"One of my top movies of all time.","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie when it first came out and it always lived in my head as one of those remarkable films that you are privileged to see every now and then. I then saw that it had been released on DVD and hired it to see again with my children ( both quite old +/-20 ) Well it is every bit as wonderful as I thought it was. The music is inspired especially the Walker Bros--The sun ain't gonna shine anymore-and the Bach.I dived for my CD collection to find the Walker Bros. and I decided that I liked the almost out of tune Alan Rickman and Juliet Stephenson more. The deep passions and sorrow of the bereaved are handled in an un-sentimental but very moving way--I defy you to watch this movie and not shed several tears.A marvelous film. "}{"Title":"Beautiful film about loss","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film ranks in my personal top 5 because it beautifully combines deep emotions and humor when it tells about the loss of a dear one and plays along with the very recognizable wish that the beloved death would, could, should come back. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Excellent ghost story steeped in common sense","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent ghost/love story steeped in common sense with fine performances and believable characters. Juliet Stevenson plays a great Nina and her expressions of grief over losing her lover broke my heart, so when you watch this very entertaining film, I strongly suggest you keep an extra box of tissues by your side. I enjoyed this fine film quite a bit and I hope you do as well.*Spoiler Follows*I think the crux of this well told ghost story is the reason why Nina's lover returns. Nina cannot cope with his death, nor recover from her grief, so her lover returns with a few ghostly friends to help her do just that.....and they succeed.  "},{"Title":"Perfect...","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Perfect dialogue and perfect acting.  This is a beautiful study for those interested in writing for film... or simply those of us who long for a real love story.  Absolutely cliche-free. Very un-Hollywood.  This was Anthony Minghella's first movie and, in my opinion, his best.  It was made for less than $700,000. And for that 700K you'll see the finest acting and the most realistic and beautiful writing in film.  "},{"Title":"first class","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie and does great credit to Anthony Minghella (who also did THE ENGLISH PATIENT). Here is a film reminiscent of the best made at Ealing Studios during the 1950s. No flashy chase scenes or special effects, just a very touching story, beautifully told, with excellent performances. Re-watching this will pay off; there is some depth. "},{"Title":"Truly Madly Brilliant!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An excellent off-beat romantic comedy about a woman's discovery that there can be 'Life after Death' in more ways than one...  A very strong cast including Alan Rickman as 'Jamie', Juliet Stevenson as 'Nina' and the fabulous Michael Maloney as 'Mark'.  Definitely a feel-good movie - but make sure you have a box of tissues handy! 0) "},{"Title":"Undiscovered gem","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This marvelous film could possibly be termed a chick flick - but this international assortment of eclectic characters mesh perfectly to make an engrossing film that's more a thoughtful then what if this happened version of Ghost.Juliet Stevenson is perfect in her role as Nina - the part was written for her by Anthony Minghella (who also directed) and she's so natural in it I feel as if I know her. Alan Rickman plays the deceased Jamie, - this magnificent actor again shows the extent of his range (I think he's under-appreciated, in the US, at least) and of course there's the would-be boyfriend, Mark played by Michael Maloney - who would have thought Laertes could be such a warm, loving goofball?Most people haven't heard of this movie - I ran across it by accident when one of the cable channels was having what seemed to be a sort of Obscure British Films week.It's particularly difficult to find, even as a rental (but not impossible) - I read somewhere the film was released in countries other than the US as Cello but I haven't checked this. I found a VHS copy on eBay that luckily wasn't too expensive and I've watched it about fifteen times - so far.For those looking for a belly laugh - check out the restaurant bit with Maloney, Stevenson, Richard Syms & Stella Maris - it's priceless (It must always be a Russian Novel!) - or the hopping scene with Mark & Nina - or just about any conversation between Nina and Sandy (Bill Paterson). "},{"Title":"A truly remarkable film!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Especially if you're an Alan Rickman fan, you can't miss this one. The performances are off-beat and wonderful, as is the story. Be prepared to shed some tears, but also for the rest of the full range of emotion that this film elicits. Alan Rickman is superb (of course!), as is Juliet Stevenson. You get to see a lot of Ms. Stevenson, and with no regrets. I would not consider this a for women only movie, but if you're looking for an action flik, save this for another night. Truly loving someone, or having truly loved someone will also make this a must see. I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Fabulous & fun - a bittersweet story of love, loss, & letting go","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Anthony Minghella put together a beautiful and funny love story. Juliet Stevenson is absolutely excellent as the main character, Alan Rickman is perfect, and the rest of the cast is wonderful. They all do a quite a job of pulling you in - very believable, and the characters themselves are great fun. Some great cinematography, but mostly it's just a great comment on love & relationships. Funny, sad, moving - a must-see. I don't know anyone, male or female, who's seen this film and not loved it.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, witty and thought-provoking!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Released around the same time as 'Ghost' this movie gives a completely alternative and North London perspective on the subject of spirits and the afterlife.  In this beautiful story, Nina (Juliet Stevenson)struggles to continue with her life and her grief after her boyfriend Jamie (Alan Rickman)dies.  Suddenly, Jamie comes back into her life as a ghost and things are perfect again, or are they?  A witty and thought-provoking film it has some unexpected twists and turns and some amazing acting, especially from Juliet Stevenson.  If you're not crying by the end of this movie, then you're a stronger person than most! "},{"Title":"as time passes ...","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ... things do get better.  This film was released at the right time for me personally - I was in Nina's situation and although some of the film is a little too much on first viewing, it did help smooth things out at a difficult time.  Recently I watched it again for the first time in ages, and although the scene where Jamie returns is still as powerful as it ever was, I didn't feel it had as much to say to me as it had all those years ago.  That aside, Minghella came up with an astonishing film which just found the right nerve, and the two leads are excellent.  Now I would question the introduction of Michael Maloney as the stereotyped new man but maybe, for Nina, that really *was* the solution!  For the rest of us that answer is a bit too simplistic. "}{"Title":"Juliet Stevenson should have got an Oscar...","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Juliet Stevenson gives the performance of a lifetime in this film. Her character Nina's lover has recently died and her portrayal of the woman's grief is so extraordinary, I can't watch her 'crying scene' without weeping myself. But it's not a depressing movie! It's highly amusing, as well as romantic. There are masses of great characters, mostly lovable nutters - I just end up falling in love with everyone in the film every time I see it. This is my favourite movie, and I entreat anyone with the slightest romance in their soul to see it. Don't forget to keep the tissues handy! "},{"Title":"Quirky, poignant, and memorable--instant favorite","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For those weary of shallow films bearing Hollywood gloss, Truly, Madly, Deeply offers a memorable and rewarding experience.  Moving from the deeply poignant to the divinely eccentric, the film involves you in the lives (and afterlives) of people who seem much more real and engaging than most film characters.  Juliet Stevenson is remarkable as the heroine who goes from mourning her lost beloved to welcoming him back, to wondering if her life is best spent with a man whose life is already over (Alan Rickman, in a subtly charming performance).  Though this film is packaged as a comedy, don't expect big laughs; its humor is more of the gently whimsical school, although there are some priceless lines and scenes (ever tried to summarize your life while hopping on one foot?).  The mood of the film is very different from most Hollywood offerings, so you may need to bring an open mind and some patience to appreciate it; for those who do, however, this is a richly rewarding film. "},{"Title":"Juliet Stevenson brilliant","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Nina (Juliet Stevenson)'s life is a mess. Her apartment is falling apart and infested with rats. In her interpreter job, her boss can't speak Spanish and therefore needs her help to communicate with his son. She gets hit on by various men in her life but she can't act on them. She is still heart-broken with the lost of her love Jamie (Alan Rickman). She speaks with him and then actually directly interacts with him. It starts out as overwhelming love rekindling turns into the old problems resurfacing once again.British TV writer Anthony Minghella gets a chance to direct this. It's a fully developed relationship movie. It is touching. Juliet Stevenson is beyond brilliant. She's transcendent. Alan Rickman is interesting because he doesn't present a standard leading man. That makes their relationship so compelling. One can really feel the depths. It's not a simple Hollywood construction. It is a touching ever-after story. "},{"Title":"Great film about life after grief and death","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Many reviewers have noted how well this movie depicts grief of a person who has lost her spouse whom she deeply loved. That, of course, is the overwhelming aspect of Truly, Madly, Deeply. Juliet Stevenson portrays the grieving Nina to perfection. Alan Rickman is excellent as her departed long-time boyfriend, Jamie. The supporting roles are all done well. The plot of this film is very clever. Those who want to experience the surprise of the ending should read no further here. We don't know how long it has been since Jamie's death. Judging from the comments and attitudes of Nina's friends and co-workers, it has probably been several months. But she is back at work and able to function in her job and among associates. It's when she's alone in her flat that she becomes deeply sorrowful. She won't go out with friends, and there are many male neighbors and friends who like her. She recently has been seeing a therapist. This has gone on for some time, and with her refusal to even go out with friends, she is at home one day when Jamie appears. He's there not as an apparition or ghost, but in the flesh and blood. At least to her consciousness and to we viewers. He has come back to be with her. They resume their lives together &#x96; but only in her flat. Jamie was an accomplished cellist. He stays in the flat and plays his cello while Nina goes off to her office job. While their mutual affections for one another continue, in time, Jamie does things that irritate Nina. Several friends of his from the afterworld have moved in to watch movies. Jamie rearranges the flat and takes up the carpet. Nina and he argue. She asks one night, Was it always like this? During her days at work and out, she meets another man. Mark is a psychologist who runs a program for young adults with Down Syndrome. In time, they become attracted to one another. Nina is conflicted over her feelings toward Jamie and wanting to keep him around, and her new interest in Mark. Eventually, she gives Mark her address and asks him to pick her up to go out. Jamie and his friends from the next world watch through the window. And that final scene is when it dawns on the viewer that Jamie's return was calculated to help Nina get beyond her grieving so that she could move on with her life. But, calculated by whom?While this is very cleverly done, the film just skirts the aspect of a divine presence or being. No religion or faith are apparent in the film. But, Nina asks Jamie if he returned from heaven. His answer was that he didn't think so. He didn't know where he had been, but he met other people there. So, without any overt connection to God, the film establishes that there is an afterlife, an eternity beyond this life. One can then surmise from the ending, that it was love that brought Jamie back to help Nina. From there, it's not difficult to see a link to God, who in Judeo-Christian understanding is love. This is a wonderful film. Those who may not have experienced the loss of a loved one in such a way may gain understanding and empathy for those who feel such loses in this way. And those who have such grief may be reminded and assured that their life is precious and worth living beyond their grief. "},{"Title":"Better than Ghost?","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Perhaps it is the caliber of acting, or my fascination with the two leads, or the British accents, but I find this movie better than it's foremost competition, Ghost. It is much more simple, and in the end, does not leave the viewer wanting more. Alan Rickman (Who everyone seems to typecast as Severus Snape, but was freaking Hans Gruber in Die Hard and The Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves), plays Jamie, who mysteriously died from a short ailment, leaving his wife (Juliet Stevenson) behind. He suddenly, (unexplained), returns to his wife in a strange ghost/human form. It is, although sometimes a bit strange and confusing, an excellent story with an excellent cast. In the same form as Ghost, Claire has to learn to move on from her husbands unexpected death and find a new life and love. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Movie","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is especially, quite comforting, to watch if you have lost a loved one. Either recently, or years ago. It will remind you, they are around you, if you take a moment to be quiet, and cherish a special memory about them. In this movie, Nina took to her piano, and hummed Jamie's part to feel a part of him, if I may say..his presence... as only she could experience. with his return, which I may add Alan Rickman plays a most touching, truly well suited for this part of this specific film. The music is beautiful...Bach, of course, however the dialog they share and the companion he brings with are all musicians....makes you wonder if the artist you lost in your life is now painting with Monet, Degas, Vermeer, and perhaps Henri, from the 20th Century. The poetry puts your feelings in perspective as he recites The Dead Woman, by Pablo Neruda.. a perfect ending for healing & reflecting on the loss of someone in your life. Excellent movie! Fantastic characters with great writers!! "},{"Title":"PS, its brilliant!","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" i was extremely dubious about this film before i watched it, if I'm being honest, but after my mother begged me to watch it, i finally did, with her next to me. within the first ten minutes, i knew it would be a film I'd want to watch again, and with the extraordinary cast of Alan Rickman whom i love as an actor anyway, it made the film even more enjoyable. i love how down to earth and honest the film is, with the crying being real sobs, not just a small whimper. its an excellent portrayal of what it must be like to lose someone you love and an excellent ease given when the storyline is laid out. (i wont tell you fully what happens because its too brilliant and i don't want to ruin it!) i think its slightly similar to 'ps i love you' which i love to death, but its less about letting go of the person, and more about letting go of the previous life they had with the person. overall, i think anyone who watches this film will be overwhelmed with surprise and will be left at the end of the film with a smile on their face. "},{"Title":"Unique take on the afterlife","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Watching TRULY MADLY DEEPLY is something of a refreshing experience after sitting through the umpteenth supernatural thriller about vengeful spirits. This film offers different kinds of ghost altogether, where the afterlife is depicted as a kind of extremely dull limbo where the spirits of the dead can't fully interact with life as they knew it.Of course, it's not really about ghosts at all, more of a meditation on grief and the ways in which people can overcome the death of a loved one. It's well made with a literate script and, if it's occasionally cheesy in its traditional romantic sub-plot, the calibre of the acting more than makes up for it.You'll either love or hate Juliet Stevenson's performance, I think. She's pretty believable for the majority of the running time, but occasionally her acting goes so over the top that I found it embarrassing; thankfully, this doesn't happen too often. Inevitably, Alan Rickman gives the best performance in the movie, truly nuanced and engaging.Watch out for that classic duet, a real highlight of the movie. "},{"Title":"The most painful movie I have ever experienced","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I interpreted this film slightly differently to most on here. I first saw it a couple of months after I lost someone close to me and Truly, Madly, Deeply got to me like no other film ever has. It was painful to watch and it brought everything back but somehow there was a little bit of, well not hope, the film shows that, but of understanding I think.Stevenson and Rickman are superb, faultless in fact. She showed all the agony of a death of a loved one but not as many films do, showing a little tear behind a black veil, but the agony, the railing against fate, the resentment against the person who died for leaving you and then the guilt of that, plus the ultimate pain as you realise they have gone, never to be seen again. It's over and you can do nothing about it. The unfairness of it all . . .The way I saw it was that Stevenson went a little mad and imagined her loved one had returned. I did as well so that bit rang so very true. The staying away from work, the sudden mood swings, the secretive bits and the loss of days at a time were all there for me. I didn't see my loved one, but I talked to her at times and felt, believed in fact, she replied. That part of the film, which went through most of it, showed me how near I'd got to madness.Whilst Rickman returns in her mind there are differences, ones she can't cope with. Eventually she manages to move on, so perhaps there was hope after all.This was one of the most agonising experiences I've ever had watching a film. When the lights turned up I had to just sit there to come back to life myself. Silly though it sounds I had to force myself to breath at times. I've since bought the DVD but it has the cellophane still around it after a number of years.I'd suggest it is not one to watch if a loss of a loved one is still raw with you, certainly keep sharp knives in a locked drawer, as it is in many ways morbidly depressing. There is a little brightness, a fair bit of humour, some lovely words and beautiful music. But there's no running away from the fact that it can be like someone sticking a finger in a recent wound and digging deep.Seen without the recent loss of someone close you will experience a gem. Beautifully acted, with a very clever script. The pacing was superb. It is a triumph but one that came too early for me. It took me ages to forgive Rickman.In some ways a chick-flick, especially given the bloke whom she takes up with, but well worth watching none the less. "},{"Title":"Taught me the true meaning of love","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this film first when I was much younger. It was on TV, and seemed like a good way to waste an afternoon. It grabbed me from the first. I watched it spellbound to the end, and hunted for years until I managed to find my own copy.For me this movie cannot be labelled as a chick flick, nor is it a tear- jerker, although I still cry buckets each time I watch it. It is full of real honest emotion. The characters portrayed by Juliet Stevenson and Alan Rickman are both touching and devastating, but yet still the kind of people you meet every day.Until watching this movie, I believed that love was for suckers and a soul mate could only be found in a Disney movie. (Not that I don't also love those! After watching the movie, I found a new perspective and truly understood for the first time what real love could be.I would recommend this film wholeheartedly to anyone, be they male or female. Sure, it's not an action flick or sugary sweet rom-com, but it is amazing! "}{"Title":"Sweet, sad, happy, romantic...but for me confusing.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie several times over the years by way of rental, and finally decided to buy a copy to loan to my daughter who had not seen it. Of course I had to watch it again before I let go of it. I knew the parts that would make me cry, and so I had no qualms about applying my morning makeup to go out in public. I was prepared. But then, damn it, Rickman, there I was again, welling up and mascara running down my face. I am not a person who cries easily.Suffice it to say that the ninety nine percent positive reviews that are contained on this site give a wonderful synopsis of the film, except that I have not read the one emotion that I felt, hence my confusion. Insert SPOILER HERE What woman in her right mind would let Alan Rickman go, dead or alive, for the nerdy magician??? I think that I would gladly stand the over heated apartment and opt to live out my life in shorts and a tank top with a cold margarita in my hand. And his movie watching friends? Come on in...just be sure to observe the Do Not Disturb sign on the bedroom door! I think I'd dedicate my life to keeping poor Mr. Rickman warm for eternity. Heh Heh. "},{"Title":"Surprising, wonderful little film","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite films of all time. Juliet Stevenson gives a stunning performance as a kind, intelligent, talented, and usually lively woman who cannot lift herself out of the grief of losing her husband. Alan Rickman and the other cast are also excellent.The writing is wonderful and very fresh. There are plenty of delightful, quirky characters and unusual plot twists to keep you entertained. The sets and London views are also great, in keeping with the characters and story, everything beautifully photographed, visually rich and engaging.This movie is really really REALLY funny, too.I could say more, but I don't want to give away the plot. I agree with the other reviewer Resist the temptation of reading the back of the DVD box until after you've seen the movie.This film is altogether a treasure. I've watched it many times and it's never stale. "},{"Title":"This was a great movie.","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this movie and its music. The movie was well cast and the leads were outstanding. They fit the tone of the story exactly. I think Brickman was great and the scene when he and Juliet sang that wonderful off key duet is a classic. I could not help laughing in concert with their joy. It was just two people having fun. Juliet is great in this part because she is believable and shows her grief totally. Alan is his usual suave self but he shows another soft side. The love they shared is shown in all the scenes. I weeped with her when she cried about being left alone even though she was trying to appear upbeat to her friends. The whole movie was a great build from the lowest of distress to a final acceptance and dedication of their love. It was all underscored by really great cello music played as a cello should be played. I have learned that Brickman actually played some of the music in the movie. Not only is he a great actor, he is a wonderful musician. I loved it and wish I had it on tape or disc so I could see it at my leisure. "},{"Title":"A deeply, truly, wonderful film","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I could go on for a bit about the movie Truly, Madly, Deeply, but the summaries given already describe it quite well.It made me cry and ache.. and smile and laugh. It's a film I can re-watch fairly often.The acting is rather good, and the pace of the movie is just right. The tenor of this film is warm and witty it evolves from a well portrayed deep and painful grieving, interlaced with humorous twists.TMD's presentation of death & grieving is both vivid & on-target. The story begins right after an unexpected loss of a lover and it gives a portrayal of the heart-breaking, gut wrenching pain of one suddenly bereaved. Yet as the movie progresses it smoothly moves into a light-hearted, if slightly quixotic, story. It's unique presentation of the 'afterlife' offers a whimsical view both surprising and quite charming. Even in the movie's more unusual scenes there was a sense in me of Yes..! I COULD imagine someone dead doing that! Naturally some inevitable conflicting realities begin pressing themselves upon the scene, giving us to wonder how things will possibly turn out. The ensuing drama makes for good viewing.It is sweet and funny, somewhat surprising and refreshing.And, it's ultimately a move about love.. and loving choices. "},{"Title":"A great movie...","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A great movie, will make you laugh and cry ... and so much better than ghost story. Hard to believe that the two in this film never had an opportunity for really stunning lead roles later on. But they are great!Alan Rickman is Snapes in the Harry Potter films. He also was in Die Hard, as one of the bad guys I think.Juliet Stevenson has been in many great films, some very serious too. But folks may remember her in Bend It Like Beckham as the nutty mom who thinks her daughter is a lesbian because she likes football. I think she has been given some knighthood type of award by the queen of EnglandDon't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Minghella's Emotional Film Debut Is Truly Personal","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When a close loved one dies and leaves us suddenly, some of us are likely to feel as deeply affected and full of sorrow as Juliet Stevenson in Anthony Minghella's debut film Truly, Madly, Deeply. She is so emotionally wounded that it is hard to watch at times. Her sobbing is so intense that we feel we are intruding on a most personal moment. She sobs for Jamie, played by Alan Rickman, her significant other. He returns from the beyond, displaying increasingly odd behavior and accompanied by several ghostly friends. These friends have sleepovers en masse, watching movies until the wee hours of the morning. Enter Michael Maloney as a new love interest. Then Juliet Stevenson faces an increasingly intense confrontation with herself and with Jamie. Minghella has written a unique film, though somewhat predictable, about the emotional trials we face when we love someone truly, madly, and deeply. Stevenson, in a role written specifically for her, is no less than astonishing. Rickman is quite good as well, playing the cello throughout the film. The cello music beautifully accentuates the film's contemplative mood. There are several scenes that stand out as pure works of originality, especially the restaurant scene when Maloney intervenes in a dispute in magical fashion. The significance of the ghosts choosing to want to watch Five Easy Pieces vs. Fitzcarraldo is not lost on film buffs. This film will mesmerize some viewers, while others may dismiss it as another chick flick. Still, it's simultaneously funny and moving, and a very personal experience. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"This is truly the greatest chick flick ever made.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Althought this movie has been referred to as Sniffily, Snuffily, Snottily, Juliet Stevens marvelous performance as the distraught widow, Alan Rickman's convincing performance as the irritating, but loveable deceased husband, and Michael Maloney's performance as the ardent and sincere new love of her life are fantastic.  I think this is a must see movie for everyone -- particularly those guys who run and hid at the very mention of  chick flick.    "},{"Title":"...lovely!!!!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  <sigh> What shall I say? It´s great!I absolutely love Mr. Rickman for being such a wonderful ghost, Julia Stevenson is also super as Nina.Special in this movie? Well, the people look rather normal, the surrounding looks rather normal. It is easy to identifie with the Characters, their psychology is perfect. And the speech is so well done, that even I as a not-native-english had absolutely no problem to understand every single word.Before I forget it My suggestion  When you watch this wonderful romance, think about the word vibrations and see, what you´ll find .....I wish all of you a phantastic evening with Truly, Madly, Deeply and someone lovely besides you, to hold hands .... ... just like Jamie´s frozen friends. ;-) "},{"Title":"Ghost with brains.","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  when I clicked on the line I've seen this movie and I would like to comment on it (or something like that) I found out that there's nothing to comment on. it's just a fantastic movie with great performances from all the actors and that's all there can be told about the movie. before I saw this movie, I saw Ghost. not such a bad movie, but not really my style. then someone at the video store told me to watch Truly Madly Deeply and so I did. Drawn conclusion Simply, Ghost with brains and more real feeling. I was really stunned by this movie, and I would like to recommend this to every movie-freak, who's also interested in the little products (that's how I like to call them). when I need to give it a grade, I give it 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My favorite movie of all time... if only for purely nostalgic purposes. It's warm, funny, light, British, and above all... it has Alan Rickman. He's just a big talented hunk of British love. But yes. He's fabulous.Nina annoys me. Sorry, but she does.I'll curl up with this movie, and a cup of hot chocolate any day. It's really, really lovely )8/10 "}{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What is known as a sleeper. A poignant film about overcoming grief and moving on. An allegorical film rather than a true ghost story. Juliet Stevenson is superb! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, a must seen for every HI-quality movie fan","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is an careful introspective into the characters life in which life has gone into boundaries yet to be discovered by themselves. That journey is full of joy, passion, love and despair. I feel that main character (played here by Juliet Stevenson) is very well directed and she gave us a remarkable performance. It's fun to notice for me that my city of birth (Mar del Plata, Argentina)is mentioned in the film!. "},{"Title":"Big big big emotions","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A film that will make you laugh and cry at the same time. It wold be good fun to have a couple of ghosts over for a party... Allan Rickman at his best! It is a pity that Allan has not been as appreciated as he should. "},{"Title":"This is Ghost, without the special effects!!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderfully British film that captures the loss of a love one more personally and less dramaticly than it's near-as-damn-it equivalent, Ghost.As other viewers have said (mainly women and those who have recently lost loved ones!), this is a great film if you are down and need a good cry. There there! "},{"Title":"I loved this film, truly; Minghella is amazingly gifted.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, it's late at night; many years since I first saw (rented) Truly, Madly, Deeply -- but what a film; unforgettable. Minghella wrote this, but you'll find another great writer/poet (he's very much a reader of literature, fine world literature, Minghella is) present -- Pablo Neruda -- making his presence felt from time to time. Not so central to the story as in The Postman. Not physically present. But Neruda is quoted a few times; and his poetic presence seems to breathe throughout; perhaps the greatest poet of all time. Minghella gives us his spirit, his sensuousness, his music -- in an otherwise entirely original story, one whose mythic roots like deep in oral storytelling traditions of nearly all cultures. How love is more powerful than death, has magical power against it, but exercising this power cuts the stem of the rose and kills it. Alan Rickman performs most admirably. I remember that the ad-copy, somebody's, said that Truly, Madly was what Demi Moore's Ghost should have been -- a much better film in the same vein. Whoopi alone makes Ghost memorable. But, yes -- Truly, Madly gives us believably thrilled lovers, enraptured ones -- and ghosts who played in an orchestra while alive. It's not just better but funnier, sadder, richer, warmer -- magnificent. How did Neruda put it? I think Rickman says the line in the film. I know he does, a great one. But you must see it and hear for yourself. "},{"Title":"5 out of 5 kleenexes","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a beautiful movie.  Juliet Stevenson gives a brilliant performance and Alan Rickman is truly real, ghost or not.  It isn't a weepy movie all the way through, but it'll get you at the end.  The inevitable comparison is with Ghost, but the films are in different categories, Ghost being a romantic action movie.  This film is far more clever and sophisticated. "},{"Title":"Comically maudlin Brit tragedy","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Woman loses her husband and begins seeing him after awhile as though in the flesh. This caused her to go from being depressed to a state of exuberance. For awhile. He hangs around for a while, then begins bringing his ghostly friends to her home. They begin to get on her nerves so he tells her if you don't want them here just tell them to leave. I didn't understand why he and the other ghosts came to her until the end of the movie when all was explained in the final scene.  "},{"Title":"My all-time favourite","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What else can I say that everybody else hasn't said yet? This is my favourite movie ever; has been since I first saw it, still is, and will probably ever be. Maybe it's because this movie always make me think of somebody I once loved and then lost; I guess it causes the same effect in everybody, and that's why it's such a marvellous movie. Wonderful soundtrack, fantastic cast, incredible direction and, most of all, a story with a (great) heart, without being stupid at all. Mr Minghella should be thanked for this movie; too bad that he won that Oscar, because I don't think he'll be able to make movies like this one anymore, now that he's a star... But this is not a problem, since he already made Truly, Madly, Deeply. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film, perfect balance between romanticism, passion, humor, melodrama and magic realism","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're having trouble getting over a lost love, you're very probable to find this the most beautiful film you ever saw. I did, when I saw it first... and so did my ex....Juliet Stevenson proves (again) to be a brilliant actress. The English Patient (Minghella's greatest hit until now) hasn't quite got the fantasy, intimacy and recognizability that his debut has. I can only say I loved every minute of it and enjoyed it intensely. Also the fifth time I saw it. The most original love-story I've probably ever seen. "},{"Title":"Thinking person's Ghost","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Actually, I've done Truly, Madly, Deeply an injustice there! That's no way to describe T,M,D at all.  (In fact, the words 'thinking persons' and 'Ghost' should never, ever be used in the same sentence, ever!  There are no words to describe the sheer, brain-dead, offensive, awefulness of THAT movie.  Christ, don't get me started!)TMD is one of those rare movies that actually move you.  Not like some Robin Williams vehicle or a Penny Marshall directed pile of slop with nice music, but one that triggers (subtly and beautifully) genuine emotional response.Upon first viewing TMD it appears to be a confounding film.  It doesn't seem to be perhaps the funniest comedy, the most romantic romance or even the most ghostly ghost story you've seen.  The baddy out of 'Die Hard'is playing a romantic lead(!) and not a great deal happens.What it does do however is quietly usher you into the lives of the central protagonists and then, with ten minutes to go, serves up a twist ending that will have you bawling like a two year old and hugging the video cover like a long lost love.You will claim this movie for yourself and be secretly grateful that no one seems to have heard of it.  It will be yours forever and they can keep their stinking 'Ghost'!Cheers. "}{"Title":"Truly an incredible film","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I almost didn't watch this because of my hatred for Anthony Minghella (I loathed The English Patient), but am grateful I did.  This film moves me as no other ever has.  I start getting teary-eyed just describing it to people.I know some people who think it is slow-paced and dull, but the pace is one of the many reasons I keep watching it.  It's slow enough that I pick up something new every time I see it.Another reason I had avoided seeing it for so long was the comparisons with Ghost.  Huh????  Give me a break! Professional beautiful people like Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze simply cannot compare with the real chemistry generated by Juliet Stevenson, Alan Rickman and Michael Maloney.  Their performances were a joy to watch.This film makes you believe that love like that is indeed possible. "},{"Title":"Truly, madly and deeply wonderful!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There are only a few movies I can call my favourites. Truly, madly and deeply is one of them. Although never released in the country where I live - what I honestly don't understand - I have seen it on video and fell instantly in love with the actors, the screenplay, the story. How deeply true and incredibly wise! And Alan Rickman is literally to die for. I am glad that Anthony Minghella has moved on to bigger and even more successful movies like The English patient but I will always remember him by this truly, madly and deeply wonderful picture! "},{"Title":"incredible, comforting, touching","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an extreme example of more than just a movie. It could be used as a therapeutic device for everybody who has lost someone they loved. Life goes on, that's how it is, and there's nothing you can do about it. Thank you for making it.  "},{"Title":"Right film at the right time","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film just when I needed it -- shortly after my beloved brother-in-law was killed. It was like drawing a deep breath and taking a step forward. The movie helped my ability to talk to my bereaved sister and weave through all the strange emotions of loss.  And it made me laugh! That was unexpected, given the subject matter, but the best medicine of all. This is a delightfully performed film.  "},{"Title":"Miinghella's first feature quite bittersweet","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Last night, I saw this this film at the Egyptian Theatre in Hollywood. Minghella's daughter was in attendance. What's fascinating is he actually left the world among his body of works, one that dealt specifically about grief.His first film as a director is quite intelligent. It's also quite stagy and does have the ghost of Alan Rickman not really doing much of anything other than being a seducer.However, when by yourself, it's only natural to talk to someone that you'll talk to again, at least as two living human beings. The important message is though you mourn, you must carry on and face responsibilities while still part of this world.There's also a sense of humor about this. A lot bunch of dead friends show up to watch videos. Interesting that they could fill in interesting tidbits while watching. Such as the early death of Eric Campbell, who was usually cast as Charlie Chaplin's enemy in his early shorts.This is one of those films that makes one smile and laugh at the same time. God bless Anthony Mighella. "},{"Title":"Mary Magdalene is here","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" First, this is ten times better than Ghost. It's more romantic, it has an actual point to it, and it is unconcerned totally with sex after death, which is a completely American fixation. Second, the scene where Jamie and Nina sing is the most realistic musical scene ever. It seemed like they were two people, completely in love, singing in their living room as if it didn't matter. Baz Luhrman, take note. Third, two scenes - when she's crying with her therapist and when she sees Jamie alive for the first time - bring to mind Mary Magdalene's emotions on Holy Saturday (crying, angry that he's not there, miss him, think about him all the time) and Easter Sunday (astonished to see him, clings to him). It was unintentional (I think, anyway), but I've never seen any Jesus pic that got it better. Fourth, I love the rats and how cold dead people are all the time. Fifth, live on. "},{"Title":"Special meaning","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is especially touching that Jamie's ghost stayed with Nina until Nina found someone else. A few months ago I realized I already had had an experience like this. Some weeks before my husband and I were married, I picked up tickets for a Daniel Barenboim concert at Jones Hall in Houston. I was on my lunch hour, and when I came out of the music hall, the sky had a strange color and the air also felt strange. Just then something I never before had understood about music just clicked in my mind, and I immediately thought of my first fiancé', a piano major in college. When I returned home that day, the phone was ringing, and it was my college boy friend, calling from Brazil. I no longer had his home address in Brazil, and I asked him to send his thoughts in writing, along with his parents' address, and I still would consider marriage to him. The phone went dead. At 1 a.m. the next day, he tried to call again, and the same thing happened. I tried to find him through the alumni association, but there was no record of his parents' address. When no letter arrived after weeks of waiting, I went on with the wedding.Just a few months ago, I learned my first fiancé' had died on his 40th birthday, August 31, 1987, at his parents' home in Brazil. The same month my best friend and her little girl had been killed in a car crash, and even at the time I felt God's hand had reached out and taken someone else dear to me. There also was a garbled phone call at 1 a.m. from a mutual friend, a doctor in Brazil, but he was so choked up I could not understand him. I now realize he was calling to inform me of my friend's death.I believe the strange inspiration about music was a message from my first fiancé', letting me know that true love never ends. I know he was thinking about me at the end as he had asked the mutual friend to find me through the alumni association and to call me.The film Truly, Madly, Deeply and my own experiences have made me realize how precious and irreplaceable loved ones are and that the smallest incidents -- even accidents -- can change someone's life forever. "},{"Title":"Truly, Madly, Deeply, moving...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is usually the part where I start of with, This is my favorite movie of ALL time and this is why... and proceed to inundate you with reasons why this film simply cannot be missed.I'm going to do that, but with different wording.I'll start of stating that very rarely do I find a film that I feel the dire need to order from a video store and wait 5-8 weeks for. I don't have the patience nor do I believe that by the time it arrives I'll be that eager to watch it. This is not so with the film, Truly, Madly, Deeply.It started off that I wanted to watch this film for Alan Rickman alone, as a dedicated fan I heard that this was one of his best and am inclined to agree. So I watched, and became engrossed in this wondrous little film that unraveled before me and Alan became a plus. Juliet Stephenson is magnificent, never before have I seen a person on film with such raw emotion. Her sobbing I miss him, I miss him, I miss him... is so powerful that I believe her when she states them.The quirky sweet and endearing thing of this film are the fact that the ghosts aren't haunted tortured souls. They're just a bit lonely, cold and like to watch Five easy Pieces and old Charlie Chaplin films. How can't you love them?Alan Rickman playing the dry, witty Jamie is a nice change of pace for a man who so often is 'rubberstamped' as the 'villain', when he obviously has so much range. This is evident in this film, the man doesn't even have to speak and you feel what he means.Juliet Stephenson as the endearing Nina is a real treat. I haven't seen her in as much as I'd like to, but she is one of those rare actresses' that seems to be her character inside and out. She has got a gift, for rarely has an actress ever reduced me to tears.I'm not going to lie, I do cry at this film, time and time again. Not quiet little sniffles into a Kleenex either. These are racking sobs that I try to muffle by holding my hand over my mouth. I save myself from constant humiliation by watching this brilliant film alone. But this isn't a gut-wrenching-why-should-I-go-on-I-want-to-throw-myself-over-a-building sort of movie. It's just moving.And still to this day, I am adamant that one of the most believable scenes in movie history is when Jamie collapses into bed with an overly hot Nina (As he has the heat on full blast) and murmurs something to the equivalent to They're nice guys aren't they? (If you've seen it, perhaps you know.) You see, they're so believable as a couple in this film. You don't see the stiff kisses or fake smiles that you do in such other Blockbusters. There's grumbling and wincing and erupting into sporadic peals of laughter and all that make real couples real and enjoyable.It's one of those films you can watch over and over, because when you do it doesn't matter if you keep crying about it, or that the ghosts aren't see through, only cold... you feel changed somehow...ugh...that sounds impossible lame doesn't it?Alright, enough flowery wording to describe to you how much I loved this film. I just loved it. And perhaps if you're anything like me, you'll love it too. "},{"Title":"The British Ghost?","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Juliet Stevenson proves her mettle in Truly, Madly, Deeply with a superb performance as a woman struck with grief who overcomes same in spite of her friends and with a little help from the other side. A definite chick flick according to the IMDB.com stats, this plaintive but hopeful drama with a dash of comedy about personal reconciliation is a worthy effort for those who can get their head around the whole ghost thing. For more mature audiences and, of course, chicks. (B+)NOTE Write/director Anthony Minghella introduces himself and his film at the beginning of the DVD which I viewed; a smart move and a nice touch which will engender good will much more than huge imposing in-your-face letters like DIRECTED BY STEVEN SPIELBERG. "},{"Title":"Warm and gentle film","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a warm and moving little film about coping with loss and letting go of the one you lost. It has truly sad undertones throughout but has some comfortable humor. The acting is good with Rickman stealing every scene he's in as usual. Livingston as the lead shows range here for her life is turned upside down when her lost love comes back from the dead. This is a fine family film but I still recommend it to adults for it copes with more adult situations. The film,however, is harmless. "}{"Title":"Human, Compassionate Ghost Story","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, there have been at least three 'lover from beyond the grave' movies recently, but this one is worth seeing for the dialogue alone.  The acting by Alan Rickman and Juliet Stevenson is superb, even though they are also 'best mates' in real life (read, 'friends')  I am prejudiced since I love London scenery in any movie, but the street scenes along the Thames are worth the price of the movie. The too-good-to-be-true real-life boyfriend who charms his way into Juliet's heart is everyone's dream.  Not much to look at, but his heart is gigantic!!!  The Vivaldi quartet played by Rickman's string ensemble can also be heard in 'Die Hard' and 'Dark Harbor', other Alan Rickman films.  I can assure you, seeing these movies contiguously will give you a strange frame of reference for this Vivaldi piece hereafter.As usual, no matter how dark the Rickman film, the jokes are subtle and funny.  The dead guys arguing over which old movie to see and reciting lines from one of them is a great scene you won't forget. This is a charming and heart-tickling movie to be seen first alone, and then with your love-interest.  Examine your responses each time, and the comparison  will tell you a lot about your relationship. "},{"Title":"Great potential evaporates","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film starts off well, and I thought I would be watching an honest look at a woman's attempt to get on with her life after the death of her husband. She is obviously hurt and angry, yet putting on a pleasant mask to cover up at the start. Sometimes she hears his voice. Then in a moving scene, he reappears.If the movie ended there it would be great. Unfortunately, nothing from then on is engaging, honest, or moving. Characters go through the movie espousing ultra-PC, pro-immigration statements for no apparent reason. One character mentions Trotsky. Some guy she falls for doesn't have a normal job - no, he works with disabled children. It's so PC it's almost comical. Aren't there any real people in this world? In the end, this movie tries too hard to show us what good people are like and in the process, fails to reveal anything true about the human soul. "},{"Title":"Theo Robertson's comment is not a truly good one!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The only point that is relevant for a film review is the film «looks like» a TV film. But what to say about Bergman's «sarabande»? «Truly, madly, deeply», independently of who is sighing or the social class characters belong to (Theo must see only Loach's films), is a film full of spirit and spirits, too) which remains Hal Hartley's best ones.This film had been played some years ago on European TV ARTE and many who didn't know anything about this director were very surprised. Obviously, Bach's music -cello's suite- immerse the film in some atmosphere of gravity but we are far of Won Kar Waï's gimmicks, there is a perfect marriage between the idea, the pictures and the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"It could have been a 10. . .","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The leading lady is such a klutz.  It may be realistic (a movie about a dead boyfriend coming back in the cold flesh realistic?) but watching her wipe her nose on the back of her hand every time she cried (which was a lot) left me, along with the boyfriend,cold.Alan Rickman is aces with me, and beautiful in this part. Michael Maloney, who hardly ever plays a leading man and hardly ever sympathetic, shines here as well.Everybody's good, including the rats, except for Goon Girl.  Far as I can tell, she got cast 'cause her boyfriend Minghella used his influence.See the movie, but beware the lady is very irksome. "},{"Title":"Crying is Therapeutic","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the ultimate romantic movie.  See it when you could really do with a bloody good cry. I LOVED it. "},{"Title":"I've grown out of this one.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw this, shortly after it was originally released, I loved it. A truly convincing portrayal of grief and loss, I thought, well acted and set in a convincing contemporary setting. 10 years later it seems as stilted and contrived as Brief Encounter (a clip from which features briefly).  The hopping biography and unchained melody sequences are toe-curlingly embarrassing and it is difficult to see what Nina ever saw in Jamie in the first place. Maybe I've just grown more jaded and cynical, but 10 years later this really seems an incredibly shallow and pointless film. "},{"Title":"It is a gem of a movie.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Written and directed by Anthony Minghella (The English Patient) this movie was recommended by a friend and it is a gem of a movie. There are many other good movies on the same topic such as Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands, Ghost, but Minghella takes the nineties approach on the topic of bereavement, and the main character is working with a therapist. At least in the U.S. where everybody has his or her own psychiatrist, this adds to the story telling,  as she is telling the story to her psychiatrist and the audience at the same time.  Nina Juliet Stevenson (Emma) is a great actress. I never saw anybody who cries so well, she deservedly received awards for the part. She is wonderful. I recommend the movie. The topic is sad, but the movie has its funny parts. A bunch of ghosts all wrapped up in blankets because they are dead cold while watching videos is quite funny. Jamie Alan Rickman (Sense and Sensibility)whether or not he actually plays the cello looks wonderful playing it. The music is absolutely divine.Favorite Scenes The frozen ghosts and their blankets. When Nina and Jamie play together. I love Bach.  Therefore, the movie made me esthetic because of the music.  Favorite Quotes NinaWhat are you doing? JamieI am warming up my lips.      Jamie If I get a cold now it might last forever. ...and death shall have no dominion. My feet want to march where you are sleeping but I will go on living.                                          "},{"Title":"A hymn-Modern rather than Ancient-to new gender politics.","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Made by the Camden Mafia for the Camden Mafia in a spirit of self - love that is almost onanistic,Truly,Madly,Deeplyhas all the appalling right on characteristics that New Labour pounced on so eagerly a few years later.A thirtyish woman loses her partner;not,you will notice, her husband,no such old - fashioned middle class morality attends the middle classes in the Highgate Triangle in the nineteen nineties. She works for an organisation that helps refugees - clearly a Good Thing and far better than being at Deloitte and Touche or Linklaters. Despite being devastated by her lover's death - and my god is she devastated,we hardly hear the last of it for a good part of the movie - she is Woman,brave,noble and strong.Her politics,and those of her late partner,of course are of the comfortably off left persuasion. They belong to that strange world where people who could afford to have fitted carpets throughout don't on the grounds that the original wooden floorboards have character despite being freezing cold and a Health and Safety hazard. Unable to come to terms with her loss she imagines her lover returns to help her through post - traumatic shock,a sort of ghostly grief counsellor.In the due fullness of time(about 20 minutes or so before the end of the movie)she meets a New Man in every sense of the term. He is not a member of the Stock Exchange,he works with people with special needs,he is non - threateningly masculine,sensitive,gentle and everything a vaguely leftish,vaguely feminist,nicely brought-up person of the opposite gender might wish for.I have never met anyone like him and I doubt if any such person exists outside the director's imagination. Unsurprisingly with the appearance of a new beau her dead one becomes rather supernumerary and disappears with an abruptness that might appear rude to some. Miss J.Stephenson as the recently bereaved female person bestows some slight credibility to a character that is little more than a cipher. Her emotional outbursts are technical tours de force but even a performer of her skills can't make Nina anything other than the paragon of all the womanly virtues she has been conceived as and thus a totally unbelievable human being. Mr A. Rickman unfurls his magnificent voice ,making the very most of his dry quality that adds a sardonic edge to every part he plays.As a ghost he doesn't have to bother about being believable which gives him rather more leeway. Truly,Madly,Deeply is a hymn to the new politics of gender relations. If you subscribe to Ancient rather than Modern you may find it a bit too much to take. "},{"Title":"Sadly,  Truly, Madly, Deeply wasn't a better film.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was truly expecting a lot more from this movie, and as I think about it, the beginning was great.  I actually found myself emphasizing with the main character, Nina, as in one scene as she poured out her anger at the sudden death of her husband to what I think is her therapist.  For me, that emotion, and strength of feeling made me FORGET that she was (just) acting and not since I saw the film 'Dancer in the Dark', was I floored.It was good until the dead husband returned, and then it sucked.  I really couldn't feel for Nina, or her husband, but to be fair, I just don't like Alan Rickman as an actor.  But it is worth seeing this movie for the acting of Juliet Stevenson. "},{"Title":"characters you just don't care about, a bad script, woeful acting.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Everyone has their own worse film ever made and this one has been the top of my list since I saw it way back in about 1992. The first problem with the movie is that none of the characters are particularly affable nor interesting. Juliet Stevenson is both ingratiating and infuriating. You feel like screaming,get over it, you annoying creature!. Its not that I am devoid of sensitivity but the condescending sentimentality is just so awful. The script is tedious and Stevenson is simply awful. Her annoying mannerisms and cliché interpretation is woeful.Stevenson is in my opinion dreadful in this movie. Alan Rickman does not walk through the film he dawdles.I cannot understand why some think it is better than Ghost. Ghost was a charming little movie with a delightful performance from Whoopie Goldberg. It tugged at the heart strings but its sentimentality was never as mawkish as this dribble. Rickman is just awful, his performance is shallow and wooden.It is a bad performance by an actor with no screen presence.It is ponderous and boring. I know people liked it but for me it is close to the worse movie of all time. At least some of Ed Wood's movies were so bad they were funny. This is simply bad. "}{"Title":"Terrific performances in witty, clever fantasy...","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Juliet Stevenson is quite affecting playing a single mother--with eligible men beating down her door--who is preoccupied with the ghost of her deceased boyfriend who has taken up residence in her flat. Relatively gimmick-free British comedy was quickly labeled by professional critics as 'the thinking man's Ghost'. While comparisons between the two films today is rather unimaginable (and, finally, irrelevant), the movie does leave behind one immensely pleasurable moment spirit Alan Rickman having other-worldly visitors over for movie-night, debating the merits of Woody Allen's output. Amusing and clever, the picture does somewhat overstay its welcome, though is ultimately blessed with very fine acting. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Not A Truly Good Film","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh dear . I'm probably going to upset a lot of middle class middle aged woman by confessing I didn't like this movie at all for several reasons1 ) I have a very low tolerance level on middle class metropolitan characters in movies . I am by no means a Maoist but I find it difficult to relate to middle class women who have friends with children who can play a cello 2 ) There's a limit on how many times I can watch a character weeping in one movie . If I hadn't disliked her so much I would have worried about Nina losing so much salt from her body due to the amount of tears she cried3 ) It was bad enough when the movie was drowning in sentiment ( The amount of tears from Nina would have drowned the movie anyway ) but then the movie has a plot twist featuring Alan Rickman's character which made TRULY MADLY DEEPLY silly more than anything else 4 ) This doesn't feel like a cinematic movie . It feels more like a play produced for television which isn't surprising since director Anthony Minghella started out in the theatre then moved onto script editing jobs in television There are one or two good points . Despite playing annoying characters the cast do a fairly good job , and there are some touching moments like the scene where where we think Nina and Sandy are alone  Nina you're beautiful   Who's beautiful ?  Only to find out they're surrounded by friends of Nina come to do up the house , though unfortunately as I said the film's attempts to touch the audience this way quickly becomes overkill . This movie also deserves some credit of only costing 700,000 dollars a sum it made into a profit several times over to become the most successful British production that year , so thanks for keeping the British film industry going But at the end of the day TRULY MADLY DEEPLY is a mawkish chick flick and will probably only be remembered as Anthony Minghella's debut as director  "},{"Title":"Grossly over-rated","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Before anyone else's girlfriend gets fooled by the romantic storyline and positive comments on IMDb, read this review and pay heed!After suggesting to my girlfriend that we watch 'weepie' films 'Always' and 'Forever Young' (both great films BTW) she quickly became addicted and wanted more more more. So she has done the film-choosing of late.Unfortunately she got fooled by this Ghost-ish storyline and we were subjected to this celluloid horror for about 23 minutes before neither of us could stand any more.While I myself prefer indie films, I am not against the odd romantic weepie such as the ones mentioned above. However, when it comes to sitting down at the weekend watching these kind of films, you kind of really need a big budget glamorous Hollywood movie to do the job. You tend to feel a bit ripped off if it's just a kitchen sink drama.This BBC offering is truly awful to watch. It looks just like an 80's BBC drama. It feels like a TV programme. British/kitchen sink dramas can be OK (Saturday night & Sunday morning, KES) but this is far from OK.The script was uneventful and was going nowhere. At the point of turning the film off we still had no idea what the motivation for any of the characters was, or if anything was ever going to happen. We had no involvement in the story &#150; nothing to look forward to. The protagonist goes to a psychiatrist, talks about her dead husband, complains to her landlord about rats and not a lot else.As mentioned it was around the 23 minute mark, when her builder, boss, friend and landlord were all in her kitchen talking about washing up (of all things) that we decided this was not a film for us!Reading some of the other reviews I almost feel like giving it a chance again. But then I remember how dire it was and the feeling soon goes "},{"Title":"am i alone?","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Am I alone in hating this movie?  Or is it because I come from the same part of London as these characters?  If someone asked me to hop and tell them my life story in 30 seconds, I know what two word answer I'd give them. "},{"Title":"Truly Madly Deeply","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" From director Anthony Minghella (The English Patient) this is quite an okay romantic drama. Basically Nina (BAFTA nominated Juliet Stevenson) lost her husband and thought he was dead for many years, and then suddenly out of the blue, he comes back into her life. At first life with Jamie (BAFTA nominated Alan Rickman) back in her life is as good as it used to be, but it is when he brings ghostly friends to the house and behaving more and more oddly that the spark is wearing away. Also starring The Witches' Bill Paterson as Sandy. This is not the kind of film I'd watch a lot, but it has good ideas about what would happen if you got someone you really cared about back, and the strong feelings we have after deaths. It won the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay. Alan Rickman was number 6 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and he was number 14 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and the film was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers. Worth watching! "}]