[{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ahh. White Fang. The very title itself brings warmth to my heart as it was the first novel I ever read. Now, this isn't quite an exact adaption of Jack London's novel, that would be difficult. What is does do is take the fine wildlife elements of the novel and fuse them onto the tale of a boy rather than vice versa as in the novel. This is more the story of Jack than the wolf itself. As a film adaption however, it was the correct road to take and makes for splendid entertainment. There are many recognizable moments from the book however to ensure the film is deserving of the title. It's beautifully shot, with amazing scenery so it certainly realizes the vision of the book. It also has top performances from the two leads and nice support from Remar as the snarling Beauty. The bottom line though is whether you're familiar with London's touching novel or not this film will warm your heart. Recommended to anyone who likes a good old fashioned yarn.Niz  "},{"Title":"Gets a Blue Ribbon.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Good family-oriented movie from the Walt Disney Studios proves that sometimes less is more. The story is about a Yukon gold hunter's (Ethan Hawke) friendship with the titled Alaskan husky. Jack London's wonderful novel is methodical both in the book and on the silver screen (this is a major plus). Every frame here is a joy as wonderful editing and cinematography enhance a deceptively smart screenplay and noble direction. Hawke, one of the more under-rated actors of his generation, proves he can handle a major production and take the reigns as the primary focus. Supporting actor Klaus Maria Brandauer shines throughout. One of the finer family films produced in the 1990s. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Rock-Solid Alaskan Adventure Tale","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Prior to seeing this, I remember reading a lot of good reviews on it. Well, the critics were right about this one it was good. It's an excellent adventure film that really gets you involved with the story. The story, off the famous book written by Jack London, involves a young adult male's adventures during the gold rush days of Alaska at the end of the 19th century.Some of the Alaskan scenery in here is just magnificent. I have talked to a couple of people who have been around the world and they both said Alaska had the most incredible scenery of any place they'd been, and you see evidence of that in this movie. They did a nice job with the action scenes in here not too much, not too little and pretty realistic. The dog-fighting scenes aren't pleasant, but they aren't bloody, either. The villains, led by James Remar, are nasty but not profane.This is not a typical Disney film, at least at the time of its release, because the violence is intense at times and there is some profanity. It's a rugged story about rugged people in a rugged land. These adventurers had to be rough to survive.Ethan Hawke plays the young man-hero whom we all root for, and the way he builds a relationship to wolf-dog White Fang is touching to view. The movie offers everything but humor but they do throw one funny line in at the end, by one of the villains, no less.Summary a memorable adventure. One of Disney's best films of any genre. I am amazed there are less than 20 reviews of this movie. "},{"Title":"New version of the classic novel with a  young Ethan Hawke and  dealing with the mythic dog","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film deals about a very young man (Ethan Hawke) going to Klondike , Alaska territory , where there's a mine which inherited from his deceased father . There he meets prospectors (Klaus Maria Brandauer and Seymour Cassel) and they go on looking for gold . The protagonist befriends a mixed dog-wolf called ¨White Fang¨ for its white and sharp tooth when he is saved during the attack of a bear . After that , he rescues to White Fang from hands a villainous (James Remar) who utilized it for illegal dogs fighting . The picture is based on autobiographic life of Jack London , as in his real life was a gold seeker or prospector . Furthermore , there remains the essential elements as the young-dog friendship , the gold rush , spectacular outdoors and snowy locations and several moving scenes . Authentic film stars are the animals , there appear the followings  dogs, wolves , bear and specially ¨White Fang¨ incarnated by a magnificent animal , middle wolf and dog . As says the warning in the beginning of the movie , the animals aren't mistreated but they're well cared by an exceptional trainers group . The best part of film are the spectacular snowy outdoors , the marvelous landscapes are stunningly photographed by Tom Pierce Roberts . The film is wonderfully set in Klondike -Yukon territory- on the end XIX century and was filmed in sensational scenarios and gorgeous landscapes . The movie is a feast for the eyes and ears that captures the adventure feeling as few others have ever done . Ethan Hawke as a young adventurer is nice , he's a newcomer and would have much success later on , converting himself in a world star . Evocative and atmospheric musical score by Basil Poledouris (author of Conan soundtrack) . The film was one of the various adaptations about Jack London novel , though differs partially from the book (other pictures were directed by David Butler , Lucio Fulci and Italian exploitation) . The movie got an official sequel  ¨White Fang II, myth of the white wolf¨ , though differs significantly from the book , being directed by Ken Olin , starred Scott Bairstow , Alfred Molina and Geoffrey Lewis . The motion picture was rightly directed by Randal Kleiser (Grease) . The flick will appeal to animals enthusiast and adventure cinema fans. Rating  Good and entertaining , it maintains the charm and magic of the classic novel but still makes for decent kiddies amusement . "},{"Title":"A kind of beauty","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just read White Fang and I found it awesome. London is the writer of the Yukon and the Gold Rush. When I start watching this movie I just thought that it must have a lot of twist to be a good movie. The book was really wild the famine, the attacks of White Fang to the dogs at the station, are not here... It will be too cruel to the movie screen and I guess impossible without hurting the animals. Instead, you will find here a kind movie, with action, with a spectacular scenarios, with this beautiful wolf/dog, with great music and with the London adventure at his best. Inspired in White Fang, the movie carry us trough the life of Jack becoming a man, and a simple and moving relationship between the man and his dog. There are scenes that were just great the amazing dog combat, in this point both movie and book are just awesome.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Very touching movie that's well-acted about a special friendship for all ages that will warm your heart","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" WHITE FANG, in my opinion, is a very touching movie that's well-acted about a special friendship for all ages that will warm your heart. I really loved the relationship between Jack (Ethan Hawke) and White Fang. If I could have, I would have loved to have been friends with the animal. In addition, I liked the other animals, too. The score was good, the costumes were perfectly designed, everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very touching movie that's well-acted about a special friendship for all ages to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This movie about a beautiful wolf dog mix and those around him is more than an adventure tale.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The backgrounds of wolf dog and his new owner and the owner's partner (Beautifully played by Claus Maria Brandauer) explore unlikely  relationships that form in a turn of the century Yukon environment which is raw and difficult.   The boy becomes a man, the wolf-dog becomes a loyal friend of the young boy, and the partner becomes mature and sentimental - all changes against a glorious mountain backdrop..  The American Humane Society approved the many action scenes, some of them very violent, in which the dog and other less friendly dogs appear.  The criminals are taken to the Royal Mounties, the boy stays with his wolf dog, the partner goes off with the bar owner after boy, dog and partner find a mine full of raw gold.  It's a classic old movie with boy and dog as an unexpectedand wonderful team.  What a beautiful dog!A few tears.  Great! "},{"Title":"White Fang","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" i remember watching this film when i was kid back in 1991. I was and still am a lover of Wolves, and this film really got to me. I just purchased the DVD last night, and am so excited to re-live what was once my all time favorite movie. The acting and the scenery in this film are amazing, i can still remember sitting in my bedroom watching Ethan Hawke's character walking up that huge slope to get to the top and meet with the people he is going to mine gold with. Along the way White Fang comes along and helps him and protects him. It is one of the greatest movies having to do with the gold mining and wildlife. White fang was my hero as an animal as i was growing up, and i had always wished that i could find a wolf, and live in alaksa with it by my side. "},{"Title":"A Boy and his Wolf","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Heartwarming Jack London tale of a hybrid wolf/dog puppy who was out on his own trying to survive the harsh weather and the Alaskan Yukon's frozen and dangerous countryside.The pup, who's mother was caring for it until she died, due to being shot by a gold prospector, was trying to go it alone with no family or wolf pack to provide food care or safety for it is later caught in a trap by a local Inult Eskimo Grey Beaver, Plus Savage, who gives the puppy the name White fang due to it's over-sized dagger-like killing canine teeth.Later at the local town when Grey Beaver, with White Fang, was there to trade in furs for food and supplies some of the people spotted the unusual wolf/dog and set a huge sled dog on White Fang who the wolf/dog made short odor of. The owner of the sled dog Beauty Smith, James Ramer,forces Grey Beaver to give up White Fang to him for compensation for what he did to his lead sled dog and trains the wolf/dog to be a fighting dog at the local illegal dog fighting pen. White Fang terribly abused and brutalized by Beauty to be a killer wins dozens of dog fights for his greedy owner until one night in a fight with a much younger and powerful bull-dog is almost killed only to be saved by young Jack Conroy, Ethan Hawke,as the Royal Mountie Police broke into the dog fighting pen discontinuing the vicious savagery going on there. White Fang saved Jack's life earlier in the film, before he was taken from Grey Beaver by Beauty Smith, when the powerful and courageous wolf/dog stared down a giant Alasken Bear who was about to maul and kill the wounded young man and now Jack was returning the favor. Back at the shed Jack was with his partner Alex Larson, Klaus Maria Brandauer,a friend of Jack's late father who died in the wild Alsaken wilderness and left the claim to the shack and mine to him. jack patching the wounded canine showed the love and kindness to White Fang that he never knew and soon became Jack's, as well as Alex's,best friend. Striking a gold load at the mine Jack,together with White Fang, go to town to see if the gold he found in his mine is genuine which it proves to be. Beauty Smith spot's the young man and his former fighting wolf/dog and together and with a number of his criminal associates follows them back to the shack in order to kill both Jack and Alex and steal their gold but They didn't count on White Fang. The brave and ferocious wolf/dog put the whole gang out of commission and ended up plowing his ferocious teeth into the hated Beauty's derrière. Touching tearful and uplifting ending with White Fang coming back to Jack who earlier chased the wolf/dog into the wild. That was after he decided to leave the Yukon with Alex and his girlfriend Belinda, Susan Hogan, for San Francisco to open a hotel, with the money they made from the gold mine, with Jack being a co-partner. Wonderful story for kids and grownups of all ages with some of the most scenic and beautiful photography, around the towns of Halnes & Skagway Alaska, ever put on film. "},{"Title":"White Fang","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Set in the frozen wilderness and frontier towns of the Yukon Territory at the height of Klondike Gold Rush in the late 1890's, Randal Kleiser's White Fang (1991) is above all a story of love and friendship between two young orphans Jack Conroy, played by a fresh-faced but precociously talented Ethan Hawke, and White Fang, a lone gray wolf.Loosely based on the classic Jack London novel of the same name, White Fang is as eager and hopeful a film as Jack is when he touches shore in the Yukon Valley. But no sooner is Jack mugged by reality in the shape of a sly and malicious Beauty Smith (played a finely villainous James Remar) and his two cronies, than Kleiser begins to unveil the unyielding, unpitying hardness of nature, starting with the shooting death of a she-wolf, mother to the wolf pup White Fang.The story of the film is a journey in more ways than one, and Jack's journey closely parallels White Fang's in spirit and tone. Both are recently orphaned survivors, vital spirits in a barren landscape. Jack's challenges start as soon as he lands a new land, both harsh and majestic, with potentially unlimited wealth awaiting the lucky and the industrious. The difficult conditions are compounded by the reason for Jack's sojourn though he claims to want only to work his father's claim, he clearly, ultimately, seeks to redeem his father's death.As their stories progress and Jack and White Fang eventually find each other, their fraternal/paternal relationship seems to take the place of the their absent parents. They care and look out for each other and at different times, rescue each other from certain death. Kindred spirits, both were forced to grow up quickly and they take on the odds of survival with pluck and, mostly, good humor.The photography of White Fang matches the beauty of the arctic landscape underground lakes and grottos, ice caves and vast expanses of snow framed by distant mountain ranges. Cinematographer Tony Pierce-Roberts's impressive use of the wide shot &#x96; in some instance with the sled team slicing across the screen, perfectly channel the adventurist spirit of the time and the place. Like Jack, it's hard for us not to be completely swept away by the wide open scenes of nature at its purest. Pierce-Robert's dramatic crane shots, from slow, intimate creeps to quickly rising booms are also beautifully choreographed.According to Kleiser, the film was storyboard from first shot to last. Given that so many scenes involved wolves or wolf-dogs of varying degrees of tameness and training (as well as an astonishing cameo by Bart the Bear in a fight scene) this was a wise decision. Because of the limitations inherent in filming under these conditions, Kleiser bravely relied on the pure visual grammar of film language to tell the characters' story. His economy of shots, matching eye lines, composition and distribution of elements in the screen space were carefully thought out and intelligently, if not painstakingly, executed.On a personal level, I found watching White Fang to be a touching, even moving experience, and only very momentarily sentimental. In fact, the director's reserve in not allowing the material to move into maudlin sentimentality is to be admired and appreciated. This reserve is the mark of a great observer.Successful sound design elements also contribute to the film's faithful and creative re-creation of its sensory world at tense moments like when the ice is cracking under Jack's feet, or when we hear a heartbeat-like thudding in more hallucinatory scenes, as when Gray Beaver of the Han tribe finds little White Fang caught in a game trap. I also very much enjoyed the majestic soundtrack, with its resonant symphonic score horns, strings, and unusually, wind instruments working together in resonant and harmonic ways to make Jack and White Fang's story truly great storytelling.Finally, the film's faithful and evocative re-creations of the historical era, from the stock photos and maps of the opening credits to the impressive outdoor sets of the Klondike towns, combined with a refined instinct for storytelling, magnificent locations, well-directed actors (including a small, delightful role by the great Seymour Cassel!) and disciplined choreography make White Fang a great film experience. "}{"Title":"Yay for White Fang!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of my childhood favorite movies. =) We can see the young Ethan Hawke, many years before meeting Uma Thurman and marrying her. In 1898, Jack is an orphan who move to Alaska in search of a gold mine left by his father.In the beginning, he has some problems in Alaska, because of the weather and the difficulties of the wild life. But soon he and Alex become friends and partners in the gold sector. Alex teaches Jack how to search for gold in live in Alaska, and Jack teaches Alex how to read and to write. After some time, Alex and Jack meet the Indian native Grey Beaver, who was the responsible of taking care of the little wolf that he gave name White Fang. Jack starts to like White Fang,specially after W.F. saves him from a bear. When Grey Beaver goes to the city he has some problems and needs to sell White Fang for a guy named Smith ( Richard from'' Sex and The city ''). Smith wants White Fang because he likes dog fights to win money.He teaches White Fang to be angry and suspicious about men, and this will only stop when Jack saves White Fang from Smith and the dog fights and takes care of him, beginning a friendship with the beautiful wolf.) "},{"Title":"This film is a great fun to watch!!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Maybe I've seen this film for about 5-6 times so far. But it seems that I would never get bored. I just love animal movies which are involved with dogs or wolves.While the lead characters(one young boy who plays Ethan Hawke) are traveling the snow mountains, they encounter a pack of wolves. The battle to survive between them ends up one person and one beast got killed. A baby wolf left alone in the cold place, begin to explore outside world alone. Boy and wolf meet for the first time in the river, their friendship starts growing in the experiences they go through.The real star in this movie is absolutely a wolf. This brave, dangerous but irresistible creature totally got me through the movie. "},{"Title":"Lovely scenery","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've never read Jack London's book, but it's certainly on my wishlist. And after seeing this film I think I might finally get around to buying it.Ethan Hawke plays Jack Conroy a young gold prospector in Canada/Alaska during the gold rush of the late 19th century. His story is without considerable peril and seems to take a backseat to the more intimate story of a young wolf cub who loses his mother and ventures out into the world on his own. Many people (kind, cruel and indifferent) interact and encounter the wolf before Jack adopts him as White Fang.The scenes of the cub hugging his dying mother are heartbreaking, and the training the filmmakers did with the animals is really impressive. A disclaimer pops up before the film begins to explain that although all the animal cruelty looks realistic is was done safely.The scenery is wonderful, but I am puzzled as to why director Randall Kleiser didn't shoot it in anamorphic Panavision. When filming in breathtaking parts of the world it's kinda dumb to not take full advantage. The resulting picture looks a bit TV-ish. But it's a minor quibble.Basil Poledouris' score is also great. I am convinced Hans Zimmer might have also contributed as there are a couple of tracks that have the early 90s Zimmer sound. But it's definitely Poledouris' show, and it's a shame that a definitive score CD was never released.For those of you who love wolf, adventure and great outdoors movies, this one is a must. "},{"Title":"Has its faults, but not horrifically.","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS After reading both of Jack London's novels CALL OF THE WILD and WHITE FANG in that order, I felt it necessary to see the film again since I hadn't seen it for years.Expecting nothing but a regurgitated clone of lassie from the mouse house, I was pleasantly surprised to find that the film followed the storyline in its own right (though with some flaws).We start it in the Klondike Gold rush in the Yukon in Canada with Jack Conroy (Ethan Hawke pre-beard) arriving in the Yukon. He joins with a couple of old friends of his father to join in heading for their claim. At the same time, a young wolf cub is being brought up in the wilderness by his mother who, in a sequence concerning Conroy (Hawke) is shot and injured when she tries to lure one of Conroy's friend's dogs away to attack (and undoubtedly eat).And now comes the tarnishing part of the film that is the one part that I loathe and despise. She drags herself back to her cub before dying in front of him and leaving him to fend for himself in the wilderness. It's very frustrating to see Disney resort to the Bambi-esquire cliché of killing off the mummy to tug at the heartstrings, especially since there's no evidence of this in the book, his mother was actually an important character, and not to forget that most of us will have seen it all before! The sequence in the book that this campfire part is based on, was before White Fang was even born, and the gradual growing climax that it built in the Jack London novel is terrifying! (Though I suppose that has no place in a Disney film.) If you intend to read the book, I won't spoil it for you!Afterwards, Conroy comes across the pup in certain circumstances where he has been taken in by the Indians and changes hands to take part in illegal dog-fighting before winding up in the hands of Conroy to rehabilitate him. These plot lines follow fairly accurately to the original London novel, albeit with some deviations, e.g White Fang's mother was called Kiche and was taken in by the Indians, only to be separated from White Fang when she was sold to another Indian, Jack Conroy never appeared in the book, though he is similar to Weedon Scott's character in the novel.The ending to White Fang was bugged with one or two clichés, in that with a gold claim freshly unearthed and ready to leave for California, he lets him free because he'd be miserable in a city though White Fang went TO a new urban home later. We're not too sure why Jack decides to stay in the wilderness either, especially when there's a new life as a rich man in California waiting, except for White Fang to return to him and for them to be reunited (as they are) and a possible instinct of this happening, but it's not very well explained.It's also totally different to that of the ending of the book (that ends in California in the same way Call of the Wild starts there), but before I condemn it, I still have some praise for it being not so lassie-esquire to the effect of being nauseating, satisfying in its own right and closing the story nicely.Perplexingly though, the end tacks on a concluding text from the Defenders of Wildlife that says that JACK LONDON'S White Fang is a work of fiction. There has never been a documented case of a healthy wolf or pack of wolves attacking a human in North America. Because wolves were systematically eliminated throughout most of the United States during our early history and continue to be persecuted today, a nationwide effort is underway to reintroduce wolves into wilderness areas and insure their survival for generations to come. Firstly, White Fang is set in Canada (sorry to be picky but people may still think that wolves have attacked people elsewhere).Secondly, I don't see why the film needs an epilogue like this - it isn't a nature documentary, it's a story! Maybe this is because the film is from 18 years ago when people were more prejudiced about wolves, and though I think wolves are great animals and it is important to protect them, it seems unnecessary to tack this information on at the end!In general, I would recommend this film, whether you've read the book or not. Despite the faults I've listed and the Godawful Bambi-style rubbish, White Fang does have its saving graces. The relationship between Conroy and White Fang is excellently portrayed, and quite poignantly acted by Hawke and Jed the wolf (or wolf-dog, whichever one he falls into). The backdrops of Canada in both Spring and Winter are nothing short of breathtaking, and combined with the settings of the late 19th Century, put us in a real and harsh, but beautiful world that draws you in. If you've read the book, then remember it's Disney and they are liable to changing story material for film-making. Just don't take it too seriously.I wouldn't touch MYTH OF THE WHITE WOLF with a 10 ft fishing pole, though! "},{"Title":"A truly amazing film..","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" A very overlooked film. I saw it on the TV and thought.. wow.. what have I been missing out on? Based on the book by Jack London though not entirely sticking to the storyline. I think that it would have been better if the ending had been how it was in the book. I won't give anything away.. White Fang is a moving story about the lives of a boy, wishing to fulfil his father's dream and an orphaned wolf cub searching for survival. Set within times of the Yukon gold rush. Perhaps not overall suited for young children since there are some disturbing scenes. Not just for wolf/dog fans either. I think that this film should be given a chance. At times, it is tearful others make you want to hug your own dog by your side. Overall, an amazing film that SHOULD NOT be missed!! "},{"Title":"Nice Adventure Movie","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" My son loved this movie as a child. He was really into wolves. Having read the Jack London book, I was a little bewildered by what they did to the plot. Except for a few names of the characters, there isn't a whole lot of the book in the movie. Putting that aside, I decided to not look at it as an adaptation and view it as an adventure movie. It has a whole lot going for it. I'm not sure where it was filmed, but the scenery is breathtaking. It would make a romantic head north, looking for gold. The characters are fun, especially Klaus Maria Brandauer, whom I've always liked, as the rugged Alex Larson. Ethan Hawke is a little goodie two shoes for his role, but he's OK. The prospectors were right, though. He wouldn't last a day without an experienced partner. The scenes with the wolves are very effective. The most memorable scene is when Jack goes through the water and a corpse, that is being transported to his burial site, goes in with him. There are some excellent scenes with dog fights, bear chases, training the wolf after he is rescued from his persecutors, that work. It's nice when you can have a movie like this that can keep the attention of kids without the usual gross out elements. At times it's a little too antiseptic, but that's fine. We could use a little antiseptic these days. "},{"Title":"Beautiful scenery","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I adored this movie. Great cast especially Jed. I loved the set they filmed the movie. It's just breathtaking. It's cold but I would love to visit Alaska because of the beautiful land. It was cruel that they had Jed get into dog fighting. "},{"Title":"Beautiful...but too sad for me.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Jack London was a wonderful author, but I don't like the way animals are treated in his works. This movie was shown at school when I was in 4th grade...and I just cried when White Fang's mother was killed, when he was wandering around alone...I practically sobbed as this poor little puppy was wandering alone through the wilderness, the look in his eyes seeming to sayHelp me, please! It was heartbreaking to watch. I can't bear seeing animals suffering, especially since I've had numerous pets since I was very young. This movie's good, but it's so sad. I couldn't bear to watch it. "},{"Title":"There was once a small cave and in lived a little wolfy...","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember I read the book when I was a kid and I liked it very much. Now that i've seen the film I clearly remembered some of the events from the book (like the last stand in the woods against the hungry wolfs or the dog fights in the town). The ending was definitely different in the book, although i can't remember exactly how it was.This is a pretty good film. I especially liked the nature scenes and the superb Alaskan landscapes, but also the relationship between the boy and his dog/wolf friend. It does have a few boring scenes (involving small talk between humans), but since it's not a very long movie it shouldn't be a problem. "},{"Title":"A Story About Friendship!","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Fang is loosely based on stories written by famous author, Jack London. The movie is a family-friendly adventure with themes on friendship. Friendships between humans and animals are always a sweet story to tell, which makes this film even more valuable. The film itself is pretty realistic in portraying this relationship. The film does show animal cruelty at times, so I was rooting against the sadistic abusers in the movie the entire time. This film is about a teen named Jack Conroy who travels up to the Yukon Territory in Alaska in search for gold. Along his travels, he meet this half dog/half wolf and becomes fascinated with it. The half-breed on the other hand, has been abused most of his life after hunters killed his mother. He has been forced to fight in dog-fighting matches and is trained to be a cold-blooded killer. But this unlikely friendship between boy and dog is a key to survival for them both. The film is reasonably acted. Ethan Hawke does a really good job, in one of his younger roles as Jack Conroy. This isn't his best role, but it's an effective one. Also, the Alaskan malamute, Jed deserves props as well because he does darn well as the half-breed. Overall, White Fang is a fun family movie about friendship. The movie is suitable for children, although there may be a few scary scenes (one involving an open coffin). I really enjoyed watching the film and particularly the scenes that showed the friendship between human and dog. A very realistic portrayal, I might add. My Grade A- "}{"Title":"A poor adaptation of the book, and a mediocre film at best.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" As a film in itself, it's not bad. The story portrayed in the film follows the classic example of an animal film.But as an adaptation of the book by Jack London,it leaves much to be desired. Key areas are missed out entirely, or shrunk to a minor aspect of the film. While some of the original feel of the book is preserved, the relationship between Jack and White Fang is stretched out for the entire film, whilst in the book it only comes about in the last 1/4 of the book. The scenes with Beauty Smith when White Fang acts as a fighting dog are some of the few that remain true to the book.White Fang's early life is completely different to the book, his life with Grey Beaver is not shown or referenced at all, except for a few minutes of screen time.The battle between Beauty Smith's gang, and Jack and Alex, seems to have been completely invented by the script writers. The ending in the film likewise also seems to be made up.If you have read the book, I wouldn't watch it and expect great things. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Adventure Story Of A Wolf's Life In The Klondike Gold Rush","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the 1890's, Jack heads to the Yukon territory to investigate his late father's gold claim. He finds a beautiful but harsh and unforgiving environment, and meets White Fang, a wolf/dog half-breed with whom his destiny will intertwine ...I read Jack London's wonderful book White Fang when I was ten years old and found it a very profound experience. Unlike most animal stories, it does not anthropomorphise its protagonist into a moral or heroic figure, but rather tries to present a narrative realistically from an animal's perspective (as Richard Adams did in his books later). This to me was a real revelation; nature is presented as cruel and relentless, there is no room for stupidity or weakness, yet White Fang's courage and nobility come from his inner strength as well as his physical prowess. It's just a really great tale, a heady mixture of action, travelogue and frontier history about man's relationship with nature. This Disney adaptation abridges and rearranges some of the events but remains extremely faithful to the novel's essence and doesn't shy away from the more brutal and heartbreaking elements of the story. On a technical level it is excellent; shot in the Alaskan boroughs of Haines and Skagway where the novel is set (and where London was inspired to write it), with beautiful landscapes by British cameraman Tony Pierce-Roberts. The countryside, with its ice floes, pine forests, majestic mountains and sparkling creeks is not just part of the story, it really is the story. Combined with Basil Poledouris' fantastic score it makes the far-off place and time come to life with breathtaking immediacy and beauty. There's another reason however why this film should not be missed and it's one of the cast. The human actors are all fine - Hawke is a good goodie and Remar is a good baddie, but the real star is Jed the dog, who plays the eponymous hero. Jed, like the part he plays, was a real life half-breed, part Alaskan Malamute, part wolf, and unlike most animal actors, who for the most part do tricks on cue, actually gives a real performance. He's very still, and behind his eyes he's both wild and intelligent, always thinking. There are amazing scenes, like the one where he builds a trust with Jack by gradually coming closer to him, shot in two or three incredible takes, and he's an incredibly beautiful animal to look at, but he does more than that, somehow inhabiting the character completely. White Fang is an outcast; dogs hate him because of his wolf half, people recoil in fear and yet he doesn't have a pack to run with. He's alone and his loneliness mirrors Jack's and ours. Jed somehow embodies all of this, partly via his training and the filmmakers' skill, but mostly through simply being. If you don't think animals can act, check this out and you will be converted. For bonus points, there's also a great scene featuring Bart The Bear, a huge Kodiak grizzly who is memorable in several other films (notably Legends Of The Fall and The Edge). A truly great family adventure movie from the pen of one of America's greatest writers - please read the book too (as well as London's earlier The Call Of The Wild) - which thrills and entertains us but also gently reminds us always to respect the beauty and savagery of our world. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie, But I Prefer Iron Will (MILD SPOILERS)","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I saw this movie, I thought that this would definitely not be as good as the novel by Jack London. The book White Fang was amazing, and a fantastic book. Well, this was not as good as the book, and it was not close to it at all. Still, this was a great movie, but like I said in my summary, I like Iron Will just a bit better.The acting was very well-done to tell you the truth. You could actually believe the actors. The direction was also very good. Some scenes could be beautiful, some scenes could be gritty. Unfortunately, like all of these family movies, some scenes could be cheesy, and there was a handful of scenes that were cheesy. Still, with all of these pros and just a couple cons, this is a fantastic movie that the whole family can enjoy.7/10 Recommended Films Iron Will. "},{"Title":"One of the best real life adventure movies ever made!!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you compare this movie to one of the Indiana Jones movies for example you´ll see that it is more like real life.It´s not some fantasy adventure, and I think that´s what makes this movie so great and fascinating.The scenary is one of the best I´ve ever seen.And the actors do a great job too.But let´s face it, the wolf steals the show!! (8/10) "},{"Title":"I HAVE THE WHITE FANG ORIG Soundtrack!!!!","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" OMG OMG OMG I am SOOOO excited I finally FINALLY have the ORIGINAL (RARE) White Fang Soundtrack!!!!!!! YAY! D I am in heaven. It must have been Divine intervention lol. I actually got it. It turned out to be a bootleg copy that someone made out to look like an original, but I don't care. The music...omg it has like 51 tracks of nothing but wonderful Basil's White Fang score (yes the ENTIRE score of the 1991 film, not #2). SOOOO awesome. Anyway, enough bragging lol.The movie is such a wonderful experience too. Jed the malamute is SOOOOOO frickin awesome. He was my ultimate dream-dog hehheh. True enough to the orig story to be worthy of the title White Fang. The scenery combined with Basil Poledouris music alone makes this movie a personal favorite.Hey, if anyone is desperate for a copy of the White Fang soundtrack (ALL tracks composed by legendary Basil Poledouris), I would be happy to help you out...knowing how much this score meant to me and searching for it all these years without any luck...until now! I believe music like this wasn't meant to be kept hidden away in the vaults of greedy corporations who only see music as numbers/sales/$$$ and don't understand or care how deeply some music can touch the soul and inspire.asoulwithpaws (at) y a h o o (dot) com ) "},{"Title":"Great Story towards Wolves","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is great movie because at first it shows the story of a boy who trying to find his fathers claim with the help of a guy named Alex Larson. At the beginning it shows the life of how wolves lived and even how they live today. It made me sad to see that wolf loose his mother. And how they made dogs fight back then. To me that is just cruelty to animals. Its good to know that none of the animals were hurt during that film. And just how a brave boy just went in and helped that wolf and saved his life. We should always treat animals with respect thats a good thing Disney movies do a lot of teaching us all right from wrong. I also like what they say at the end about how almost all the wolves were killed through out our American history. And about they opened up national parks for wolves to live in peace. By the American Humane Association. I thank the AHA for doing all that great work. "},{"Title":"the book","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have indeed seen the movie. But if any of you have actually read the book.You would quickly realize that he did not treat animals badly in his books. In the book there is no evidence that White Fangs mother was killed. The Indian gray beaver found both of them and kept White Fang as a pet. His mother was later traded for goods.Also later in the book White fang stumbles upon the cave where he was born and finds his mother nursing a new litter of cubs. So those of you who think the movie is correct with the book you are very mistaken. The book goes into greater detail. Most of the names in the movie are incorrect. "},{"Title":"Disliked the book and movie.","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" White Fang is about a boy and a wolf. It's not the Boy who cried for wolf but more of a Boy who found a wolf.Taken place in the early 20th Century. In Alaska with this boy who is on an expedition party with a few other guys. The wilderness is very different from where the boy is from. The city life that is.He eventually meets a wolf, who is own by an Indian tribe. Named White Fang because it has a white face.Eventually the Wolf ends up in an accident, and the boy takes responsibility on the wolf. And the wolf soon trusts the kid and became friends with the boy.This movie is slightly interesting but no cigar. Not a film for everyone in my opion. The book is different and more boring than the movie itself. If you are interested in this film rent it first. "}]