[{"Title":"An enjoyable B-grade action movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Directed by John Glen, best known for his work on the James Bond series, Iron Eagle III is a decent enough aviation-action-B-Movie.  Louis Gossett Jr.'s Chappy is back in action, this time flying vintage World War Two aircraft instead of modern jet fighters.  It's a good change of scenery, even if the German Me-109 and Japanese Zero are actually American aircraft in disguise a P-51 B stands in for the Me-109, and a whitewashed Texan shemps it as a Zero.The plot is all to familiar A heroic group goes rogue to take on the drug cartel.  Except this time the cartel happens to be under the command of an Ex-Nazi.  John Glen is a competent action director and makes the most out of what was no doubt a budget considerably smaller than the typical 007 film. The acting is mixed, and we receive different levels of performance from the different actors. Gossett probably tuns in the best performance of the group.Fans of aviation movies will no doubt find at least some elements of the movie pleasing.  It does feature some beautiful aircraft, most notably the British Spitfire and American P-38 Lightning.  An authentic Me-109 and Zero would have greatly added to the film, but at least the Spitfire and Lightning are the real deal.  At one point the WWII planes take on some lower end jet fighters, and some humor and nostalgia ensue. As one pilot in the movie likes saying technology is no match for seasoning.  It's a fun concept to see the propeller driven dogfighters-which by the end of WWII were approaching their twilight, as electronic warfare began to develop- taking on that which made them obsolete, and defeating them.Apart from Gossett, there are a few recognizable actors in the film. Sonny Chiba plays the pilot of the Zero. Mitch Ryan of Dharma and Greg fame plays General Simms.  Tom Bower as DEA agent Crawford is also recognizable, as you've probably seen him in bit roles in other movies.Second to Chappy, the most featured character in the movie is Rachel McLish's Anna.  Her greatest asset is her physical presence on the screen. Her most remarkable scene is her first, when she escapes from her chains, muscles popping out everywhere.  Her dialogue isn't the best to work with, and her delivery is adequate, nothing more.  But that's not to say I didn't enjoy watching her.  After all, this is an action movie, not a drama.  The video cover box makes her out as Rambo with an X chromosome, but her character is more vulnerable than that, which I suppose is a good thing since it adds realism.All things considered, Aces Iron Eagle III is an enjoyable B-grade action movie.  The producers were wise to change the scene for this movie, as Iron Eagle I and II featured F-16's.  Iron Eagle III isn't perfect, but at least it's not a complete rehashing of the first two movies-a commendable effort. "},{"Title":"Slighty unrealistic, but good entertainment","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Aces Iron Eagle 3 is a pretty good movie despite it's bad reviews I've read between critics and other IMDB users.  I didn't really go mad for the original Iron Eagle and I thought Iron Eagle 2 was rubbish but Aces Iron Eagle 3 does get my approval. I like the idea of four different men from different countries coming together as one to fight on the same side. One huge flaw in this movie is the plot, there's no way old WW2 fighters, no matter how good they look, could take on modern jet fighters...it could be done, maybe if the modern fighters had no wings!Overall a good entertaining TopGun style movie, if a little unrealistic.6/10   "},{"Title":"An Ace of a B Movie","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Maybe it's just cause I'm kinda partial to great flying and big-busted women who kick butt, but Aces Iron Eagle 2 is the most fun I've had watching a movie all year (the other highlight being Princess Diaries 2, but that's another story).After seeing the original, pathetic Top Gun wannabee (aircraft engaged in aerial combat shooting static displays, COME ON!), I skipped Iron Eagle 2. However, there were some things I wanted to see after watching the previews and seeing the poster. Yeah, those things belonging to Rachael McLish, the only body builder of EITHER gender who ever got my cigar puffing (Yeah, I know this is sexist as hell, but I'm on a roll and it's THAT kind of movie). No nudity, darn it, but McLish is hot and handles herself well, especially with a couple of machine guns. Besides, how many movie's do you get to see with Sonny (Streetfighter) Chiba, Horst (Magnificent Seven) Bucholz and Senator Fred Thompson of the great state of Tennessee, not to mention, the downright neat (with the right script) Lou Gossett, Jr.? Yeah, Aces is predictable, but that's part of its charm. It was probably also fun for former 007 director John Glen to work with people who can actually enjoy their work without trivializing it. HEY ROGER MOORE AND TIM DALTON PAYING ATTENTION? Just wish McLish would've had more exposure ...I give Aces Iron Eagle 3 a 7. MISS MCLISH DO YOU HAVE ANY OUTTAKES? THE RIGHT ONES WOULD BE WORTH AN 8. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  this was an absolute thrill to watch. i was very suprised to see rachel mclish do so well in this movie. her muscularity made her perfect for this. i especially liked the close up on here beautiful, bulging arms. a great cast makes this a must see "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish but I watched it all the way through","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This movie was total nonsense, but still I kept watching. The action is quite good and plenty of explosions. Absolutely ludicrous plot. Theres a bit where the Spitfire pilot shoots down a jet with a grenade launcher while he hangs out of the cockpit. Nonsense but great stuff. Its got Horst Bucholtz in as well. "},{"Title":"Typical Air Force Fantasy with a Twist - The heroes fly antiques!","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This film incorporates most of the clichés, (republican) political themes,and formulae of modern military fiction, and tells a story about aging planes and the aging men who fly them fighting to avenge the honor of a fellow pilot and put a dent (more of a bomb crater) in the drug war. The film also adds some characterization and entertaining action sequences, and attempts, though not very effectively, to employ comic relief (Phill Lewis' character).Lou Gossett Jr, Sonny Chiba, Chris Cazenove, and Horst Bucholtz play a team of exhibition fliers who put on air shows in authentic and semi-authentic WWII planes. Gossett also has a 'day job' at an air force base which is due to be closed. When one of Gossett's younger colleagues loses his plane and the wreckage is found to have been stuffed with cocaine, Chappy (Gossett) goes into action.Meanwhile in Peru - where all of this will ultimately lead - our female lead, Anna escapes imprisonment by an ex-Nazi drug-lord who has taken over her small town. Anna is an athlete and appears to be about 23 years old. The character is played by Rachel McLish - who is, as of 2007, 51 years old. The film is 15 years old, so she was in her mid-30s when she made it. I had to look up her age three times before I could believe what I was seeing. McLish is not a bad actress, though not quite up to the level of the rest of the cast. She is, however, excellently physical, and would have made a great action star (I wouldn't be surprised if this option were still open to her).A quarter of the way through the film, these two plots are about to coalesce.If you're a fan of military fantasy, you just might enjoy this fairly silly but very pretty film. Others should probably avoid it. "},{"Title":"Welllll....","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Let me put it this way if you're looking for a movie with lots of action, plenty of explosions, Sonny Chiba (!), a cast as integrated as an old Star Trek episode and the wonders of Rachel McLish, you MUST see Aces Iron Eagle III.The first one was pretty good in a cheesy, '80s way; the second was more or less forgettable (tell the truth, I can't remember one character from it)... but Aces - It has everything an action fan could want. ...that is, if you haven't seen Top Gun, Die Hard or any other movies with explosions, planes, Louis Gossett Jr., etc... etc....But Rachel McLish.Sighhhhh....Excuse me, where was I?  Oh yes, Rachel.  What a woman.  Not only is she stronger than any of the guys in this film, but she shoots, fights, speaks Spanish and strangles guards with chains better than Bruce Willis ever dreamed of.  Looks better in a t-shirt, too.Two and a half stars for Aces.  Good stunts, explosions....  Great use of a former Ms. Olympia.      "},{"Title":"I'm getting too old for this sh!t.","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The third entry to take off the runway Aces Iron Eagle III happened to be the only feature from the series not to have director / writer Sidney J. Furie involved and he was replaced by director John Glen (who would be well known for his contributions to the 007 cycle). However Louis Gossett Jr. would return as everybody's favourite pilot Charles 'Chappy' Sinclair. Everything about this one is fairly far-fetched, lively and over-the-top, but for me it would have to be the most enjoyable of the series. Far better than the tepid last film. This b-grade effort plays out as if Top Gun met Rambo in a drug war, but with a twist as the planes used here are vintage aircrafts manned by veteran fighter pilots of different cultures. America, England, Germany and Japan are teaming up to battle corruption in an American Air force base and a German drug lord (played by Paul Freeman with venomous aplomb) living it up in South America. Gossett Jr. seems to be having a good time in the role, along with other actors Hortz Buchholz, Sonny Chiba and Christopher Cazenove. The chemistry between the four simply crackles. Also bodybuilder Rachel McLish would appear for some flexing of her muscles and to kick some ass --- doing her best impersonation of Rambo. There are some more recognisable faces turning up; Fred Dalton Thompson, Mitch Ryan, Juan Fernandez, Tom Bower, J.E. Freeman and a comical turn by Phill Lewis. Streaming through it is a comic-book tone, where it balances out its serious side (honour and pride) with some clowning humour (witty exchanges aplenty) and a wicked death here or there (death by bell anyone). Again like the other films in the series, it's slow to start off --- characters gelling, plans are being schemed and investigations are occurring, but when it takes flight. It's time to go up against the odds. Director Glen comes to the stage, constructing blistering action set-pieces of genuine excitement (which wouldn't be out of place in a Bond presentation) and stellar airborne sequences --- especially the cat mouse scenes with the old-school planes up against the F-16s. Maybe unbelievable, but it gets the blood pumping along with Harry Manfredini's soaring music score. Senselessly clichéd, but fun action escapism.You want miracles. Why don't you call the pope. "},{"Title":"Four heroes from the past return to protect the future!","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I love movie's that include vintage war planes in the plot, and this is no exception- even though the ME-109 and Japanese Zero were substituted by a repainted P-51B and a T-6 Texan. But it was still a fun b movie ride. Directed by John Glen, best known for his work on the James Bond series, the story follows Chappy Sinclair (once again played by Louis Gossett, Jr.) who is now flying part time in an air show act, with him flying a P-38 Lightening. Joining him in the show are three washed up WWII vets Palmer from Great Britain, piloting a Supermarine Spitfire (beautiful airplane); Leichman from Germany, piloting an Me-109 (the P-51B I mentioned earlier, but still magnificent looking none the less); and Hirokoshi, piloting the Zero. The action starts when a deceased friend's sister approaches Chappy for help in taking down a Nazi drug lord who is holding her Peruvian village hostage. With her and a street wise hustler by his side, Chappy and the vets out fit the planes with air to ground rockets and set out to prove that its about the man, not the machine. The action in this movie is awesome, considering the budget, and its a fun concept seeing these pilots coming together and putting past former differences past for one final battle. If you love antique fighters and aren't a nitpick, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Just plain weird","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just a strange plot.Imagine a german a japanese person and an american named  Chappy who all have planes from their country during WW2.No this isn't a joke  its the movie Iron Eagles 3 Aces .This flick does have its moments though.If you're looking for a good war movie id recommend Top Gun or Iron Eagle  and Iron eagle 4.This is only for Iron Eagle buffs. "}{"Title":"Slight Goofs","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  OK, guys. Lighten up. It's not THAT bad--and as another commenter said, it has Horst Buckholz (cf One, Two, Three, with Cagney, not to mention The Magnificent Seven, for crying out loud!). Name me another great fly-boy shoot-em up fantasy flic that has United States Senator Fred Thompson AND Ray Boom Boom Mancini in it? Plus great warbird flying footage?As an Air Force vet, a little boo-boo that stood out immediately to me In scenes where Chappy (Lou Gossett's character) is in his dress blue Air Force uniform (eagles on the epaulets correctly indicating a colonel) he clearly has ENLISTED MAN'S (airmen and sergeants) U.S. insignia on his lapels. It shows the U.S. inside a ring. That's how it looks on an enlisted man's uniform. A colonel (an officer) would have just plain U.S. without the circle around it. Have a look at his boss's (the general) lapels. He has the correct ones.  "},{"Title":"Who's responsible for this?","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Unintentionally funny & painfully dumb.  Makes the original Iron Eagle look like Citizen Kane.  Why anyone would agree to participate in this is beyond me.  They probably could have gotten more money and respect selling Amway. I watched this movie at 300 in the morning because nothing else was on TV. I wish I would have watched the Weather Channel.  I think this movie was trying to suck out my soul. "},{"Title":"Strangely compelling, kinda like the scene of an accident!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that this film was utter tripe.  I couldn't begin to tell you what on earth this thing was actually about.THAT SAID - I sat and watched this ridiculous rubbish from beginning to end. I have seen it three or four times since then, just when it's been on telly (TV to you Yanks) and you DO sit and watch it, even if it's 10 minutes from the end.It's strangely compelling, like the scene of a terrible accident, you have to slow down and take a look.  It's worth watching just to see the unique and inventive way in which the bad guys get their cummupance (I don't consider this to be a spoiler, sorry if it is, surely you realise the bad guys have all got be killed in the most unlikely and elaborate ways!)In summary - as other critics of this film have said, the idea of WWII aircraft taking on state-of-the-art fighter jets is ludicrous but then the film is ludicrous.  So is the cast of characters, particularly Christopher Cazenove playing the stereotypical Englishman that makes Brits like me want to strip them of their British passports!  However, this mindless rubbish is entertaining for its pure stupidity.It's perfect if you've just ate a big meal and simply want to veg out infront of the box while your food goes down. "},{"Title":"Aces Iron Eagle III","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Still getting over the fact that the first Iron Eagle, had been made...here's the third installment in this awful series of films about a fighter pilot, a musclewoman and some vets that hit a Peru drug lab. Silly from the word GO! "},{"Title":"what?!?!?!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  did the writers of this movie think we're idiots? vintage world war two p-51 mustangs outflying and outgunning mig jets?!?! hell, why not take on the army in a biplane next. no wait...we can defeat the entire soviet air force by using only paper airplanes...  "},{"Title":"not really iron eagle movie","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This movie doesn't have to do with F-16's like the other two previous movies.Instead the character played by GossettJr is now a reserve pilot who works in flying shows and along with some of his old pilot buddies in the show,fly some WWII aircraft down to South America to help save innocent farmers from an evil Nazi.The idea of WWII planes fighting modern jets is only for the very hardcore WWII aviation fans.It looks more like a Rambo movie than an Iron Eagle movie,so i didn't care much for it.The main Rambo-like character is played by RachelMcLish,a female bodybuilder.They wanted to do something different than the two first movies but this idea didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"It's a remake","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Daft, very daft, but maybe a guilty pleasure.However...am I the only one to notice that this is a remake of The Magnificent Seven (itself a remake of The Seven Samurai)? It even stars Horts Bucholz reprising his role from the original (in the same way that Robert Vaughn played his old role in that other seminal remake, Battle Beyond the Stars.) So, if we count A Bug's Life (which I do), that is 4 unofficial remakes of The Seven Samurai.However, let's be realistic. Ms McLish has her charms, to be sure, but she's basically a cut price female Steven Seagal.And John Glen is a poor director. The 80's Bond movies are the weakest of the series by far, and very nearly killed off the franchise after Licence To JKill. The common denominator? John Glen.And am I also the only one to notice that the pilots are all far too young to have fought in World War 2?Still, it's better than the first 2, but I think there may be a fourth Iron Eagle which I have never felt the need to see. "},{"Title":"Well it's clear why your not a star!","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Aces Iron Eagle III is the first and only film in the series not directed by Sidney J. Furie, and I have to say it's all the better for it. However that doesn't make it good. The Film came off as more a rejected episode of the A-Team then as a great stand alone film. While the film is not exactly horrible, it's fun and it has a nice pace and energy, it's Sonny Chiba that really drew me in. In one of his few American film appearances, Chiba turns in a performance that in some ways raised the bar a little, that was then subsequently lowered very single time Rachel McLish opened her mouth. It was funny to watch her shot a gun, as she tried to hold it like Arnold Schwarzenegger or Sylvester Stallone, yet also sort of flinching too. If only she could of acted, even a little, she might of had a career as an action star, but she flat out sucks! If she had any less emotion in her voice she might have been suspected of being a robot. Gossett Jr. tries his best to keep the film moving, and for it's time and budget it worked alright. Overall it felt like a made for TV ripoff then a actual sequel. I wished they would of explored Chappy's and Doug's further adventures in these sequels, but alas they chose to churn out stuff like this, that while not bad, it's Still better then number II...just isn't enough to make it work. "},{"Title":"Snake eyes...","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Louis Gossett Jr returns as Chappy Sinclair who is this time aided by Sonny Chiba and Co to battle Colombian drug-lords who have kidnapped the brother of rebel fighter (Played by body builder Rachel McGlish) and so the grumpy old men show up to put on a show that proves that these old farts still have what it takes to become one man armies. Okay this is when things got terrible and the main reason is that we are forced to watch over the hill guys save the day. Not fun to watch at all and even Gossett seems bored with the material. Also of disappointment is just how wussed out they make Chiba's character. Back in the 70's Chiba was the most ruthless martial artist ever and now he is reduced to a sobbing soldier who isn't up to par. It is all terrible to watch and really it serves as example as of what killed Gossett's career.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Propaganda film of the stupidest type.","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" whoever thought that this movie was a thing that needed to exist needs to be dragged out of Hollywood and thrown in a stockade. or at least a brig.Bizarre pro-drug war, wet dream of Monroe-doctrine-humping idiots. cheesy like Velveeta, and not in the good sense. I haven't even finished the movie and I'm already wanting my life back.the plot is nonsensical, the twist is about as bendy as a re-bar, and the characters as believable as three dollar bills. Racial stereotypes are played for their full effect, it's a low point in the career of everyone involved.hell the planes aren't any good either, which was the best part of the first two.The only redeeming quality is that it ends. it's biggest flaw is that it starts. save your money on the rental. just grab a stick, sharpen it and poke yourself in the eye repeatedly. it'll be more amusing. "}{"Title":"Stupid Gathering of washed up ex-stars","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The Movie is a complete trash-fest. There are so many glaring errors, its almost too funny to watch. But painting a P51-Mustang in Luftwaffe Camouflage,is really over the top. They actually want us to believe this is a Me 109. Terrible Movie,but entertaining on a Trash-Level.Did I already say that the Acting is pure torment? Never seen such seemingly uninterested looking actors.marc 242 "}]