[{"Title":"Rich and satisfying","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Years ago, in California, I walked into a gas station convenience store to buy some consumable or other.  The man who took my money was a Mexican emigre, and he saw that I was carrying a copy of the book Like Water for Chocolate by Laura Esquivel.  He asked how I liked it, and I told him I was loving it.  He told me not to miss the movie.Oh, I answered, but I always worry that the movie will never be as good as the book.It doesn't matter, he told me.  This is a very great film.  And it is the first real Mexican film I have ever seen shown in this country.  You know, to everybody, not just the Mexican community.I smiled and told him I would check it out, but honestly, I had no idea what he was talking about.  After all, I knew who Dolores Del Rio and Cantinflas were, and the movies with them that I had seen were shown in L.A., to everybody.But now, at last, I have seen this movie, and now, at last, I know what this guy was talking about.  Like, wow!  This really is a real Mexican film! Art! Cinema! More than just a bit of popular fluff!  Tender, compassionate and very witty, like the book on which it is based, this movie celebrates Mexican culture -- not just on the food, the preparation of which forms the premise of the story, but as kind of a rollicking take on the history of the young country at the turn of the century.  It celebrates the music, the style of life on a ranch, the strength of the extended family, the beauty of the land, and the ethnic mixing pot that is every Mexican.  There is so much reckless joy and passionate love in this film, even when it portrays pain.  It openly depicts female eroticism.  (Plus, for a big change from US cinema, we get to see beautiful men and women of many shapes, sizes and colors all on the same screen.)  The acting is flawless, and the star, Lumi Cavazos, is absolutely charming, full of life and credibility.The only flaws I found in this film were minor and had to do with timing.  For example, the final ascent to the climax seems to have been shortchanged a little bit.  I would have liked to reach through this scene a little more slowly.To judge Mexican cinema by the type of films I had seen before this one would be like judging U.S. cinema on the basis of Jerry Lewis or some cheesy melodramas from the '40s and '50s, but not taking into account any of our real film art.  I'd love to know what else I've missed.  Can't wait to find out. "},{"Title":"A cookbook turned fairy tale","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually when I read a book, I am disappointed by the movie; there is so much more in the written word than can be put on screen.  And when I see a movie I never want to read the book afterwards.  This was the first movie that I read the book after seeing the movie; Como Agua Para Chocolate is THAT good a movie!  And the book is WONDERFUL! The fairy tale aspect of this movie is told subtly, but with a strong Hispanic sense of mysticism-- you have the evil (step)mother, the heroine as Virgin Mary, who has magical powers, unrequited love, the unobtainable prince, and other classic fairy tale elements.  This combines with the real elements of the Mexican Revolution and old world family practices revolving around family relations, martimony, and most of all cooking.  Food plays a major role in this movie, but even more so in the book. I recommend both the book and the movie. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie, educational and entertaining","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a wonderful romantic movie set in Mexico at the turn of the 20th century during the Mexican revolution. It is the story of a woman named Tita and the love of her life Pedro. When Tita is young, Pedro asks Tita's mother for her permission to marry Tita; however, due to the fact that Tita is the youngest daughter, family tradition bans her from marrying and she must remain unwed to care of her mother. Pedro then marries Rosaura, Tita's sister, and tells his father that he is only marrying Rosaura to be closer to Tita. Very upset by all of this and her loveless situation, Tita infuses her passion and love for Pedro into her food and thus, when people consume her cooking they become intensely aroused, at one point resulting in her sister Gertrudis getting lustfully swept away by a revolutionary soldier. Tita's mother sees that she and Pedro are becoming quite close and so she sends Pedro and Rosaura off to go and live in San Antonio. Tita becomes very depressed and even more depressed when she hears that Pedro and Rosaura's son Roberto has died; so depressed that her mother sends her to an asylum. At the asylum, Tita is brought back to health by a doctor named John Browne. No sooner does Tita begin to recover when her mother is injured by rebel soldiers in a raid and she is forced to return home to her ranch. When Tita returns home, her mother is very bitter and refuses to eat thinking that Tita's food is poisoned and soon dies. After Tita's mother dies, Tita is allowed to marry and the doctor, John Browne, proposes. John asks Pedro to bless the marriage and when talking to Tita about this Pedro lustfully takes her virginity. The movie continues with the main premise of who Tita will choose to spend her life with, Pedro or John Browne and her battle against her mother's ghost. The movie interestingly depicts revolutionary Mexico and the soldiers involved. The Mexican Revolution was mainly between supporter of Díaz, very conservative, and supporters of Madero and Zapata who believed in land reform and more help to the indigenous. The fighting between the two factions continued quite intensely until February 9, 1913 when President Wilson sent Madero a message saying that his fighting in Mexico City was dangerous to U.S. citizens and property. Madero hated this foreign intervention, but Huerta was placed in power to quell the fighting. Huerta was well liked by the aristocracy, the capitalists, and church but was hated by Zapata, Pancho Villa, Carranza and Obregón who led the opposition right after his induction as president. The fighting then continued and later even began within the liberal faction, but died down when Carranza was named President. The movie does a good job showing the different types of soldiers, those with Díaz and those with Madera and Zapata. Tita's sister Gertrudis runs off with a revolutionary and returns later as a general in charge of an army of fifty five men. Tita's mother was harmed by soldiers as well, but a more violent type of soldier. The movie does an excellent job illustrating the uncertainty of the period and the different roles people played. The history is accurate, but I thought it might be a bit helpful for their to be a little bit more background for it could be hard to someone who does not know about the Mexican Revolution to understand what is happening. All in all, the acting was very good, the storyline was enticing, and the cinematography was excellent. It is definitely a movie worth watching, both as entertainment and as something educational. Rating this movie out of ten points, ten being the highest, I give it a ten easily. It is a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A Breath of Hot Oxygen 10/10","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Water for Chocolate is a masterpiece in that it conveys the essence of our ancestors' knowledge forgotten in the fast pace of modern living.It centers around the wonder of cooking a sacred ritual, not a boring chore; and when done right, with love, it creates magic.  Raised and taught to cook by her old Mayan nanny, Tita (exquisitely performed by Lumi Cavazos) masters the near-magical ability of transferring her love and other feelings into her creations passed into one who eats them.The characters&#145; senses are so refined, they enable everyone involved in this family drama to be tuned to the finest nuances of their world, opening the door to non-material pleasures.  Rich with metaphors, their language reflects the skills of keen and sometimes humorous observation.  The story brings our perception to a different level - as its characters' empathy borders on miracles and magic, and things we only sense and feel become real.  Tita's virgin breasts, feeling `like dough kneaded' by strong hands, turn into mature breasts under Pedro's burning eyes (to later start lactating) - their glances, just like her food, becoming the means of communicating their forbidden love.Yet all magic becomes wasted in the face of a man's choice.  The Universe may scream into Pedro's ears about the path he is to take, but if he doesn't follow it, no magic can save him. We witness the story of a fatal attraction between two soulmates, whose passion, confined by an enslaving family tradition, lights up everyone around them... But for themselves, it's so intense, it literally engulfs the lovers in flames.  Did they have an alternative?  It is for the viewer to figure out.You may ponder, however, over the young doctor's Indian grandmother saying that `each  of us is born with a box of matches inside but we can't strike them all by ourselves; we need oxygen and a candle to help.  The oxygen would come from a lover's breath; the candle could be a food, a melody, a word, a caress, or a sound...' He remembers her warning, though, that `it  is important to light the matches one at a time' because otherwise the heat generated  would produce too dazzling a brilliance.Thus the wisdom of the ages, just like the power, is passed here through women and the men who are in tune with them.  And the intense interactions between the colorful characters of five generations extend to dead family members who continue to counsel or despise the living.When coming into her room with Pedro after 22 years of their waiting for each other, Tita is greeted by her long deceased nanny lighting her bed and the room with multiple candles.  And the consequences of one's actions carries on beyond time - as each person continues her path notwithstanding death.Hot yellow-red colors intermixed with dense lighting rekindle one's passion for living and appreciation for the gifts and mysteries of the Mexican land.  The magic realism becomes a way of living in a culture connected with its heritage.I recommend Like Water for Chocolate to anyone who feels like he/she is lacking color and passion in life - if watched with an open mind and heart, this beautiful and enigmatic film will stir your senses and imagination and light up your box of matches!  "},{"Title":"A visually exciting, intensely erotic movie","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful, fanciful and very erotic movie.  It is a rare film that is as good as the book on which it is based.  It was a wise decision to have Laura Esquivel, the author of the book, write the screenplay.  The story contains so much fantasy, I thought it might be very difficult to translate it sucessfully to the screen, but the results are superb.The scene in which Tita's sister is so aroused after eating Tita's Rose Petal soup that she literally burns down their outdoor shower from her body heat and then runs naked across the plain only to be scooped up and carried away on horseback by a bandit is one of the sexiest moments ever put on film.This movie is not for everyone, but if you enjoy erotic (but NOT pornographic) fantasy, try Like Water for Chocolate!  "},{"Title":"A Fabulous Fable","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Scenes of incredible beauty and humor. This film appeals to all of humankind's tastes (visual, intellectual, gustatory, sexual, etc.) It is one of the greatest romantic comedies showing the lives, values and beliefs of another culture ever presented as a gift to the American public. Be aware though that it is not an experience that will appeal to everyone. You won't enjoy it if you don't love food, have an imagination and understand that daytime soaps are not art.   "},{"Title":"A deeply moving and sensuous tale of forbidden love...","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Como agua para chocolate partway through on the spanish channel and was immediately entranced by it's raw beauty and emotion.Thank God for those subtitles or I would have moved on. It's a tale of old traditions in Mexico and Tita, the youngest daughter, is the one doomed to follow them.The tradition is that the youngest is to stay with her mother and take care of her and remain single the rest of her life while her oldest sister gets to marry. For Tita though, it's too much for her to bear having fallen in love with Pedro, the one that her sister is to marry. Later he admits to Tita that he only married her sister to be near her.The rest of the story is for you to uncover.I have never seen a more romantic scene in any movie where Gertrudis runs from the burning shower down the road and is swept into the arms of her lover and carried away. It's a stunningly sensual film that is deeply moving. If you haven't seen it, watch it with a lover.That only adds to the romance of the story! "},{"Title":"A great film representation of magical realism","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm greatly surprised at some of the negative comments for Like Water for Chocolate, many of which state how it utterly failed to capture the passion or the mystical tone of Laura Esquivel's book.I suppose it's only a matter of opinion(like pretty much everything, I guess), but I thought the movie represented the book's magical realism in a great way. The filmmakers knew not to exaggerate or take everything over the top(which could've been very easy), and this gives the fantastical moments-- such as all the guests becoming ill at the wedding or the shower bursting into flame as Gertrudis bathed-- an essential grounding in reality. This fact is also buttressed by the erotic musical score and the whole cast, who fit the characters from the novel perfectly IMO.I would recommend giving the film of Like Water for Chocolate a go; and trying out the book as well. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable and romantic","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The two things that stood out for me in this film are the telling of this story and how you had no idea what was going to happen next and of course the performance of Lumi Cavazos. Its one of those rare experiences that stay with you long after you have seen the film. Both strong and self assured. Whats really amazing is that its Cavazos first film role (That I know of, anyway) her natural charm is essential to this story. Not a film for all taste's but a very unique movie overflowing with romantic grandeur. "},{"Title":"Let it cast its spell on you","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I thought I didn't like it. But when I found that I could think of nothing else for the next several days, I realized that it had cast its spell on me. Indeed, it will take you to a magical place if you let it.The plot is apparently a common one in Spanish literature. A woman in a loveless but proper marriage has three daughters. Shortly after the birth of the youngest, her husband dies, leaving her a widow with a ranch to run and three daughters to raise. Family tradition dictates that the youngest daughter must never marry, but rather stay and care for the mother as she ages. It is this youngest daughter, Tita (Lumi Cavazos), that we follow as she struggles with this oppressive tradition, which her mother, Elena (Regina Torne) forces upon her. Tita, a beautiful young woman, is loved by Pedro (Marco Leonardi), but his request for her hand in marriage is spurned by Elena, who suggests he marry her eldest daughter, the homely Rosaura (Yareli Arizmendi). Pedro does this so he can live at the ranch and be near Tita. Tita's other sister, Gertrudis (Claudette Maille) and her nurse, Nacha (Ada Carrasco) are sympathetic to her plight. Rosaura is oblivious of Pedro's preference for her sister. Elena, however, is quite well aware of it, and it only serves to enhance her cruelty towards Tita. It's a no win situation for Tita, but she manages to make the best of it, by putting her repressed emotions into her cooking, with some surprising results.It's not the pleasantest of stories, nor the most sensible. One would think that Elena, who is supposed to be a fairly intelligent woman, would treat Tita more kindly since she is forcing Tita to stay with her. Their conflict resonates throughout the movie, driving the story along with a great deal of power. Along the way, we get a little magic, a lot of humor, and an unfortunately tragic ending. And it is a tale that stays with you long after the movie has finished.The acting is wonderful. Cavazos gives us a heroine you can't help liking. Balancing her is Torne, who plays Elena with malice that would give even Joan Crawford pause. Arizmendi does a nice job with Rosaura, giving us a character who starts out pleasant enough, but whose upset at what befalls her causes her to become just like her mother. Maille's Gertrudis is a wonderful, if slightly manipulative, free spirit. Leonardi's Pedro is a bit wimpy, making me wonder what Tita and Rosaura see in him, but still turns in a good performance.The cinematography is gorgeous, giving an enjoyable view of the Mexican countryside. And the presentation of the food is stunning, making your mouth water.This film is a delight for the senses, and one that is well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Food can be so Romantic","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a palette for the taste buds, a feast for the eyes and an awakening for the romance. In Spanish with English subtitles, Like Water for Chocolate has nothing to do with water or chocolate but rather the magical qualities of food when you put love into the cooking. Its romantic, erotic, dramatic and very funny and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous cinematic experience that defies categorization","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps it is fortunate that I saw Como agua para chocolat before I read the novel on which it was based; too often I hear criticism of the film not living up to the book, and feel badly for the viewers who were so busy comparing the two in their minds that they were unable to enjoy what was, for me, one of the best cinematic experiences of my life.I learned from Como agua para chocolat that American movies are constrained by their existence in a single genre.  This film is a drama, an achingly tragic romance, a lighthearted comedy, and a fairy tale.  It gives equal screen time to each element, without gravity during the realistic scenes nor too much levity during the fantasy sequences.  It tells the story of Tita, the youngest daughter of a wealthy landowning Mexican family, whose fate according to tradition is to care for her mother and live a spinster's life. Spoilers follow.  It is Tita's misfortune to fall in love with - and be loved by - a man she cannot have; he chooses to marry her eldest sister in order to be able to remain in the house with her.  The film follows Tita through this pain, her mental breakdown, her return to sanity and her displaced love for her American doctor, who she later marries.  It threatens to climax with a happy ending we know we don't deserve, and even when it turns dark, we're left with a sense all the main characters got exactly what they wanted in the end.  In an American movie, these actions would either have consequences (and therefore be a drama), or they'd be farcical (and it would be a romantic comedy).  Alfonso Arau gives us a history lesson, told with Laura Esquivel's wry wit and deep emotion.The cinematography and direction are also outstanding; sweeping Mexican landscapes ground the film in both time and place while reverence is paid to the traditions that form the basis of the story.  An achingly beautiful sequence details the dressing of the marriage bed for Tita's sister and her new husband.  Later, Tita's madness is gently revealed when she is shown staying awake nights knitting a blanket, and is later carted away to a sanitarium wrapped in that same blanket, which trails behind her horse-drawn carriage well beyond the edge of the frame.Some of the cinematography is lost when reading the subtitles with the film, but I strongly recommend watching this DVD with English subtitles (rather than the English dub) if you do not speak Spanish.  There is a richness of delivery in the Spanish dialogue that does not translate in the dub.I read Laura Equivel's novel several years after I first saw this film, and cooking plays a much greater part in the novel than the film.  However, I believe the film wisely centers on the human emotion of its human protagonists, and I am glad the adaptation was in the original author's hands.  She knew what she was up to all along. "},{"Title":"Magic meals and flaming passions","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the most favorably reviewed and box-office successful foreign language films ever distributed in the United States, Like Water for Chocolate was the collaborative product of Mexican actor/director Alfonso Arau (El Guapo to fans of Three Amigos) and his wife, Laura Esquivel, author of both the film's screenplay and the novel it was adapted from. Like the novel, the film's narrative materials show the heavy influence of magic realism, a Latin American style of storytelling first popularized in North America and Europe in the late 1960s through the translation of the novels of Nobel laureate, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, especially his masterpiece, One Hundred Years of Solitude. As with other works of magic realism, Like Water for Chocolate blends elements of realism, dream, and myth to create a world whose surface is mundane but where the fantastic emerges regularly and matter-of-factly. Much of the magic in Like Water for Chocolate is linked to cooking, an ordinary feminine domestic activity that becomes a powerful, preternatural vehicle for unleashing the heroine Tita's creativity and passion, both of which are repressed by the machismo culture and absurd female-binding traditions of early twentieth century Mexico. Befitting the story's origins in the romance genre, passion is at the center of Like Water for Chocolate. Indeed, the Spanish phrase como agua para chocolate is purportedly a familiar Mexican expression describing a person who is about to boil over with sexual desire. (The American expression hornier than a hoot owl is a non-culinary - and rather less romantic - equivalent metaphor.) Passion - its expression, repression, or absence - shapes not only Tita's life and marriage, but also the characterizations of the intimidating Mama Elena and of Tita's sisters, Rosaura and Gertrudis, contrasting foils in the matter of female sexuality. Rosaura is bound by paternalistic traditions of restraint and denial while Gertrudis becomes literally inflamed by sexual desire along with adapting a pre-feminist political assertiveness and egalitarianism.Supporting the unfolding of this Mexican Cinderella tale, the cinematography of Like Water for Chocolate exhibits great range and beauty, by turns subtle and breathtaking. The film's lighting styles and color palette are equally effective either in establishing the fable-like mood of the stark Coahuila Desert or in detailing the more realistic ranch house where many of the interior scenes are set.Topping all, of course, are the set pieces of Tita's sumptuous meals, endless quilt, and fiery bed, unforgettable images through which her sexual being is triumphantly expressed. "},{"Title":"Love and cooking, a special combination","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not too much I can add to the great reviews above. The cooking scenes were very close to erotic for me and, apparently the rest of the audience I saw it with. As the film moved along there were more and more audible yums and other noises associated with a good meal.At the end of the film there was a near stampede out of the theater and to the local restaurants. People were running to get there first! My friend and I quickly walked another block for our food. The place filled up rapidly. The host told us he hoped that film stays there forever, it's almost doubled our business. How often have you been so moved by a film that you sprung into action the minute it was over? That alone puts it in my movie hall of fame. "},{"Title":"good premise, poor execution","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film had all the ingredients to be a great movie, however, it never materialized on screen. With so many interesting characters, it was disappointing that none of them except Tita connected in a meaningful way and evoked much emotion from from me. Pedro was a prime example of this. Instead of rooting for him, i found myself not only disinterested in his wimpy character but actually disliking him altogether. Again, i thought this film had a great premise, but failed to deliver on screen. i truly loved the magical realism, and thought the director should have focused more on Titas ability to connect to people through food. "},{"Title":"A true love movie that shows the growing up process of a woman.","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a movie that was directed by Alfonso Arau in 1992 that is based on the novel written by Laura Esquivel. Like Water for Chocolate is very interesting and different. For example, there are several elements of magic and the two most important themes of love and the journey of growing up revolve around the script. The main character is a young girl named Tita and the movie tells the entire store of her life. The movie begins with her birth and ends with her death. Most of the magical elements come about through Tita's cooking. Tita loves to cook! Her life is very sheltered because her mother, Dona Elena, is very strict; therefore cooking is the way in which Tita displays her true emotions.Like Water for Chocolate is about a girl named Tita and her family. Tita is the youngest daughter of her mother, Dona Elena, and because of this status and an old family tradition, Tita is not allowed to marry. Instead, Tita's life duty is to care for her mother until her mother dies. Tita does not approve of this rule, but throughout her youth Tita is always very obedient. However when Pedro, Tita's childhood crush, asks for her hand in marriage, many problems begin. Due to Tita's family tradition of her not being able to marry, Pedro instead marries Rosaura, Tita's older sister, so that he can be close to Tita. Throughout the movie Tita grows as a woman and learns who she really is. She finally stops obeying her mother and decides to live her own life. She becomes more vocal and stops only expressing her feelings through her food, she has a relationship with a doctor named John Brown, and tells her sister off about what happened with Pedro. At the end of the movie, Tita and Pedro finally get to be together. This shows that true love is forever, and what will be will be. The plot is very interesting and true about life. It shows the difficulties and joys of changing from a young girl into a woman. It shows the marvelous journey of finding out who you are. Like Water for Chocolate is a story that is not only about love, but also about the personal growth of a woman. In the beginning, Tita is very nice and very obedient. So much so that even when the love of her life, Pedro, marries her sister Rosaura, Tita remains silent and obedient to her mother. However, as time goes on Tita becomes more independent and begins to make her own decisions, even about her lover Pedro. In Like Water for Chocolate, Alfonso Arau paints a marvelous picture of this transition and of the strong love that exists between Tita and Pedro. The actors and very believable and the music is very emotional moving. For example, when Tita cooks, her emotions can be felt by the audience. Like Water for Chocolate, is a very good and interesting movie. It shows the journey of a woman from birth to death. The audience sees Tita grow up right in front of their eyes. It is a story that makes you laugh and cry at the same time. It definitely shows that love conquers all and that growing up is a wonderful learning process. It is truly a movie that is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"great job at what it is trying to be","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" might not be for everyone but a well done work. very much of the LatinAmerican magical realism school. if you enjoy tales by the likes of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Isabel Allende, Jorge Amado, etc. and get a kick out of Almodovar films then you will most likely enjoy this. if those aren't the types of stories that put wind in your sails then I would steer clear of it.also enjoyable for creating a wistful world on the Texas-Mexico border at the edge of the two cultures and distinctly its own.happy viewing. "},{"Title":"Leonardi and Rodriguez","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is loyal to the novel (Esquivel wrote the novel and the script). Reallized in an expensive way where the American character is NOT the bad guy! Esquivels novel is very similar to Las casa de Bernada Alba from Garcia Lorca!Like water for chocolate was shot in Ciudad Acuna, the town where Carlos Gallardo (the Mariachi from El Mariachi!) lived. Robert Rodriguez and him observed the shooting and learned from Araus techniques. In the following summer Rodriguez shot his El Mariachi in Ciudad Acuna, where he also made Desperado 2 years later.The young Marco Leonardi who plays the roll of Pedro in like water for chocolate appears in Rodriguez' From Dusk Till Dawn 3, the Hangman's Dauther as the gunfighting protagonist Madrid. In Once Upon a Time in Mexico he is the third drunken Mariachi next to Antonio Banderas and Enrique Iglesias! All this because Rodriguez met him in Like Water for Chocolate!!!!!!!!1 "},{"Title":"An Unusual Tale","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Like Water for Chocolate because I enjoy off beat stories, and this certainly is one!   It was crazy,  but fun!  I doubt that many will like it because of the sub-titles, but I did not find them a hinderance to the story.If you are getting tired of Hollywood's same old-same old  you will like this one!    "},{"Title":"Failed experiment","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected to like this from what I was told by friends, but it failed as a piece of magical realism and ends up being both goofy and boring. Filled with disgusting offhand comments, bizarre circumstances and completely unlikable characters, I was wondering what people saw in this.It is pathetic when a women who runs down the road naked, becomes a prostitute and then later turns into a general in the Mexican army is the most realistic character. The rest are just one note characters who never develop into anything.In other movies which use food as a device, the food serves to bring people together and express something about the characters who made it. In eat, Drink, Man, Woman it is food that holds the family together but is just eye-candy without real flavor until the family is allowed to grow naturally then it turns into a feast. In The Big Night, the fantastic dishes that emerge from the kitchen are not only a great feast but also express the joys that hope can bring.In this movie, the food is only a symbolic device. It fails to nourish anything. "}{"Title":"Definitely over-rated Can't understand all the good reviews this item received","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unless there is some unwritten law that dictates that ALL foreign imports should receive not just a favourable review but also the unflinching adoration and recommendation of movie critics, I simply don't understand all the fuss that was generated about LWFC. If you want to see a really good movie about women, food, love and life, please skip this one and watch Babette's Feast instead. The tragedy of LWFC is in the fact that its story and characters are too idiotic even to watch on the Satellite of Love. This turkey should come with a warning  If forced to watch, fake a headache and go to bed early. "},{"Title":"Starts out well, descends into melodramatic drivel","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS FOR SURE You think you'll be saying Yum, but you'll end up saying Yuck! This story about early 20th century Mexican/Texican women falling in love and grappling with family tradition began on a very promising note. Young Tita is in love with handsome Pedro...though you're never given any real reason to latch onto them or cheer them on. You don't get a story about how they meet, what drew them together...maybe just good ol' hot Latin lust (ew)? Anyway, Pedro marries Rosaura, the older sister, to be close to his true love while Tita is bossed around by her bitch of a mother, who isn't satisfied just ruining Tita's lovelife, she has to ridicule and criticize Tita's every move. Tita escapes her daily misery by whipping up delicious foods in the kitchen, but even this isn't given much screen time. Aside from the quails with rose petal sauce, most of the recipes are given a perfunctory glance. Most of the movie consists of Tita and Pedro pining, exchanging a few hasty kisses, and the one sex scene is completely in the dark. In short, this movie really has nothing to offer, even for us pervs who like passionate, if vapid, sex scenes as a last resort for entertainment. The grand climax comes when the two lovebirds finally get their opportunity to be a legit couple, and a spectacular fire erupts as a result of their illicit passions...Repeat after me vomitrocious!!!I got this movie because I wanted to see all the recent/semirecent movies about food and love. This one stinks. "},{"Title":"If giving a movie 0 out of 10 stars was an option.......","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie would certainly receive it. After reading the novel, I was really anticipating seeing the movie. The book has excellent imagery, and the plot is extremely captivating. As I was watching the movie, however, I noticed that some things did not make sense. First of all, the novel is just as much about food as it is about forbidden love. So much so that even the title involves food, and every single chapter is based around a certain recipe that is important to the De la Garza's family history. Then why is it that there are so few scenes involving food in the movie? When Tita makes the cake for Rosaura's wedding that makes everyone vomit, there is no visual depiction of her tears flowing into the frosting which is essential to the guests reaction to the cake. What happened to the wonderful description of this scene that is in the novel? Didn't the director find that at all necessary to the plot? I guess not. Another complaint I have is the awful use(and sometimes lack there-of) of magical realism that is described in the novel. Tita's birth is badly filmed and obviously fake. And what about the flood of tears Tita cries after Chencha gives her the ox-tail soup? That appears to also have been unimportant to the director to add into the film, even though it makes for such a touching scene in the novel. Finally, I find the depiction of the Mexican Revolution in the film completely offensive and uncalled for. The director made it seem like the Revolution was so fine and dandy, with the soldiers happily dancing and making cream- fritters. The horribly stereotypical Mariachi music played whenever the soldiers come on camera also makes the film seem quite ridiculous. You can really tell that Esquivel and the director of the film were catering to the Hollywood crowd and not to people who actually understand the seriousness of revolution and how important it was to Mexico. Overall,the bad acting, the telenovela-esque music, and the straying from the original plot made this movie in my opinion, a complete and utter disappointment. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate-Delicious!","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water For Chocolate is a film creatively filled with many symbols which convey the theme of the passionate and powerful story originally told in novel form by Laura Esquivel. The basis of the story surrounds food. The food in the movie, however, is not only food as we know it. It is a representation of hard work, the sense of feminism, duties, roles, comfort, and passion. The food made by the youngest daughter and main character, Tita, passes on her feelings to the people who eat it. Her tears flowed into a meal leaving the people who consumed it upset and ill. Her lust poured into another meal leaving the people who consumed it more lustfully passionate than ever. The director seems to use the only close up shots while the characters are eating in order to portray the effect of which this food has. Another main theme throughout the film is fire. This represents Tita's strong desire to be with Pedro. It also represents the life within people.The characters in the film seem to be depicted certain ways considering where they live. For example, Dr. Brown seems to be a man lacking a backbone and a man willing to let people take advantage of him. He is North American. Pedro, a true Mexican man, is strong willed and willing to do what it takes to get what he wants. He plays a much a more masculine role.Now that I am somewhat familiar with how Mexican cinema has been previously and how the stories have been depicted, I am well aware that Like Water for Chocolate put a whole new spin on it. The majority of the film takes place indoors with very dim lighting. The main characters are women. Most of the women have strong personalities whether they are comforting like Nacha, rebellious like Tita, authoritarian like Mama Elena, free-spirited like Gertrudis, or somewhat boring like Rosaura. Most of the more modern films in Mexico have been staged mostly outdoors, are very bright, and are centered around men and their masculinity.While poorly dubbed in English and barely visually recognizable at times (because of the lack of lighting), the film featured charming actresses and talented directing.The film, though simple to comprehend and easy to enjoy, has a lot under the surface. From the directing of the film to the many important symbols, there is much upon which to dwell and much to appreciate. This is a film that is dramatic, rebellious, humorous, and filled with the joys (and possibly dangers) of reckless love. "},{"Title":"The Whole Enchilada","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can only add my voice to the others here who have praised this as a beautiful, passionate and moving film. In England at least we tend to have a stereotypical view of Mexico as a land of hovels and poverty and the film rightly disabuses us of that concept, portraying a land of elegance and refinement even as - ironically - there is a minor Civil War raging in which the downtrodden majority are fighting for equality. To a certain extent this is employed as a metaphor given that the main story centres on a slightly barbaric 'tradition' that demands the youngest daughter of the household is more or less indentured as unpaid slave with the specific duty of attending to - in this case - a mother until her death. The protagonist, Tita, rebels against this, but only inwardly and silently as opposed to the soldiers who rebel openly against the tradition of 'them' and 'us'. The film is beautifully photographed and ravishing to look at, the acting is solid and all in all it's a fine Art House movie. "},{"Title":"Much better than the book, which I never got around to reading!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard of Like Water for Chocolate for a long time and finally got around to seeing it on DVD yesterday. The English subtitles are very well done, both in vocal matching and vocal pacing. As Ebert explains, water for chocolate is very hot, and that's what kind of passion Tita's cooking arouses in others, when she adds her magic ingredient.Set in early 1900s Mexico, Tita is the youngest and by family tradition is told she cannot marry but must stay and take care of her mother until she dies. Being a rather young and healthy mother, that seemed like forever. The young man who loves her marries her sister instead so he can stay close to Tita. In addition to her exquisite cooking, she has a special way with babies, caring for her nephew, secretly breast feeding him, who dies shortly after they move to Texas. He wouldn't eat anymore.Eventually Tita tires of her mother's oppression, leaves, marries a doctor, mother dies, things get complicated, 22 years later she and first love consumate but he dies from the passion, she eats matches symbolicly and they burn up in the bed together. Starnge ending, and the whole film has mysticism mixed in, including appearances by the deseaced mother. Still, a fascinating film.(BTW, my one line summary is intended to parody all those who feel compelled to overly criticize a movie for not being exactly like a book. My advice?  Either quit reading books, or quit seeing the movies based on them, but please quit your infernal nit-picking! Please. Think it if you will, but we don't want to read it.) "},{"Title":"Mindless Acts","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading the novel, and then comparing it to the film, I came to the conclusion that the book was more mystical and magical. the movie, I felt, was unable to capture the importance of food, and its preparation. Cooking in the movie was thought of as mindless acts, however, in the novel cooking is shown as a way of life. I also thought that the movie was unable to capture how the food evoked memories in each character's life. And lastly, I loved the numerous amount of magical realism in the novel, however, the film was unable to portray this. I loved both film and text!! Read and watch both!! "},{"Title":"The movie was extremely dull compared to the book.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I personally think that a movie was very dull, and did not meet the  standards that were set by the book. When making this movie I thought that left out many of the important details that were in the book, for example the importance of food which was hardly shown throughout the film.  Not one of he recipes were ever said which just made Tita's work seem like mindless acts, and never showed the love that was put into creating each one of the meals.  This made the movie seem choppy which made each scene that they showed very short and incomplete. Also it was hard to picture many of the parts because where they supposedly using magical realism just didn't work.  By reading this book you get  a much better sense of what their family lifestyle was like, and how important food actually was to the family, then watching it on film. After watching this movie i would definitely choose reading the book. "},{"Title":"Lacking emotion","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Water for Chocolate is a novel based around the thoughts and experiences of the main charecter, Tita, which the reader gets to experience first hand as they read the story.  For a book of this context, it makes it very hard to be put into a movie.  The actress playing Tita is able to successfully pull off this role, her emotions however, could have been a little more expressive.  Foods significance in the novel is very important, in the title, in the essential developement of the main charecter and the base of the story.  The movie does a poor job in depicting food's role, showing little food preparation and much more interest in the charecters. This does not work if food is a major part in the charecters lives. This puts a major damper on the story, but overall, the movie is quite true to the text and is a true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"don't read the book first","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Written almost simultaneously as the novel by Laura Esquivel, the  film gives off a form of sterility and impersonal feeling which is absent in the beautifully written book.   The characters are well thought out and selected, however the presence of food and the intense emotion behind the preparation is omitted from the film. Having read the book first, the fantastic descriptions and magical realism were seen on every page.  The suspense of belief and the extreme feelings described by Esquivel are those which are incredibly difficult to portray on a screen, causing the movie to lag behind it's expectations.  The exaggerated drama, the realistic explanations for ever occurrence and the assimilated presentation removed the mystical feel which I associated with the book and expected of the movie.   A decent watching experience, I would recommend those who have not read and loved the book to watch.     "}{"Title":"A passionate book about love, tradition, food, and forbidden love.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Like Water for Chocolate', is a wonderful book, filled with passion, emotion, tension, and of course food. The movie tries to stay as close as it can to the plot of the story, however it falls short in many areas. For instance it is very hard to portray magical realism in a movie because one of the principles of magical realism is that one forgets about reality and is swept into a land of queer sensual pleasures which are not really possible except in the mind. If there is a picture doing the thinking for you, there is no longer any imagination involved. The inability to portray mental thought without words is quite hard and it still has not quite been mastered by modern film-makers. However, the movie is still good for what it is, and the acting ranges from intense to silly, with Mama Elena and Chencha at the ends of the spectrum. Tita did a wonderful job as the angered, broken servant who is forced to obey her mother for the rest of her life, and who consequently brakes the tradition. The movie is quite cliche, but the importance of food, or tradition, in the de la Garza family, or any family, is a theme which is quite unique, mainly because the book itself is unique. Food plays an important role in the story because it links senses with past emotions, rooting the story to the past and to tradition. Food acts a sponge for spiritual and physical passions and it centers the emotional tension which exists in the story around the meals which are prepared. The only draw back is that the movie does not illustrate the recipes as well as the book does, causing there to be a lacking in food description and technique. Overall the movie was quite good, and it did stay close to the plot, but due to the mentioned reasons, it was not as good as it could have been. "},{"Title":"Uniformity, structure, and contrasts between the book and the Movie.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tuesday, May 07, 2002Like Water for Chocolate is a fabulous book which encompasses a large range of human emotions by taking you on a ride through the life of Tita, and portraying the inner tensions of the de la Garza family .  The film is equally intriguing and aesthetically powerful.  The soft tones of light and uniform finish create a rustic Mexican feel that is present throughout. Almost similar to `Traffic', the film has artistic qualities, and the cinematography is incredible, each frame a photograph unto itself.  This overlay is a reminder of the setting and the uniformity of the music captivates the beauty of human emotions.  The orchestra feel creates sad and sullen tones, joyous and funny situations, and moments of suspenseful silence, where the characters relationships are portrayed as the only thing in the frame.  With that said, the film is also a departure in the book's structure.  The framework of the recipes in the book really about food evoking memories, and the role food and tradition play in the De La Garza family.  The movie takes a more chronological approach, tracing the timeline of the plot, focusing more on the character relationships than the food. Though not a bad thing, the film looses the corky, looseness of the book, and is therefore more dense and hard edged.  The casting of this movie is fabulous, and the roles each woman plays is so vastly different from one another that the complex relationships in the book are eloquently brought to life on the screen.  A must see, but read the book first.Sam Kolbert-Hyle  "},{"Title":"Slow but moving","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recommend you watch with a Mexican friend (as I was fortunate enough to do) who can explain all the subtleties, of which a lot will be lost if you don't know anything of the culture of that time. Originally I thought that the mother was an absolute mad-woman until it was explained that that is the way mothers used to treat their youngest daughters who were little better than slaves to them.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Tita is ethereally beautiful, Pedro tries his best to get what he wants but remains within the conventions of the era, Gertrudis follows her heart (I admired her the most) and Roseaura is just unfortunate to be the pawn in Pedro's plan.Altogether beautifully filmed and my Mexican friend was impressed that the actors got the accents spot-on for the period and the location. "},{"Title":"Not for those used to ordinary fare","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not for those who are used to the usual big-studio blockbusters.  It's a delightfully different tale of love, magic, and family that is warm, funny, and yet touches the heart as well.  I enjoyed the film not just for the quirky plot line, but because of the slightly surreal feel to it.  If you are looking for a change, try this film out.  "},{"Title":"Love story you've probably seen before","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alfonso Arau directs the adaptation to his wife's acclaimed novel. Not having read Laura Esquivel's original work, I cannot attest to the level of literature that it may have reached. However, as for the movie, I found it lacking true lyricism and unable to visually represent the 'Magical Realism' elements coherently. The familial clutch of tradition and the ensuing prohibited love are interesting as well as Lumi Cavazos' lead performance. Yet, the strong romance element felt quick and ungrounded. The tension between the sisters were not explored to their potential and the movie went along without truly captivating. Some people seemed to have enjoyed this movie quite a bit, yet as much as I am happy that I saw it, I would probably not want to see it again or recommend it to a friend. The person who recommended to me had also recommended Il Postino (1994) which I saw first and I loved. I thus turn you to this much better novel adaptation of the 1990s instead. "},{"Title":"Hollywood ad nauseum","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film dubbed in English. Fortunately, the theatre staff lowered the admission to compensate for this crime against humanity. In this case, the dubbing made it impossible to take the film seriously. But even if we ignore the horrible voice acting and lip synching problems (which were vaguely reminiscent of the old Godzilla movies I used to see at YMCA daycare when I was little), this movie is still sappy. So maudlin and overdone, in fact, that I would disagree with all the comments praising Like Water for Chocolate to be a refreshing change from Hollywood. It seemed like the director compressed the 10 soapiest films Hollywood has ever spawned (including a twisted version of Romeo and Juliet, surprise surprise) into the longest 116 minutes I've ever experienced. (1) Vaguely sentimental, shapeless music with no definite theme pervades the entire film, even in funeral scenes, which (2) there are a lot of. The director randomly kills off characters attempting to get our sympathy. It backfires. I was more or less laughing (when I wasn't half asleep) throughout the entire movie. (3) Soapy plot disguised as a 'true love' movie. Just one example Pedro professes his undying love for Tita and wish to marry approximately 10 minutes after having met her. This happens multiple times with different characters). While this may be forgivable, a contradiction in the plot ruins the whole love aspect. Namely, the director fails to convey exactly why Tita prefers Pedro (the stupid horny moron) over the (obviously more sympathetic) Dr. Brown. This completely screws over his story and makes a mockery of all the emotion in the film, especially when the director essentially forces this Romeo and Juliet-esq love onto the characters. (4) Which are  quite one dimensional characters. We have the evil bad hypocritical tyrannical mother, the irrepressibly fun loving servant, the Casanova letch, the calm friendly doctor... all of which are presented with all of and only these character traits (The evil mother never is shown humanely, the good doctor is without blemishes, etc. etc. &c.) How can this movie be a refreshing change from Hollywood when it has all these elements? This emperor has no clothes.  "},{"Title":"Food and love and sex and fate","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie stayed so true to the book that the director/write should be applauded.  It's hard for non-hispanics to understand all the magic and ritual in Hispanic culture.  The film is graphically pleasing and sensual. and the end is one of the best ever.... we are consumed in many way- our appetites for food and sex-- and this movie addresses them well.  "},{"Title":"Just Okay","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about how life used to be in Mexico. It is a love story between Pedro and Tita, and why they couldn't get married because Tita's mother wanted her oldest daughter to get married first, and have Tita to stay and take care of her. It shows how marriage was imposed on those times, and how a love between two people can change everything.This is supposed to be a great film, but for me it just did not resonate. I appreciate the movie to a point, and it is good to see a film from Mexico (the country needs a bigger industry, perhaps). Most of all, I love that apparently Robert Rodriguez hung around the set before becoming an A-list director for Hollywood.But overall, this is not one that really had any impact on me whatsoever, so I can only give it a middling grade. "},{"Title":"Engaging drama","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Engaging drama.Set in Mexico in the early-1900s, the story of a girl and her oppressive, tyrannical mother. In her teens, the girl falls in love with a boy and they want to get married. The mother is determined that the girl will never marry, as she has to look after her. Drama and intrigue follows...Initially a very suffocating movie, as you feel how the girl is oppressed and deprived of her free will by her evil mother. You keep hoping that she will run away, or do something to break free.Then follows a spell of liberty, and probably the most wonderful part of the movie. The shackles have been removed and she can now be herself and follow her dreams and loves.However, just when you thought that was the precursor to a happy ending, the movie loses focus. It suddenly gets quite weird, complete with ghosts, and ultimately becomes a soap opera. The last few scenes are pure soap, and diminish the value of what came before them.Overall - good, but could have been brilliant. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The whore lost her virginity to some random dude before she got married. Terrible movie.At the beginning of the novel, Tita was a generally submissive young lady. As the novel progresses, Tita learns to disobey the injustice of her mother, and gradually becomes more and more adept at expressing her inner fire through various means. At first, cooking was her only outlet, but through self-discovery she learned to verbalize and actualize her feelings, and stand up to her despotic mother. At the beginning of the novel, Tita was a generally submissive young lady. As the novel progresses, Tita learns to disobey the injustice of her mother, and gradually becomes more and more adept at expressing her inner fire through various means. At first, cooking was her only outlet, but through self-discovery she learned to verbalize and actualize her feelings, and stand up to her despotic mother. At the beginning of the novel, Tita was a generally submissive young lady. As the novel progresses, Tita learns to disobey the injustice of her mother, and gradually becomes more and more adept at expressing her inner fire through various means. At first, cooking was her only outlet, but through self-discovery she learned to verbalize and actualize her feelings, and stand up to her despotic mother. "}{"Title":"Sensual and Atmospheric","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story of a Mexican family is recounted, spanning decades. This is an interesting fable that manages to turn cooking into a sensual experience. It is helped by beautiful cinematography and a fine score. The acting is generally good, with Cavazos giving a standout performance as a young woman who is controlled by a domineering mother. Unfortunately, the latter is portrayed as so one-dimensionally evil that she makes Cinderalla's stepmother seem like a candidate for Mother of the Year. The story moves in fits and starts, lingering too long on some scenes but then abruptly skipping ahead by a decade. Director Arau is known mainly as an actor, but he does a fine job of creating an evocative atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Worth having in your cultural hard-drive, but the book is probably better","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't read the book, so if you've read the book, you might like this movie less than I did. The story is a good folk tale, and gives one insight into some aspects of Latino culture (i.e., traditions & so much more are often passed down through food; the strange traditions regarding family duty, even in the face of common sense). While watching the movie, I suspected the book is better, and I have been told by others that it is. The actor who played John was very exaggerated, although I don't know if that was done on purpose. Further, I had problems with Pedro's initial decision (the big one); as Tita later points out, there seem to have been many other decisions that would have made much more sense. Warning this is a chick flick! In the end, though, my identity as a hispanic edged out my identity as a manly man, so I consider this movie worth watching, since the story is worth having in your cultural hard-drive.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out www.livemancave.com "},{"Title":"Great movie when uncut.","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is well filmed with great backdrops. For anyone who has lived in Mexico, it is historically accurate in its portrayal of life in northern Mexico during Revolutionary times. It comes close to following the book, which has a recipe for all of the movie meals, and more - one for each month. My wife cooked the quail in rose petals and..... Parts of the film are erotic without being graphic. All of the actors are wonderfully cast in their roles. If you want the DVD, the uncut 113 minute version has interesting scenes omitted in the American version 105 minute one. "},{"Title":"Subtitled movie, but True Love in old Mexico is something to behold.","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes this is a romance movie, but it is a fantastic fantasy fairy tale quality love story. Pedro and Tita fall in love but Tita's mother objects. Tita is the youngest in the family and she must stay home and take care of her mother until she dies. Her mother even arranges a marriage between Pedro and Tita's older sister Rosaura so Tita and Pedro can never become as one.As I said this is a fantasy, and once you get past all of the initial story buildup for all of the characters the fun begins.Tita was born in the kitchen and befriended by Nacha the hired cook. Nacha raises Tita as her own teaching her how to cook and enjoy life. Once Tita's mother sets down the law of how things will be, Tita changes. Tita's cooking becomes magic. Whatever Tita is feeling when she cooks, it comes to truth in the final product. If Tita is sad and lonely, anyone who eats her cooking feels those emotions.I have watched this film several times since it was made in 1992, and it always leaves me feeling full of loves emotions. You have to watch this movie to understand the fullness of these emotions. I have gotten use to the subtitles over the years and prefer them to the English dubbed version of the movie. I love it. "},{"Title":"A cultural and erotic work of art","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1992 Mexican film is full of both symbolism and cultural significance, and it helped me to appreciate the fantasy and mysticism reflected within the narrative. Tita is the youngest of three daughters, held captive by the traditions of her tenacious mother, which dictate that she is not allowed to marry, as she must care for her mother until her death. Yet, Pedro has already announced his passionate love for Tita, and in hopes of being near her, marries her older sister. Tita soon discovers she is able to communicate and share her emotions through her cooking, which she makes for Pedro to demonstrate her love for him. I found the film to be very intriguing in a symbolic sense, and would be interested to read the original book. I enjoyed viewing the early twentieth century culture richly interwoven into the storyline, and the eroticism was very prevalent, but portrayed in an artistic and reflective manner; however, it's not a film I would choose to watch again. "},{"Title":"7.2? No way...","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After having read the book from which this is adapted, this movie deserves not the praise it received. First and foremost, the movie completely misconstrues the message of the book. The book stresses the importance of FOOD, and how the food is Tita's method of both coping with her realities and her method of communicating the feelings that are being suppressed by Mama Elena. In the movie, the beauty of the food is drowned by a disgusting, almost stereotypical soap-opera-like drama. The acting is cheesy, at best, and the feelings between Tita and Pedro are poorly conveyed as love. Rather, they are portrayed by a simple, unforgiving lust. Also, the last scene was TERRIBLE. The last scene is supposed to contain a grand crescendo of feelings that ultimately lead to Pedro's, and the Tita's, deaths. However, it simply appears that Pedro has an orgasm and then faints. There is absolutely no way, without having prior knowledge of the story, to correlate between this scene and the matches theory. Also, the way in which Tita days poorly illustrates the match theory. It seems like she just eats the matches and then dies. By this, however, the intense emotion required to kindle the inner matches is just not there. By its lonesome, this movie receives a 3 (soap opera quality crap). "},{"Title":"true disappointment compared to the book","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching the movie Like Water For Chocolate was a disappointing experience for me. After I had read the very gripping and interesting book I was looking forward to the movie. I was excited to see how the creators of the movie were going to show the most interesting part of the book, the magical realism. To my dismay i was deeply disappointed when I saw the magical realism scenes in the movie. The parts in the movie with magical realism were too short and random. A few examples are; when she wore the knitted blanket and it was ridiculously long, or when Tita's tears were shown dripping down the steps. The scenes seemed like they were add ons to the movie that were unnecessary. I found that the magical realism actually took away from the story in the movie. It Distanced the viewer from the characters, making them difficult to relate to. Conversely in the novel the magical realism did not take away from the story but it did not significantly add anything to the story. The movie also was lacking in depth beyond the external plot. In the book there were many underlying meanings hidden in the text. But because the acting was so terrible in the movie it felt like a soap, that meant nothing more than the crumby lines being shoved in the actors mouths. To summarize, if anyone is interested in watching this film I recommend reading the book. "},{"Title":"I did not really like this movie, but it wasn't horrible","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not really enjoy the movie, since I really like the ways they connected Tita and her food and made it so magical in the book. It was a disappointment in the movie when the kitchen scenes were so much less magical. The food did not come to life on the screen and it felt so much less important in the movie.I thought that the music choice made it a little corny but that part did not affect the actual movie much.I did not like the way the magical realism was portrayed with the sparks when they were making love. It seemed to impersonal I would have liked it to be portrayed in a way that better reflected the romance between Tita and Pedro.But I did think they did a good job when they had Mama Elena come back as a ghost.They used the actress and did not overdue the fact that she was a ghost, by using the typical white sheet ghost stereotype.I think they did a good job casting the three sisters making Tita very pretty and giving Gertrudis a somewhat manly look. Her man like physic lead well into the fact that she became a revolutionary. I think that making Rosaura look ugly in each scene made me sympathize with her instead of feeling guilty for Tita and her lost love. They did not emphasize Nachas role enough in the movie and her death was a lot less sad in the movie then in the book. I think that her motherly figure was an important part of the storyline and showed how Tita became who she is. The same way that they did not stress Titas role as a mother for the first baby of Rosaura and Pedro. I wish they had shown the relationships more thoroughly. The movie was entertaining but not my top choice and I think the parts of it they decided to stress were not what I would have chosen from the book. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not think that this was a particularly bad movie because it was able to capture some scenes that i thought would be difficult to do in a movie. The acting in this movie was not great, I found John's character to be creepy and depressing instead of the loving upbeat character I read about. I also thought that the film work was below par and if this movie were in English and released in American movie theaters it would have much more negative criticism. This movie also rushes through many important scenes and does not allow the plot to develop. If someone were to watch this movie without reading the book they would leave the movie extremely confused. Some of the positives in this movie are how they display magical realism in very interesting ways. For example in the beginning of the movie when there is rushing water to represent tears and then they harvest the salt from the tears seemed like it was represented the magical realism very well. Also the actresses who played the sisters did a good job of creating interesting sister- sister relationships. For example how Gertrudis and Tita had a very caring relationship where as the relationship between Rosura and Tita always seemed to be very competitive. "},{"Title":"not so good","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, this movie was rather mediocre. It just seemed to be a soap opera with magical realism thrown in as an added bonus. Although the book is well written, the movie doesn't do it justice, just like most other movies made from books. Though there was an attempt to convey the perfection of the meals prepared by Tita, it really didn't work at all. Such things can't be described through pictures. Also the effect of Titas cooking on the rest of the family lost its romance and ended up just looking comical in the film. About 30 minutes into the film I was already bored. What bored me was not so much the story, but the way it was executed and played out. Also, if I had not read the book before seeing the movie, I would have been very confused. They throw too many unexplained things into the movie, that also occur in the book, but they work in the book because the book gives you context. All in all, I would say read the book (which is quite good) and skip the movie. "}{"Title":"decent","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While the movie was not a complete let down, it was also not quite as satisfying as the book. The book had so much more emotion to it that the movie had trouble capturing. I found that in the movie, the magical realism was a bit too much. Magical realism works really well in one's mine but is much harder to put on screen. I also felt that the magical realism in the film took away from the importance of the food. While the food played such a vital role in the book, it took more of a backseat role in the film. I also think that the movie was not what I was hoping for because of the way I originally pictured the characters as I read the book. The book had such great imagery that I was able to create a sort of movie in my mind; when the film did not match the one I had imagined, I was left with a sort of disappointment. It may be one of those films that is much more wonderful if the viewer has not previously read the book. While the film was not as good as the book, I do still think the film did a good job of highlighting the key points of the book. For example, the rocky relationship between Mama Elena and Tita was portrayed very well. Overall it was not a terrible movie and it was a fresh new way to look at the events of the book the way someone else pictured them. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie did live up to the book and did not capture the powerful emotions expressed by Tita and Pedro. The plot seemed rushed compared to the book's and not much time was spent on key scenes. During scenes pertaining to the Mexican Revolution, comical music was played which significantly took away from the seriousness of the time period. Though the scenes of magical realism were shot well, they did not seem as powerful as in the book. The director did do a particularly good job with Tita's mental breakdown. Overall I thought that it was decent and would recommend this movie to anyone who found interest in the book despite some of its flaws. "},{"Title":"Disappointing after reading the novel...","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though I thoroughly enjoyed the novel, Like Water for Chocolate, I thought that the movie was extremely disappointing and reminded me of really terrible and overly-dramatic soap operas. The portrayal of the use of magical realism very realistically in the movie really took away from the experience of watching it. The addition of music could have made or broken this movie, and in this case, I believe it made dramatic and heart- wrenching moments from the book seem laughable. The dramatization of cooking in the movie seemed to be a mindless chore, unrelated to the plot, very much in contrast to the emotional release experienced by Tita while cooking in the novel. I was also quite unable to relate to any of the characters as they were portrayed in the film. They all appeared, to me, very one-sided and unoriginal. The depiction of the Mexican Revolution disgusted me, and should have been taken far more seriously, in my opinion. Laura Esquivel should probably stick to writing novels, not screenplays. "},{"Title":"Could be better...","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although this movie is entertaining, it lacks the same in depth emotions evicted by Tita's cooking. The majority of the food is filmed before each scene and then forgotten about until some characters emotions tie into the dish. The music of the Mexican revolution is stereotypical to say the least. John and Pedro are both excellently cast with John portraying the awkward academic very well even down to his last sullen moment as a lonely man. Pedro ignites the Latin passion on the screen with every lustful encounter with Tita. Mama Elena is scripted perfectly however her character never makes you hate her as much as any viewer/reader should. In conclusion Like Water for Chocolate is an entertaining film (if you enjoy reading your movies) even without reading the book. "},{"Title":"The movie overall.","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water For Chocolate; a book that was later made into a movie. Like Water For Chocolate is about a girl Tita who is the youngest of three children, with an unfair mother. Tita, the rebellious of the three, does not want to follow the family tradition which is -- the youngest girl in the family may not marry, but instead, take care of their mother until she dies. Unfortunately, Tita found love with a man who loved Tita as much as she loved him but married her oldest sister, and before long she found another man to marry who took care of her at the worst time in her life. How does Tita solve the conflict?After watching the movie, I thought that the movie could not quite grasp the person watching the same way the book did with the readers. Each chapter in the book was separated by a recipe which would give the reader a bit of a hint as to what was going to happen next, but since it's a movie, it was very difficult to separate scenes with recipes. The movie was also like a 130 hour soap opera. If you like bad acting and drama, this is the movie for you; if you want a quick, easy read and you want to use your imagination to the fullest, I would suggest the book. "},{"Title":"Magic realism","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Magic realism is a difficult genre to put into film, but director Alfonso Arau does a great job of it in Como agua para chocolate. This novel-based film tells the story of Tita who is forbidden to marry because of an old family tradition. She is in love with Pedro who eventually marries Tita's sister to be close to his true love. One of the many elements of magic realism included in the film is Tita's cooking. She can make people happy, sad or sick by the emotion that she puts into cooking her food and there are many episodes where we see this happen. Each of these majestic events, including the incidents with the food and others, are made in a way that they don't appear entirely impossible. They do come off a bit strange at times, but there is meaning behind each event and it is clear during and/or after. With a classic plot line of forbidden love, Como agua para chocolate comes together nicely in the end with elements of magic realism that ultimately add to the film. "},{"Title":"Magically romantic adult fable","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Warm, funny, bittersweet, fable about three sisters and their horrific mother; their lives and loves in early 20th century Mexico. The film feels epic in scope, despite only being 145 long. That does mean a few things get rushed, and there are moments that edge into too cute. Perhaps because the DVD (the only version I've seen) has been inexplicably trimmed from the original release.But for the most part, this mix of romance, cooking, melodrama, gentle satire and magical realism works wonderfully well, and the constant use of food as a metaphor for sex, and for life feels original and creative. "},{"Title":"A Mexian Love Story","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film titled Like Water for Chocolate is an extraordinary movie centered around love, food, and traditions. In the beginning of the story, in Mexico, the main character named TIta is born. Tita's father dies of heart attack after he discovers that his second child, Gertrudis, is not his own. From the start, Tita spent most of her time in the kitchen with the cook, Nacha. When Tita falls in love with a man named Pedro, her mother forbids her to marry him. According to her family tradition, Tita's mother, Elena, informs Tita that she will never marry. Instead, Tita is told she will be forced to care for her mother until her death. Elena, cruelly offers her other daughter, Rosaura, to Pedro instead of Tita. Pedro agrees to marry Rosaura in order to be closer to Tita.Throughout the movie, Tita and Pedro go through many struggles and obstacles that keep them apart. The emotions and feelings that come along with their conflict are enhanced with the use of food and magical realism. For instance, when Tita is forced to prepare the wedding cake for Pedro and Rosaura's wedding, she is so broken-hearted that she cries into the cake batter. The next day, when the guests eat the dessert, they all begin crying for their lost loves. This results in the entire party getting sick. Probably one of the most intense scenes of the movie happened when Tita cooked a delicious quail dinner that included the roses she had received from Pedro. After her family ate the meal, Gertrudis found herself excited sexually. This was Tita's way of showing Pedro her passion for him.Overall, the movie included elegance, strict/proper behavior, and beauty. Like Water for Chocolate emphasized high emotions and captures a romantic, considerate audience. Anyone who has struggled with love could surely relate to this film. The magical realism played a large role in the film. Just enough was added to create an interesting story, but it was not too overboard. This film plays with the readers emotions, and allows the audience to develop strong feelings either for or against the characters in the story. Another key element of the film is its dramatic, romantic music. The movie provides all aspects of a romantic, passionate environment. Like Water for Chocolate is an incredible Mexican love story. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate Film Review","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is an early 20th century Mexican film based around the idea that tradition, love, passion, and the preparation of food are combine to create magical emotions with whomever consumes it. Tita, the youngest of three daughters, is left to take care of her aging mother after her father passes away of an unexpected heart attack.Tita is now faced with the chore of being the family cook after working in the kitchen with Nacha the housekeeper. This chore is the most symbolic and serves the most meaning because Tita can now express her emotions with her cooking. Tita soon finds love but Elena, Tita's mother, forbids her marriage and suggests that Pedro marries her eldest sibling Rosaura.The viewers first encounter with this symbolic meaning is the scene where Tita is scheduled to make the weeding feast and begins to cries into the cake batter. Once the guests eat the cake, they too begin to cry. This symbolizes Tita's loss of love for Pedro and her emotions are presented in her cooking. Since she feels empty and sad, the guests feel the same emotions. Dim and yellow-red lighting sets the mood of the story of love and desire. Another great aspect of the movie is the traditional Spanish music being played in the background. The magical realism uses food and ingredients to symbolize love and powerful emotions. If one does not pay attention closely they will be locked into the literal meaning rather than the metaphorical. Overall, the acting and story line of Like Water for Chocolate is erotic and tasteful. I only recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good love story with passion and lust. Keep in mind that when watching one must see the movie in a metaphorical aspect to actually take away what the true meaning of the story. "},{"Title":"Food, Love, and... Drama!","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Tita, a modest and courageous young woman, faces a horrible obstacle she cannot marry Pedro for she must care for Mama Elena when she is old. Regardless of this, Tita finds a way to consistently show her love for him by cooking and releasing her emotions into her food so that Pedro can feel them. The magical realism in this film is overwhelming. The viewer can almost experience all of Tita's emotions without even realizing it. When Tita cries into the fondant, she poisons the cake with the meaning of her tears and everyone who attended the wedding is also poisoned with this as well. It is remarkable that even though Mama Elena refuses to let Tita keep the roses from Pedro, something beautiful still came from the gift quail in rose petal sauce. This is irony at its best because the gift that was revered as ugly became something enjoyed. So powerful was this pleasure that even Gertrudis experiences this from the food. It is magical how all other characters in the movie feel the same hardships through the artfully prepared food, so magical that even the reader begins to feel it, too. The recipes are so illustrative in activating one's taste buds that the reader experiences everything the characters have felt the tears from the cake and the lust from the rose petal sauce. Possibly the reader should also suddenly become sick or burst into flames? To be honest, I wasn't sure if the love Tita and Pedro had for each other was puppy love or not. Of course, it is understandable that under the pressure from marrying Rosaura and from Mama Elena, desperate measures would be taken; however, I thought they would tire of each other. It seemed that Tita would actually marry Dr. John. He was certainly a sensible man and his love for Tita was endless and passionate. On the other hand, the way the film was dominant of the theme of food and erotic love, Tita would always be Pedro's in the end. "}{"Title":"Love and Food","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie that captures the culture of Mexican families, food and the burning struggle for love. Mama Elena is shown as a vicious dictator dressed in sophisticated clothing who forces a strict hand on tradition. Tita, the youngest daughter is the most rounded character the only way she truly shows her emotions is through her food. Majority of the movie is shot in dark romantic lighting with close up shots to only show the sensual effects. If the view pays close attention to the roses, when Tita receives the roses from Pedro they are pink. The close up shot shows the scratches from the thorns and when she prepares the quail in duck sauce the roses are red from absorbing her blood. This causes an aphrodisiac effect to everyone who eats the meal. Gertrudis is the only one who is truly affected by this takes a cold burning shower to cool her fiery passion and rebellious attitude. Surprisingly, the magical realism is captured by the director with rudimentary computer graphics being used. Ghosts, the burning passion, reactions to the food and the blanket she knits during nights of insomnia. The director and author worked closely in making this movie accurately on accounts in the book. Love and food blend so well in this movie. It is the driving force in making this cinematic masterpiece. Everyone can identify with forbidden love, delicious food and a burning passion to truly motivates a person to go after what they really want. "},{"Title":"Like Water For Chocolate","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a delicious and meaningful Mexican masterpiece full of emotion conveyed through intimate cooking. The main character Tita, (performed by Lumi Cavazos) is the youngest daughter out of the three, raised by her nanny Nacha (performed by Ada Carrasco) in the kitchen; where the setting of Like Water for Chocolate was born. While helping host a party for her family, Tita becomes acquainted with Pedro (performed by Marco Leonardi) which ignites a love that spreads like a forest fire between the two who must truly find how strong their love is, being bound to problems with Tita's families tradition. While overcoming the drama occurring in her life due to her mother Mama Elena (performed by Regina Torne), Tita begins cooking seducing meals that arise from her emotions and infects those who consume the meals. Through the cooking and the meals, a magical realism state can be implied due to the emotional affects that the meals have on those who consume it. Especially in the part of the film where Tita prepares the quail in rose petal sauce, she is in such a fit of passion from receiving roses from Pedro that she transfers that passion into the meal sending everyone into a crazed frenzy. This then leads to different events throughout the movie and different feelings of what is to come through Tita's emotions and cooking. The setting, costumes, and characters really helped make this into an authentic and exciting forbidden love story. The characters over all in my personal opinion were phenomenal; Pedro is played as a macho almost arrogant kind of guy who goes great with Tita seeing how she balances the relationship out by being a strong independent woman. Both Lumi Cavazos and Marco Leonardi performed exquisitely and fit the roles of their characters which helped make the film even more enjoyable. The costumes along with the setting also went hand in hand with each other, during the beginning of the movie the dresses being worn all the way to the cooking utensils used portrays an early 1900's style war era. The props also helped with the setting of the film, you can see that the cooking utensils are an older style, the water well, the buildings, the inside of the home, all are dated and made to look older to where in the beginning of the film the great niece of Tita is sitting in a modernized kitchen telling the story. The only part of this film that I thought could use some enhancement was the voice dubbing from Spanish to English, the voices did not match the characters at all. I recommend that the film is watched in Spanish and to read the subtitles in order to gain the true meaning of the culture. Overall personally I thought the best set scene was in the end in the bedroom with Pedro and Tita, The candles and the tone of this scene kind of proved that love will prevail as long as you want it to. Also this scene wraps around the whole meaning of the film about lighting the matches all at once instead of one at a time. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes a good forbidden love story and who is open minded. In order to watch and understand the movie you must be open minded enough to know how the cooking ties into the story and the general emotion and meaning that is portrayed. "},{"Title":"Cooking with Love","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a compelling story that reveals Mexican culture at it's finest. The main ingredient in this film is food. The story revolves around different recipes and food in which the food conveys a sense of love and lust. The main character, Tita, is able to express her feelings of love and hate through her cooking. One of Tita's most desirable and burning passions inside of her is her love for Pedro. However, Tita is unable to marry Pedro because her mother won't allow it. Considering Tita is the youngest child, her mother, Mama Elena, demands that Tita takes care of her since she is now older. It is Tita's responsibility as the youngest child to take care of her mother.One of the most powerful and moving scenes within the film is when one evening Tita prepares a quail in rose petal sauce dish where the whole family, her mother, two sisters, and Pedro, are gathered around the table. The entire scene is shot in a sepia tone with low lighting, setting the mood. The quail that Tita once plucked depicts her release of anger from her mother's oppression of controlling her. Likewise, in Mexican culture, one must obey their mother and family. The rose petal sauce depicts her lust for Pedro. Both the color red and the rose symbolize love. The tension inside of the dining room is portrayed by the close up face shots. The camera angle shows subtle movement within each person's face, proving the desire and tension within the room. The angles in which the film is shot, and the characters body movement allow for this film to thrive. I truly enjoyed the way that Tita is portrayed in the film. She is a young Mexican woman just trying to find herself, but is unable to do so because of Mexican culture. This film is relatable to many cultures because people everyday experience Tita's same situation; the traditions of culture that cannot be broken. I would recommend this film because it is very relatable to today's society. Oppression and one's desire for love can be very hard. This film brings up many aspects of life that can sometimes be hard to understand, while expressing these themes with food. "},{"Title":"An enchanting film","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is an enchanting film concerning the life of a young, Mexican woman struggling with a family tradition that seriously conflicts with her twenty-year love interest. She uses cooking and care-taking as a therapeutic way to manage her burning desire for Pedro and her disgust of her mother's ignorance. Based on Laura Esquivel's novel, it is hands down one of the more successful book-to-movie transitions ever made.The heroine of the movie is Tita, the youngest of Mama Elena's three daughters. Plagued by the age-old family tradition, Tita is denied the right to marry because she must take care of her parents until they die. Tita's character is exquisitely performed by Lumi Cavazos and captures the hearts of every audience member.The film eloquently portrays Tita's love for cooking and the strong elements of magic erupting from her loving meals. The magical realism is artistically depicted throughout the film via Tita's recipes, with one of the more famous scenes making a memorable mark when Pedro describes Tita's Quail with Rose Petal Sauce as The nectar of the gods. Her recipe was prepared with such lust and passion, that the meal becomes an aphrodisiac for its enjoyers, creating extreme side effects that essentially propel the rest of the movies provocative happenings.The relationship between food and emotion is extremely prevalent in this film, and Tita is a fantastic role model for young women around the world. "},{"Title":"An acquired taste","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To enjoy the movie Like Water for Chocolate, certain ingredients are needed. Note that without proper preparation, this movie seems odd, hard to swallow, and almost indigestible. Perhaps most important, is at least a teaspoon of knowledge of the culture. Know that food can succeed where words will always fail in Mexico, making the preparation of food one of the most important tasks of any social situation. This is shown throughout the movie. In one scene, Tita, the heroine, cries tears of bitterness into the batter of a wedding cake. The tears, now an ingredient, alter the emotional response of eating wedding cake. Instead of the guests losing themselves in the decadence of the cake or in the moment of what is supposed to be a happy occasion, they become sad and cry uncontrollably. The bitterness in the tears eventually leads to vomiting of all who consumed the wedding cake. The next ingredient would have to be a cup of Esquivel, the author of the novel which the movie is based on. While reading the book would enhance the flavor of the movie, understanding it's themes would also suffice. Know that Esquivel uses a lot of thyme on each step. She minces machismo with a pretty, but none too bright Pedro. Esquivel has almost too much fun peeling prudishness with Tita's sister, Rosaura. She also takes extra care trimming off any tradition, showing what she thinks of overbearing matriarchs like Mama Elena. If you do not have a grasp on these, then the movie may leave you with a funny aftertaste. Once you have blended knowledge of Mexican culture with an understanding of Esquivel's purpose, and added some popcorn and maybe a friend or two, you are ready to enjoy it! Remember to never serve with English dubbing; only Spanish can preserve the movie's experience. Though, subtitles are acceptable. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate by Melissa Schreiber","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Melissa Schreiber Professor Dr. R. E. Benander ENGL222 23 Feb 11 Food is Life! The 1992 film Like Water for Chocolate is a delicious and spicy treat for the 21st century to enjoy. A different genre is represented in this film; magical realism is alive in Like Water for Chocolate. Magical realism is the juxtaposition of food as emotions and emotions are heat and passion that food creates if prepared properly. Traditionally, in Mexican culture water is brought to a boil and then milk chocolate is added to make hot chocolate, the boiling point is the key to magical realism. The chef of the De la Garza family is Nacha and her wisdom guides the protagonist, Tita, throughout her life. Eat my child; food will make it hurt less, Nacha told Tita to teach her the most important ingredient of her life will be love. Magical realism is an emotional outlet that can allow many different perspectives to be presented. The boiling point represents passion through which emotions are able explode. The food throughout the film is real, and the ingredients are the fantastic remedies of life. Broths can cure any type of illness, Chencha reminded Tita. This film is Titas journey into becoming a woman, although restricted in many ways Tita is able to escape her oppression through her desire for cooking and individualism. The film reaches these desires through lighting effects and sepia tones, are soft touches of reality.Like Water for Chocolate is the recipe for Tita life, her journey is always scorched by others and her water boils over. Tita learned to overcome tears in order to slowly become individualized. By placing an onion on your head, Nacha explained to Tita the secret to stopping tears. In order for Tita to become free from oppression she must face her ingredients and find strength within to finish her recipe. All young women need a chef to teach them how to properly boil water and reach their goals. The recipes for life are the ingredients added with love mixed slowly, to create a meal that touches the soul. The beauty of the film Like Water for Chocolate symbolizes Tita's journey and her inner desires for individualism. In the end, her journey is completed because food has freed her soul, and others desire to imitate her recipes. In the final scene, Esparanza's daughter Tita ends by saying, My Mother, how I miss her cooking. The smell of her kitchen. Her talking while she prepared the meals. Her Christmas rolls. Mine never come out like hers. For some reason I can't make myself stop crying when I make them. It must be that I am as sensitive to onions as Tita, my great aunt. She'll continue to live as long as someone continues to cook her recipes. I believe the entire 21st century should see this film and allow magical realism to let them escape from everyday life. I also believe women would appreciate the beauty of each scene and to watch a girl grow into a woman and become a role model. "},{"Title":"Magical Realism and Romance","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies are very popular in our day. Girls love them and guys like to take their girl to see one. Like Water for Chocolate, written by Laura Esquivel and directed by Alfonso Arau, however is a bit different than most romance movies. The protagonist, Tita, falls in love with Pedro, but is forbidden to marry, ever. The film goes on to show the struggle that Tita faces, with Pedro's marriage to her sister and her own personal battle to keep her passion subdued.Not one of the foremost characters in this film has a personality or characteristic that is the same. It is very interesting that each character is their own person, when the traditions being expressed and mocked require the opposite. After reading the book I was, however, a little disappointed with some of the characters. In the book, Mama Elena was absolutely horrid. She was more forceful and terrifying. In the film, her character did not seem so awful. Unfair and unkind, yes, but not terrifying. She seemed to portray the struggle of an unhappy single mother trying to make ends meet and not this tyrant, who everyone coward under. In one scene soldiers had come to the farm to take what they wanted. The way Mama Elena in the book deals with the situation is the opposite of how Mama Elena of the movie dealt with it. This seemed to demean the strength of her character.Another thing that kind of annoyed me at first was the lighting of the film. Most scenes were shot inside and everything was so dark. I always enjoy seeing how props are used in films and the decorating in general, especially in a film that is not based in the United States. This was not very easily done. However, the further I watched the movie, the more I realized how very important the lighting was. The film maker wanted the viewer to take special note to the characters, the magical realism, and the story line more than to the props used or the decor of the house.Magical Realism is a very important part of this film. It is shown in several ways Tita's never ending quilt, the bathroom catching on fire as Gertrudis bathed, and then there is the affects of Tita's food on those who ate it. Tita's character was not given the right to express her feelings or thoughts, so it came out through her cooking. It was fantastic! At her sister's wedding she cried into the wedding cake, letting all her sorrow and loneliness go into the cake batter. The effect on the guests is phenomenal. They feel her loneliness and sadness, and end up throwing up everywhere.I would say this is a great film for anyone to watch. However, one must have an open mind and be willing to accept the oddities that occur without brushing it off as stupid or nonsensical. "},{"Title":"The Essence of Mexican Tradition","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had the misfortune of acquiring the English dubbed version of this film, so for this review I will disregard the terrible voice acting, and warn any readers; watch the Spanish version. The film portrays turn of the century Mexican life in a traditional family living on a ranch. Being told the setting many may draw images of an uneventful, strenuous and modest story this film is anything but. Every character has depth and passion on many levels&#x97; from their flaws to their most redeeming qualities. With passion so strong this film really is like water for chocolate.The story centers on Tita, the youngest daughter of the family. As family tradition states, it is her duty to remain celibate and care for her mother in her old age. This is especially unfortunate because she meets the love of her life, Pedro, whom proposes marriage to Tita. Her mother forbids it and Pedro marries Rosaura, Tita's older sister, as a way to stay near his true love.Through this heartbreak Tita discovers a talent she never knew she had. Through her cooking she can evoke emotion in others. If she prepares a dish with her bittersweet tears the passion and emotion will physically manifest in anyone who eats the dish. Literally cooking the dish with love.From the cinematography to acting the film is fantastic. It captures the essence of Mexico and Mexican life at the time. This is one of the few truly, wholly Mexican films to be distributed to a large US audience, which is very unfortunate. I'd recommend this movie to anyone with a heart, just make sure you find the Spanish version. "},{"Title":"Food for thought","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Food For Thought Como Aqua Para Chocolate or better known as Like Water for Chocolate is an astounding, poignant, and groundbreaking film. It's a beautiful love story about a young Mexican woman who fell into a sweltering love oriented interlude with a young Mexican man. This film exudes passion, hatred, and the quintessence of the Mexican culture. Also the tradition of cooking is expressed through Tita ( Lumi Cavzos), who prepares these profound supernatural dishes, in which her emotions and feelings are conveyed into who ever eats it. This technique was introduced to her by her caregiver, who was the light of her life. Her food is often praised. Nectar of the Gods by Pedro. The characters did exceptionally well, the writers implications of useful metaphors, for example, comparing ones soul to a match.The scenes in the movie are brilliantly put together, allowing the audience to be involved with the drama the family. This story fuses together comedic and tear jerking scenes where one might be forced to grab a tissue. Knowingly forbidden to be with each other, they marry others and try to cope with their life. 22 years later, after being reunited, the two rekindle their love once and for all. Although ending in a bewildering conclusion, the movie sends you through parallels of befuddling events. Many times you might think something is finalized, until the life of the family takes an unexpected turn for the better or worse. I enjoyed how the food was presented to the movie. Like Nacha brilliantly put it Eat my child, food will make it hurt less. The representation of food became more than an edible substance; it became a spirit of sensitivity. It truly touched the soul.I recommend this movie to any and everybody who believes in love, happiness, and romance. Like Water for Chocolate is a movie which should not be taking literal, but looking how the magical realism ties into the story. To see this movie would be equivalent to watching an Emmy award winning film. One must be appreciate art and fine acting in order to appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"A tale of love, culture, and independence","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a sensual, tragic, and cultural joy to watch. The story follows a Mexican family that is run by a tyrannical mother. Tita, the story's protagonist, is in search of finding love; however, her mother does everything she can to stop her from meeting that goal. It isn't until Tita finally rebels against her mother that she can be free to love someone without consequence. Alfonso Arau does a wonderful at capturing Mexican culture and their food. In many scenes, one can see the labor and love that Tita put into making her meals. Furthermore, when seen in Spanish, the movie does a wonderful job showing the emotion and feelings of the characters. When Tita tells her mother that Pedro is interested in marrying her, her mother strikes her down with such force that pains the viewer to witness. However, the same cannot be said for the English dubbing; it is done awfully. The voice overs do not sound believable in the least bit. When Pedro yells I love you! to Tita, it sounds comical and inappropriate for the situation they're in.Furthermore, the film is edited in a way that makes it look like an older Mexico. Colors are toned in sepia, allowing for a more ancestral look dating back to how Mexico looked in the early 1900s. In addition, a clash is seen in traditional Mexican and the need for passionate love. We see this when Rosaura and Tita clash over Pedro. Rosaura believes that Tita is no good for her lust of Pedro. Pedro also happens to be Rosaura's husband. The fight between the two shows a continuing struggle for passionate, furious love versus traditional, conservative standards that appear safe. The movie itself appears to be authentic. The characters are dressed mainly in dresses and older styled clothing that emulates older culture that Mexico once knew. Also, the setting takes place in a Mexican home that is seen without many modern luxuries. Their lives are simple but complicated at the same time.This film is not meant for people with short attention spans. To appreciate this movie fully, one must immerse themselves into the movie and feel what the characters are feeling. This most certainly is not action packed. If you're a fan of other cultures and are interested in learning about other traditional Mexico, then this movie is for you. "}{"Title":"Cinematic Culturalism","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a film that has, over time, gained significant recognition for its social importance. Through the direction of Laura Esquirel, also the author of the novel, the audience is immersed in a thick plot of passion for food, and it's power to heal. Esquirel's attention to the finite details of human compassion is stunning. Through the twisting and turning storyline, she captures the trials of love, the struggle to overcome, and the cultural barriers that have yet to be broken.As we are first introduced to the characters of the film, Esquirel pays specific attention to the critical relationships of each daughter with their cynical tyrant mother. We become witness to the upbringing of three well-mannered and respectful girls (Tita, Gertrudis, and Rosaura.) Set during a time where peasants and natives lived and worked together in single households, the kitchen becomes a psychiatric ward for the emotionally broken daughters. Through their caring house cook Nacha; the three girls become familiar with care, passion, and love. As main character and youngest daughter, Tita matures; the relationship she has with Nacha becomes her one escape from her mother (who refuses to allow her to marry.) This however does not prevent a suitor from capturing her heart, and she his. Unfortunately, destined for failure, Tita experiences true heartbreak, when she comes to find her sister arranged to wed her love, Pedro. As a work in romance, the pain of love became central. As Tita becomes only more secluded in her personal collapse, Tita snapped. Her emotional drain had worn her patience thin, and she finally stood up to her mother. In a moment of complete gratification, the audience is lifted, and then brought to the floor with a firm slap from Mama Elena. Tita is sent away to an institution where she is to be rehabilitated.Tita becomes a character that the audience can truly care about. We sympathize with her, and connect ourselves to her compassionate heart. She is a round and full soul who cares deeply about her role in her family's life. In all of her time spent with Nacha in the kitchen, she learns what it is to be a woman. Seeing the very different roads that her sisters took in life, and the very different outcomes that resulted, Tita paves her own way. Her capacity to chase after her love is fulfilled with the vision of her sister Gertrudis. Her desire to settle down and find love is anchored from her mentor Nacha. In its time, Like Water for Chocolate addressed issues that had until then, not been spoken of.For it's cultural implications alone, Like Water for Chocolate was a great film. It is the first of it's kind to attack and break down the unrealistic and inaccurate portrayal of Mexican life. Prior to Like Water for Chocolate, Mexico was cinematically viewed as dirty, dusty and poor. The recognition of American audiences happened slowly. However, as the film has aged, it has brought with it, a fury of voiced opinions in English and Spanish. "},{"Title":"A brilliant portrayal of the novel","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading and viewing Like Water For Chocolate, I can say, without hesitation that this is not only a fantastic novel, but also a very nice movie as well. The emotions that are captured in this film are fascinating and are what makes this film as well made as it is. The emotions captured on film through Mama Elena and Tita alone are enough to make a movie of. I was constantly on the edge of my seat, despite knowing what was about to happen, waiting for another snide remark from Mama Elena, or an emotional breakdown from the resilient Tita. When a film has this ability, to keep me not only wanting more, but also, waiting for it, I know it is a well-made movie. Although this movie is certainly one for women, as a man, I had no trouble enjoying it fully. Part of this may have something to do with the fact that I love to cook, however I think that anyone who enjoys well developed characters and feeling a strong emotional connection to these characters should have no problem enjoying this movie. Even secondary characters like Rosaura and Gertrudis are very well developed to the viewer, despite their lack of screen time in this film. When a director like Alfonso Arau takes hold of a film like he does in this one, the characters are the part of the film that benefit the most. Arau does a nice job of portraying his characters in the light that he wishes to.One of my favorite scenes from Like Water For Chocolate was the scene that occurs at the dinner table, when the family is dining on quail in the rose petal sauce. While preparing this meal, Tita was fully consumed with love, passion and lust for Pedro due to the fact that he surprised her with beautiful roses. Her passion is shown through the meal she prepares. While the family is thoroughly enjoying this meal, I love the emotion that Arau shows us through his characters on screen. We see extreme lust from Gertrudis, while Rosaura, her sister shows the viewer her bloated nature, which serves as a metaphor for the life she lives. On the other side of the table we see how thoroughly Pedro enjoys his meal. In fact, everyone at the table besides for Rosaura absolutely loves the meal (including Mama Elena). Although Mama Elena does suppress her signs of pleasure while dining, Arau makes it very clear that she can also taste the passion in Tita's cooking. Like Water For Chocolate is a film that can be enjoyed by any viewer that sees a strong correlation between food and love, as this is one of the predominant messages of this film. Also, those that find themselves easily encapsulated in any story with strong emotions emitted by even stronger characters should have no problem reveling in this fantastic foreign film. "},{"Title":"You can't just exchange tacos for enchiladas","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Laura Esquivel's novel Like Water for Chocolate was a quick and wonderful read; The movie on the other hand presented me with a less than average showing of an attempt to portray a very beautiful novel through the eyes of an Hollywood lens. To fully understand the capacity of both the novel and the movie one must understand the concept of magical realism and its functionality in this romance story. The food that is constantly portrayed in Like Water for Chocolate is not just a lack luster attempt at sharing traditional Hispanic cuisine but is of the sorts of magic. Not magic in the sense of card tricks and rabbits out the hat but magic in the sense of Tita pouring her soul and passion into meals that have permanent effects on its unaware consumers. Just like the quote from both the movie and novel You can't just exchange tacos for enchiladas you can't exchange a beautiful piece of literature into a masterpiece of film. The magical realism that is powerfully given to us in novel form loses its powerfulness when transfered into film form and for me at least was what made the movie seem no less than mediocre. As far as the story goes, this is were the movies strong point shines through, it sticks fairly true to the novels plot and dialog. This is very important due to the nature of portraying Tita's struggle for true love against an oppressive mother, Mama Elena, and the fact that her lover was married to her eldest sister. I recommend watching this movie if you are interested in a Hispanic movie that is not of the norm of blood and guts action but instead want to sit back and sip a glass of wine and feast your eyes upon a mediocre love story that is almost promised to make you hungry for Hispanic cuisine and true love. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Recipe for True Love","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Film, Like Water for Chocolate portrays the meaning of love, and the importance of Mexican tradition. The movie shows a different perspective of Mexican life by using a girl as the main character.The girl is filled with emotions, and the audience gets to see the struggles of a Mexican tradition. The film focuses on the love between Pedro and Tita and the choices she must face. Tita was brought into the world with onions. This is the first metaphor used, showing that onions make a person cry; therefore, she would face sadness. Instead of presenting the emotions normally, food is portraying the emotions. The film has many recipes that are filled with sensations that transport the actors, as well as the audience through a different reality. I easily could relate with the emotions that the main character, Tita was going through. The director decides to show the metaphors and emotions so well, that it was hard not to share the same sensations that the characters were feeling. The scene where Tita makes the quail with rose petal sauce depicts how much love is put into her food. Everything that she cooks is shown in a different light in the film. The rose petals change colors, allowing us to see the pink, then the passionate red roses. The camera presents each scene in a special way, zooming in and focusing on one thing; therefore, letting the audience feel and relate. I really enjoyed this movie because it presents such passion. Tita fought for what she wanted. Throughout the movie you always question, what will happen next? That is the point of the movie. You should not always follow rules. It is okay to take chances, and break out of the normal traditions. Everything that is shown in the film has different meanings. The great thing about this film is that everyone can have different meanings of the metaphors and theme. At the end, when matches are eaten one can think of several meanings. Tita's motivation was fulfilled, her passion would forever be lighting up. There are many different mystical dimensions, like Gertrudis in the shower. The shower is not really on fire, but the passion is metaphorically being demonstrated. The title of the film even has a powerful impact. You can choose which path to take in life, like choosing water with chocolate or milk with chocolate, but it is obvious that you can tell water is more digestible than milk. It is like Tita choosing how to live life, and which option to choose. Should she choose the better man, which would be an easier path in life, or the lover with a difficult path? You always have to have a twist to a movie, and the ending is very shocking. I was very surprised, but once you put everything together it makes perfect sense. I really enjoyed this film because it showed something never ever seen in Mexican film before, and the uses of magical realism and metaphors were phenomenal. I think anyone who is craving a romance film, enjoys food, and does not mind a roller coaster of emotions will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Like Water For Chocolate Book vs. Film","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alfonso Arau's Like Water for Chocolate is a cliff noted version of Laura Esquivel's novel. He shows Tita and Pedro's struggle to be together when outside forces plot to keep them apart, mostly by Tita's mother Mama Elena. The story has passion and pain, love and hate, joy and sadness. These emotions are depicted through the food that Tita cooks. Arau does an excellent job with representing the emotions Esquivel put in her novel. A great example for the pain and sorrow Tita feels, which gets transferred into her food, is at the wedding of Tita's sister Rosaura to Tita's love, Pedro. Tita had cried while making the wedding cake, and when the guests eat it they feel what Tita felt.However, Arau's film is not as well made as it could have been. The scenes are edited badly; they are choppy and dark. The actors do not portray the characters in the book very well either. Mama Elena in the book was more verbal and physical with her abuse, while in the movie she showed her disapproval with cold, stony stares. Also, Pedro has more of a presence in the movie when in the novel he was not as important as Tita. Consequently, Arau does not follow the book in that he changes a part of the ending scene, which is bothersome to those who have read the book.The most important aspect of this movie is the food that embodies the emotions of Tita. Through food Tita is revealed as a woman of vast emotions. When unable to verbally express her love and desire for Pedro she makes a dish of quails in rose petal sauce that says what she cannot. She tells her neighbor Paquita Lobo that her chiles in walnut sauce are made with love which is what makes them so good. After eating the chiles many people went off to be with their loved one.This movie is not for the faint of heart. Tita and Pedro endure much hardship in order to be together. Yet, this movie is good for those who like passion and love to overcome adversity. Also for those who have a great love of food. Another thing about this film that might be of interest is the different side to the Mexican cinema it shows; instead violence and death, this film has a happy, romantic ending. "},{"Title":"A Mystical Tale of Water, Chocolate, and more","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate, like the novel before it, is a mystical story. Without having read the before it, one might think that this is one of those movies that Hollywood puts out that is meant to be confusing for the normal people to watch. Although it does not have any American A-list stars in its cast, Like Water for Chocolate still manages to be a movie that is enjoyable and have relatable characters.The food in this movie is amazing. It is always there even when it is not being shown. The food symbolizes so much and although there is an abundance of it in this movie, it is never overwhelming. The food is intermingled with other emotions and actions. Food represents love, anger, and lust among a myriad of other emotions that make us human.Sex in this movie is prevalent but not obscene or vulgar. The nudity is as tastefully done as possible when in regards to nudity. It is romantic to watch two people who are in a forbidden love being together and adds to the emotion of the film.Like Water for Chocolate is a film that is historically interesting, focusing on the Mexican Revolution, sex, and food. It has many elements to it that would appeal to a wider range of viewers since it embodies so many different areas. It is not a film that everyone would enjoy, so reading the book beforehand is suggested, but it is worth viewing nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Serves a Dazzling Dish of Magical Realism and Sets Ablaze a Passion One May Never Have Known to Existed","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I simply could not wait to see the film Like Water for Chocolate, after I finished Laura Esquivel's book. The brilliant author and now screenwriter, Laura Esquivel, is a native of the culturally rich Mexico. In her novel, Like Water for Chocolate, Esquivel used flowing magical realism to explore the importance of love, family, and art in Mexico. As a woman, myself, I found the novel to be very empowering and that's probably why it was a best seller in Esquivel's home land in 1989! I believe that she adapted and upheld the same metaphorical experiences of her novel to the film adequately well! Like Water for Chocolate was directed by Alfonso Arau and released in 1992. It was indeed a película romántica y dramática! Just like the novel, it was set on the ranch de la Garza family, near Piedras Negras, Mexico. I love that the narrator was a voice over and that she told the audience the family recipes that intertwined the story. The recipes gave the film a visual appeal with the colorful appearance of la comida. Yet, the real appeal was in the emotion it took to prepare the visual feast.Most of the film had darkened lighting, as if it were a representation of the undertone of the story. The film, as well as the novel, told the fate of the two lovers Tita, played by Lumi Cavazos, and Pedro, played by Marco Leonardi. Their satire of a romance was full of twists and character evolution. Tita gave the most inspirational performance with her passionate words and magical cooking. I will admit that she was not how imagined her when I read the book, but her character grew greatly on me. I was up and down with her throughout her experiences. I feel that Esquivel took the most important parts of Tita's life from her book to include in the cinema. Pedro's acting was just alright, yet his seldom words spoke of true love and passion. I swear you'll have my love forever, Pedro plead with Tita. There were many times when the future of Tita's happiness looked dim and I wanted her to run away to find a better future for herself! I was glad that Esquivel included Tita's crucial line and question of honesty to herself, I did once, and it was all lies. I won't listen to you anymore. That is the whole purpose of Esquivel's tale, though! When one finds true love, one knows and can't deny it. Perhaps the more crucial line was that made by Doctor John (Arau 1992)each of us is born with a box of matches inside us...light the matches one at a time. If a powerful emotion should ignite them all at once they would produce a splendor so dazzling that it would illuminate far beyond what we can normally see&#x85;a brilliant tunnel would appear&#x85;summoning us to regain the divine origin we had lost. Doctor John Brown played a very small part in the film. However, with his role he introduced the symbolism of matches to the screen. It was beautiful to see on film the emotions the characters consistently expressed. The matches are an interesting element that represents the spark of the flame that yearns to be lit within Tita. Ladies, this is a great movie to see if one believes in true love and the love of a lifetime; of all that it is worth. Might I also add that the matches serve as a perfect reminder of the fire that creates boiling water, hence water for chocolate. Pedro's short aggressive remarks, like, This is nectar of the gods, blazed an intense fire that constantly heated Tita's pool of emotions. She was constantly on the verge of boiling over! It was satisfying to my imagination to see Pedro's love for Tita ignited on screen. Almost as ingredients to a full course meal, the supporting characters added flavor to the table. The protagonists were the simple, yet uniquely heated, characters of Nacha, played by Ada Carrasco, Chencha, who was played Pilar Aranda, and the ever-so-lovely Gertrudis, played by Claudette Maillé. I must say, Gertrudis' love scene in the movie made me blush. It was oddly exhilarating and it showed that even she had a flame that needed to be freed by matches! Aye, aye! The people who dampened Tita's matches were the antagonists of the film. Mama Elena looked lady-like on the surface, but Regina Torné's character was the repressed, controlling shadow of the story. Rosaura, who was played by Yareli Arizmendi, was the other antagonist with her chubby and flatulent self. Yet, no character shone brighter than the flame and whole self of Tita. I would highly recommend this movie to all of the hopeless romantics, hard-working women, and passionate people out there! I believe in the message that this movie implies everyone has a match inside them that's wanting and waiting to be lit! The film Like Water for Chocolate ignites and intrigues it's audience with food, new beginnings, freedom, and of course, passion! Therefore, I say, eat my child; food will make it hurt less. The dish has already been served by Alfonso Arau and Laura Esquivel. Better to watch it, before it gets cold!By Ashley Duvelius "},{"Title":"a hidden gem","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Like Water for Chocolate is an epic Mexican film filled with magical realism, Mexican tradition, good acting, and interesting plot. The movie is also filled with beautiful landscape and scenery and well put together scenes with powerful imagery. A person who has not read the book this film was based off of will miss a few of the points and some character background. However, a person who has not read the book can still enjoy this well directed and carefully produced film. The movie also contains a lot of magical realism. This point should be accepted and understood or some scenes n the movie may feel strange and awkward to a viewer. The biggest magical realism in the movie has to do with the powers that food can have on consumers. Like Water for Chocolate is a film that many people can enjoy, not just people interested in literature. The parts of this movie that make it notable in the world film industry are good acting, displays of Mexican tradition, and the magical realism. The acting is done in a very professional way and is not overdone or corny. The actress who plays Tita was able to portray her struggle with passion and tradition with ease. The tradition of the youngest daughter staying to care for the widowed mother is a main point of the movie. This tradition shows three different outcomes through Mama Elena's three daughters. Finally, magical realism is done in a very plain yet powerful way. There are no special effects to distract the viewer and every bit of the magical realism is done in a natural and smooth way. One can appreciate the subtle way the magical realism was done. These features in the film make it a worthwhile watch to anyone willing to appreciate the combination of passion and subtlety. "},{"Title":"Excellent Portrayal of Mexican Culture at the Time of the Revolution","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mexican culture is deeply rooted in the plot and atmosphere of Like Water for Chocolate. Tita is represented as a typical Mexican girl forced to stay single and take care of her mother until she dies; Mama Elena represents a harsh dictator entrenched in tradition. Viewers watch as Tita determines whether to relinquish to Mama Elena's control or to rebel and run away with her lover Pedro.Mama Elena is portrayed by Regina Torné who has a sharply defined jawline and face which accentuates her power and strict nature. You know that as my youngest daughter you must look after me until the day I die. This and other statements were made to Tita in reference to the harsh Mexican culture. Mama Elena's reappearance as a ghost emphasizes her domineering spirit and her ever-near presence. Tita, even after Mama Elena is dead, is still shown almost questioning whether or not she should go ahead with her decision because Mama would be displeased. This shows the impact that this tradition had on Mexican families and their culture. Her costume is almost Victorian which gives the audience a visual metaphor for how the Victorian women were powerful and overbearing. Regina Torne's acting skills were mediocre when compared to typical American films, but when compared to Mexican films from this decade, she did excellent.Tita is an excellent cook and a good daughter in today's terms, but Mama Elena would disagree. Tita, in Mama Elena's mind, was a daughter who needed to understand the importance of family and tradition. Tita just wanted to marry Pedro and live happily ever after, but Mama Elena firmly declared, Tell him if it's to ask for your hand, he needn't bother. I don't want to waste their time. Mama Elena's character laid the foundation for the other characters; they all revolved around Mama Elena's rules and guidelines. The entire plot does too, actually. Another way Mama Elena is given more emphasis is the way the camera uses the choker affect to accentuate power and the spotlight is directed on her much more than the other characters.Mama Elena is a metaphor for the harsh dictatorship in Mexico at the time of the Mexican Revolution. She symbolizes everything that the government was trying to enforce on the Mexican people, but she could also simply represent an overbearing mother or mother-in-law for that matter. Those with a desire to learn more about Mexican culture at the time of the Mexican Revolution should certainly see this movie. I would recommend reading the novel first, and as you watch the movie try to identify some of the metaphors used throughout it. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate is filled with the wonders of magical cooking, passion and love","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is an incredible piece of art. It shows how cooking can be a fantastic thing when having a mixture of love and passion. The film gives the viewer, especially Northern Americans, a magical insight of how Mexican culture is about love, celebrating and the joys of cooking. Tita cooks up different recipes, and while doing so pours all of her love and passion into them to the point where anyone who feasts on them starts feeling the love and passion as well. Like Water for chocolate was directed by Alfonso Aru and written by Laura Equsivel. It won 11 Ariel awards of the Mexican Academy of Motion Pictures and became the highest grossing Spanish-Language film to ever be released in the United States. This is important because this film has made history in not only Mexico but in the United States as well. It also means this film is one of the few Spanish films to do well in the United States. The characters in the film go through a journey of anger, love and the magic of cooking. When Tita cooks a certain recipe it relates her love for Pedro. Once people start to eat her cooking they feel whatever Tita was feeling. One specific scene is when Tita has cooked a recipe of quail and mixed in sauce from roses. When everyone is eating the meal, their expressions are filled with love and passion. Lines such as, Not only Tita's blood but her whole being had dissolved into the rose sauce shows how meaningful and magical Tita's cooking is. Not just for her, but for the other characters as well. The performances from Lumi Cavazos (Tita) and Regina Torne (Mama Elena) in this film is not beyond splendid but nor is it coming up short. A specific scene that both women performed amazingly well is when Mama Elena's ghost arrives behind Tita. The way Lumi and Regina were going back and forth with one another delivering their lines was filled with drama. When Tita said I hate you, I always hated you, it was a way of Tita letting Mama Elena know she is not afraid of her anymore. When Mama Elena said, See what you've caused? That line also puts the viewer over the edge because the way she delivers the line let's the viewer know she means business. The lighting in this film was dark orange. It is symbolic of the burning passion the characters experienced in this film. Dr. John gives one of his grandmother's quotes saying, We're all born with a box of matches inside. We can't light them by ourselves. We need oxygen and a help of a candle. Each character needed love and passion to light the matches so they would be able to feel liberated. The costumes also signal the characters different emotions. Whenever the woman attended funerals they wore black dresses to represent their mood. The rich characters would wear fancy looking clothing. The poor wore cheap looking clothing While, there were some good highlights the film did have its faults. The film didn't have 100% Mexican actors. The actress Claudette Maillé looked as if she was Irish. The thing is that Gertrudis character was mix with African American and Mexican, so it would have helped the authenticity of the film to have found an actress that looked like that kind of person. I felt the film was very good with the way Esquivel used magical realism to get the message of love and passions across. The fact that Esquivel showed cooking comes from the heart and can bring love to one another is a valuable message. I would recommend the film to anyone who wants to know the real meaning of passion and enjoys the wonders of cooking. If viewers watch in a metaphorical way, and not literal, they can see the magical realism in the film, which makes it more enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate Passion Personified by Food","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the film, Like Water for Chocolate, screenwriter Laura Esquivel alongside her husband and director, Alfonso Arau, tackle a subject that is considered taboo in many cultures Sexual passion, and the embrace of it. For many of us, as children especially, we are taught to turn off our passion button. We are trained to react to and treat such feelings as a base and instinctive nature that, by all means, must be kept in check, for it gets in the way of our good sense. However, through the variant metaphors of food, the couple captures the quintessence of love and sexual desire. From the way the film begins, one gets a sense right away that it is a distant time, the late nineteenth century to be precise, and the place, Mexico (of course, this is also stated). The time is a turbulent one. Revolution is in the air. The dim lighting throughout the movie matches the hush-hush atmosphere of such a time. In addition, the outfits fit such a time as well. They are not awfully bright. In fact, they are earthen colors a lot of brown black and khaki coloring, with occasional white. They are not revealing, they are lose-fitting garment-style dresses and attires for women and the men wear dark suits and pants most of the time. Again, this befits a time of privation, and a high-guarded sense of morality. The people look and act modestly and this is Arau's way of pointing out to the viewers that this is a time of rigid traditional structure.From the manner in which she born, one sees that the protagonist, Tita, will struggle to find her way She is forced out of her mother's stomach by the smell of onions, making a premature entrance into this world.  Surely enough she is denied love and marriage and is instead doomed to care for her abusive and repressive mother until she dies. And so her only way to express her passion is through the making of scrumptious food. The joy of living is wrapped up in the delights of food for Tita. It is how she comprehends the outside world. The amazing aromas and sounds bring her satisfaction but this is not enough, for the contact she makes with a man awakens her to a totally whole new set of feelings. Nevertheless, when she attempts to exploit them, she's stopped in her tracts. She suffers emotionally and physically for the longest time as a consequence. The best part of all this is that as an audience, we get to hear Tita's thoughts as the plot rolls onward because the narrator&#x97; the great-niece of Tita &#x97; fills us in. Unlike most movies that are overwhelmed with narration. Arau and Esquivel, exercise this option wisely and sparingly, cleverly drawing you more into the movie. In fact as you watch, the narration causes you to develop a greater sense of sympathy for Tita. It is tantamount to viewing a play and witnessing the character do monologue or an aside. Each of us is born with a box of matches inside us but we can't strike them all by ourselves, just as in an experiment, we need oxygen and a candle to help&#x85;the oxygen would come from the breath of a person you love; the candle could be any kind of food, music, caress, word, or sound that engenders the explosion that lights one of the matches&#x85;If one doesn't find out in time what will set off these explosion, the box of matches dampens, and not a single match will ever be lighted. This is a quote from the novel of the film. It serves as central theme and a rebuttal to all who preach against, attempt to doubt, and deny their passions.After seeing the movie, one is left with a gnawing feeling to exploit one's unexpressed passions. Tita represents every person, in that she gives some credence to the ideas of society, as she obeys her mother carefully, staying in the kitchen cooking and working her butt off to please those around her. But by the end of the film she discovers that she must live to please herself as well. When she finally makes love to Pedro (the man of her dreams), and experiences the most intense climax in her life, it is when she realizes she doesn't want to die. She wants more; she wants to experience these emotions more times. This is what Arau and Esquivel, is saying it means to live and be alive. Like Water for Chocolate is a well done film. I recommend it without reservation to anyone who down for love and has the curiosity and imagination to see love portrayed in so many creative ways. "},{"Title":"Food For Thought","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Like Water For Chocolate uses food in order to show not only how important food is in expressing emotions, but also shows the power that women hold and portrays the traditions in Mexican culture. Food is so vital to this story that without it, it simply wouldn't give the same message.Tita uses cooking to express herself throughout the movie, such as how the wedding cake makes everyone sick with longing and grief and how the quail with rose petal sauce made Gertrudis fill up with overwhelming passion and lust. The phrase A way to a man's heart is through his stomach may not be too far off. After all, Pedro does say, This is the nectar of the Gods about the quail. Cooking can be anything you want it to be based on how you look at. These days it's considered a chore or an inconvenient need.Because of Tita's cooking abilities she is given a pretty powerful place in the household. Being able to choose what your family eats may not sound like a very powerful position, but when you decide what people are going to eat and when and where. It gives you control over their schedules and, in a way, how they are feeling. Every one has a favorite food that they get happy about when it's made, if you cook their favorite food you are going to make them happy and, therefore, you have influence over that person. It's not the kind of tyranny that Mama Elena rules the household with, but it is still some power. Especially since this job was considered a woman's job in Mexican culture during this time period, it gave women a degree of power in a masochist society.The influence of food in culture is actually quite staggering if you think about it. Certain foods signify certain events, holidays or traditions like birthday cake or turkey for Thanksgiving, and there are foods that are only found in a certain culture. It's interesting to look at this because food is such an important part of our lives.Overall, the movie was good. It breaks from the Mexican film mold and has a spark about it. People that like sad movies about a group of women would like this movie, or people that liked the movie Pan's Labyrinth. "},{"Title":"Food for thought","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Originally titled Como Agua Para Chocolate, the novel Like Water for Chocolate by Laura Esquivel was very well translated from paper to picture in this Mexican film. The film is created with one part passion, a scoop of tradition, a pinch of love and a lot of food.I would highly recommend reading the novel before viewing the film as at times I could see how it could be a little bit confusing. Upon the film's release, it was the highest grossing Spanish language film to be released in the United States. The film is very different from the typical Mexican film, which is funny as one of the themes for the film is tradition.The film celebrates Mexican culture though food, music and history. This was perhaps the most real thing about the film. The acting is hard to grasp. It is border line cheesy and was at times difficult to focus on. The film is so full of passionate lust and star struck lovers that it appears to be a bit cliché now a days. This is how the novel was written, however. Esquivel explored the heat between two forbidden lovers, almost like a Spanish Romeo and Juliet. The story follows Tita and the man she loves, Pedro, as she expresses her emotions through her cooking, literally, for she has no other means of expression.The novel is full of magical realism through Tita's cooking and although the film was true to the novel, the convincing elements of magical realism as written by Esquivel were much harder to swallow when being viewed in the film. The film, like the novel, is rich with symbolism. The most obvious and interesting would be the title, Like Water for Chocolate, which refers to the boiling temperature water must reach in order to liquefy chocolate. The title is perfect for the burning passion experienced by Tita and the sexual desires felt by not only her and Pedro, but others in the family as well. Gertrudis, Tita's middle sister, experiences sexual desire after consuming a meal Tita had made, quail with rose petal sauce. This is just one effect of Tita's impassioned food.If you have not read the novel, the film will likely not appeal to you. The acting is not exactly top notch, and the beautiful images expressed though the novel are not nearly translated as well on screen. I began to view the film dubbed in English. I would not recommend this. View the version with the English subtitles, it looks much better and the language sounds beautiful. If you are one who always expects a happy ending, this film may not be for you. I was pleased with the way this film ended, as it did in the novel, realistically. The film is very true to the text and therefore I would recommend for one who has read and enjoyed the novel. "},{"Title":"Food, Love, and Tradition","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In most Mexican films one sees a dramatic story of lovers who battle all odds only to wind up dying. Like Water for Chocolate wasn't much different. We have two people, Tita and Pedro, who are forced to tiptoe around their relationship and keep it under wraps. Pedro marries Tita's sister, Rosaura, in order to be closer to Tita. Under the watchful eye of Mama Elena, the two are caught in a net of what is acceptable to society and what they feel to be right. Tita grew up in the kitchen and the way the book is set up is through recipes and their relation to life. Throughout the story her emotions are poured into her dishes, and those who consume the food are overwhelmed with her sentiments. Her sadness over Pedro's wedding to Rosaura causes the wedding cake she made to make everyone ill with heartache. Her quail with rose petal sauce evokes those who devour it to feel a great passion and sexual experience. The way that food affects people in different ways is a key point in this film. If the viewer does not have a metaphorical mindset when watching Like Water for Chocolate, then they will not understand the significances of every little thing. One must pay attention to color changes in the roses from pink and white, to red, as they were soaked with Tita's blood. Without that realization it's hard to grasp how Tita's love was soaked into roses in the quail dish. Like Water for Chocolate doesn't only focus on the way food plays a part in Mexican culture, but also has a focus on tradition vs. modernity in turn-of-the-century times. Tita was supposed to never marry and care for Mama Elena until Mama Elena died. Tita made sure that tradition died with her. Tita's sister, Gertrudis, defied traditional ways by leaving home, working in a brothel for a year, and then joining the military. The eldest sister, Rosaura, tried to stay traditional and tradition ruined her. From a personal standpoint I feel the movie followed the book more than most do. A few adjustments were made here and there. A significant one being the ending was rushed in the film as opposed to the book. The story itself was enjoyable and should appeal to everyone's tastes in some way. On the other hand it is a difficult book to read, let alone movie to follow. One really must be able to see things as symbols for something else. If the viewer tries to relax and watch the film without having their own train of thought during, then most likely they will not enjoy it. Acting in the movie isn't bad, but the portrayal of some characters was surprising. Mama Elena is presented as an American. Gertrudis stands out with her fiery red hair, and John is even plainer than the book depicted. Mama Elena isn't as fierce in the film as she was in the book. In the book she was this terrifying dictator over the family, but in the movie she just yelled at lot, and gave mean glares. When capturing the beauty of the Mexican countryside and how the war affected life on the ranch, the director was spot-on. Even though the scene was brief, when Mama Elena defended her home against the soldiers, it had a huge impact on the film. I highly recommend seeing this movie and reading the book. Definitely watch the film in Spanish with English subtitles. If one tried to watch a dubbed version then it will take away from the movie. The sound is atrocious and distracting. Also be aware of the movie's R rating and scene's of nudity. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate was a very well written book as well as a movie. I read the book before seeing the movie in a college literature class. The movie was what I expected after reading the book in class. When reading the book you must use your imagination and I believe when I read the book I would have pictured it the way the director portrays it. I wasn't certain how the cooking in the book along with the stories would work in the movie as well as the magical realism, but I think it was added in very nicely and artistically. I was also worried about the setting of the book as I portrayed it and how it would be set in the movie. The movie setting was different then I expected but very detailed and I enjoyed it very much. When it came down to the character they weren't what I expected, the sisters of Tita were not what I imagined especially Gertrude with her bright hair. But the setting of the movie I also think is a little different then i expected. The movie was a great movie to watch, I'm not one to watch movies with subtitles but did enjoy this movie. I would recommend this movie to anyone interested in watching something they wouldn't usually watch. This movie will really open to your eyes to different movies one wouldn't usually watch. I really enjoyed it. The magical realism makes the movie so interesting along with all the metaphors. Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Worth Watching, not for children, book is amazing!","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Like Water For Chocolate is a different kind of movie to watch, but worth seeing. It tells the story of a Mexican family and the life they lead. It is full of everything your typical movie has, love, lust and lies. It reminds me in a way of a Mexican fairytale. Girl is in love with boy but can't have him, and has an evil mother always getting in the way of things and bossing her around. It focuses on family, tradition and a love like no other.It incorporates food into the entire movie and really shows you just how important it is to what is going on. I love that the food becomes magical and can change emotions of the characters. It's magical how it all happens. It's interesting because some cultures really do believe in this. During this point when the movie is supposed to take place, the whole Mexican Revolution is going on. They portray this very well in a scene where they come to fight off Tita's family. It is a small scene but makes a big impact. The scenery used in the movie is absolutely beautiful and looks to authentic. There are many scenes where they show the countryside, it looks so beautiful.The actors aren't bad, but however they could have done a better job at casting Mama Elena and John. John's character seems kind of a weaker and very plain character. Mama Elena doesn't even really look Mexican. Compared to the book the characters don't seem as well developed, but of course you will get that with most movies turned into a book. It has some good lines in it and seemed to follow directly along with the book. When watching the movie it is in Spanish with English subtitles. It is a little difficult to follow but overall just like any other movie with subtitles. I recommend not watching the dubbed version, it sounds horrible and you will not be able to concentrate on the movie. Compared to how typically Mexican movies normally end this one has a very different and unique ending, but a good one at that.The movie is a lot like another movie I have seen, Simply Irresistible starring Sarah Michelle Geller, involving the whole idea of magical food. It has to do with a young chef when whatever emotions she feels when cooking it is then brought out again when she serves it to her customers at her restaurant. Both movies really do a good job at having food being such an important and magical aspect. Overall it is a movie worth watching and if you like it you should definitely read the book. I think the book is a lot better, it's a page turner. I would also like to note that this movie is rated R. It is not intended for children. There are a few scenes that include full nudity. Also, if you don't have an active imagination or a love for food, this movie may not be for you. "},{"Title":"A women named Tita can not marry the love of her life, Pedro, because of a tradition. Tita uses food to show Pedro her Passion for him.","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate is a very interesting movie that mixes modernity with tradition. The traditional cooking creates passion, in whoever eats it, when made with passion and love. The idea of choosing love and passion over what ones parents want is a more modern idea. The setting of Like Water for Chocolate is in a Mexico. It takes place during the Mexican revolution. It is a very realistic set and the main location for the movie is at Tita's (played by Lumi Cavazos) house. There is one scene where the characters are at Dr. John's (played by Mario Ivan Martinez) house too. Tita's house is very traditional and so this shows the aspect of tradition once again. The costumes and make up are very realistic too. The costumes are historical, Mexican dress from the late 1800s. The clothes are very tradition and the makeup is very natural. The lighting was soft and there was a lot of orange coloring. There is a lot of magical realism in the movie. First, Tita isn't allowed to marry because of an unrealistic tradition that would never happen in real life. Second, the feeling you get when you eat the food is based on how the cook was feeling. Next, the size of the blanket is very unrealistic. Finally, dying because of all the passion one has when all of their matches are lit. However, all of the magical realism makes the movie very interesting and fun to watch. The themes of the movies are tradition, authority, and passion. Mama Elena (played by Regina Torne) is tradition and authority. Pedro ( played by Marco Leonardi) and the title of the movie represent passion. All of the themes add up to a family drama that ends up lasting for around 22 years. There were a few parts of the movie that I thought could have been better. I thought a lot of the scenes were cut too short. I would of liked the scenes to be a little longer and more detailed. They went by so fast that sometimes I didn't feel like I was getting the whole story. I also felt like I couldn't connect to the characters as much as I could have. Also, Pedro's Spanish voice over was not good. You can tell it's not really his voice. Everyone else's Spanish is beautiful and very good. Like Water for Chocolate was a pretty good movie. I recommend it to anyone that likes to watch movies that are very deep in meaning, and that are rich in metaphors and symbols. Also to anyone that loves magical realism. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate Bringing Magical Realism to the Big Screen","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water for Chocolate Movie Review The movie Like Water for Chocolate is a beautiful portrayal of an amazing novel. At times I felt that the movie was hard to understand, and if you were watching it without reading the novel first you would be very confused. The storyline of Tita and Pedro's undying love for one another was magical, and although the movie is from a different country and time period, I feel that many people today can relate to their story. Food plays the largest role in the film. Most of the magical realism portrayed is after the family or even guests of their home ate the meals Tita prepared. Before watching the movie I was concerned how they would portray the magical realism throughout the film. In the novel, the magical realism catches you and draws you in. The film does the same. The magical realism scenes were wonderful and exciting. Some were not done as well as others, for instance when Tita is being born and the buckets of flowing water come, but for the most part the magical realism scenes were successful. I do not know much about Mexican culture, but from what I have learned this year in World Literature class the movie is very realistic. Some actors and their Spanish could have been better, for instance Pedro, but overall most the characters were portrayed well. Tita was just as I imagined her from the novel. Gertrudis, on the other hand was not, but I think the choice of actress was great. Gertrudis was not like her sisters. The red hair made her stand out and reminded viewers she was different. Like Water for Chocolate makes you question yourself throughout the film. Lots of people say they don't understand Tita and her actions, but they have never been in her position. Mexican family traditions are different then what we see in today's society. What would you do if you had to wait and take care of your mother until she passes to marry? What would you do if your one true love married your sister? These questions seem so easy to answer, but when you see Tita facing these questions in her real life, you realize the answer might not be as easy as you thought. Over all Like Water for Chocolate is a great film. I was worried about how I would deal with subtitles and it didn't affect my enjoyment of the movie at all. The movie is in Spanish and involves Mexican culture but, anyone can enjoy it. If you have or haven't read the novel I recommend watching Like Water for Chocolate. "},{"Title":"Food, Love and Revolution","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Como Agua Para Chocolate is a passionate love story with a distinct narrative through several metaphors, most predominantly food and the revolutionary setting. Besides the sad forbidden love theme between Tita and Pedro, I especially found it interesting to discover various clues about the social life in Mexico one century ago. The movie depicts Mexican rural life in ranches as encircled with traditions and strict rules in order to ensure the continuous functioning of this self-sufficient closed system. It is women who hold authority as a land-owning family, personified in the merciless figure of Mama Elena, the guardian of decent customs and values of the household. Tita's role in the story is one of a revolutionary in that she resists Elena and the traditions imposed by her authority even after she passes away. The events in 1910's Mexico are parallel to the microcosm of the ranch. The disadvantaged strata of the society revolt against the established rule and the women play a very active role in this struggle. Probably the character of Gertrudis is an exaggeration (how she becomes the general of the militia) but it is a fact that armed women called soldaderas actually fought battles side by side with men, other than providing the forces with various logistics such as nursing, cooking and material supply. Although the question whether someone like Gertrudis coming from a landowning family should fight on the side of the peasant rebels requires deeper historical knowledge of the Mexican Revolution, it didn't seem to me realistic. However putting class issues aside, it is apparent that both rebels and Gertrudis are on the same side against the traditional authority. American outsider Dr. Brown's intervention into the internal family affairs in order to both offer help but also to look for personal gain (Tita's hand in marriage) is also ironically reminiscent of the United States involvement during the revolution. I'm sure there are many more themes and analogies in the movie which can be associated with the Mexican history and culture, but difficult to remark if one is not much familiar with both of them. The insufficient budget of the movie was one of its weakest points, especially for scenes which required better visualization (the characters looked like the same even after twenty years); however I enjoyed it a lot, especially after having seen all of those beautifully decorated tables full of delicious food. I can recommend another Mexican movie reflecting rural life and its victims oppressed by tradition María Candelaria (1943). "},{"Title":"Tale of passion, romance, and magic....","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although, the plot line seemed to progress rather slowly, Como Agua para Chocolate, soon shaped itself into a film of passion, romance, sorrow and magic. A beautifully, compelling story of two individuals with the desire of a forbidden love that neither of them, is ever allowed to share. Torn apart by an ancient family tradition, the lead characters Tita and Pedro must break these barriers and do whatever in their power, to be together.The lighting technique seemed to provide the biggest component of tone in this movie. The use of colors in the film, set the emotional tone for the viewer. Shades of sepia and rust-colored hues that blanket the screen for the majority of the film, give the viewer a sense, of a timeless, love story. The coloring also suggests a rustic feel, reflective of it's historical storyline.Though, Como Agua para Chocolate appears to be a traditional story of romance and love, I must note that this film requires a vivid imagination and an open mind, to be able to be enjoyed by it's viewer. The movie is more fantasy than anything else, and if you're looking for something a little more realistic and serious, this probably should not be your first choice. "}{"Title":"Forbidden Love","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I love someone, I never stop thinking about that person no matter what. I will do anything to be with that person; I will climb mountains or swim across the longest river just to be close to him. My heart just races when I see that person approach me and it seems like I am always thinking about that him nonstop. I get this deep feeling in my chest when I finally get to talk or hold him, and sometimes it gets hard to breathe. All we need is love -- love is a great thing. In the movie Like Water For Chocolate, Tita (Lumi Cavazos) and Pedro (Marco Leonardi) are forbidden to date or get married. Since Tita is the youngest of her three sisters, she has to take care of her mom until the day that she dies. Pedro and her fall madly in love. No matter what the situation is, it is forbidden and they will try their hardest to be with each other. They have this deep passion for each other that is uncontrollable. Tita expresses her emotions and feeling while she is cooking, and somehow when she cooks her emotions goes to the food that she is preparing, and the people end up feeling the same way she did while she was preparing the entrée. Even though Pedro knew that is was forbidden for them to get married, he still wanted to ask Tita's mother for her hand to see if there was a chance of them being together. With the disappointing answer that he had received, Tita's mother gave him another option. It was to marry her other daughter Rosaura (Yareli Arizmendi). Pedro accepted the offer. While preparing for the wedding, Tita was in total disarray, before and after the wedding. After the ceremony, Tita approached Pedro to congratulate him on his union with Rosaura; Perdo whispers in Tita's ear and tells her the only reason why he married Rosaura in the first place was so he could be close to the person he really loved. At the wedding Tita was in charge of preparing the cake, but while preparing it, she gets upset and starts weeping. Some of her tears go into the batter, and everyone at the reception starts weeping hysterically. This is just one of the many examples of how Tita's food has an effect on people. The time passes and Pedro and Rosaura have a baby, but Rosaura has a difficult time feeding the baby because she had no breast milk to feed the baby. So Tita feeds the child with her breast milk. The strange part is that she is not pregnant. A few months later, Pedro and Rosaura move up north, but on the way there they child dies due to the lack of nutrition from Tita. The couple still stays there until one horrible day, Tita's mother dies and they all meet for the funeral. At that same time Rosaura gets very ill and passes as well. So finally Pedro and Tita get to be together and have a child of their own. This film show how far one's love can go, and how people go to extraordinary lengths to be with each other. Even after one passes, there love still keeps going strong. They will be there in sickness and in health, until death parts them. "},{"Title":"Like Water for Hot Chocolate A novel in monthly installments with recipes, romances and home remedies.","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I missed this movie when it was released back in 1993 but I've wanted to see it for long time because I've read and heard so much praise for it, and from the description it sounds (and tastes) like my kind of movie The passionate Tita (Lumi Cavazos) is in love with Pedro (Marco Leonardi), but her controlling mother (Regina Torne) forbids her from marrying him. When Pedro instead marries her sister, Tita throws herself into her cooking -- and discovers she can transfer her emotions through the food she prepares. Passionate romance that is hot like boiling water for chocolate, delicious food that changes the people in the most amazing ways, magical realism - these are the components for a perfect cinema dish. I was salivating while waiting for the DVD to arrive from Netflix...Well, now I've seen it and even though I like it, it did not seem so magical. Of course, this is very much in the South American literature tradition of magic realism. More than once, Gabriel Garcia-Marquez came to my mind, especially his two major novels, 100 Hundreds Years of Solitude and Love in the Time of Cholera. I easily recognized supernatural realities that organically become a part of everyday life in a Mexican Farm in the beginning of the 20th century. Like in Love in the Time of Cholera the unrequited and undying love that lives through decades and all sorts of obstacles, plays the major part in Like Water for chocolate. The film has some beautifully done emotional and sensual scenes but overall, something is missing. Maybe it is simply impossible to adequately adapt this sort of literature to the screen? Whatever is truly magical, unique, and beautiful in the words, sentences, paragraphs, and chapters where you can create your own vision of what you read simply does not always make you accept fully the film creators' vision. What is meaningful, moving, and passionate on the pages of the brilliantly written book, may lose its charm and seem preposterous or pretentious while being adapted to the film. Like Water for Chocolate is an entertaining movie with the exotic settings and very interesting idea of expressing the repressed love, unfulfilled longing, desperation, and hope in cooking and in the ability to change the people's lives and fates through the meals they consume. It was just difficult for me to fully accept the fateful romance between two main characters and the old tradition of not letting a youngest daughter in the family to get married and to fulfill her own dreams of happiness. Maybe this book requires another cinematic reading with better production values including more fluid camera work. The way it is, some scenes just end abruptly, and the following scenes would not make much sense. Where the movie succeeds for me, is in my wish to find and read the novel, to capture its magic to which each reader keeps referring, and to try to cook some of the Tita's dishes. The novel which consists of twelve chapters named after twelve months opens each chapter with a new recipe. Now when I think of it, if Tita had been happily married to Pedro, she more likely would not have become such a genius in cooking and there would not have been her delicious recipes for us to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Alluring","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am in love with this movie. The story line is charming and magical, especially when it includes delicious food as a way to express emotion. I think that it was as wonderfully done as possible; some of the themes in Esquivel's text are a little off the wall and would be rather difficult to portray on a screen, nonetheless everything made sense in watching the film. Besides, who wouldn't want to feast eyes on Pedro for an hour and a half? "},{"Title":"The movie os missing some crucial pieces of the book","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt that the movie was fairly close to the book, that being said, i also felt that certain aspects of the book did not translate very well into the movie. These included, magical realism, Pedro and Tita's passion for one another, and most importantly the kitchen. in the book it is clear that tita spend most of her time in the kitchen, it is the focus of the book, and we learn about the specific details of the recipes, but in the movie, the recipes are not even stated. You lose much of the feeling put into the preparation by Tita, thus losing a crucial part of the sory. on the other hand, many of the feeling do come to life on the screen, like Tita's tears, another important part of the story. "},{"Title":"Charming and beautiful","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely do not listen to this moron (Bowen) who failed to see the beauty in this film.  Laura Esquivel's novel translates wonderfully into film. The story follows the life of Tita and her struggle with tradition in a strict Mexican household circa the early 20th Century.  There are so many excellent metaphors linking food with emotion, and the correlation of Tita's familial/social revolution with her sister Gertrudis' literal political and sexual revolution add many layers to this deep and funny fairy tale.  To fully comprehend the characters' actions, the viewer needs to accept the constraints of that time period, the context.  Obviously, anyone who finds this story empty lacks both romance and brains.   "},{"Title":"very romantic","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed Like Water for Chocolate, it was very much like acinderella story.  The movie had its share of laughter, crying, andreally moved me.   I found myself getting hungry from all of thedelicious foods the main character was making on film, it sort ofreminded me of the newer movie, Chocolat in the way cooking isviewed in the movie.  I think this movie is touching because  youreally see how the two people love eachother, and make sacrificesto be eachother.  It is a very sensuous movie, with all of thecooking, but also just the mere passion of the characters towardseachother.   I think that some people feel that one loses some of the story of amovie with subtitle because you have to read and pay attention atthe same time.  I beg to differ.  This movie does an excellent job oftelling the story, even if there were no subtitles, becuase theemotions of love and loss are universal.  I think that thecinematography, along with the passionate music, this film relatesto all cultures.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a wonderful story about the connection between food and emotions.  Without this knowledge it could seem confusing and bizarre.  Like Water for Chocolate is one of the most interesting takes on a romantic drama I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Like quail in rose petal sauce.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am studying cinema at the university here, and in the two page listing of movies to analyze, the library only had this video.  It was superbly executed as a romantic adaptation for both men and women, although my roommate complained about the nudity and questioned why I watched it a second time.  Actually, that was when the true appreciation of how the work was pieced together so invisibly, to another culture in another time...all the plot points lined up from the inciting incident of Pedro noticing Tita as a child over the constantly recurring motif about food, through the many twists and turns until the tears from onions... "},{"Title":"Not your typical love story","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Como agua para chocolate is a movie that you must watch more than once to fully understand.  I enjoyed the story line and romance of the film the first time through, but it wasn't until after I had read the book that I got a better understanding of the movie.The film is a faithful adaptation of Laura Esquivel's bestselling novel, where the daunting task of representing magical realism is handled tastefully by the director.  To those accustomed to magical realism, an explanation of why eating a cake containing a few tears would cause everyone who ate it to cry is not necessary.  However, most Americans think more practically, and would be left scratching their heads about some of the outrageous events which occur in the movie.  Rather than toning down the magical realism, the director explains it in various ways to ensure the audience's understanding.In addition, this movie focuses on the quest for forbidden love, and one woman's refusal to quit.  She fights her overbearing mother, and throws away most of her life in the hope of being with her true love.  The movie is a story told by the great niece of this woman, who explains how her great aunt fought her family, and changed tradition so that no one else would have to endure her suffering ever again.  So, not only is this film a love story, it celebrates the power of women and how they can make a difference.I highly recommend this movie, and the book by the same title, because the story is unlike any other you've heard, and the movie entertains people of all interests. "},{"Title":"The Beauty of Magical Realism","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's understandable how one's appetite for succinct and well-defined characters  may be left a bit un-sated in a mythic and mystical tale such as this.However, I found  this film deeply satisfying when viewed with an appreciation for its elements of magical-realism, which pervade much of the art and literature from this region of the world. I  initially suspected that the screenplay may have been adapted from work by a writer such as Gabriel Garcia-Marquez or Carlos Fuentes. The characters were no less defined, and presented with no more backstory than in any recollectable rendition  of those timeless Cinderella or Romeo and Juliet story models of which this film is truly evocative. It is also scrumptiously provacative in a pungent and  palpable way that is very satisfying, indeed. "}{"Title":"I liked it....","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I was in school, we studied Romeo and Juliet. After analyzing every word, I hated it. Then I saw it performed on stage and fell in love with it.If you analyze this film, you may find a reason to dislike it. I didn't, I watched it for its entertainment value and had an enjoyable time. "},{"Title":"More Romp than Romance","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't believe that there are viewers of this film clutching their damp handkerchiefs as the closing credit roll. This is a film more about passion than romance and has one of the all time best food and sensuality sequences etched onto celluloid. Tita makes a sauce using the rose petals from a bouquet given to her by Marco, the effect of which is particularly marked on her red haired sister Gertrudis. Overcome by her sensuality Gertrudis goes and has a hot shower in hut that serves as a bathroom. Outside the civil war comes vibrantly to life, the hut catches fire and she runs out naked. She is on fire but not literally and a woman with an Amazonian body that probably only Robert Crumb can truly appreciate in all its glory. She is lifted by a Mexican officer up onto his horse not to demur position behind him but facing him as if instantly in a position of coitus.OK there are some characters here who seemed to have drifted in from some cheap budget 80's soap opera and the sound track sometimes seems to be been made when all the finance had spent but this film is undeniable fun and has a whole tureen of charm. "},{"Title":"well-made and well-written but flawed","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a beautifully made film, with excellent acting, direction and writing. It was a real visual treat. However, despite this the movie had a fatal flaw that prevented it from achieving greatness.The heroine in the movie (Tita) is someone you really care about and your heart breaks when her selfish mother refuses to allow her to marry Pedro BUT agrees to let this man marry her older sister, Rosaura. It seems there is a stupid and self-serving family tradition where the youngest girl CANNOT marry until mom dies, as it's her duty to care for mom like a slave! And, Tita reluctantly agrees but is heart-broken.However, at the wedding feast that Tita was forced to prepare for everyone (wow--what a terrible injustice), apparently Tita's emotions magically transform the food to reflect her own joy or sorrow. This happens several times throughout the movie. In this case, her tears that fall into the cake batter apparently make the cake taste delicious BUT also makes you dreadfully ill! Later, when Tita appears to be feeling rather frisky, and makes a meal with rose petals, the meal become a super aphrodisiac and literally makes flames come off her other sister's body!! The shower she is is catches fire and she runs naked across the fields until a passing bandit grabs her and she isn't seen again for several years! During all this time, Pedro and his wife live with the family. There are a lot of glances and longing expressions, but nothing occurs between them. However, here comes injustice #2. When Rosaura gives birth, she is unable to produce milk, so the baby is nursed by Tita! Later, when Mama thinks there COULD be something going on between Tita and Pedro, Pedro and Rosaura are sent away and the baby soon dies.Soon afterward, Tita experiences SEVERE depression and Mama calls her crazy and sends her off to get treatment. It is amazing to see that Tita is blamed for this and so real love or concern motivates Mama--she just wants her slave to get better. But, while away from home, Tita slowly returns to normal and finally admits that Mama is an evil person--so a great burden is lifted from her. In addition, soon after this Mama is murdered, thus apparently freeing Tita.HOWEVER, the ghost of Mama haunts her because Tita finally gives in and has sex with Pedro--even though he and his wife just had another baby. And, this is a major conflict and felt so very very unsatisfying to me. Will she try to take the weak Perdo from her ungrateful sister or will she marry the decent doctor who has fallen for her? Well, inexplicably, she chooses neither course--but stays with Perdo and Rosaura to help raise their child. Then, after Rosaura dies, she sleeps with Pedro for the second time and apparently the sex is so wonderful and perfect that it kills him. So, Tita kills herself and the film ends.The depressing ending and Tita's inexplicable devotion to the very weak and annoying Pedro were major strikes against the movie. You really like and respect Tita through most of the film. Even when she finally gives in and sleeps with him the first time, she is repentant and seems ready to marry the much better man (the doctor). BUT, in a nod to love self-esteem and stupidity, she remains with him and Rosaura like a martyr. This helped destroy much of the respect I had originally found in her character. Plus, I just found Pedro whiny and weak--why would any woman wait that long for such a wuss? "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We watched this movie in my college Spanish class and it was wonderful! There are tons of different things to attract people to it.  It's full of drama, love, hate, and oppression.  Tita, the youngest daughter, is oppressed by a family tradition that states that the youngest daughter in the family must not get married and take care of her mother until she dies. Tita loves Pedro but cannot marry him.  Tita eventually tells her mother's ghost that she hates her and always did.  Tita and Pedro have a very surprising ending!  I definitely suggest this movie to others, especially if you are looking for romance, love, and lots of deceit!  Don't ever doubt the power of two people in love! "},{"Title":"full of passion, and sensous fire ,, and food too","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i read the book. so i had to see the movie and see if it was anything like i imagined it. the sadness of tita's life is very well brought to the screen. its definetly worth watching. but I think this is the kind of film that you see only once. otherwise its first affect ( that u feel long after) will start to leave you. by the way. for all you ladies out there. the main love interest . Pedro hes sooooooooo fine.,,enjoy! "},{"Title":"A wonderful melodrama","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Water for Chocolate begins in 19th century Mexico with an unorthodox birth of a young woman. It is filled with numerous metaphors, not all of which I fully understood. It starts a little too fast with ambiguous characters, but when the story launches off, Like Water for Chocolate is a wonderful melodrama that is touching and entertaining.The story is told from the perspective of Tita (Lumi Cavazos), the youngest daughter of a strict woman named Elena (Regina Torne). As Tita grows up, she falls in love with a handsome man named Pedro (Marco Leonardi), who also shares her love. The problem Elena does not allow Tita to marry because of the family tradition that the youngest daughter will take care of the mother until she dies. Knowing that he cannot change Elena's mind, Pedro decided to marry Tita's older sister Rosaura. At the wedding date, Pedro admits to Tita that he only married her sister just to be near her. Laura Esquivel based her amazing screenplay from her novel of the same name. She filled it with wonderful dialogue and remarkable twists. She also ingeniously uses the food almost like a character because it appears throughout the movie and serves a purpose. I enjoyed the character distinctions between the three sisters, which reminded me of Hannah and Her Sisters and Little Women. The oldest sister, Rosaura, is very much like their mother. She is strict and likes to follow family traditions. The middle one, Gertrudis, is the wild one. She went away with a man and joined the revolution, and she eventually became a general. The youngest one, Tita, is the gentle one. She hates following her mother's orders, but she does not have the heart and courage to defy her will. These characters are all interesting, and they all produce provocative stories and interactions with the other characters. The ending was a little disappointing. It seemed a little ambiguous and out of character. It ends with another metaphor, and I believe that the story could have been more effective if told straight and realistically. It goes too much on magical realities, which disrupt the emotional capability of the film. Alfonso Arau uses delicate direction shifting from the metaphors and imaginations to the realities without showing a transition. He could have improved the movie if he discarded the narration. Rosary's granddaughter narrates the film, and she is completely unrelated to the whole story. Arau wanted to make the story feel like a family myth because it is being narrated through a book. He should have just told it with straight narration and reality so that the characters will be more vibrant and believable.But for most of it, Like Water for Chocolate works like a luscious melodrama complete with tragedies. Esquivel's writing is solid and mature; it contains a delightful love story and enchanting plot developments. Aside from a fast beginning and a weak ending, the movie is, as its tagline claims, `a feast for the senses.'  "},{"Title":"Better than the book.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  People say it's a chick flick but what the hell  - I loved it and I'm a guy. So much for stereotyping. Have seen it 3 or 4 times and didn't tire of it.  Great date movie. I read the book later, and actually preferred the movie! "},{"Title":"Beautiful piece of magical realism . . .","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was wonderful - engaging, beautifully filmed, and filled with superb performances. It is very much in the style of a lot of Hispanic literature and I don't recommend it to anyone unfamiliar with magical realism. It requires a suspension of belief and the acceptance of certain literary conventions likely unknown to the average American. Without foreknowledge of the style, it is likely to make little sense to the viewer. However, it is indeed a graceful and romantic movie, and very much worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I know it's a comparison...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but yesterday I watched this movie and tonite, the lord of the rings... Want my opinion? We just can't compare them! Como água para chocolate is a real movie. When directors and producers have low budget to film their movies, they really work hard on the script, on the whole story, on picking great great actors, who r not only interested in the money. This story is so beautiful... it's almost a mexican soapopera, but it's sweet, Tita is sweet, smart, strong... They don't seem to suffer for nothing like in a regular soapopera, she finds relieve in cooking, and the scenes r something to remember. The Lord of the rings (I'm sorry again for making such a comparison) is stupid! The scenes r beautiful, but it doesn't make u think at all, it doesn't make u dream, it's nothing but a big millionaire production. I got bored a million of times, even if in front of me were ian mckellen, ian holm, viggo mortensen, sean bean... Thank u God for low-budget unpretentious films! "},{"Title":"Quiet poetry on the screen","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Novels that employ magical realism, i.e.the weaving of magic into the fabric of everyday life, are hard to film. The director must hope that the viewer will take that leap of faith, will embrace the idea that magic can happen in the most mundane places and occasions. Like Water for Chocolate is the story of frustrated love that takes place on the Mexico-Texas border during the Mexican Revolution. It is beautifully acted and filmed. If you are willing to take that leap of faith, if there is a little bit of poetry still left in your soul, if you still believe in true love, Like Water for Chocolate is ultimately satisfying. (I recommend watching it in the original Spanish, even if you don't speak a word of the language, as English is too prosaic a language to convey the poetry and, yes, the magic of the story.) "}{"Title":"Like Water for Chocolate is a wicked comedy disguised as a love story.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When you break it down into its constituant parts, Like Water for Chocolate is not the best in any category.  I can name many movies with better writing, acting, cinematography, etc.  But as a whole it grabs me and doesn't let go.  I hate most Hollywood sentimental pictures and this is definately not one of them.  All the parts are quite good but I can't explain why, when you put them all together, they turn this into my favorite movie of all time.Like Water for Chocolate is a wicked comedy disguised as a love story. Anyone who looks only to the surface is missing the whole point.  It's high camp combined with some of the most passionate lovelorn characters you'll find anywhere.  By not taking itself too seriously, the movie leads the viewer deeper into the pain of loss and denial that is at the heart of these characters.The book is definately worth reading as well.  And includes recipes! "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorite all time movies.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I still can't watch it all the way through without crying. Here are some hints If you insist on judging this film by American standards, you will hate it. You won't understand the poignancy, subtle conveyance of deep emotion, the repressed longing, the beauty and sadness. You won't get the complex NON-cartoony characters. And boy, you REALLY won't get the ending. IIf your idea of a good romantic film is the typical Hollywood drek (i.e., anything starring Julia Roberts), pass this one by, because you just won't get it. Unfortunately I see this advice came too late to many of you. Here's a hint for the future - better avoid Marquez, too. "},{"Title":"True treat for dreamers","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A warm, passionate story full of dream-like fantasy - just like water for chocolate. If you don't like chocolate don't bother viewing - not because the movie talks about it, au contraire. But you do need extra sensitive touch and inner sunshine to truly enjoy this movie, and that is known only to chocolate lovers. My personal favorite about this movie is that it is the closest thing to G.G.Marquez that I've even seen on silver screen. "},{"Title":"FINE STORY AND PERIOD PIECE","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* Good story of traditions and customs that get challenged in modern times. Through the use of metaphor, a taut script, history and excellent camera work, the story evolves around the youngest daughter of a tyrannical farm running mother. Instead of being allowed to marry the one she truly loves, she must stay single to take care of the mother, as this is the youngest daughter's traditional destiny. The mother is a stern, rigid and unpleasant woman. The prospects of escaping fate for the heroine of the story is bleak. The atmosphere and story is sometimes weepy, sometimes humorous, but always attentive to its leading protagonist.This may be the first time in cinematic history that onion cutting was the catalyst, for such a terrific movie.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie with an actress of particular likeness","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, let me say that actress Lumi Cavazos (who plays Tita in this film) looked so much like my country's actress, Nora Aunor (from the Philippines) whenever she makes certain gestures (especially when she's staring).Now for the story, it is a little slow but it was engrossing and interesting.  The subplot with the effects of Tita's cooking may not be realistic but it's really to show her emotions.  Anyway, it's not shoe-horned in a way that it detracts the story's run.  Watching the film, made me think that maybe the American movie, Simply Irresistible may have taken some inspiration from this one.The verdict 4.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Juicy romantic comedy","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A welcome relief from the average Hollywood comedy. Set in the Pancho Villa era, taste the dry sweet air of the mexican plains in this romantic comedy. Well acted and entertaining plot. Make sure to be well fed before viewing, the recipes are truly mouth watering..... "},{"Title":"good cooking, some good humour and a lot of kitsch","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stuffed green peppers with walnut sauce alone do not make a first class movie. Nevertheless, the idea to combine the art of cooking with the plot of a film has never been set in schene in such an original way as in this one. But this does only partially compensate for the clich'e ridden plot the Cinderella-relation with an evil mother and the story of unsuccessful love and the pseudo-religious solution at the end. Was it not for the cooking, some comical scenes and some great pictures of Mexico, it would have been a rather average, sentimental movie. "},{"Title":"Oddly compelling","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On the surface, this is the kind of film that I should not have liked. After all, the storyline is somewhat silly and at times unbelievable, and even after seeing it, I cannot point to anything that really stands out as particularly good.  Yet after having said all that, I still found this to be a great film.  There was something about it that drew me in and kept me interested and entertained throughout, and I can't really explain what exactly it was that had this effect on me.  But even though I can't accurately articulate what was so good about this movie, I still strongly urge you all to give this thoroughly charming film a chance.  "},{"Title":"Worth renting","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Water for Chocolate more than earned its favorable reviews.  Lumi Cavazos did a stand out job as Tita, among other notable performances. Ignore the people who say it's a terrible film. You'll find far more people who speak highly of it than those who disparage it.  "},{"Title":"Sensual and stately, deeply sexy.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This, along with The Big Night and Babette's Feast, is one of the best movies for true food lovers.Set in Mexico at the turn of the century, Tia is doomed never to marry. Her family's tradition requires the first born daughter to spend her life taking care of her mother until death. But Tia is in love with Pedro, and he with her. Since he cannot marry Tia, he asks for the hand of her sister, in order to be near Tia. Tia's third sister runs off with a group of guerillas fighting in the civil war. The movie follows Tia and Pedro through 1932.Throughout, the tone of the movie is one of magical realism. It is a tribute to an old vision of romantic love, a love that transcends time, and overcomes distance, madness, and even the direct interference of Tia's family. Many viewers may find this style and tone slow, even boring. But for those who enjoy a contemplative movie or novel, this will be a very enjoyable treat.Along the way, the movie manages to develop some interesting themes about the roles of women in Mexico. Tia is little more than a slave, while her sister Rosaura is a spoiled and spiteful brat. Groomed for marriage, she is little more than a doll. Gertrudis, the third sister, becomes a rebel general. Interestingly, Tia and Gertrudis wind up happy, Rosaura dies of an intestinal complaint.While not a deeply profound film, it is insightful and well written. The acting is strong and the cinematography lush and sensual. And Lumi Cavazos, as Tia, is positively stunning.  "}{"Title":"A wonderful example of Latin American film!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is an excellent example of Latin American cinema with its exploration of women's roles, national identity, and magical realism.The women in the movie are both repressed and empowered by the kitchen. They are forced to work in the kitchen, but this gives them a mystical control over everyone who eats their meals.  Tita, in particular, is forced into the kitchen by her mother and she learns to appropriate the kitchen as her tool of revenge. Food also creates a bound between women that eludes time.Mexican national identity is explored with the mix (often a clash) of cultures that seem to define Mexican History  Spanish colonialism, maners and customs; indigenous beliefs and traditions; and North American influence.Magical realism occurs with the beliefs and superstitions of the people, the various efects of food and the sense of time.  The experiences seem exaggerated and beyond belief, yet they are presented as part of everyday life and as the undoubtable truth.The movie is very good, moving and a refreshing change from the usual.  It explores the depth of human nature, suffering, etiquette, and repression. It has political overtones which are very popular in Latin American literature/cinema.  The subtleness is welcome after one too many slaps in the face from today's American hero's over acting!This movie gets 9/10. "},{"Title":"Saw the movie last night...","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've got a few questions. I didn't follow everything but I think I got the basics Mama Elena marries for stability and position - not love. She had an affair with a man (called the mulatto in the movie). Mama Elena's husband finds out and dies. Mama Elena's heart is broken and she passes down her heartbreak and bitterness to her youngest daughter, Tita.Some things I have questions about 1. Was Tita the daughter of the affair? 2. Tita wasn't really pregnant but the stress of her life made her think she was? 3. The doctor was in love with Tita but Tita rejected him...so the doctor and Tita (out of caring for one another) encouraged Tita's niece and the John's son to marry? 4. What killed Pedro? I remember something John said about candles lit at the same time but it really didn't translate for me...Was Pedro just overexcited causing a heart-attack? 5. I still don't understand why Mama Elena had so much hatred/venom in her relationship with Tita...If Tita was the product of the affair, was Tita just a reminder of the man she could not have (thus causing Mama Elena's anger)? "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, erotic, and thought provoking","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I used to be one of those people who wouldn't see a movie with subtitles. I didn't think I wanted to work that hard to watch a movie. Well, this is the movie that changed my mind.It is the touching story of Tita, the youngest child of a Mexican family with strict values and traditions. One of these traditions is that the youngest daughter must stay single and take care of her mother into old age. Unfortunately for Tita, she meets a man named Pedro and they fall in love. Pedro, thinking it was the only way to get close to Tita, marries her older sister.The rest of this breathtakingly beautiful film is about the family relationships that develop over the years. It is touching and the emotions are real. It delves into the internal conflict of doing what you want with your life and living up to your parents' expectations.The acting is great, especially Regina Torne, who is superb as Mama Elena, Tita's unyielding mother.The cinematography really shines in this movie, too. There always seems to be something else to look at, and no detail has been overlooked.If you pass this movie by...you will be sorry! "},{"Title":"Too Much Water, Too Little Chocolate","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With the surging popularity of magic realism as a literary genre which had already been a staple in the very modern films of director Woody Allen, the early 90s turned out stories of love and loss spanning generations of families. Call them family sagas with elements of the transcendental speckled here and there for poetic purposes or at least for exaggeration elegant tall tales.It's a genre that has an indelible tie to Latino culture. One of the most receptive to the elements of the spiritual, magic realism is as akin to an effective story as air is to lungs and in print can create truly moving stories. That same year another film made waves even when the essence of magic realism got a little lost in translation LA CASA DE LOS ESPIRITUS, featuring a mainly international cast with marginal Latinos here and there, wasn't the hit the studios expected but at least paved the way for more of these films.And so came the adaptation of Laura Esquivel's novel of the same name. COMO AGUA PARA EL CHOCOLATE is, as a film, not a very good rendition of the novel (which cements the notion that it's always best to read the book and make your own images). Unless I'm a cynic, and I am not, it's not the story per se that falters but its execution on screen.Quite a number of performances kill the story's emotional weight. While I can understand that Mama Elena (Regina Torne) was meant to be tyrannical as per the attached synopsis of the book, here she's only on a one-note basis gleefully sadistic, evil to the core, a cartoon. She's the Evil Queen dressed in period clothes, sneering and enjoying every minute of it. That makes her demise comic instead of dramatic. Then there is the role of John Brown (Mario Ivan Martinez) who is not only an eyesore, but an ear sore. His line renditions are horrible. Condescension never sounded so bad on screen and his perpetual, customer-ready smile does not translate into affection for the emotionally stunted Tita (Lumi Cavazos).Then there are scenes which are supposed to establish a humorous tone in the middle of all this drama. Cute moments in which characters preparing a meal titter nervously at each other stick out. The one, early Great Scene in which poor Tita cries herself a river as she makes the meal for her sister Rosaura's wedding, sending the guests into a vomiting frenzy, doesn't quite gel. It reads better in the book. When Tita discovers her mother had her Own Little Secret, we switch to a scene that does not make sense, then to a clumsy funeral scene. I may be asking too much, but a little editing could have helped.One of the more memorable sequences is the one involving Tita cooking a meal full of the roses she received as a gift from Pedro (Marco Leonardi). If anything, Tita's magic is given a fantastic treatment as the entire household, including her evil mother, falls prey to its sensual charm, and her sister Gertrudis (Claudette Maille) becomes the very essence of love about to burn itself to the ground.In short, COMO AGUA PARA EL CHOCOLATE has one too many flaws for me to view it without cringing and the Cinderella story (not that I don't enjoy that kind of tale) was not lost on me -- how could it be when it's pummeled into my brain without mercy? An overrated film, Mexico has made much better films than this overreaching melodrama about life in the kitchen. Visual poetry needs a better outlet than Arau's misfire. "},{"Title":"She just can't get it off.","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If the analogy between food and sex has to be taken to the letter (as the directory desperately and didactically tries to tell us), I'd say that the movie is quite dull and fails to reach that spot. There's no development whatsoever in the characters, no blossoming, no flavour history, no smell track it lacks all the elements that it tries to underline; the only effective character played by the cast is the wicked mother. Too sanitised, unengaging, boring, pathetic. I haven't read the book, but I'm sure the movie has very much spoiled a good book.Mexico has produced many good movies, this movie doesn't do honour to the Mexican filmography. So much for those who think that the movie is good just because it made it to the US box offices. "},{"Title":"A Romantic Foreign Film Based On The Best Selling Novel","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a good film despite the criticism it's received for being too romantic, too paperback novel material and unrealistic in its premise. The author Laura Esquivel wrote the story as both a legend and a recipe book. Since it is a legend, some of the material is meant to be supernatural and unbelievable. It reads more like metafiction at times, with powerful symbols. Tita, the youngest daughter of Mama Elena, is stuck with the bad lot of having to care for her mother when she ages and cannot ever marry. The love of her life, Pedro, who returns her love, is forced to marry her sister. The parting of the lovers for years, the Mexican Revolution period, and the use of food and its sexual powers are the meat of the film. Memorable are such scenes as when Tita must cook for her sister's marriage to the man she loves and her tears and sadness is transferred to the food she makes. When the guests at the wedding eat it, they vomit in the river, since they have eaten her pain. The quails with roses are another sexual medium she uses to get to Pedro from a distance. The actors are doing a wonderful job, though I'm under the impression they are European/Spanish born or at least trained actors. They don't come off as the more low-brow Mexican mainstream actors and actresses. This movie is nothing like the book however. It is best if you read the book first and then see the movie. The use of romantic music adds to the charm of this movie. In the last portions of the film, when Tita and Pedro are making love one last time and the cabin catches fire, she eats a match and they are united in spirit in Heaven, even has a background music that resembles Wagner's Tristan And Isolde which coincidentally seems pitch-perfect for the lovers death in this film. "},{"Title":"Lacking Food","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the one thing that the film Like Water For Chocolate truly lacks is the crucial and tasty role that food plays in the wonderfully written novel by Laura Esquivel. In the book, it's the recipes and the descriptions of these recipes which help to bring alive the feelings and abilities of main character, Tita, as well as those of her sisters, mother and lover. The great aspect of the book is that the ingredients and descriptions are included in each chapter (month.) The recipes help to distunguish not only one month from another, but also they serve to trigger memories and experiences of the de la Graza family. Unfortunatly, the movie greatly lacks this quality and therefore is unable to come across as strongly or as memorable; the few dishes that are prepared onscreen are randomly thrown in and serve no true purpose. One other piece missing from the movie, although much more understandable, is the lack of visual effects that would have been useful for the magical realism parts of the story. Of course it is difficult to portray a woman physically setting a shower on fire, but the loss of the few unrealistic scenes also took away from the entire story. All in all I feel that the movie was definitly enjoyable, I would watch it again. And except for the lack of food preparation and usage, the movie closely followed the form of the novel. "},{"Title":"Another magical historical drama from Mexico!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love historical movies set in Mexico and this wonderful movie shown on SBS last night simply reinforced that feeling.The Director, Arau, laid before the viewer a magical cornucopia of settings and in this case, tastes, that tempted the eye as well as a palette that had to remain unfulfilled. Esquivel's novel and subsequent movie script were superb and were certainly not the normal fare dished out by Hollywood. Berstein and Luezki's rich cinematography painted a superb background upon which the rich character development and plot could be traced.There are a few movies set around this revolutionary period in late Mexican history and i have loved everyone that i have seen-this is certainly no exception.Like Water For Chocolate is a movie lover's movie and I would highly recommend anyone with a interest in or love for Mexico to make an effort to seek out this gem. "},{"Title":"Pure Magic","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water For Chocalate is a purely magical picture. It is flawless and one of the best movies I have seen in a long time, maybe ever. It is a wonderful little foreign picture. This is something I have decided is great considering little foreign films are often much better than our stupid American films. Not that we don't occasionally get a gem but it's not very often. Like Water For Chocalate has a magical quality that seeps into the films body making it pure magic and one of the best love stories ever put on film. It and Casablanca, Wow. The story is just pure and wonderful. It will have most people openly sobbing. I'm the only one I know who didn't cry when they saw it. The screenplay is also amazing with some of the best written characters ever put on film and some wonderful dialogue. The acting is also wonderful as is the direction and visual effects. I loved this film and think you might to. "},{"Title":"the price for love","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most amazing movies I have ever seen! It not only describes the struggles we endure for love, but the strength of Pedro's love for Tita. Dona Elena was so caught up in the tradition and what people would think, she could not overcome it to see her daughter's happiness. Instead she pawned Rosaura to Pedro as if she were nothing more than a possession. He waited 22 years to be with her. Even though it only lasted a few minutes before he burst into flames, that little time was more precious to the both of them, and I'm glad they were together when they died. This movie brings warmth to your heart and inspiration to the soul to find true love. "}{"Title":"food and passion","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alfonso Arau's adaptation of Laura Esquivel's first novel tells the story of a woman who transfers her emotions into her cooking. Young Tita (Lumi Cavazos) falls for Pedro (Marco Leonardi), but Tita's authoritarian mother (Regina Torné) wants her to take care of her for the rest of her life and never get married, as has always been the family tradition for the youngest daughter. But the cook helps Tita learn how to, in the course of cooking, add not only ingredients but also her own feelings. This affects every character in the movie.More than anything, Como agua para chocolate (Like Water for Chocolate in English) is a consummate exercise in magical realism*, a common theme in Latin American literature. I dare to call this the PERFECT movie. Seriously, can you get better than a mixture of passion with some great meals? Anyway, it's one that you just gotta see. You're sure to love it. I sure did. Also starring Mario Iván Martínez, Ada Carrasco, Yareli Arizmendi, Claudette Maillé, Pilar Aranda and Arcelia Ramírez.*Magical realism also plays a role in 100 Years of Solitude, as well as the movies L.A. Story and Rough Magic. "},{"Title":"Awesomest movie ever!!","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Como agua para chocolate is a film about magical realism-how foods can be exotic and run the human libido wild, ghosts and humans interacting, and about how passion at its' highest peak can drive the soul out of the body and into a tunnel of heaven. Like the novel, the film works to get all five senses fired up the exquisite details of the foods being prepared pushes us into the film and allows us to smell and taste the deliciousness of the meals, the events that unfold before our eyes are amply explained and exceptionally played out in the film that we are able to put ourselves in the character's shoes and see life through their eyes, feel what they are feeling at the moment, and live what they are living. This film does incredibly well in every aspect possible the lighting always matches the mood and tone of what is happening, the actors play their roles just perfectly; never over staging their performance or under staging it, the music fits the movie perfectly; it doesn't work against the movie but for it, and the scenery and wardrobe fit the movie to amazingly; we realize that they are living back in the old days and never question that fact, even more important we are able to witness first hand what life was like back then and even gain a deeper understanding. In the end, the film Como agua para chocolate deserves ten stars out of five, it is a movie that transcends all generations and adds deeper meaning to ones' life; for one realizes that life may seem impossible to live through this day in age but back then life was nothing compared to what it is now. No television, no telephones, no computers, and most of all, no computers. "},{"Title":"Casandra Yearsley Like Water for Chocolate","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As the kettle warms, steam begins to scream out as the water's temperature rises higher and higher, ready for the chocolate goodness to be stirred in and enjoyed. Tita's passion for Perdo is much related to boiling water for hot chocolate. Each dish of food she created only furthers her passion and longing for the man she loves. Pedro, who only wanted to be with the women he loved, married Tita his love's sister Roseau to be close to Tita. A love a forbidden never dies, the love only finds a way to billow out from the seams of the heart. Tita's way of expressing her undying love to Pedro was through food. The quail in rose pedals Tita created sent all who ate it into and an organism, and even sent Tita's sister Gertrudis to steam out passion and run out naked to the man she desired. He swept her on to his horse and took her away. There so much beauty with the colors, food and music that brought the Mexican culture to life in this film Like water for Chocolate. Though this movie is very slowed paced because of long takes, it engulfs you into the culture of Mexico. It teaches you about the landscape, the music, the history, the people, the food and what Mexico was like in the early nineteen hundreds. I was shocked to learn that as the youngest daughter in those times, you had the responsibility to care for your mother until her dying day. It was the sense of tradition that kept these two apart. Many characters throughout the movie were shocked by this Tradition, not understanding why any culture would forbid a women from marrying and having children. One thing I think we need to understand it that this tradition was one reasoning behind the immoral actions between Pedro and Tita. They truly loved one another, and not even tradition could break their love. I would recommend this movie for how well crafted it was put together. You will lose yourself in the beauty of Mexico while watching this film. "},{"Title":"A passionate and complex love story","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Water For Chocolate (Como agua para chocolate) is a film filled with magic, repressed love and sexuality. The scene is set in a ranch in Mexico during the Mexican revolution and is based on a story of love that is constantly trying to be repressed but is too strong to do so. The film is like watching a telenovela in some ways; there are twists and turns in the plot that the audience does not expect.If the film is watched with the English dubbing much of the passion and emotions of the characters are lost. The first time I watched the film I watched it with the English dubbing and to be honest I thought the film was strange. After seeing the film with English subtitles and hearing it in Spanish I would argue that that is the only way to truly watch the film. Mass amounts of context is not displayed through the voices in English that one cannot understand the film properly if it is watched in English.Much of the film is a contrast of dark tones of red and orange with black, this lighting makes the film look more passionate, mysterious and magical. There is also a heavy amount of superstition and magic that surrounds the film. Examples of this are the ghost of Mama Elena coming back to haunt Tita, food in the film can make people sexually passionate, sad and any other host of emotions as well as traditions and the ending of the film in which Pedro and Tita will be joined forever in eternity.This film encourages passion in every aspect of life especially in cooking. In this film as well as the novel written by Laura Esquivel cooking is a powerful process and becomes an outlet for every day emotions.This film has powerful and realistic (although often dramatic) actors and a storyline that shows tradition, love, family, honor, infidelity, cooking, superstition a point of view on the Mexican revolution.The film shows that love is magical and a force that cannot be denied it transcends all. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic tale","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Splendid film about nothing. Few masks, telenovela's ingredients and food like magic circle. Ambiguous myths and cruel realities. And passion of strange love.It is not an original story. Slices of Garcia Marquez novels, atmosphere of pampas, poetic tragedies and miracle as ordinary life rule are pieces of a cultural space and spiritual values. But the root of movie is not a chain of clichés or a melodramatic tale. It is a very subtle exploration of feelings, questions and expectation. Picture of tradition and its fall. About Cinderella and Prince Charming.It is not a great film but it is a touching adaptation. A trip in a small universe with elements from magic realism, exotic recipes and insignificant sacrifices. And about the soul of a mother for who the world must be her creation.Como agua para chocolate is only a innocent flavor from putrefied flowers of childhood. Delicate, anonymous, without ornaments or secrets, without impressive ambitions, it is only nostalgic tale with roots in a lost space of miracles and food as magnificent spell. "},{"Title":"Love it!!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the movie in Spanish; This movie made me cry a lot it really touched my heart and I my mom tells me about those kinds of traditions in Mexico(since I'm Hispanic). I've seen the movie like 5 times and I still cry It's so sad and so much romance. You should see this movie its wonderful in my opinion of all the romantic movies I've seen this movie is the one I LOVE BEST. So don't sit around go rent the movie or something. -D "},{"Title":"Do not watch this on an empty stomach","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This is a Mexican romance novel set in the early part of this century masquerading as a naturalistic melodrama with supernatural overtones, penned by director Alfonso Arau's wife, Laura Esquivel. We can see from the frequent narrative voice overs that her novel was beautifully, if idiotically, written. Although Chocolate strains credulity at times and offends my sensibilities, it provides moments of pleasant diversion. I am reminded of Dickens, somehow. I think it is because the mother is so bad, and so many years pass before she gets her comeuppance, which is the way Dickens used to do it. She is truly a mommy from hell. She even comes back to haunt her poor last-born daughter. Tita, the youngest daughter, played sympathetically by Lumi Cavazos, is a sort of Cinderella to her two older sisters and her evil mother. She has to work in the kitchen and is constantly abused by her mother while forbidden to marry since it is a family tradition that she must take care of her mother in her old age. Consequently, her true love, Pedro, a wooden pretty boy, is given to her sister instead of her. He goes along with this since it allows him to be close to Tita. One gets the sense that Pedro figures he's getting two for the price of one, although initially he acts out a celibate role, the better to whet the appetite, I suppose.The scene where the oldest daughter is carried off by a swashbuckling rebel, butt naked on his horse, reveals the romance novel heart of the movie. Further swells the fancy of the feminine heart when she returns years later as a revolutionary general (!) in tweed jacket wearing bandoliers of bullets, still beloved by her handsome abductor.As is the rule in women's POV fairy tales, the men in this movie are without personality they just fill the roles as heroes, lovers and villains. What counts is the interaction between the women and the fulfillment of romantic notions. Nonetheless, there are a number of nice touches, especially the sumptuous feasts including such delectables as baked quail with rose petal sauce, chillis with walnuts, and corn fritters with syrup. "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to watch this for my college Spanish class, and although I usually enjoy class movies, I could have gone without this one. It goes on for WAY too long, plus it is downright bizarre. It's not that I don't get it. I get it all right, but I don't like it. I simply can't handle magical fairy tale mush like this. The movie is clearly aimed at an entirely different audience than me.Here's the rundown a girl can't marry the person she loves, so she expresses her emotions through her cooking. This leads to one of the most ridiculous things I have ever seen, in which her sister gets so horned up by the erotic food that she runs into a shower, tears her clothes off, sets the shower on fire, runs down the road, and jumps into the lap of a horse-mounted general (this takes place during the Mexican Revolution, although the movie barely takes notice of it).Besides the nutty plot developments, we have to deal with totally clichéd, unrealistic characters (WHY is the mother so evil? Why???), and stuff that just makes no sense whatsoever (you're telling me that for generations, this family has never allowed the youngest daughter to marry, and this is the FIRST girl to question that? Did these previous girls even know men existed!?). Oh, and did I mention the movie is very hard to watch? It is filmed in a rather sickening Turd Brown that had me cringing. It looks like there's rust on the camera lens or something. Very unpleasant.Good movie for the erotic/mystical/magical/romance crowd, but I didn't get anything out of it.5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"The hottest film around","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful, passionate, fiery, romantic epic tale of magical realism and the power of the human spirit. Watch it in the subtitled version for the full effect. And read the book you must. Antonio Banderas is wonderful and extremely convincing. The sexual tension builds throughout the film, wending past acts of savage cruelty and selfishness, betrayal, rape and murder to climax in an deeply satisfying explosion of passion, incendiary in its scope and effects. I'm a bloke and I cry every time I see this film. If the girl I'm watching it with doesn't cry too, she doesn't last long as my girlfriend she must be blind, deaf or frigid not to be deeply moved on many levels by this movie. En fin una obra maestra- a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"remarkable and original","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Remarkable movie! It strictly follows the book, so the one isn't better than the other. Lumi Cavazos (Tita) and Claudette Maillé (Gertrudis) are excellent. The passion splashes off the screen. The story is original and refreshing. I'm completely in love with Claudette! "}{"Title":"Have kleenex nearby","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a nice little movie. It is meant to move you and it succeeds.You will sympathize if not empathize with Tita. It is very moving and is basically for women. Any negative remarks about this touching film were most certainly made my men.  "},{"Title":"Apt Adaptation, But Disturbing Story.","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I'm conflicted in my review, it's simply because the story itself is conflicted, along with its characters, their choices, and their decisions.This was one heck of a family mess, and while I won't detail every nuance, this work seems to endorse adultery as a means of martyrdom, while forcing the adulteress to sacrifice her own life for her sin, by the ghost of her mother and the force of her own conscience. Lost yet? You will be, if you try to muddle through this mess.It's not that the story is so intelligent that it lost me along the way, it's more like the characters choices are so idiotic as to make you wonder what in the WORLD these people are thinking.I know nothing of the Mexican life or culture, but if this is what it is like, I'm glad I live in the US of A. (That's not a racist dis, either.) It rates a 3.4/10 from...the Fiend .Ick. "},{"Title":"Go out for a meal instead!","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Bad acting, bad hair, one-dimensional characters, a truly daft ending...if this film were in English, it would have been laughed out of the multiplexes. As it is, set in pre-revolution Mexico, subtitled from Spanish, it has an authenticity and quirkiness that's missing from most Hollywood features. The story is familiar - three sisters growing up, struggling with their emotions, repressed by their ghastly mother. Tita, the youngest, cooks for the man she loves, the immaculately blow-dried Pedro, though he's now married to her sister and living at the family ranch. Cue numerous connections between food and eroticism (much in the same vein as Chocolat, or Tampopo) which provide the film's selling point, as well as the inspiration for its title. The food looks fantastic, and if you like the idea of watching a tormented Mexican Nigella Lawson in a long frock, this is the film for you. I'd rather go out for a meal instead. "},{"Title":"Nice imagery, but slightly disappointing","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had heard a lot of good things about this movie, but after watch 3/4s of it (because I could not bear to finish it), I was disappointed. The scripting and acting was rather elementary. The characters were very cliché and flat. It was too easy to distinguish good vs. bad.But I did like the fairy-tale-ness. The colors were rich and the archetypes easy to follow. The recipes and magic enriched fantasy. Though, it then should have better been depicted as a children's story rather than a semi-erotic artsy film. It also played on the culture of the historical North Mexican upper-class. But it was nothing close to the significance that The Motorcycle Diaries, or Y Tu Mama Tambien does it. Instead, it is merely just a setting that could easily be altered. "},{"Title":"long and boring","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  it lasted for two hours, it seemed like five, ridiculous, over the top, i didn't care about these stupid people, a lot of useless scenes, useless characters, did Arau ever hear of an editor, it didn't do the book any justice. "},{"Title":"A shame","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, I did indeed enjoy this film (very much so).However, how on Earth do you explain the peculiar sense of humor in Spanish speaking countries? This film has some really strange one liners and goofy antics that no American audience could ever laugh at. (ever watch the Spanish channel and see people jumping around and doing goofy stuff that's so slapstick, it's not even funny?....weird)I think it's a shame that Spanish films cannot preserve their wonderful use of imagery, mise-en-scene, and a non-typical ending (an ending which does not require the approval of the audience or Hollywood producers)...and yet still avoid the goofiness.Cinema Paradiso...Italian, not really goofy, excellent film...the guy who plays Pedro is in it, check it out.  "},{"Title":"absurd (and not in the good way)","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i don't see many foreign language films that i dislike. some i've found to be disappointing, but not often do i dislike them. perhaps it's because they are usually much more imaginative than the mainstream hollywood movies those of us from the english speaking world are usually subjected to. perhaps it's because the bad ones aren't as easily available to us. or maybe it's simply because not being able to understand the language makes us concentrate more on the story and directing than the dialogue and performances.whatever the reason, it doesn't matter. i found this to be one of the few that i've seen and really didn't like. as well as being very tedious (it's not a particularly long film but it seems it) there are numerous elements which make the film mind-numbingly absurd, and not in the good burton-esque or lynchian way. these elements include a child being born completely spotless, a female virgin breast feeding someone else's child and the male leads growing moustaches for the final scene to show that they've aged (yet everything else about them stays the same). there are parts of the film which are absurd in a good way, the parts that are supposed to be magical, but these are just a few of the examples which highlight the poor scripting and sloppy directing.maybe i just don't understand the film just from reading the english subtitles but my hispanic mate had more or less the same opinion. it's a mystery how it won so many awards, or how it's got such a high rating on this site. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard a great deal about this film. It looks nice because it is well photographed with lots of attention to details. But it is also dreadfully dull! "},{"Title":"Ridiculous premise","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie requires the viewer to accept an absurdity that I'm simply unable to accept. The supposed family tradition that forbids the youngest daughter's marrying so that she can devote her whole life to caring for her mother is totally unbelievable.The tradition itself is stupid enough, but the fact that the daughter just meekly accepts such capricious and despicable treatment, when there's a houseful of servants to cater to the mother's every whim, makes the condition even more absurd and the spineless daughter totally unsympathetic. Who cares what happens to a person with so little self-respect?Suspension of disbelief is one thing, but I am unable to force myself to swallow such a preposterous contrivance just to make this silly story work. "},{"Title":"Quirky, well-put together story ...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 11/6/1999 - (Dir-Alfonso Arau) Quirky, well-put together story about a woman who is bound to her mother for life as the family cook, without marrying, until her death and her pursuit of a young man that wants her despite this fact.  Comical twists include foods that do strange things to her guests, like communal vomiting over a river or sexual arousal, adds to the uniqueness  of this foreign film that won much acclaim.  "}{"Title":"A bunch of impossible things happening in a boring world","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, I watched this in my Spanish class a couple weeks ago. I was bored to tears through the whole thing. I get magical realism, I even like it a little, but this was just plain stupid. Like, how believable is it that a girl puts her feelings into her cooking? If it's not believable, it has to be interesting, and that is the kind of crap a four-year-old could come up with. I find the whole thing with her sister running away with the general guy to be highly unlikely. It's stupid that Tita didn't just run away from her mother in the first place if she knew all along she was going to defy her. And what normal man marries his girlfriend's sister to become closer to her? And at the end of the movie, when Tita finally has sex with her boyfriend, she eats a match and spontaneously combusts. How lame is that? They're making things we know are impossible look possible, instead of inventing magic and being creative with it, like Tita using her psychic powers to make herself combust or something like that. And the whole thing with the ghost of Tita standing behind her grandniece cooking was all I could stand. The cooking was not all that inspiring. I'm sorry, but it wasn't. That scene added nothing to the movie, and it really needed adding to. "}]