[{"Title":"Black Sheep? Not Quite","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Every horror series has a black sheep. Friday the 13th had the Jason-less fifth installment, Halloween the Michael Meyers-less third entry, and A Nightmare on Elm Street the silly first sequel. For many fans, Child's Play 3 is the embarrassment of the Chucky saga. But why?So many reviews of this film express exacerbation, even confusion, over the sudden shift eight years into the future. What's so hard to understand? We had already had two movies with Chucky chasing a little kid. It was time to move the story along, hence our hero Andy Barclay (Justin Whalin) is now a teenager at a military academy. This change of scenery was the breath of fresh air the series needed, as it opens up all kinds of new options to the murderous doll, which he fully exploits (paintball guns loaded with real ammo, anyone?).Other reviewers complain this just isn't scary. There they have a point, but how many gorefests actually bring our hands up to our eyes? Scariness is a great complement, but that doesn't mean the whole project goes down the tubes without it. Child's Play 3 has a smooth storyline, a touch of suspense and a truly memorable, original climax at a carnival (though it doesn't quite surpass the doll factory finale of the the previous film). Chucky's foul mouth begins to be a liability rather than an asset, but we can cut him some slack -- he's certainly never looked better (or more realistic).Child's Play 3 does have its ups and downs, however. The romance between Andy and a fellow cadet is a distraction, and there are times when our plastic star just seems brushed aside in favor of more serious moments. Chucky's desire to swap souls with someone other than Andy is a welcome change, but his new target, young Tyler, is one dimensional and uninteresting. He's unable to carry his scenes like Alex Vincent, who played child Andy in the first two films.As far as I'm concerned, this was the last of the true Child's Play films. Once this one was done, the series became a shameful, hokey parody of itself. This entry is by no means perfect and it's certainly not up the caliber of Child's Play 2. Yet it's not the piece of trash so many would have us believe. In fact, it may just be one of the most underrated theatrical horror films of the early '90s. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series for some reason","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm going to comment hell for this one. This comment will most likely receive a very low useful rating, but I'm OK with that. This movie was quite possibly my favorite of the Child's Play series. And although you will probably not agree, you will see what I meanThis movie takes place 8 years after the previous. Andy is now a teen and has been sent to a military academy. And guess what Chucky decided to tag along. This makes for a great story. Chucky really shows his true colors and sick, twisted sense of humor here. We also have an interesting group of characters here, who are actually worth mentioning. We have Andy of course, we have Tyler, a young cadet who catches Chucky's eye as a replacement of Andy; there's DeSilva, a tough girl who has a soft spot for Andy; we have Whitehurst, an outspoken, nerdy type who quickly befriends Andy; we have Shelton, a military-loving, tough, intimidating young man who has it in for Andy; and we have Botnik, an older guy, the barber who loves his job just a little too much. Together with these great characters is a great setting. There are some very interesting kills here which I have not even thought of or seen in any previous film. I do not understand why this movie is so underrated. Is it because of the time lapse? Maybe because Andy's not a kid? New setting? No matter what the reason, this movie deserves much more than a 4.1 rating (as of 3/7/08). I say it gets 9/10. Fans of the first 2 films will not want to miss this. "},{"Title":"Really folks - it's *not* that bad a movie","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gripping drama? Hell no.Hilarious comedy? Nope.Oscar Calaber Acting? Heh... yeah right.But, really, this movie did not deserve to be slammed into the 3s. The movie had everything a mediocre early 90s horror movie should have - a plot you can follow without going cross-eyed, a few really gory death scenes and a pinch of humor. This movie won't make you roll on the ground laughing, but it will get your a chuckle here and there at Chucky's antics.The young actors also pull performances that's beyond tolerable - it's flat out acceptable.Absolutely great movie? No.Absolutely horrible movie? No.I was entertained and got exactly what I was looking for... thus it earns a 7 from me. You want a horrible horror movie that deserves its three - check out Leprachaun 4. "},{"Title":"He's in the Army Now!","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just when you MIGHT have thought - after watching an excruciatingly long death sequence in Child's Play 2 - that Chucky was no more - he's back(and with the cliché) with a vengeance. How is he resurrected? Well, apparently when eight years have passed the toy company reopens their Good Guy doll factory, removes the cobwebs off of all the old stock, pick the mutilated, dead Chucky doll up and pop him in a vat of boiling plastics. The springs of Lourdes never had so much healing power! This revives Chucky, and he instantly becomes his mean, killing machine of old and wants to find Andy Barclay to take his soul. Andy, played by Justin Whalin, is an older teenager now and enrolled at a military academy. Well, not to get too bogged down in a script that doesn't really merit such an intense analysis - Chucky finds Andy and continues to basically do what he did in the two earlier films. Lots of killing. Lots of wisecracks and that cackling laugh. Lots of the same. I did like this film more though than the second installment. First of all, the director did NOT repeat the problem of an overly long, seemingly never-ending death scene. The military school makes for an interesting backdrop to the story. The young actors do credible jobs. There are some interesting , quirky characterizations from the rest of the cast with Andrew Robinson stealing his scenes as a barber who really enjoys shaving the heads of the cadets. In fact I loved the little ponytails hung on the walls of his salon. A neat little addition. The story is nothing special though, and the film is very formulaic. It is entertaining if you - like me - have limited expectations. "},{"Title":"A great addition to the series","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I never watched the Chucky series in sequence. I never used to like them. I saw Seed of Chucky, Child's Play, Bride of Chucky, child's Play 2 and then Child's Play 3. Seeing as though this was the last that I watched. I really was into Chucky and I thought it was a great addition to the series, yes it's a bit out there but that's what's good about Chucky. I'm not particularly into the military thing but this movie made me appreciate it that bit more. I think it is good how it shows Andy still hasn't gotten over his phsycological problems and that he is still terrified of his old best friend. I liked this one better than the original and I love the lines that Chucky says. For those who don't think it's a good movie, I understand because I didn't enjoy it the first time I watched it but now that I have seen it more I love it!! "},{"Title":"'dont f*** with the Chuck' !!!SPOILERS WARNING!!!","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is one of the films that u see when u are a kid n then you never forget it... u get nightmares and never forget the face of that notorious killer doll,Chucky. This is in my personal opinion the best of the Child's Play series (1,2+3... Bride of chucky was pathetic) with its more humorous approach on the whole killer doll idea as well as being the more violent and macabre hence the '18' certificate. From the funny/cool one-liners such as Presto... your're dead, nothing like a strangulation to get the circulation going, and the one above in online summary to Chucky's violent killings and chilling laughs you know this is gotta be better than 1 and 2. the music goes alongside the most chilling scenes well such as Chucky's resurrection in the factory and scenes of death. His death scene at the end is also quite funny as he is flapping his arm and legs around before he hits the large fan and gets ripped 2 shreds! I personally regard this movie as one of my favourite films of my life (hey I'm only 14) as I watched when I was 4. I'm now looking forward 2 'Seed of Chucky'!  "},{"Title":"Stretching the formula too far.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Set eights years after Child's Play 2, this sequel sees Andy Barclay attending Military School and getting bullied by the drill sergeant (poor man's Christian Slater Travis Fine, who never really became as popular as he should have been). Meanwhile, the Play Pals company has reopened the Good Guy factory and is starting production of the doll once more. But when clearing away Chucky's grisly remains, some of his blood spills into a vat of molten plastic and he is born once more in a new body.After a good old strangulation to get the circulation going he locates Andy at his military school and somehow figures out a way to mail himself there. However, once the package gets there it is promptly snatched by a very annoying, morbidly juvenile, and highly wimpy little kid called Tyler who has the same face as has-been 'singer' Craig David, only more annoying (if that is even possible). Since he has a new body Chucky reveals his birth name once more, hoping to get a fast and easy ticket out of his plastic shell. As before there are too many distractions.And as before the film spends way too much time with boring humans who spend too much time lurking in the dark wondering why a doll seems to appear and reappear and not enough time with Chucky. He IS the star of the show and he should OWN this movie. Alias and Lost director Jack Bender never really gives him the chance. Which is a shame since the animatronics had improved over Child's Play 2 and Chucky was beginning to look nastily cute. And more and more like Brad Dourif if you look hard enough. Bender's direction is slick but lacks edge, invention or humor. He seems to be ignorant of the potential Chucky has and treats the film like another mechanical TV series with no spark or signature. I remember when I first watched the VHS tape as a kid I immediately noticed how darker and gloomier this movie is, which ultimately leads to an overwhelming downbeat, depressing atmosphere, that sort of does and sort of doesn't work.The score is a major downer though. Greame Revell's wonderful orchestral adventure of Child's Play 2 has been replaced with a horrid synthesized, death-metal score filled with tacky and unimaginative stingers. Revell, fortunately, returned for Bride of Chucky.Child's Play 3 is no more than a competent sequel. Writer Don Mancini said he wasn't even ready to do a 3rd movie but Universal forced him to before the second was even released. As he was out of ideas he claims this film to be his least favorite of them all. If a better director were involved it could still have been a good film instead of being a merely an above average (by a tiny, tiny bit) one. "},{"Title":"It shows its diminishing returns although it's still watchable","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As clearly stated by Don Mancini, the creator of the Child's Play franchise, Universal studios pushed him to begin writing a screenplay for this movie before Child's Play 2 (1990) was even ready to go. Thus, the result was that Mancini had no ideas left on how to continue the story of Charles Lee Ray, stuck in a Good Guy Doll's body. I mean can you blame him? It was baffling enough how in the name of all that's holy how to bring back Chucky from the original Child's Play (1988). Instead of being disassembled, Chucky's head was blown off this time. How do you bring someone back after that? Mancini found a way, but it's certainly not as forgivable as it was for the first sequel.The story surprisingly makes good use of its history and starts off with showing the aged and dusty factory of where the finale of the last film ended. There, the headless body of Chucky is melted down and remade. This apparently brings him back again. The continuity is great but how is that though? It was acceptable to a point in Child's Play 2 (1990) because the original body of Chucky was just dismembered and was cleaned off and reassembled. But to be first, missing a head, being melted down entirely and then remade? As much as the first resurrection was preposterous, the idea worked. Here, it just felt like a quick way to get Chucky back up. It's not like fans wouldn't want him back but a better method of rebirth would've been appreciated.Once up and running again, the lakeshore strangler immediately finds out where Andy Barclay is, but his plans abruptly change gears. Before he finds Andy, Chucky meets a new youngster named Tyler (who's also friends with Andy). There he decides that Tyler will be his new host. The new Andy is played by Justin Whalin, who later played Jimmy Olsen in the TV series, Lois and Clark. Whalin plays Andy as a sixteen-year-old, now in military school. Well that was a quick jump in time. One year passes between films and more than half a decade whizzes by our main protagonist. Whalin looks like he could be the older version of actor Alex Vincent (who originally played Andy) so that works. But what happened to Kyle from the last film? Much of the continuity is faithful to its predeceasing stories but the small things should be paid attention to as well. Instead of Kyle, Andy befriends another girl named De Silva (Perrey Reeves), there they form a friendly relationship in a tough school. The depiction of military school isn't as accurate as one would think here. Yes, there are drills and loud commands spouted out from superior officers but as a whole, it doesn't feel as intense as it could be. Nevertheless, Andy is the only character who believes Chucky still lives. Meanwhile, he's bullied by his superiors and fellow soldiers. No surprise there, nobody wants to be friends with Andy. It's sad, but at least this is the final film involving Chucky going after Barclay.Its not needed to be said but Brad Dourif of course entertains as Chucky. His dialog is still funny and you can't help but enjoy his performance as the angry doll that can't cut a break with finding a body to inhabit. More interesting is seeing actor Andrew Robinson from Clive Barker's Hellraiser (1987) have a small role as a barber to the school. His performance isn't memorable but is comical because as a barber to a military school, his obsession with keeping short hair goes beyond normalcy. He's just crazy about keeping short hair, a little too often. For gore, the violence feels in the middle to that of the first two movies. Nothing goes all out ugly like it did in Child's Play 2 (1990), but it's also not as tame as the violence in Child's Play (1988). Either way, it's intriguing to see what twisted methods Chucky has in store this time. The cinematography is mostly competent by John R. Leonetti. What he captures on screen isn't anything beautiful but there are times where the landscape is big which helps it feel like the place Andy is in, isn't a small school. Leonetti would go on to provide camera work for many Dead Silence (2007), The Mask (1994) and The Conjuring (2013). As for music, John D'Andrea and Cory Lerios score is a mixed bag. Instead of Graeme Revells more robust orchestral score from Child's Play 2 (1990), these TV composers revert back to Synthetic tones like that of Joe Renzetti's from the original composition of Child's Play (1988). Yet, without a main theme, this duo at least kept the music sounding creepy. It's hard to say. It's obvious that this production was rushed with its plot being dragged out on the same character but at least its tone didn't change.Its plot is recycled again and its justification for certain events are totally ignored but the main grab is to see how Andy and Chucky duke it out for the final time. It could've been written much worse by comparison. "},{"Title":"Darkly humorous.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I never really liked CHILD'S PLAY. That film was a modern re-imagining of the classic possessed doll theme, which was so silly that it ended up making me laugh. Aside from one scene where Catherine Hicks checks the doll for batteries, the film failed to scare, not to mention having a few plot twists that were just plain bad. Nevertheless the film was a modest hit, which led to two sequels (which were actually better).Six years after his last confrontation with Chucky the possessed doll, Andy Barclay has been sent to a military school. At the same time, the Play Pals toy factory has restarted its manufacturing of Good Guy dolls. Chucky's soul possesses the first one built &, after killing the Play Pals' president, mails himself to the military school. Andy must now try once again to defeat Chucky before he can regain human form by possessing one of the cadets.Like I already said, the series has lost its spark, which is actually a moot point since the creativity that made the first two films was running on used petrol fumes. Child's Play 3 has the exact same plot as its predecessors, with Andy Barclay trying once again to foil Chucky's plan to regain human form by possessing a human child (although this time around, Andy is no longer the target). While the original film offered a twisted commentary on the popularity of large life-like dolls & the second delved into the life of a foster family, this third film looks into life at a military school. Thus we have scenes where Justin Whalin arrives, only to be thrust into a harsh life, being singled out for abuse by the local sociopathic cadets. As is usual with these films, it's the Chucky show. This time, the doll kills his victims in ways that would make Freddy Krueger laugh. The first scene, where the president of the toy company is attacked by remote controlled toys, slipping on some marbles & finally strangled with a yoyo string, is quite creepy at first then turns routine (how does Chucky learn computer skills?). The other kills are milked for all the dark humour they contain &#x96; Chucky crushes one victim in a garbage truck, slits the throat of the demented hairdresser & kills the school's leader by scaring him to death, saying You've got to be &#x85; kidding me as he watches the man die of a heart attack. Plus the way Chucky sabotages the war games by switching the paintball rounds of the rifles with real bullets is positively original.The acting is decent enough for these sorts of films, with Justin Whalin playing the outsider with a troubled past quite effectively. Perrey Reeves & Dean Jacobson provide adequate support while Brad Dourif (the only actor to star in all three films) is hilarious as Chucky, once again proving to be the star of the show. "},{"Title":"Beating a Dead Doll","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Surprisingly, an improvement over #2, and still, 'Child's Play 3' is too much of a waste of time. Sure, it's harmless, but it's just another excuse to beat a dead doll. Chucky's back, and again it's a preposterous reincarnation and introduction. We find him stalking little Andy (now a teen in a military reform school) again, despite part two's explanation that Chucky can't transfer his lost soul into the boy anymore. Some of the humor's there, my favorite was the Colonel's death mixed with Chucky's surprise and disappointment. Thankfully, now that Andy's grown a bit, he's played by a much better actor that has some (I said some) range. I also liked him in the 'Lois & Clark' Jimmy role (he was in 2-4, replacing the dud they hired for Jimmy in season 1.) And I admit some of the lines Chucky used was mildly funny as well as the conclusion in the seemingly never ending haunted house was appropriate for the series. Unfortunately, the whole movie was just another remake of #1-2 and the inconsistencies and plot holes were fairly large. Would they really put sharp knifes in the haunted house? Would someone seriously not report a death that just happened and go off to play a game? Yeah, I'm looking too deep. It's safe to skip #2 and #3 and return when Chucky returns in full force in 'Bride of Chucky.' "}{"Title":"andy barclay","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this time around we find Andy Barclay in a Military Academy, it is 8 years later, and Chucky follows him there , where he meets a little boy named Tyler, Tyler of course falls for Chucky's sweet little innocent routine at first. he goes for the little boy i guess because he realizes that it's going to be really hard to get to an older Andy,, one of the funnier lines in this movie is when Chucky says he wants to be a bro i just thought that it was hilarious at the time,, Andrew Robinson from the original Dirty Harry plays the barber in the movie who gives all of the recruits their new haircuts,, wow he looks different,, anyways there are war games going on in the compound, and Chucky switches the paintball rounds for live ammo,, leading up to an interesting conclusion to this movie,, also look for Andy's friend De Silva a pretty young girl who andy falls for in this ,movie,, overall not a bad entry,, but not as good as the second one. "},{"Title":"Don't f*ck with the Chuck.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Boy, if you talk to anyone about this flick, you get polar opposites on whether it is the best or the worst in the series.Personally, I tend to fall with those who did not like it as well as the first two. There was something about Andy as a child that made the films interesting that was lost in the military academy crap. There was just too much BS with Cadet Lt. Col. Brett C. Shelton, Sgt. Botnick, and Maj. Ellis that detracted from the main story.Justin Whalin did a good job in the film, and Perrey Reeves was sweet, but the rest of the cast just didn't do anything for me.I did like the battle in the fun house, though. "},{"Title":"Better than CP2, one of my favorite Chucky flicks.","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is sadly hated by many fans of the series, but I think it was much much better than two. I think the plot worked well, much better than CP2's, and actually carried the movie. I like CP3's mix of fun and suspense. It limits the viciousness enough to still have fun, and I think this works very well. The writing and set design work great together. The slightly quirky look and feel of the characters really makes them feel realistic, more so than in many horror flicks from the time. And the acting is decent too. The script is clever enough. It supplies some good one-liners, decent dialog, and scary, tense set pieces. The military setting is also very gritty and fun. The effects are decent too. Chucky still talks realistically, and moves his arms and legs well. There are drawbacks though, like the issue I've seen in many of these films, where Chucky is standing there without moving his legs at all and people are running from him, but he doesn't seem to be a threat at all. But this only happens once. Other than that, he still moves pretty well, and the gore FX are excellent. So I thought Child's Play 3 was a very good horror film, an improvement from the second installment. "},{"Title":"Child's Play 3","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another hit classic thriller/horror film into The Child's Play Series. Child's Play 3 was a amazing comeback. The film is about Chucky who returns again as a doll after being possessed by a serial killer. He goes to search for Andy Barclay who has enrolled in a Military School, he is now a teenager. Chucky's plan changes when he meets a younger boy named Tyler he tried taking over his soul, but Andy will do whatever it takes to stop Chucky before he transfers his soul into the innocent Tyler.After hearing about Child's Play 3 long time ago I thought that they were going to re-cast Alex Vincent in this one when he became a teenager because Alex Vincent always shined in the originals. We wanted to see the story continue with Alex Vincent, but after seeing Child's Play 3 it was too bad. The film had great performances by Justin Whalin who starred as Andy and Jeremy Sylvers was great starring as Tyler. The film was another Horror hit classic and Brad Dourif did great again playing the voice of Chucky.The film had different plot points and all new cast. Child's Play 3 was good into The Child Play Series. I recommend this one to everyone as well. Child's Play and Child's Play 2 with Alex Vincent amazing horror classic. Child's Play 3 another great horror comeback. "},{"Title":"Don't (Beep) With The Chuck!(*** Out Of ****).","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Released just 9 months after it's predecessor, Child's Play 3 opened to very abysmal reviews. Understandable because this is definitely the weakest one in the series, but it is one of those movies that I like but everyone else hates. Does this movie have flaws? Yes, but that doesn't mean that you still can't enjoy it.The film starts as Chucky voiced by Brad Dourif is rebuilt again(which you think they would've learned after the first two movies) 8 years after the events of Child's Play 2. He is raging mad and wants to find where Andy is. It turns out Andy now played by Justin Whalin has been sent to a military camp to straighten him out after his killer doll story. One night Chucky comes across a young boy named Tyler played by Jeremy Sylvers and Chucky decides that instead of chasing after Andy again, he can transfer his soul into Tyler who is friends with Andy.The problems with the film. The first being the doll effects which I consider to be the weakest of the franchise and thankfully they were vastly improved in 1998's Bride Of Chucky. The second being the acting which feels very stale with Whalin. He doesn't have the charm that Alex Vincent had in the first two movies. The third and final one being the tone of the film. This film is very dark compared to the first two. Now the second film went about 10% darker than the first but knew it's limits. Here they go full force especially the last 15 minutes which take place in a carnival. This film was the sort of start of making the films more of a horror comedy.The good of the movie. The first being the voice acting of Brad Dourif which I have praised before and I am going to praise again. he is just that good however he is best in Child's Play and Bride Of Chucky. He is the perfect one for the role and should be nominated for an award for his voice work which I am surprised has not happened... yet.The next are two things. The first is that the doll effects sometimes can manage to be creepy and scary when a scene calls for it. Next we have the army setting which I find very clever that Chucky is running around an army camp and I really do like that his main focus is not his main priority which is good at least for me because if Andy was portrayed by Alex Vincent again I would be saying the exact opposite.Lastly we have the climax which is, like the last film is the best part of the film. The climax takes place inside of a carnival, specifically in a haunted house ride which actually takes apart of Chucky's skin and has a very bloody look on his face. Effective, yes. Realistic, no.The Final Verdict for the film Child's Play 3 is 3 Stars Out Of 4. The film has good effects, great voice work and a cool climax but is held back by stale acting by Whalin, and too much of a dark tone. I suggest watching it because you can have some fun with it.Rated R For Horror Violence And Language.1hr 30min/90min.17 uses of the F-word.Cost $13,000,000.Box Office $20,560,255.IMDb Rating 4.6/10.Rotten Tomatoes Rating 23% Rotten.My Rating ***/**** "},{"Title":"Not as good as Child's Play....","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I thought that Child's Play 3 was not as good as the first film. Andy is now a teenager who has been enrolled in a military school. Play Pals Toy Company decides to re-release its Good Guys line of dolls, As they decide to use re-used old materials, the spirit of Charles Lee Ray once again comes to life. In his search trying to find Andy, Chucky falls into the hands of a younger boy, and he realises that it may be easier to transfer his soul into the unsuspecting boy. Andy is the only one who knows what Chucky is up to and what he is capable of. And it's now up to him to put a stop to it before it is to late. I found Childs Play 3 to be a good horror film but just not as good as the original. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Who The F**k Are You","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I totally loved this other sequel,he gets a new body,a new victim,and new ways how to kill his other victims in a military.This time playtime is over for him,time to get serious and where else to have the action than the military.I have seen him in a home,in a Nursy place,but amazing he goes to the military,so new.This movie was a fantastic but what really got me down was when Chucky loaded the guns with real ammo when the red started shooting I thought more than one was gonna die.Besides that part was I always love the way he is going to die and no-where else to die than the Carnival.He first got half of his face cut of by this skeleton,don't they think that may hurt the people in the roller-coaster.Then Andy shoots off one of his hands,and then throws Chucky into the big fan that tears him up,disgusting.And I am going to tell you something no-one noticed.You saw Chucky got his face cut of on the right face,but one the fourth Child's Play Tiffiney sews the cut up face on the left part of the face that was torn-ed of.A little blooper that I over looked and there is more but you have to see it and other bloopers one the rest of the Child's Play.So look closely and see the mistakes. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly bad","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sending a horror icon to a military school is never good. A weak script that skips the scares and excitement makes this is worst sequel in this solid franchise. Chucky loses his edge and becomes boring. The setting of the film does not work with the premise of Chucky well and worst of all, the movie becomes redundant. I never thought I would hate a 'Child's Play movie as much as I do this one, but I guess it came out just a little too soon after the second sequel. Child's Play-7/10, Child's Play 2-8/10 and there we have 'Child's Play 3-2/10! I was glad to see the next 2 sequels greatly improved and the thrills and comedy returned, so maybe we should pretend this one never came out! "},{"Title":"child's play 3 great!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chucky is brilliant in the third series of the original. He is even more inventive with his killings(garrotting,smacking,stabbing etc) and he attempts to kill an entire military school by replacing their practice paint-balling game bullets into real slugs. The plot also involves a stupid romance between Andy and a fat girl but it doesn't really fit into the movie. Anyway the movie's about Chucky and he's great. so a 9 out of 10 for me. If you liked this i also recommend the following child's play1+2 bride of Chucky the new out seed of Chucky Christine f/x murder by illusion 1+2rainy dog from Cyrus godlike "},{"Title":"Not good, just better.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Considering that I did not enjoy the first two films, the only reason I continued to part 3 (and will continue to watch all the films of the series) is that I want to experience the anthology as a whole. Also, I have certain hopes that the later films will be better... I must say, after a disappointing first and an atrocious sequel, Child's Play 3 is currently the best one I've seen of the series. First of all, Andy has finally grown up, meaning we were spared the unprofessional, uninspiring, unauthentic and unconvincing acting skills of Alex Vincent (again, sorry, I know he was just a kid, but have a look at all the amazing child actors and actresses of modern Horror who surpass Vincent in any and all ways possible). Having Justin Whalin (Jimmy from Lois and Clark!) as the main lead was almost enough to salvage the film. Almost.So, Chucky is alive again. How? Doesn't matter! Since nothing (absolutely nothing) about the films so far has been remotely reasonable or realistic, director Jack Bender and screenwriter Don Mancini had simply decided to avoid any explanations of how Chucky's soul was transferred to another (identical, of course) doll. Friendly reminder - in the 2nd film we learn that Chucky has been stuck in the doll for too long, and can no longer use the Dambella voodoo to move his soul to a live body. Never mind. Now there's a new doll, Chucky is conveniently stuck in it, why bother paying attention to plot holes?Now Chucky is on the loose again, and has a chance to finally settle the score with Andy, and move his soul to an older body which would allow him to enjoy the delicate pleasures of life. No! Chucky will instead choose another 7-9 year old as his target, because logic is redundant!So what's the good part? The characters (besides Whalin, the gorgeous Perrey Reeves is great as De Silva, adding a little romance to the tale, and Travis Fine is excellent as Shelto, the bully we all love to hate) are better, more intriguing and more relatable (not to mention better played). The story and plot are also better, because of the nice setting (a military school which in all things considered reminds the setting of Friday the 13th) and the increasing suspense. This time, instead of waiting for the next screw-up and for the film to finally end, I found myself actually curious as to how the events will eventually unfold.All in all? Not a good film in general, only by comparison to the first two. Still entertaining enough to deserve a merciful 6. "}{"Title":"It's OK **Spoiler Warning**","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler Warning**Child's Play 3 Is a 3rd installment into the Child's Play Franchise.The movie begins with Chucky being rebuilt.(The first few minutes of the movie) And Andy is all grown up now. It's alright Is it a great movie? Far from it Is it a awful movie? Far from it It's in the middle At the end of the movie chuckys face gets cut off and he dies Then Andy lives happily. SettingMillatery School CharactersChucky Andy And More people in the military school. Rating18/R .Final Rating8/10.See it. You might enjoy it if enjoyed Child's Play 1 And Child's Play 2. RatingFine if seen Child's Play 1 And 2. "},{"Title":"Anything but a Military school...","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh gosh, did this really have to be the place to set the film up? I really don't see much sense why they sent Andy there, wouldn't they thought, Wait wouldn't this place make Andy into a killing machine rather than discipline him? I hate the idea of the film being set in a Military school, you usually get the cliché douche-bag guy who bullies the new guy.Don't get me wrong I liked it when Chucky makes his kills but the one character I felt ruined the entire movie was this young black kid called Tyler, why is he so retarded? Even when Andy warns him, he doesn't listen. I just didn't like this one at all. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable B-movie sequel","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This faceless second sequel to the original 1988 hit is a film that's been neglected by fans and critics alike, by and large. It didn't help that an (undeserved) fuss was kicked up over its links with the Jamie Bolger murder case when it was released on VHS here in the UK; a factor that saw it banned for a decade before finally making its way onto late-night telly. CHILD'S PLAY 3 is an undistinguished horror sequel; nothing more or less than a B-movie, but I still liked it better than CHILD'S PLAY 2. It doesn't seem like a rehash this time; it changes setting to a soldier cadet school and the resulting shenanigans are at least entertaining here.A good design was made in setting this one 8 years down the line; annoying child actor Alex Vincent is gone, to be replaced by annoying teenager Justin Whalin. Still, there are some good supporting roles for the likes of HELLRAISER's Andrew Robinson as a crazy military hairdresser and Travis Fine as a jock/bully type. Perrey Reeves makes for a feisty female sidekick while Jeremy Sylvers as the token child actor is far more appealing than his predecessor; it also goes without saying that Brad Dourif, returning as Chucky, puts in another hilarious voice performance.There's more plotting here than before, but it doesn't get in the way of some cheesy murders. Fun's to be had when a paintball game turns deadly, while Chucky's denouement in a ghost train ride is mildly entertaining in its own way, although unbelievable as health and safety would have shut this fairground down long ago, what with its grim reapers wielding real scythes and massive open fan blades spinning on the floor next to the trains. CHILD'S PLAY 3 is far from a good film, but at least it isn't boring &#x96; something I can't say for the mind-numbing part two, a film I've forgotten about just one day after I saw it. "},{"Title":"Bummer.","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A big bummer after the two very adequate parts one and two. Justin Whalin is a disappointing teen Andy Barclay with pretty much no charisma. And that goes for the rest of the cast as well, except for Chucky himself, of course, and Brad Dourif. I don't know what to think of Andrew Robinson as the crazy barber; funny or simply too much (I saw Chucky's one-liner there coming from a mile away)?If you're dead set on seeing this for Chucky and the horror element, you'll have a little fun for sure, but for most of it, this is boring, obligatory stuff. I didn't care much for the military motif, though it could have worked if it were done differently.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Far better than it's reputation","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Off at a military academy, Andy's attempts to move on are interrupted when Chucky returns trying to finish what he started only for a shift in Chucky's attention to put the rest of the academy in danger and forcing him to stop Chucky again.On the whole this one was highly entertaining and one of the better efforts in the series. Much like the rest of the series, the film gets quite a lot of mileage from the fact that Chucky's true identity is hidden away far into the film as once again there's plenty of walking in at just the wrong moment to catch him alive. The fight in the barracks where he first reveals himself to Andy and the later scene where he sneaks in trying to steal him back that ends up alerting only him in the room are quite nicely handled, as well as the incidents around the academy that are more than just accidental deaths with the way they continually occur around here. The death of their leader in the office and the barber which gets witnessed that not only works well here but also come off as rather fun scenes overall that builds up quite well. All of this builds up really nicely to the big final half here which has a lot of frantic action and big suspense throughout. This starts off with the paint-ball game itself which is quite possibly among the best scenes in the series with the formations and scouting, the searching in the woods once they get wind of the situation mistakenly taking him to be a spy which sets up the overall fun and enjoyment of the double-cross and resulting shootout which is quite fun at the demented and cruel air this gives the film, and leads into the fun of the carnival finale as the stalking through the hordes of people there and how it manages to find itself into the attraction is outstanding. That in itself is more great fun with the different stalking and interactions throughout the settings inside before the over-the-top fun of getting to the big resolution that transpires here. Along with some really fine kills and the start of the series' turn for the comedic in terms of his sayings and expressions, these here are enough to hold this up against the minor flaws here. Much like the previous entry, this one again tends to be set-up in tone and execution like the original which isn't based on anything new or creative with its storyline here and it's rather uncreative. Likewise, this also causes the other problem here as this one tends to be a little too far-fetched in how the kids here take to believe the story, as not only is there way too much evidence that something's going on but that they don't start matching the clues together as they really do make sense that something's happening. That doesn't impact this one as much as the others did with that, but it sticks out enough to slightly lower this.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and children-in-jeopardy. "},{"Title":"part 3 is better then the first 2.","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is really one of the scariest movies ever made. It is scarier then the first two Child's play movies. If you scared by A nightmare on elms street or Silence of the lambs of Child's play of Child's play 2 or The cure of C.h.u.c.k.y then you should be totally freaked out by this movie. This movie has great acting. It also has a great story line. It also has great special effects. If this movie does not scary you then no movie will. I need more line and I am running out of things to say. This movie is very intense. It is a must see. This is a great movie. It is one of the best horror movies of all time. Justin W.h.a.l.i.n who stars in this movie is a great actor. "},{"Title":"Not a good film but not a bad one.","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off. Why did the toy factory pick up a Moulton blob of plastic? And secondly if he got mixed in with the other plastic why didn't all the dolls become chucky? That aside this was the weakest film in the series. Its not as bad as Seed of Chucky. That heaping pile of crap doesn't even deserve a review. There is a lot more humor and over the gore in this third installment. And the suspense that made the first one great is gone. Its Brad Dourfs voice acting that keeps me from giving this movie a one star. Setting the movie at military school seems like a good idea. It explains what happened to Andy. But we don't care. This movie is all about Chucky. With his one liners and over the top murder scenes. I enjoyed when he swaps the paintballs for live ammo. This movie was rushed due to Universal pushing for a sequel and it suffers. Over all its not a bad movie. But its good if your a fan of Chucky. And always remember Don't f$%# with the Chuck. "},{"Title":"The 3rd time isn't the charm for this franchise","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one is the most boring entry in this franchise so far despite the premise and setting, which takes place in a military school. It's like they wanted a military setting with a villain (like in other horror movies in that kind of setting) and thought up the closes way to execute that. But it falters because of a crappy script and poorly written characters that are more annoying than entertaining or stands out. There are more characters this time around, but they are so darn insignificant to the plot. Even the romance between Andy and DeSilva is more distracting over having a well crafted chemistry between the two. The chemistry between Andy and Kyle was done much better. This just wasn't a impactful way to end the Child's Play trilogy before it goes in the comedic parody direction. Although Chucky is evil and more sadistic than he has ever been, most of the characters and most of the screen-time is taken up with them just walking around and looking at Chucky in a dumbfounded manner. There is now no logic and constant loopholes when it comes to the revival of Chucky. In the first movie to kill Chucky it's to destroy his heart. The second installment revived Chucky by putting his skull on another body. This time you can just revive Chucky with his blood alone, which doesn't make sense since they tried to revive him by taking him apart and adding new parts in the second installment. Which would lead him to bleed as well, but does not. Maybe because it was before he fully became human inside a dolls body. The main complaint about the second installment is the lack of blood, gore and violence when it came to the kills. Even for a horror comedy this is just bland and not really funny, nor does it have suspense. Chucky is not after Tyler's body over Andy's body, which contradicts the rules of the first Child's Play movie. Tyler is another character that they probably put in to be this cute little innocent child, but just came off annoying after a while. Andy has grown up and isn't the cute kid anymore, but is more of a wuss this time around. The military school environment could have been a interesting direction, I was in a military school before so it brought back some nostalgic memories. But WAY more crazy stuff went down when I was in the military school. They really did run out of ideas when it came to this 3rd installment. Some may like the second one better, I personally think this 3rd one is the worst compared to the previous 2.3.9/10 "},{"Title":"Don't f****ck* With the Chuck! You can't keep a good guy down, but I wish Chucky would have...","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Andy Barclay is the boy who was attacked by the nefarious serial killer Charles Lee Ray, as a killer doll in the first two movies. Here he is a teenager, and attending military school to try and straighten out his life. His mother is mentally ill, and Andy has nowhere to turn. He meets friends, and even finds love. What he doesn't realize is that Chucky hasn't forgotten about Andy, and he's on the prowl for him once more to get out of the doll, and into a new bodyChucky suffers from the very same syndrome that many other horror icons do. I liked to call it sequelitis Where the series cares more about making the big bucks, than it does making sure the hardcore fans are entertained. Chucky has ventured into Freddy Krueger territory, by cracking all the one-liners that he can. This is a good, and a bad thing. The one-liners are amusing, but like Freddy, Chucky became looked at as funny, rather than frightening. This has a pretty cool opening, with a rather gory Chucky resurrection sequence, which leads into the opening credits. I also dug Chucky's first kill. The way they set it up was actually quite funny and suspenseful at the same time. Chucky is a mean bastard when it comes to killing people. We do get the dreaded off screen deaths, but this sequel is pretty good when it comes to gore. We get a bloody slit throat, stabbings, gunshot wounds, beating with a golf-club, and the finale at the amusement park will have gore hounds howling. It's some pretty nasty stuff. My main problem with this sequel is that there were too many missed opportunities, storyline wise. The ending from Child's Play II is ignored, which is kind of a shame.They could have at least pulled a Halloween V with this one, and have Christine Elise (Kyle) from the second movie, make an appearance, and kill her off, or&#x85; They could have had Andy & his Mother on the road, with Chucky chasing them down. They had plenty of better things they could have done. It takes place a YEAR later, a YEAR. Yet you butcher the storyline by having Andy join the army, and befriend that dinky nuisance of a kid, Tyler? Come on! It was just so moronic. Aside from the fun, gory times at the amusement park, the finale was awful. It turns into a mini war battle of sorts, and it just got ludicrous. I get they wanted to add in some action, but it lacked suspense, and came across as superficial, like much of this movie. Brad Douriff rocks as Chucky once again. Justin Whalin is actually not bad as Andy. He's a bit wishy-washy at times, but overall I dug his innocence, his vulnerability, and the fact that he tried hard. Too bad he's in a crappy movie. Perry Reeves (DaSilva, and of Entourage fame) is solid for the most part. She's certainly pretty to look at, and her character had bravado when it was needed. Her love story with Andy felt forced and contrived, though. Jeremy Sylvers grated me to no end. I have a big problem with many kid actors, and he was no different. When someone says Let's play hide the soul You RUN! I don't care how old you are, its common sense. His character was silly. Dean Jacobson plays a scumbag extremely well as Whitehurst. I felt like backhanding him on many occasions. Andrew Robinson steals every scene he's in as the maniacal barber. He was hilarious, and a lot of fun to watch. Kiss it goodbye! couldn't resist adding that quote. The acting isn't the problem here. Final Thoughts It's watchable, but it lacks excitement and suspense for the most part. They tried to get too big for their own good here, and it backfires on them. I suppose it's worth a watch, but prepare for disappointment 4.4/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not the best in the series but I did like it a lot. Brad Dourif does again voice the crazy murderous doll Chucky. Sadly Alex Vincent does not play Andy Barclay in this movie. Chucky is again after Andy. He first kills the toy company person by hitting him in the head with a golf club, throwing a dart in his spine, throwing a dart at his hand, and strangling him to death with a yo-yo. he finds and at a military school. He then decides to go after Tyler. He still causes trouble for Andy though. The movie is more comedic that the other two. This still can be scary. The animatronics are the best in this one. Chucky is also causing mischief. This is a very gory movie. The acting is the weakest in this one. The movie is entertaining and fun to watch. 10/10. Not the greatest of the movies it is great though. "}{"Title":"Is it just me, or does Tyler seem to have some sort of bizarre amorous fixation on Chucky?","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This third chapter of the chronicles of Chucky is so disjointed and nonsensical that it seems apparent the filmmakers couldn't decide between three rough concepts of what Child's Play 3 should be about, so they simply cobbled all of them together into this patchwork entry.Idea number one continues the plot thread centered around the Play Pal Toy Company's refusal to discontinue their Good Guy dolls explored in Child's Play 2, and when production resumes, blood from Chucky's remains is inadvertently mixed into a vat of plastic utilized to make the toys, allowing him to be reincarnated in an all new body. While the boiling cauldron of plastic appears to be massive enough to supply the skin for hundreds of Good Guys, and Chucky's vital fluid taints the entire batch, somehow this only results in a single doll being occupied by his soul, which seems like a real missed opportunity. An army of Chuckys would have been a bit silly, sure, but that result would definitely have a lot more potential than the dreck we end up sifting through here.Actually, the prologue has some promise, and the prolonged stalking murder of a Play Pal executive recalls Chucky's suspenseful buildups and playful sadism from the first film. As the introduction rolls on, we get the sense that we're in store for a darker and more purely horror-based film than Child's Play 2, which is a refreshing notion. Unfortunately, this impression is negated when the affair proceeds to phase two.The second concept is by far the dumbest of the lot, and sadly takes up the bulk of the film. The Andy character from the first two installments is reintroduced, but now he's a teenager enrolled in a military academy. Chucky locates him and is able to continue pursuing his nemesis at Andy's new stomping grounds by mailing himself to the military installation (have fun trying to figure out how Chucky is able to wrap the Good Guy box in brown paper, tape it up, get himself to a post office, and pay for the shipping... all while he's physically sealed inside the package). The parcel is intercepted by an annoying kid named Tyler (who is juvenile enough to initially believe there isn't anything strange about a doll that talks to him and moves around on its own, but is also somehow considered mature enough to participate in military training exercises), and when our impish killer realizes that he has a new candidate for his ever-elusive body transfer, Tyler becomes Chucky's target for a game of hide the soul. The locale makes way for the film to pack in a score of boot camp movie clichés, including a verbally abusive commander, hazing of the hapless cadet who can't get his act together, and, most brazenly, a reprise of the this is my rifle, this is my gun... mantra from Full Metal Jacket. Despite this being a military installation, Chucky is somehow able to wander around at will undetected (guard duty apparently isn't part of the rigorous program), and at one point he even sneaks into the armory before a combat training exercise and switches out an entire squad's paint-ball rounds with live ammunition, a gag that goes unnoticed by these astute soldiers-to-be until after they've already fired off dozens of shots and killed one of their commanding officers.Things get dumber and dumber as the plot moves forward, and Chucky eventually wraps an ammo belt around his torso like Rambo for no apparent reason and secures a convenient doll-sized pistol to engage in a gun battle with our protagonists. Chucky also orchestrates a hostage situation, which concludes with him throwing a readily available hand grenade at the responding soldiers (because hand grenades are apparently routinely issued to cadets when they go out into the forest to shoot paint-balls at each other).The climax marks the third section of the film, in which Chucky absconds with Tyler and lures his pursuers to a carnival. This segment is by far the most effective, largely because the final showdown takes place inside an elaborate horror-themed roller coaster ride, which is way cooler than anything else in the movie. Andy and Chucky do battle with Tyler's potentially possessed body hanging in the balance, and while Chucky's eventual demise is gruesome and satisfying, the Tyler character is so off-puttingly idiotic that we end up rooting for him to die instead.Though this entry boasts quite a bit more gore than the previous outing, the extra red sauce isn't enough to transcend the limitations of the brain-dead story and largely rote kill scenes. The Chucky effects are predictably solid, and he has a few good one-liners, but the Freddy Krueger-esque zingers that accompany each murder get old fast.The series would of course go in a much different direction after this misguided dud, which is a very savvy move because I don't think I'd be on board for any more installments if they adhered to this tired formula. Don't get me wrong, I'm always game for mindless fun, but in Child's Play 3 the mindless definitely outweighs the fun. "},{"Title":"Good but Disappointing","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've watched the first two Child's Play films, and I thought they were brilliant. The storyline of this one is great, the characters aren't that bad. In fact, the film starts of very well. The first fifteen minutes suggest to us that this is no film made simply for more money.*SPOILERS***SPOILERS* The film starts with Chucky being re-made and then the Play Pals company decides to reopen its business after the dying out publicity. Chucky's into the action and things are interesting.Though, I prefer the young Andy, this teenage version wasn't that bad. Him at military school is all understandable. It seems quite interesting, the storyline hugely differing from the previous two.I believed that things would quickly get into action, and I was right. Chucky cleverly disposes of several people and gets young Tyler into a game of 'Hide the Soul', which is really him transferring souls with Tyler.This movie was quite funny, but really nothing that scary. From the way that the first forty five minutes started out, I expected a real big final sequence, and I was wrong. Things all seem to go so normally, then suddenly people are in danger and the final sequence suddenly appears. In the first two films, there was a big build up in the final 40 mins. There wasn't much action in the final sequence, and things got quite disappointing.***END OF SPOILERS*** The acting wasn't that bad and the storyline was good. But this wasn't one of those great Child's Play films to me. Check it out. "},{"Title":"...what?","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, The second Child's play wasn't that good but what is this?!I'm going to try to be fair and write a positive and a negative one. But to be honest, there is a lot more to talk about in the negative section. I know it looks like I might be being unfair, but to put this in perspective, I'm a fan of the original and didn't even mind the second one.The only thing positive I can think to say is that the ending was very well done. For those of you who watched the movie, I'm referring to the carnival segment. It's dark, it's creepy, it's what a voodoo slasher flick should be. They seem to take Chucky seriously in this final act and to be honest, it's one of the scariest segments in the whole franchise. Also Brad Dourif is back, which is always a good thing.Now it's time for what's bad. EVERYTHING ELSE! I detested the first two acts entirely. First of all, Military school isn't a creepy setting in the least, and Chucky looks more out of place than ever before. It's like someone wrote Chucky in at the last minute to some bad drama about a troubled teen in military school.Also they try to make Chucky scary, then funny, then scary again. Unfortunately no one told the producers they couldn't have it both ways.The death scenes are over the top, but not in a good way.If I could summarize this movie up it would be this-It's an insult to the original, but it's not the biggest one unfortunately "},{"Title":"Childs play 3 look who's stalking ","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" child's play 3 a good sequel and a very underrated movie altogether.The story is about Andy Barcly at a military school, Andy is now a teenager and gets hunt down easily by Chucky who has the same goal to transfer his soul into his body.Childs play 3 was the last good film of the child's play franchise bride and seed of Chucky was just a parody of its self an utter-joke. This one was my second favourite of the series i think you should watch it if you liked the others.Here are the ratings that i gave this film i think that this is what the film truly deserves. Plot 6/10 acting 4/10 laughs 8/10 cast 7/10 total 7/10. i hope they make another child's play movie after they finished with the remake and make a sequel that puts an end to this good horror/slasher series. "},{"Title":"a Horror movie, with some very odd, dark and sad moments.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK this movie was OK, it's more darker than the first two films and a creepy music score but overall not that much of a bad film Justin Whalin is just not as good as Alex Vincent, he ain't convincing either, he just a little good as Andy but not as good. Chucky's going after a new kid named Tyler, Andy gets a girlfriend, Andy and Whitehurst have a bully named Shelton, and the climax is at a carnival. This film is more gorier than the second one and more disturbing.6 out of 10Child's Play 3 is a gruesome horror film that's more terrifying than the first two - John Bartus "},{"Title":"Guess who's back for Andy or Tyler?","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love this film. I was terrified when I saw Andy's face when chucky was being taken away to a garbage truck, I knew that this would be a last time battle between chucky and Andy. The story concept that Andy was at a military school(at age 16) and that no one believed in his stories that chucky was alive and tried to kill/possess him. But there were lots of scenes that I liked in the film like when chucky and Andy talked in the bedroom, the battle with live ammo , the chucky face cut scene, all the death scenes, and the stalking of the young child named Tyler. The scene when the to sides of the military students shooting each other with real weapons(instead of paint balls) was really scary because neither side had not known of the switch of the guns and that was awful because a lot of people had died because of it. I do suggest that if anyone in the military that had seen this film, to beware of all big dolls on your base/camp area. My whole family had seen this film and was terrified and amazed at how one doll could create such chaos and madness at an academy filled with lots of weapons of all sorts. I do suggest that anyone under the age of 12 yrs. of age to not watch this film unless you are with some one responsible for watching you reactions. If I offended anyone in the military or anyone that has a relative serving to let me know because my brother is serving right now and may be sent to fight the war in Iraq or Afghanistan someday. Sorry if I offended anyone! "},{"Title":"Not the best, but a good film otherwise.","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Child's Play 3 is by far a very disliked film, blamed and criticised. While some say this, I say otherwise. Child's Play 3 is darker and more disturbing, with a memorable introduction. The film may not be the best of the Child's Play series, but was good for me because of it's charm. It was very disturbing and had some of the most memorable Chucky Quotes, Don't **** with the Chuck and Nothin' like a Strangulation to get the Cirulation going'. But while I have said positive things so far, here's the downside. It's the same bullshit we got in Child's Play 1 and 2. The only fresh change was that Chucky was after a new Body that wasn't Andy. Chucky's design didn't improve and the film was boring. Basically a repeat of number 2 but set in a Military Academy. Seriously, they should of got rid of Andy Barclay for this film. I enjoyed it but it's just old. "},{"Title":"A Not So Bad Sequel","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is definitely not the worst of the series and even does something that not many have attempted; set the stage in a military school and end in an amusement park. Most horror movies keep to one location and you begin to wonder how anyone could be so stupid as to stay there. Another thing that I truly love about this film is the sadistic side of Chucky that we get to see (i.e. removing the ammo comprised of paint from the rifles and trading them out for live rounds) and then the inherent comedy that he starts to gain (i.e. Wiping the lipstick from his mouth and declaring war). Continuity is very much an issue in these movies, so I expected nothing less in this case. I never watch these movies expecting them to follow the story lines. I view them as individual films with the same characters. I liked the time jump, giving Andy time to become the maladjusted young man that he inevitably was going to turn out to be, and again confronting his childhood fear. All in all, a good movie and I would recommend it to others! "},{"Title":"He's a killer....do-oll","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's several years after the events of number 2, and Andy Barclay is now all growed up an' tha', a cadet in an evil military school, having spent several years in psychiatric care. Whilst stable now, he is still haunted by the events of his childhood, the evil Good Guy doll Chucky never far from his mind, so imagine his horror when a newly released version of the doll turns up at the barracks and becomes the plaything of the youngest cadet on site, Tyler. Can Andy convince the others that the doll is more than it seems? And will Chucky be able to get his soul into a human host before being dismembered once again? Whilst it is true that this is a little bit by the numbers, it is nevertheless an enjoyable enough affair, the star turn of course being the always excellent Brad Dourif's voicing of Chucky, giving the animated puppet a real air of menace.Whilst by movie number 3 most horror franchises start to play things for laughs, this one is played admirably straight, aside from the occasional one liner from Chucky after a killing. Also of note is a fine, if minimal, performance from Andrew 'Hellraiser' Robinson as a sadistic barber. Whilst not a classic, fans of the first two should be happy enough. "},{"Title":"Typical B-movie","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was not that big on the original CHILD'S PLAY film. I thought it had some genuinely good scares and was very well made, but it's second half came off too forced and far too weak. The second film took the concept of the killer doll from the first film and went all the way with it without any fear or limits or any sense of morality and good taste. It was a gleefully fun gorefest of a horror picture and it was one of the most entertaining horror films of it's time. How could they top the second film? Well, they couldn't. Turns out they decided to cop-out and bring the series back to it's roots. That means that there's no more crazy bloodletting, no more tastelessness, and no more good scares. Instead they made it like the first film. Lots of dialogue, lots of story, lots of elaboration, but the killing spree doesn't start until the second half. As a result, this film comes off very bland and very forced in all the wrong ways. While it does have a lot of funny dialogue, a lot of weird scenes, and a couple of good kill scenes, it's still just more of the same of the first film. However, the first film did it better. This one takes place at a military base with a different kid being the prey for Chucky. Nothing special. Brad Dourif's voicework is top-notch as usual, but there's no real hook to this film. There's nothing to keep you interested. You just want to see the doll. To be fair, you do get plenty of the doll. However, there won't be much else.Overall, if you're a fan of the franchise then by all means see it. It's not terrible, but it's not terribly exciting either. Don't expect much in terms of horror or gore. Just expect some silliness, some weirdness, some campy qualities, and a lot of scenes with a talking doll. "}{"Title":"Child's Play 3 (1991)","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are train wrecks. Sad things; they usually take place down here. And then, there are train wrecks that take place in the sky. Because the transportation conductor running the show is higher than a kite, has absolutely no idea what they're doing, and won't be bothered to look on the road ahead to ensure an accident does not lie up ahead. I thought Child's Play 2 was a train wreck, the sort that would fit this description. I was wrong. I thought that was as low as this series could go and the next film just had to be better somehow. I was mistaken there as well. I am passionately anti-drug, but I want to know what writer Don Mancini was smoking when he wrote these early sequels. Did someone lace his cigars with angeldust? And this isn't because they're in any way Fantasia-like, or anything like that. It's because of how unbelievably insane the ideas are.First, Andy was never a complex character. You felt bad for the child actor playing him in the first two movies, he was very sympathetic. But there was nothing really going on inside him. He was not an important part of the franchise. I could watch a hundred movies (if I were forced to) with Chucky just running around, stabbing people and swearing at them, and never once go- where's Andy? So, the kid grows up or his parents don't want him in anymore of the movies. I can live with that. I can even accept that Mancini decided to write him as a teenager, since he wrote him into a role that I'm naturally attracted to watching- the introverted, misunderstood, slightly strange, put-upon loner. But that's where this movie's greatest flaws lie.Let's just start with how whiny and irritating the sniveling, prepubescent Justin Whalin is. At least when John Waters cast him in Serial Mom, he was supposed to be irritating. Here, it's like they think it's an added perk. The character is already such a miserably lame goody-two-shoes, who - even though he's supposed to be mentally fragile and disturbed - leaps at every chance to stop the evil Chucky from killing, even though everyone Chucky targets are oppressing him in some way. If he were really disturbed, wouldn't there be some part of him that was happy people were being murdered? He's basically the Carrie or the Angela Baker (Sleepaway Camp) of this movie, being tormented by stern, judgmental sergeants and sadistic lieutenant cadets drilling and taunting him. Several cadets lashing out at him or threatening him. This situation was just begging for a playfully evil bite of sweet revenge.But, no... That would have been too experimental or risky. Instead of being mean spirited toward the tormentors, Universal horror movies of this era were all about being mean spirited toward the victims (especially Wes Craven's films for the studio). Then at the last minute, the sadistic jerks who drove you crazy get knocked down by a bullet or they bump their head on the ceiling (1989's Shocker), and that's it. That's all they get as a penalty for the evil they perpetrated and the pain they caused to the protagonists (say that 5 times fast). We get no satisfaction of revenge. No reparations. Nada. In fact, if anything the worst characters in the movie get the quickest, least painful deaths. What kind of justice is that? What ever happened to- what goes around comes around?Or, if Andy can't be morally vague- what about his twin brother, Whitehurst? He's so physically low head-hung, moping around, defeated in every way. It'd be no stretch at all to show him laughing evilly or smiling a little at the sight of the ensuing carnage. As it stands, he's the only truly interesting character in the movie (played to perfection by the quintessentially nerdy Dean Jacobson). Another bright spot, though not nearly as bright, is the vivacious and energetic Perrey Reeves as the sassy DaSilva. The only cadet to be able to knock king-jerk of the jerk-pile Brett C. Shelton (played by the gorgeous, ultra-masculine Travis Fine, who you may remember as the orderly who loses his job because of Winona Ryder in Girl, Interrupted) off his pedestal. And because I don't like to leave anyone out, she has a friend who is also enjoyable to watch, played by Donna Eskra.With a movie this embarrassing, it's best not to dwell too much more on the negatives. So, as a final positive, I'll say that the movie does have a cool ending. Not a great one, but a cool one. You can thank Universal Studios directly for that. There's no doubt that the idea surely had something tied-in with Universal's world-famous amusement parks. This setting actually became amazingly popular for horror films and thrillers in the 1990's (Dr. Giggles, Fear, True Crime- the one with Alicia Silverstone). Here, it's a house of horrors type roller-coaster ride that takes the car passengers up a mountain. Or something. You will marvel at it, surrender now. It's truly awesome-looking. As is the famous Chucky doll when the Grim Reaper's scythe slices half his face off. You just gotta love those Kevin Yagher special effects, they look incredible. "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY underrated, this is a classic!","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I mean a score of 4.2? Come on. Sure it's a cheesy B movie type of thing more of a comedy than a horror, so what? It is still a very good movie. Andy is now a teenager who for some reason is in a military school. Chucky kills a guy and tracks Andy down on the guy's computer, and continues to stalk him. But this time he meets a funny little black kid named Tyler and decides he is an easier target, so now Andy must stop Chucky from killing Tyler and taking over his body. This movie is definitely a classic, and it is extremely underrated. Go see this movie. Now. Trust me, you won't regret it.10/10 "},{"Title":"The weakest entry in the entire series","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Andy, this time a teenager is in military school and guess whose not far behind our fave doll Chucky again going on a murderous rampage military style.This is definitely the weakest entry out off all the Chucky films, released a year after the 2nd one, rushed out and it shows, the storyline is weak and plus it performed poorly at the box office and there are way too many parts in this movie that are unbelievable I didn't buy Chuck not needing Andy any more and finding a newfound target/host. In Part 2, Chucky was also rebuilt with new plastic. Why didn't the Good Guy think of that then? Andy should've stayed Chuck's main goal cause the Tyler (Sylvers) crap got played out real fast.Setting the film in a military school is a good idea but why didn't they milk it more?Another thing having an amusement park right next to a military academy is hard to swallow. On the grounds they handle guns, grenades, what-not, and there's no way they would build a park near all that. The only reason the park is there is so the movie can have a groovy location in which to set its finale&#133;. felt kind of cheap. Speaking of the finale, the haunted house is kool but what's up with that huge open fan or that Grim Reaper that swooshes his real blade at the kids. This park is just begging to get closed down.This sequel also repeats Part Two's biggest mistake. Most of the side characters are solely there to be Chucky meat fodder and I knew that. One thing I didn't need was overextended stalk sequences involving characters I couldn't give a damn about. Take the opening murder for example. It takes forever to get to the point! I was yelling out loud Kill the guy already! I know he's going to die; you don't have to take 10 minutes to get to the killing! The film not a total loss though Chucky is still his usual humorous self and does his best despite the lazy script.Justin Whalin plays Andy this time around He has a baby face that works and he shows the right amount of vulnerability. Perrey Reeves (De Silva) is solid as the tough chick Jeremy Sylvers (Tyler) does oBrad Dourif (Voice of Chucky) does it again, his squeaky voice never gets old.All in all only Hardcore Chucky fans will get a kick out of this others will find this movie unsatisfactory. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie.","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 9.5/10 rating.I really enjoyed watching this movie which was rather unexpected. It wasn't super scary (it was actually a bit of a laugh) but that is alright. This is one of my favorite (horror) movie series.It is one of the least scary horror films I have watched but I truly enjoyed every minute of watching it. Chucky is so tricky and cute - he makes the movie what it is.People wanting a serious horror film - then this isn't for you - but those who want a relaxing, enjoyable and laughable horror then you have to watch this.All that needs to be said is It's a GREAT movie! "},{"Title":"Chucky visits military school.","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hey that's quite an effective opening with the credits. Anyhow the third instalment of the murderous good guy doll possessed by the serial killer Charles Lee Ray sees an older teenage Andy Barclay settling in to military school. But with the resurrection of the once popular Good Guys dolls, Chucky is brought back to life and once again tracks down Andy. But after finding him, Chucky sets his eyes upon the young Ronald Tyler who discovers his secret. So now Chucky is trying rid Andy, so that he won't get in the way him transferring his soul in to Tyler.So really the premise is the same with only a slight slant to the formula. Even with its well-worn mechanics and lacking chills it's enjoyably fun, if quite a mean-spirited and forceful sequel. I was liking it until just after halfway when it loses its way and transcends into cheap silliness. Watch as each film goes on to wallow in the wicked black humour, by never taking itself entirely serious. The script (which almost goes on to play everything as a joke because it seems they can only go to that angle) manages to throw a smart little quip for Chucky to spit out whenever on screen. Strangely the puppet design doesn't fair up that well compared to the previous films, but I rather take this vividly etched creation than anything resembling computer generated effects.The performances are engaging enough. Justin Whalin is modest in the part as the older Andy and Perry Reeves kicks up some fire as Andy's love interest. Brad Dourif dependably returns to be everyone's favourite Good Guy Doll Chucky once again. That wicked tone and driving cackle have just become a constant trademark. In support there's a lively Andrew Robinson and a hard-nosed Travis Fine. Jeremy Sylvers suitably plays it naïve as Tyler.Director Jack Bender (more renown for his TV work) professionally caters for the production in quite a mechanical fashion. Few amusing death scenes crop up and a playful energy is created. The score is mostly well-placed with its burning rock cues which vibrate an ominous charge.Not the complete dead horse many make it out to be. "},{"Title":"chucky, what happened?","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" well...i am a big child's play fan, i thought child's play and child's play 2 were brilliant but even no i love chucky and he is probably my favourite horror character in this film it made chucky look weak.when you think about it chucky has been chasing Andy since he was a child at a very Young age to he was 16 and chucky did not even come close to getting his human body, i always thought off chucky as the Strong doll that no body could kill but in the first three films chucky has died thought a child and yet throughout he kills adults, i would have bet money on chucky killing Andy and in the forth film(Bride of chucky-best childs's play film since the original)chucky just moves on and i can truly say i was happy to see chucky fall to a horrible death in child's play 3. "},{"Title":"Chucky declares war on the army","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chucky has always been a cool villain, one of the best next generation slasher, it would be fun to watch Chucky take on Michael Myers in a grudge match ala FREDDY VS. JASON. But onto the story, I for a party of one don't approve of military school, to me all it does it march the individuality right out of people and makes them mindless drones ripe to join the army when they are old enough. That's just wrong, people should choose to join the army and no become mindless drones. The characters are interesting, Chucky is always good and the Chucky effects are even better in this third installment of the series, of course as always, if you didn't like the first two CHILD'S PLAY movies, I wouldn't recommend this one. But I for a party of one give CHILD'S PLAY 3...8 STARS. "},{"Title":"Scary and well-done 3rd entry in the evil-doll Chucky series...","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 9/16/2006 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Jack Bender) Scary and well-done 3rd entry in the evil-doll Chucky series. There is just enough sick humor, and genuinely scary moments to recommend this movie. The director does a good job of pulling us into the story, even for those who haven't seen the first two; like me. We understand what's going on with very little expose' into the first two. The puppetry work is just what the doctor ordered with Brad Dourif as the voice of Chucky; aka Charles(the former mass murderer who somehow was put inside this doll's body). He is reborn when the toy manufacturer decides to bring back the Good Guy doll series and his goal is to get out of the doll's body and into a human one. He hunts down his former owner, who is now 16 years old, at a military school and start wreaking havoc from this point on. Suttle performances by the actors without too much over-the-top violence makes this movie entertaining without being a gross-out experience. And forgive me, but it's hard not to laugh when Chucky spouts out obscenities in this doll's body. It's just ironic enough to make you giggle. The Chucky performance sells the show, but just the way this movie is put together keeps you on your toes and looking forward to other entries in the series. "},{"Title":"The punk doll pulls round/ A macabre comedy,rather underrated","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 8 years have passed since Play Pals produce no more the Good Guys.The director decides they'll make the doll again.Barclay enters a military school,and the description of his life there before Chucky arrives is the worst part of the flick.I can't say I didn't enjoy Child's Play 3 (1991) ;it is not the very bad movie some say it is.It's not contemptible.Not as stupid as some want you to believe.It is a burlesque comedy,and,as I understood it,an intentionally burlesque one.More of a slapstick than of a horror.The good things are average but fun,while the bad things are enjoyable as trashy stuff.The acting is,indeed,rather awful (as they are teen-agers!),and the plot is not as good and inventive as it should be for a movie set in an isolated space (a military school).Yes,there are deficiencies and flaws,but not at all as important as said by some.The director (Jack Bender) traded comic in exchange for gore.I believe there are some seven killings in Child's Play 3 (1991)(Play Pals' director,then the garbage man at the military school,Cochrane,Botnick,two boys,and the Park guy).The music is all right,and the opening credits are great;Child's Play 3's beginning is excellent,and Whalin as Andy Barclay was a reasonable option. The director (Jack Bender) is right in turning some unsuccessful (un-)creepy moments into pure comic (e.g.,the scene with a kid,Tyler,being caught by Cochrane playing hide the soul with Chucky in the armory;or,the doll who watches Andy kissing Kristin De Silva;or Chucky's dialogs with Tyler,the kid;or,Chucky being embellished with lipstick,by De Silva--can you make a horror with such stuff?).Also,there are Chucky's corrosive jokes,bad language,grumpy and gruesome jests and delicious,jaunty remarks;I agree these make Chucky a slap-up,and a very picturesque and even nice character,but not a creepy slasher.He gives every scene he's in a clownish twist.There still remains a whole lot to be enjoyed in Child's Play 3 (1991) .The doll is very funny and its whole role is an intentionally comic one.They chose to make the doll more buffoonish and blubbering--not at all scary.This movie should be estimated within these choices.It's rather a movie for those who want an extra bonus with Chucky as a classic.Maybe Child's Play 3 (1991) will not make converts to the Good Guy flicks,it won't proselytize,but it should please those already converted by the previous movies (like myself).This is not a horror,but a quite suspenseful flick.It gets even cynical,as you can't hate the Good Guy Chucky if you come to almost sympathize with him.The two major errors were(1)to make too much of a comical character out of Chucky,to give him too many funny lines,etc.,a thing that is very good in itself,but destroys any creepy effect;this is not silly,though;(2)the director seems unable to choose between a horror and a good comedy (because this movie could have been either).A third mistake would be the absence of adults' roles.More recently,the same Jack Bender did some also great job on TV (Lost ,Ally McBeal ).Some people cowardly decreed that Child's Play 3 is a bad,etc.,movie?Well,that doesn't surprise me,since some people (others or the same,I don't care) unconscionably decreed that even Beyond the Poseidon Adventure (1979) ,Enterprise ,Star Trek Insurrection (1998) ,A Prayer for the Dying (1987),Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man (1991),are also bad movies!Shame on them. "},{"Title":"This was Better Than Bride and Seed","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why are most critics hard on this....Yes it isn't Oscar Caliber but its a horror film....Child's Play 3 wasn't as bad as most people claim to say it is..Warning Some Spoilers Childs Play 3 is about a 16 year old Andy that is Going to Military School and Chuckie follows him but instead of wanting to use Andy's body he Goes after a Younger Cadet Ronald Tyler...Who Tyler calls Charles....Chuckie tries to play a trick on the young boy by saying its a game called Steal the Soul....and that is where the movie gets exciting....Many People say this is the worse out of the Child's Play...At least it was a whole lot better that Bride of Chuckie and Seed of Chuckie....Yea It wasn't as good as the First 2 but I think Justin Wailen Did a Excellent job of Playing as Andy(Since Alex Vincent wasn't old enough) I Give it a 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"While Somewhat Preposterous, It's Actually An Improvement Over It's Predecessors","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What is considered the worst of the Child's Play movies is actually an improvement for the series. Andy's now in his teens and has gone to Military School, why, we don't really know. Chucky's back and he's out to get Andy again, but then he finds a new and younger body to take possession of. While this movie has no real scares or thrills to offer it actually comes out better than the last two Child's Play movies for a few reasons. For one, as Andy is now in his teen years and has his hormones starting to show it makes for a more serious tone compared to the silliness of the eight-year-old Andy from the last. Also, the fact that the movie is at a military school also makes for a bit more seriousness. Also, Chucky is as lovable as ever, still holding up with his cruel but somewhat charming personality. However, Child's Play 3 finds problems besides little to no scares or thrills. For instance, the movie acts like a long TV show, not managing to pull off any real development in the characters or plot. The movie also seems rushed in a way, like the crew wanted to end the movie as quickly as possible but make it long enough. Yet, the movie does feel more complete and satisfying compared to its predecessors. It's just a shame that the actors are cheesy one minute but then almost serious the next. The overall delivery from this sequel is that it's better than the last two, but is still plagued by what has brought the other Child's Play movies down. "},{"Title":"second best to the first one","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, this is the best Child's Play after the classic first one. Most people think this is the worst, but that title belongs to Seed of Chucky. Chucky has great one liners and he seems genuinely mean in this one. Of course, he was meaner in the first one, but that is to be expected. The kills are good, especially the barber. Presto, you're dead! Classic. In this one, Chucky is now going after a little black kid named Tyler. He has a new body and doesn't have to go after Andy again, but he still pursues him. Andy is now a teenager and has entered a military school. Chucky is sent to Andy, but Tyler opens him instead and this is where Chucky starts going after Tyler. Chucky runs amok in the school, even replacing paint balls with real bullets towards the end of the film. The carnival part at the end is definitely memorable, and this should have ended the Child's Play series, seeing as how there is no way in hell anyone could have found all of Chucky's body parts.All in all, this is my second favorite Child's Play film and I just don't see why no one likes this. People like Seed and Bride better than this, which is downright idiotic! This is a good film, but the only complaint I have is Tyler's ignorance to the fact that Chucky is swearing and has a mind of his own, yet he thinks that is how the doll really is.Don't f**k with the Chuck! "},{"Title":"Horror lovers lost respect to Chucky.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Back in the early 90's the icon and popular horror villains had their funeral and invited their loyal audience that followed them for years.Most of them terrorized the world with their killing spree started in the early 80's (in some cases late 70's) and the 90's seemed a good time to end with their respective franchises. CHUCKY'S funeral came in 1991, the same year that Freddy's Dead put an end to the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise. Ok, Chucky and Freddy returned in 2 sequels each one (Bride of Chucky, Seed of Chucky, New Nightmare, and Freddy VS Jason) but their true death came in the early 90's before their franchise became commercial and followed the weak SCREAM series standards.*SPOILERS* Anyways, in CHILD'S PLAY 3 Chucky returns and once again starts the hunt for Andy. Ten years have passed since the events of the original movie, Andy is now 16 and he's sent to a Military school. Chucky sends himself in mail destined to Andy...yes, it actually happens. This time Chucky terrorizes the Military school and it's students, plus the barber, a garbage man, and a Coronel. There's little gore, average acting and direction, an ok score, and a tired Chucky that seemed to lost the touch. Andy isn't useful anymore for Chucky as he finds in the young Tyler his new body prospect. Chucky tells Tyler his secret and tries to perform on him the ritual to translate his soul to his body. Chucky gets wiser with the years and has renewed his killing methods (like changing paint bullets with real bullets). Believe it or not, Chucky's scary looks are enough to kill someone. Tyler is two times cowarder than Andy, so they join forces and with the aid of the beautiful De Silva (Andy also shows interest in girls!) they manage to escape and destroy Chucky.  The ending disappointed me, Chucky deserved a better death for his final death (at the time). To make it brief, Andy throws Chucky to a BIG fan... You have to watch to believe.Chucky lost respect after part 2, he's not menacing or scary anymore, and worst of all, his one-liners are awful (in the style of Freddy). The locations didn't help the film, Chucky looked awkward and not blood thirsty. CHILD'S PLAY III is not entertaining, it's a major let down, as the original and part 2 were decent horror films.  This sequel didn't please die hard Chucky fans. Recommended only for die hard fans of the genre. Where's Mike Norris? Andy Barclay? when they are needed?4/10. "},{"Title":"Darker, but more hollow.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Did anyone else notice that Chucky has taken on a somewhat Jack Nicholson-esquire-ality about him these days, and perhaps because of that element, we learn right off that we must not f*ck with the Chuck! This time, in a military prep school, Andy is the hero, instead of the victim.What I like most about these movies is that they do not attempt to recreate one another. They play like one, long movie, when played back to back. This installment is no exception, and a deserving sequel.However, I somehow did not care for this movie as much as the first two. It is modernized, and they tried a bit bigger budget here, which spoiled the camp of the first two. They tried to add more of the suspenseful aspects of the originals to this one, and in My opinion, they fell a bit short in doing so. It does, however, have a darker feel and there is more gore (one of the sequel rules), but somehow it just falls a little beneath the others.I think perhaps that it is due to the vulgar language used by Chucky. It makes him come of as an obnoxious bad little child, rather than the serial killer/voodoo bocur he was in the first two. It degrades his character's worth and makes it appear superficial, rather than the deeply disturbed psychopath who is trapped in the body of a doll, and is slowly going insane from the frustration given to him by Andy in the first two installments. I mean...what guy wouldn't go insane from the total lack of their wedding tackle? The added darker elements should have made this one a better endeavor, but for Me, there's something missing. But it's still enjoyable, suspenseful, and even tense at times, with a darker atmosphere.6.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Slightly better than the second but still rather dull.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Will those greedy fat cats at Playpals never learn? Once again the &#145;Good Guy' doll gets re-released and once again one doll contains the spirit of Charles Lee Ray (Chucky voiced by Brad Dourif), the notorious Lakeshore strangler. Chucky tracks down Andy (Justin Whalin) who is now grown up and in military school but after realising he has a new body Chucky decides to try and possess a young kid named Tyler (Jeremy Sylvers) rather than try and possess Andy. Andy finds out about Chucky's diabolical scheme and makes it his mission to stop him, however, as well as Chucky he is going to have to contend with a power-mad Lieutenant named Shelton (Travis Fine).A little different from the previous two instalments, albeit mainly because virtually the entire movie takes place in a Military School, &#145;Child's Play 3' is slightly better than the previous instalment but still seems a rather unnecessary sequel. This is the first of the &#145;Child's Play' films to not feature Alex Vincent in the role of Andy as the makers opted for an older Andy in this movie and Justin Whalin portrays the character rather well though one would question whether Andy would not possibly be in an institution rather than a military school, and wouldn't he have some serious mental issues? There are quite a few plot holes in the story and some very bad scripting in parts but as sequels go &#145;Child's Play 3' is about average for a third sequel to an average movie and will probably entertain the Chucky fans at least once. Don Mancini once again wrote the screen play for the movie though this time Jack Bender took the directors chair and didn't really improve on the direction from John Lafia in the second. Tom Holland's direction in the original film was probably what made &#145;Child's Play' such a viable franchise and though these future instalments gave the fans what they wanted (more screen time for Chucky, more blood, more victims) they also failed to add any interesting twists. A film centered on a killer doll is bound to be rather bland but more should have been done to make the film more entertaining, adding a new `victim' just was not enough. Like with the previous two movies there were a lot of seemingly pointless or over-suspended scenes which made the movie drag rather than be entertaining.The acting was pretty poor from most of the cast except Justin Whalin, though Travis Fine did a half-decent job of playing the loathsome Lt. Shelton and Perrey Reeves was quite likeable (in a similar way to the character of Kyle in the second) as Andy's romantic interest De Silva.If you are a fan of the previous two films then I'd recommend this for at least one viewing, it is slightly better than the second movie but still not on par with the original. Anyone who disliked the original movie should probably avoid this. My rating for &#145;Child's Play 3' &#150; 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Take this toy away!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't you have to be interested to watch a movie? Child's Play 3 does very, very little to make the viewer want to stay. Travis Fine (who moved on to bigger and better things for sure landing a role in the astonishing Girl, Interrupted) is very nicely put together and pleasing to look at. Also Dean Jacobson is a standout actor, as a sympathetic character. But what else is there? A few too many bad jokes.The actors aren't as intense as they need to be, the effects aren't plentiful enough (they actually made a winner out of the previous Chucky part 2), and as a result of these detractors, the movie is boring and slow. It's just too tough to take. And who would have figured? There was a lot of potential with the settings of the story. A military school and an amusement park are great places to take the show. But, nothing's done with them. Child's Play 3 is the least of the series.3/10 or 1.5/4 "},{"Title":"Not even half as bad as it's reputation. *Spoilers*","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately 'Child's Play 3' is the most mistreated of all the 'Child's Play' movies. Here in the states, the VHS is out of print and it has never been released on DVD, and the movie itself is constantly plagued by negative reviews. Why? What were you expecting, 'Hamlet?' 'Child's Play 3' delivers exactly what you would expect from a movie like this. It's a post 80's horror sequel that follows Chucky on a military school campus. Chucky is through stalking Andy (our poor little underage victim from the previous films, now turned into a mopey teenager played by Justin Whalin), and has set his sights on a new naive child by the name of Tyler. I think I must be the only one who favors the military setting. It made for some great murders (Love the paintball gag) and gave the series a break from the norm. The movie is really short and caps off at a carnival, once again, another great setting where Chucky wreaks havoc nearby exposed, industrial sized fans and a giant Grim-reaper, swinging a giant *real* blade (I wonder how far that park got before it was shut down). The movie is obviously pretty unrealistic, but that doesn't matter. That's not why we watch these movies. A lot of people complain about this movie, but I just don't see what's wrong with it. It is, after all, just a Chucky flick, what else did you want?  "},{"Title":"Presto, your dead...boring","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This can no way top The first two, but I've seen worse (Bride of Chucky, Elm Street 2, Halloween 3, Friday the 13th all of 'em). Andy goes to boot camp and some how, Chucky still needs a soul, even though in the second one he said he was SCREWED and couldn't be put into a body. He's looking for some fresh meat. So, enjoy I guess.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Quick March .....Private Chucky!!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this third sequel before it was witch-hunted and banned from video shops and Markets all over the U.K. in 1993 due to the Murdered toddler of the Jamie Bulger case, it is said that Two 10 year olds were warped by the movie and killed James but there was NO evidence that they had seen it, the Judge only decided to use this excuse turning Chucky into a scapegoat, and a punished figure for the Horror fans but this gave Chucky even more appeal to children and adults as far as the Government and the Movie industry is concerned.In 2001, it was BACK on DVD at last!!! and because we all remembered Chucky who got bad publicity for the wrong reasons several years ago, we still have a strong liking for him-that is why these movies are favoured so much in Great Britain.Child's Play 3 should be re-titled 'Chucky goes to millitary school' it is now set eight years later from the 'Chucky 2' Movie but this time he finds a new kid, Tyler,  to tell his secret 'but my real name is' ........oh, you know the drill !!!! Chucky greets Andy who is now 16 years old, to tell him that he is old news and is after 'fresh new meat' and so the chase is on to stop Chucky.Justin Whalin does almost resemble Alex Vincent from the earlier movies in physical appearance but I am sorry to say that his acting abilities are stiff like the corpses that Chucky lives behind. The rest of the cast are o.k., the special effects are the same, there is some humour, and it is very violent that is why it is giving an R rating but the story is getting thin by singing the same old song of Chucky marching quickly in meeting the Grim Reaper at the end of the film, again!!!This third installment of the Chucky adventures is needless and must be given far more consideration of a better plot. "},{"Title":"Not very good but still pleases Chucky fans such as myself.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's been eight years since the events in the second film, we now see that Andy is a teenager who has been enrolled in a military school. Play Pals Toy Company decides to re-release its Good Guys line, feeling that after all this time, the bad publicity has died down. As they re-used old materials, the spirit of Charles Lee Ray once again comes to life. In his search for Andy, Chucky falls into the hands of a younger boy, and he realizes that it may be easier to transfer his soul into this unsuspecting child. Andy is the only one who knows what Chucky is up to, and it's now up to him to put a stop to it.When I was a wee lil' boy back in the early 90's, I managed to hold out on seeing this movie till I had seen number 2 since the video store screwed up and still had Child's Play 2 as an overnight and had Child's Play 3 as a weekly rental (I refused to pay those expensive prices to have a movie for just 1 day).I felt that this movie was good FOR a Chucky film but if this movie was an original and the other 2 hadn't existed, this would probably have left me feeling somewhat disappointed. It was a standard sequel that had no great story to it, basically has a known horror character doing what he does best...kill, kill, kill! Chucky at a military school? Sounds kind of silly, doesn't it? At least it's not as dull as the plots to Halloween and Friday the 13th sequels.There were some nice moments in the film though, once again with Chucky making smart-ass comments after/before he disposes of his victims. I think the casting could have been much better. From what I can tell, Alex Vincent who played Andy Barclay and Child's Play 1 and 2 has different coloured eyes to Justin Whalin who plays Andy Barclay in Child's Play 3. It's not exactly something you'd notice though unless you were a hardcore fan to the bone.There are some moments that have an opportunity to make you jump, it all depends on how much attention you are paying to the movie though. If you get bored quickly from the movie you probably won't be able to give all of your attention to the film but there is quite a lot of Chucky action at the beginning that gets you straight into the entertaining parts.Overall, Child's Play 3 is quite watchable but you'd wanna keep to Child's Play 1 and 2 because they are much better. Still, I'm a Chucky fan so my score is somewhat biased but anyone who's a Chucky fan or even a slasher fan may find some merit in this movie. "}{"Title":"Chucky returns and delivers yet another round of horrifying action","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Chucky, that deranged seemingly unstoppable murderous spirit in a doll's body returns yet again for a third blood and guts populated outing. This time out, Chucky tracks down his former owner, Andy (Justin Whalin) at a military school where he, now a teenager, serves as a student cadet. Andy and several other fellow cadets band together in the fight against Chucky who is still living his obsession to control a human's body and transfer his soul into theirs. A minor improvement over the second film and still not intended for the kids.  "},{"Title":"Tired sequel **spoilers**","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 is yet another tired horror sequel. Produced immediately after the release of its immediate predecessor, it is well made on a technical level, but the material is wearing thin. The story gets off to a good start; many years after the previous films, the toy company plans to put the Chucky doll back into production, deciding that all the negative publicity surrounding the unexplained deaths has passed. Chucky himself is resurrected in a new (but identical) body, and after dispatching the company president, tracks down little Andy, who is now a troubled teen in a military school. So far so good, but the writers have little idea where to go after setting up the story, which descends into the usual tedious business. Even the novelty of the setting doesn't really help. The opening credits are stylish, but we need a little more than that for plot.Justin Whalin is admittedly credible in the role of the grown Andy, and offers what is probably a reasonably accurate portrait of how the character would have changed in eight to ten years. The filmmakers could have made a worse movie by giving us an stereotypical annoying teen character in the lead, but they managed to avoid that problem at least. Travis Fine's character is, however, the most hateful in the entire movie. I realize there's a jerk in every military setting, but this is one guy who deserves to be killed off early on, so that we may be spared his immature antics. Brad Dourif lends his squeaky voice to the killer doll once more, though I wonder if he was getting tired of the routine by this point. Andrew Robinson is wasted as a mean-spirited barber.After an interminable period of uninspired kills, the film climaxes at an nearby amusement park. This portion of the film is incredibly contrived. First of all, I doubt that such a place would be located anywhere a military establishment. Even if I am wrong on this, the whole thing still feels tacked on. There is no creative reason why such a setting is necessary. It is painfully clear that the writers were fumbling for ideas and simply picked something at random. Perhaps someone involved in the production was a fan of Tobe Hooper's Funhouse. At the very least, Child's Play 3 does not hint at the possibility of a sequel; though one was eventually produced years later, that is another review altogether.*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures "},{"Title":"Better than the others","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film isn't exactly the top of all horror movies, but it's more enjoyable than the others.  The original was good but it was slow at times with not much excitement.  Part 2 was just a bunch of gore and killing. I didn't even think Bride of Chucky amounted to much at all.In this one, Andy Barclay is sent to a military school and Chucky comes back, but this time he has his eye on new blood.  Andy must save his new target.  There are a lot of attention grabbers, but the only thing bad about this movie was the very beginning.  It was so slow and boring, but after the first 5 or 10 minutes you'll get into it and gets better and better.  The ending was so cool.  It was suspenseful and I was really satisfied.  A lot of people would find this scary, and many would find it enjoyable.  I enjoyed all of it and as I watched it, I got more and more into it. Horror fans should see this.*** out of *****. "},{"Title":"I agree with the first 2 words of the title, it's just a child's play","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie because I'd already seen Child's Play, Child's Play 2 and The Bride of Chucky. If you haven't seen this film yet, leave it like that. The most important reason is that I couldn't find a single scary moment... the beginning and the end are probably the most interesting parts! "},{"Title":"Horrible, corny, stupid . . . but nothin' wrong with Chucky! **minor spoilers ahead**","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit I haven't seen the first two Child's Play films (or Bride of Chucky, for that matter), though I kinda wanted to since I heard Chucky was a cool guy.  One day I found my brother watching this on Sci-Fi and I decided, what the heck, there's nothing better to do, and watch this.**Warning Some spoilers concerning deaths and some (relatively minor) plot points.**Well, there's a whole cr@p loada bad parts.  Obviously, in the third film about a murderous doll, you don't expect much in the way of plot. But, GOD, the scares are cheaper than my younger brother.  As other reviewers have said, it's kinda hard to be scared of Chucky, given his height.  All of the murders (except, perhaps, the one in the garbage truck, though that was stupid and pointless) were telegraphed a half hour in advance.  None of the humans really develop any personalities, though I enjoy Andrew Robinson (Scorpio in Dirty Harry) as the insane barber who dies trying to give the Chuckster a trim.Also, this film was made in 1991, but took place eight years after CP2? (made in 1990)  Please!The main attraction, of course, is Chucky himself.  Again voiced by Brad Douriff (whatever happened to him?  He used to be a great, respectable actor see One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest), but now, he's pretty much confined to crappy sci-fi.  Still, he gives it his all (why is my question), and Chucky does a decent job of making the film watchable.  The scene where Col. Cochrane (Dakin Matthews) dies of a heart attack while Chucky attacks him, and most of Chucky's dialogue, are a real scream.  Unfortunately, Chucky DOES come across as a bit stupid, but he's still very cool, despite his plasticness.Overall, however, this film sucks.Three out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Good, but not quite as good as the first two!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the better horror movies of 1991. It was smart, scary, and Justin Whalin gave a pretty good performance in one of his earlier roles. CHILD'S PLAY 3 is one of those movies that seems to be shown on cable almost every week. I've seen it on cable at least ten times. The TV version and the theatrical/video version or obviously very different since the TV version has lots of the blood cut out and many scenes added in, but no matter what version you watch, it's still great fun. It continues the story of Chucky, the killer doll from the first two CHILD'S PLAY movies, who once again is out to get poor Andy Barclay, played by Justin Whalin in this installment. This time, Andy is attending a military school where, as required by the plot, Chucky kills more than a few of the other people there. Though this is the last installment in the series that has Andy Barclay in it, he's still alive at the end of the movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Compared to the first 2, this one looks tired.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Child's Play franchise goes for the Trilogy!!! But on the 3rd one, it's time for Chucky to just give up and go to Hell where he ultimately belongs!!!When I saw all 3 Chucky films, I was impressionably young. This 3rd one, to a child of my age was 'cool'. I look at it now, and I think - I didn't like THIS one did I?!!Andy has grown up, and it looks as though Chucky is well and truly dead. 8 years have passed and Andy has joined the army!! ooooo.k....BUT, the company that make the Good Guy dolls re-make more dolls, using the same doll that Chucky was in!! Will they EVER learn??!! obviously not!What follows this time is a tired storyline, only given a new lease of life due to Chucky's realisation that he doesn't need Andy, he can use another kid.To me, this one killed the franchise. It should have ended HERE!! without a doubt. But noooooooooo - they made a 4th, and there's a 5th on the way!!!!Anyway, to focus on the few good points of this movie -This, as with the 2nd film, features a gorgeous female character, so you're interest is held only due to the fact that she's in it!!A few good killing's with more humour thrown in - I have to admit, when Chucky jumps out brandishing a knife and lets out one of his trademark screams, and his victim suffers a heart attack, Chucky's response? You've gotta be F****N Kiddin me!!! That's kinda funny!!All in all, a very poor film, and it looked as though the franchise would end here...we were so wrong.There must be a loyal fanbase out there...somewhere!! "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the worst horror films ever.  The acting is awful and the plot was pretty bad too.  I thought Bride of Chucky was pretty good and if you are worried you wont understand Bride of Chucky just because you didn't see child's play 3 you have nothing to worry about simply because it has nothing to do with Child's Play 3.  I honestly suggest you dont waist you time with this movie.  I regret seeing this movie and i only payed close attention to some scenes that were kind of interesting.  like the beginning for example, it was original and scary.  i give child's play 3 a 3.3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I never understood why CP3 was the most hated out of the whole series, I always have enjoyed it. The acting could use a little work, and the plot does move along pretty slow, but it has a lot more suspenseful and unique scenes than the first 2 did. The new actor playing (overaged) Andy is pretty good and giving us the formerly traumatized kid who never got over it. The death scenes in this movie are a lot more elaborate than the first two and more interesting to watch. Chucky is a lot creepier and even funnier. Overall, this film is really good. Die-hard fans like me will love it, but casual viewers might get bored.8.5 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oh my God..","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Come on! Anyone who thought this was the least bit scary, or GOOD, is simply a fool.. There isn't much to say about it really. There is no plot to speak of, all the characters are one-dimensional automatons.. This is the first of the funny Chucky movies, and it failed miserably. I never laughed once, unlike with Bride of Chucky, which was genuinely funny.All of its flaws are nothing compared to the biggest problem in the movie the Chucky puppet. The thing is the ugliest piece of s**t I've ever seen, and most of the time Chucky looks more like a small dinosaur than a doll, due to an insanely silly and stupid looking mouth and face.Avoid this movie - Child's Play as a series is crap to begin with, with the exception of the original and Bride of Chucky, and this is the absolute worst of the batch. It gets my vote for one of the fifty WORST movies of all time. "}{"Title":"really, really, dumb","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  childs play 1 was great, childs play 2 was pointless, but this one is so corny. I didn't like the idea of Andy Barcly being a teenager and chucky chasing after a stubborn little african american who calls him Charles and thinks he wants to play tag. And if your going on the  topic of being realistic, have you ever seen a roller coaster in a haunted house. And a prop of a grim reaper swinging a real steel sickle. But the ending made me want to spit at what they have done to chucky. Dont even bother thinking about it. "},{"Title":"Cool sequel !!!!!!!!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well what can I say , this is a cool sequel , usually  the sequel is not as good as the original movie, but this one is maybe better , and as funny, as scary, as cool, is a thriller also, Chucky is a cool monster  a doll with a killer soul. YOU WILL LOVE CHUCKY "},{"Title":"Not good at all","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry. I really like Chucky. The first Child's Play wasn't a big hit, but it was a good movie. The sequel, Child's Play 2, it was the sequel. Not good as the first one, but it was nice. But now, the third part...everything it's so pathetic. There isn't anyone from the original cast. Not even the young Alex Vincent. And Chucky, I don't know, he looks so fake, I don't know if that's the exact word. But I like the beginning, when the plastic is forming Chucky again. And Chucky, after all, still very funny. I think all that can make me give this film one full star.  "},{"Title":"a good installment of the series","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 was better than the second, but not as good as the first. This film doesn't have much suspense, but it's got lots of great skin-jumping shocks. The acting could have been better. Brad Dourif gives another great performance as Chucky. Chucky adds a little more humor to this film, making this movie really funny! Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"AVERAGE CHUCKY FILM!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't too bad, but it was far from good. Some okay death scenes but still the plot was very thin. Again Chucky runs around he whole movie slicing and dicing trying to get the boy he is after. Of course blame goes on boy when he starts blaming doll for all bad things happening. Exactly the same tale from the first two movies. Only if your a fan of the Child's Play series check this out, it's just your average slasher film with a little doll. You can do much better and more violent. "},{"Title":"Dull? Nah!","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In this third Chucky picture, Andy Barclay goes to the military. Now some people find this a dull entry, but I think it's really exciting. I mean Chucky is just GREAT, AS ALWAYS! He seems a little chubby in this installment. He must have hung around Craft Services a little too much. After Chucky's first hilarious kill, he tries to track down Andy, via computer. When he does, the adventure begins again. Not as campy as Child's Play 2, but campy non-the-less. Brad Dourif, as always, does such a wonderful voicing of the Chuckster. Justin Whalin takes over as Andy, due to the fact little Alex Vincent, in the magic of one's year's time, didn't grow up into a teen. And Whalin does the job wonderfully.  "},{"Title":"A mistake!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After its great presessors, I was looking forward to watching Childs Play 3. I was happy enough for the series to go on. Thats until i saw this pile of rubbish. Okay, maybe I'm being a little harsh. But I can't help thinking that its a complete rerun of the first two films. Once AGAIN, Chucky tries to transform his mind into another human, but this time it's not Andy, Suprise, Suprise! The ending is great, and the start to is good. But somehow, it got lost in the middle. Don't be put off with the Childs Play series, Bride of Chucky is a real treat for all fans. "},{"Title":"Very cool, but the two first movies are better.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a third part, this movie do a really good job. Chucky still very cruel and scary ( in this movie, he's funny too !) and there isn't deaths, there's a really bloodbath. But, nothing of that can win the first, original and historical Child's Play, but it's the same thing than we see in Child's Play 2.Rating  ** "},{"Title":"Mixed Bag","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 is a bit entertaining but it's really hard to take this movie seriously. I mean it started in part 2. Part 2 lacked suspense and replaced it with comedy, but this one has to be the funniest movie in the horror genre.Chucky isn't even scary at this point and he's basically just a Freddy Krueger rip off. i also didn't like the fact that andy aged like 7 years. They need the original Andy.Though this film is utterly stupid i still find it entertaing. I guess the child's play series is just a guilty pleasure.Nice try to make a better film but it falls short. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Crap..utter crap.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why the heck did they make this trailor park piece of junk??? Huh? Does anybody know? They only reason this movie is good is because it paved the way for Bride of Chucky. This sequel top the cult hit finds Andy ( now 16) sent to military school....with..you guessed it..Chucky directly on his tail. Chucky is the only one who is funny or does anything amusing in the film. Other than his jokes and scares this film is worthless....Not worth the rent.... 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Excellent and Terrifying","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 is an extremely entertaining flick but fails to beat Child's Play 1 & 2. Although, it does beat the 1998 Bride of Chucky. Andy Barkley, now 16, is sent to Kent Military school but Chucky follows him. Brad Dourif is excellent at his chucky voice and I'm happy he returns to do his role again. It includes the second best chucky death (The best so far is in Child's Play 2) which shows Chucky falling into a- well, you should see it for yourself. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"worst of the series","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i like the child's play movies and all, but this one should be erased...some get the sequels confused a lot, but most people refer to CP3 as the one in the military school...that one sucked! boring and almost agony to watch. except the part where the dork gets blown up by a grenade. that part was cool. "},{"Title":"My least favorite in the series","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 has one of the BIGGEST plot holes in the series.  This one was released a year or two after part 2, but Andy has aged like 7 years.  Still, I love seeing Chucky!! I can't get enough of him, but I think that if Brad Dourif ever stops voicing him that I won't like him as much anymore.  This has more humor thrown in, which is good, because you can't expect many horror movies to take themselves too seriously after the second sequel.  Another plot hole is that instead of transferring his soul into Andy, Chucky wants to transfer his soul into the other little kid.  (In the first movie, it was said that Chucky had to transfer his soul into the first person he told who he really was)  I have a theory on this however.  Maybe since Chucky was completely melted down and turned into a whole new doll he got another chance to tell someone else his secret, so I guess that's ok.  There is a similar plot hole in Bride of Chucky, and I have a theory on that one too, so read my review for that if you get a chance.  This is my least favorite in the series, mostly because of the fact that Andy aged so much from the second one, but it's still fun to watch. "},{"Title":"The Child's Play Series Is Horrid. This Is The Worst","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have yet to see Bride of Chucky, but, I watched Child's play 3 tonight, and let me say, it is the stupidest in the line of an already stupid series. In this movie, Chucky is reincarnated from his blood in a Good Guys Doll factory. He comes back to stalk Andy Barclay, the boy he menaced in the first two movies. Though he has no reason what-so-ever to follow Andy, he does. He follows him to Kent Military Academy, where Andy is having troubles adjusting. This movie, and its actors give horrid performances in an already horrible movie. The storyline takes Chucky to a younger kid, who is just plain stupid and sees nothing odd about talking to a possessed doll. Once again, this movie is horrible. The whole series is. Don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Could be better, but good enough.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not the best of the Child's Play movies but still very good. Personally, I found the fact that poor Andy Barclay was stuck in a military school depressing and frustrating. And they couldn't have picked a worse kid to play Andy. His squeaky voice and lack of resemblance to Alex Vincent hurt the movie. But Chucky makes up for most of the flaws. I give this movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unfortunate","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This amazingly dull sequel doesn't compare with the excellent original or the mediocre 2nd or 4th installments, it's just a pile of uninspired trash. I think they should allow someone else to write a script for a Chucky movie and give Don Mancini a break - he seems to run out of ideas very quickly. I'd miss this one, although if you enjoyed the others in the series you may as well see it if you're a completist as I am.  "},{"Title":"The worst Chucky film ever made.....","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a really big fan of Chucky and his two last movies, but this one is pathetic !!!! Here, the Good Guy factory is re-open and the rests of Chucky from the last movie ( Child's Play 2 ) is used to a new line of Good Guy dolls. Them, Chucky go after Andy who has now sixteen years old and is in a military school. For worse, Andy is not Alex Vincent anymore, is Justin Whalin (That explain why in the third movie he not still a boy, like in the two last films ), but, the only thing who save the movie is that Chucky still very funny, and still practice very cool deaths....Oh, and i almost forgot ! Chucky is now after a little boy from the same military school than Andy, Tyler, why Chucky just tell his little secret  and run after little boys ??? I don't understand that.... "},{"Title":"Yet Another Great Child's Play Movie","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie skips way ahead. If Child's Play, the original movie was set in 1988, then this one would be set in 1998, for it is ten years later and little Andy is now sixteen and since he has failed at foster homes, he is now in military school. And of course, Chucky is resurrected and finds Andy. I was a tad disappointed that Alex Vincint wasn't Andy, but that really wouldn't make sense for the time lapse. I like how Chucky has a whole array of new killing possibilities in a military school. I like how Tyler, until towards the ending, can't quite figure out that Chucky (or Charles, as Tyler constantly calls him, to Chucky's dismay and annoyance) wants to do something evil to him. Overall, this is a good movie, but I also wonder why Chucky couldn't just get some other kid to transfer his soul in the second movie. The rules were the first person you told your secret to, and that would be Andy. So Chucky now goes to Tyler.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is rare for a third movie to be the best, but Childs Play 3 was the best of the three (even though the other two were exellent) great horror movie scary and funny 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"so much wrong","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's been eight years since the second film. The Good Guys factory had been mothballed. Play Pals Toy Company decides to reintroduce the Good Guys line. As they clean up the old plastic, Chucky's blood gets into the new batch of plastic. The spirit of Charles Lee Ray is once again inside a Good Guys doll. First he kills the CEO. Then he tracks down Andy Barclay (Justin Whalin) who is now 16 and in Kent Military School. His instructor is the hard nosed Shelton. De Silva (Perrey Reeves) is spunky fellow cadet. Young cadet Tyler is suppose to bring Chucky to Andy but he decides to keep Chucky for himself. Chucky introduces himself to Tyler and tries to transfer his soul.It's a mistake to jump ahead in time to a teenager Andy. The iconic character is Chucky but the other character should be a child Andy. Half of the tension in the first two movies comes from the fact that nobody believes the little kid. This movie is stupider and has none of the tension. The whole military school isn't any fun and the idea of family is completely gone. Tyler is written like an idiot. The movie is pretty bad. This is a darker movie but not necessarily any better for it. Chucky is a bit more funnier with the verbal jabs. That is probably the only good to come from this movie. "}{"Title":"Presto Your Dead! The Darkest and Most Violent Chucky Film","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I truly believe that Child's Play 3 is the last REALLY great Chucky film in the series as Bride and Seed don't ultimately work for me that much. Even though the this film was released less than a year after it's predecessor, I still think it holds up well, and I disagree with the creators of the franchise that it is the least best of the Chucky films. I personally thought this was a much better take on than Bride and See because it still stood the test at being scary. Even though, there are a slight few problems with this sequel, I still like it for what it is.This film is supposedly set several years after the first two Child's Play films and focuses on Andy Barclay (now being played by Justin Whalin), going to a military school which is full of meat heads and gives the ol' grueling drills. Andy definitely does not fit in straight away. On the other side of the story, the Good Guy Doll factory after being a dead site is revived where the melted Chucky from the last film is remade by the hot melting plastic. Chucky comes back to life again, in a new body and kills off the toy maker's owner Mr. Sullivian. He then finds the location of Andy, and mails himself to the military site, where instead of going after Andy, he goes after Tyler. Andy seems to know everything while the others have no knowledge about what's going happening.I believe Child's Play 3 is another excellent entry in the killer doll franchise, and it's very underrated for a killer doll film.Starting off with some positives, I like the entire concept where Andy doesn't only have to face his fears of Chucky again, but he also has to deal with the nasty military school peers who bully and give him a hard time during the process. At first, I also thought that the military site and later on the carnival rides was a bit too the extreme but now I think it is pulled off well.The music score (although varying and different in tone and style) I feel worked quite well.Justin Whalin surprinsgly does a good job as Andy, where I felt sympathy for him. He truly brought the character back to prime source. Sure, he's no Alex Vincent, but he did well with what he was given. The others actors such as Travis fine, perry Reeves and Andrew Robinson were good in their roles.Once again, the entire credit goes to Brad Dourif as the voice of Chucky, where he brings a dark sense of humor to him. He gives him a stalkerish, creepy personality where the doll is more nastier, more brutllaer and definitely mean spirited at best. The look of Chucky once again gets a plus because I like how they kept up with the times, to see what Good Guy Dolls would look like several years later. Chucky is more scary looking in this one.The kills like the 2nd film were also done at an excellent pace.There were a few problems to put out, but there aren't too many as I do like this sequel.1 The actor playing Tyler was awful. Really the worse actor in the film. He was definitely not convincing as a scared little boy and all he did was yell, be happy or just be silly. I'm not really sure how I took this, he was just horrible in this film.2 Once again, this film can not reach the impact or tension of the original. Like the film before it, it just seems to be some slasher fun which is dark and nasty. That's all.That's really the only problems I had with this film. I do think Child's Play 3 is a sequel that nearly works on the same level as Child's Play 2 did. I do like it.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Child's Play 3","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Child's Play 3 apparently takes place eight years after the events that occurred in the toy factory of part two. Andy Barclay is now a teenager and played by Justin Whalin. The story goes that the head of Good Guy Dolls decides to start selling the popular interactive toy. Bad mistake, as it is soon discovered, Chucky is resurrected again and continues his hunt for Andy. It's then that Chucky decides to take the body of a different little boy Tyler (Jeremy Sylvers). The movie takes place in a military school in which Andy has been enrolled. After many kills, Chucky chases Andy, his girlfriend and the other little boy to the local carnival. The fun ensues in a giant and very cool looking funhouse.The best part of the whole movie is the finale in the funhouse/horror house. The rest of the movie is kind of a drag. The acting is mediocre and the supposed scares aren't very scary. The kid Tyler is especially annoying as we watch him befriend the talking doll. Justin Whalin was OK, but Alex Vincent is Andy Barclay. The rest of the military school leaders annoyed me to no end as well.This one didn't capture the action/excitement of the first two. Even director Don Mancini has called it his least favourite because he felt he was out of ideas so soon after Part 2. Child's Play 3 is the weakest of the Chucky films up to this point, but wait! There is still Chucky's bride and his seed coming up next. Oh joy...5/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is very rare when a sequel is better than the first movie. But it's ever more rare when the third movie is better than the first and the second.This is the case. This is by far the best movie from all the Chucky series. Andy is no longer a child, he's grown up and he's in the military school now. That's enough to make this movie more serious than the previous two.And that's the feeling that you get. Seriousness. Andy not only has to deal with Chucky but also with the army guys in a very unkind way. There's a feeling of pressure and anguish throughout the whole movie and there are no funny moments. Well...maybe a couple, but they don't spoil mature aspects of the movie. The lines are brilliant, the direction perfect. This is by far the best of the whole Chucky series. "},{"Title":"Child's Play by numbers","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Child's Play 3 is a reasonable second sequel from director Jack Bender. While the film doesn't really bring anything new to the world of Chucky, it remains faithful to the original films.Andrew (Dirty Harry, Hellraiser) Robinson makes an appearance as a slightly bonkers barber and makes the film a tad more enjoyable.The horror is all played for laughs but there's a few moments of suspense early on in the proceedings.The effects are first class but this isn't anything more than Chucky by numbers. A slightly lazy affair, this film was the end of the line for the franchise until 1998's inspired Bride of Chucky.6 out of 10. An average day for everybody's favourite plastic playpal. "},{"Title":"Worst one but still not bad","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for Violence,Language and Some Sexual Content Child's Play 3 is the third film in the chucky series of horror films about a killer doll.Out of all the chucky films, I would say this is the worst one but that doesn't mean its bad.If you liked fun horror movies with little plot but a lot of entertainment value then this is the movie for you.While Child's Play 2 had one very funny scene in it, this is the film which I find made the series a horror/comedy.The film is about Andy who is now in the army.Chucky finds him and tells him that he is going to possess another kid.So now Andy must stop him.Its the worst one in the series but its still good. "},{"Title":"a massive improvement of Boring child's Play 2","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a massive improvement of Boring child's Play 2,This time Andy is a teenager who has been enrolled in a military school.Mean while Play Pals Toy Company decides to re-release its Good Guys line, feeling that after all this time, the bad publicity has died down. As they re-used old materials, the spirit of Charles Lee Ray once again comes to life. In his search for Andy, This time chucky falls into the wrong hands, Ronald Tyler is who stole the package from Andy has he wanted a good guy doll as well, Chucky has new body to transfer his Soul into.Soon Andy meet chucky again and find out what he up to and try to stop him.This movie filled with nice gory deaths scene, the best death scene in whole series and the acting from everyone was great., This is my favourite Child's Play movie and it action packed until the end.Great movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Weakest link in an otherwise strong series.","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Merely removed a year later and heavily rushed we went into Child's Play 3. This movie is sometimes heralded as the Bastard Child of the series. We are now following a teenage Andy Barclay (now played by Justin Whalen) as he is entering Military School. Meanwhile, and with zero points for originality, play Pals toys is hellbent on once again reviving the Good Guys toy line. So once again via this method, Chucky is back. Chucky finds out where Andy is and he's off to the races to put his soul in Andy's body. Somewhere along the line the rules change. No longer must Chucky put his soul in the body of the first person he comes into contact with. Apparently, this idea was abandoned. He meets a young black child at the military academy named Tyler (Jeremy Sylvers). And now Chucky wants to put his soul in Tyler But it is up to Andy to stop him.So we have Chucky knocking people off and spitting out one liners left and right. The most memorable being during one of his attempts to put his soul in Tyler's body. Looks like Chucky's gonna be a bro'! Weak entry into the series could have easily been the death of it. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Under pressure from Universal Studios, screenwriter Don Mancini was asked to begin writing the third film even before the second film was released. Hence, Child's Play 3 was released in August 1991, less than one year after Child's Play 2 was released in October 1990. Mancini has called it his least favourite because he felt he was out of ideas so soon after part 2. The time line between this movie and the sequel Bride of Chucky takes place in the same year, yet impossible. Andy turned six in November, and he is sixteen in this movie. Bride of Chucky would need to take place at least a month or so (possibly in December) of 1998. A prologue to the film was initially written featuring a pair of siblings, Joey and Pam, who break into the abandoned Good Guy Factory. The sequence would've made for lots of creepy visuals and explain how the doll making machine turns on by itself. In the script Pam finds Chucky's remains and part of his head snaps vigorously at her fingertips. She falls backwards onto a lever, activating the machine. The two children scamper off. Jason Ritter (son of actor John Ritter who would later appear in Bride of Chucky) was initially cast to play the character of Joey. At the last minute Universal opted not to film the prologue.The film was filmed at historic Kemper Military School (now closed). Students and instructors of were seen as extras in the film and also served as advisers. "},{"Title":"Look who's snoring!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's been 8 years since Chucky terrorized Andy Barclay (Justin Whalin now replacing Alex Vincent) however since the sequel made money here we go again. This time though the company looks to make another batch of good guy dolls, hoping that all the bad hype has died down, too bad that the goo that made The Chuckster is made into another viscous doll and guess what he does after he is made, this time he mails himself to a military reform school where our hero Barclay is a screwed up kid, however a different kid opens the box and he decides to go after that kid and trade souls. Child's Play 3 is a prime example of 90's horror movie film-making and exactly why it all felt so tired. From 1991 to about 1996 we had nothing of really any worth in the genre (Although it was still preferable to today, when everything is a remake) and for the most part this franchise had lost all of it's steam. Andrew Robinson shows up as a demented barber but let's face it he's wasted and Dourif sounds more like Danny DeVito (As noted by others) then he does as a threat. Also there isn't enough carnage and it is all too packed with clichés to be anything enjoyable. Oh well, at least Perrey Reeves was cute to look at.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Decent Chuckster entertainment but that's it. **1/2 out of 5","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's something genuinely special about the first and second films. I like the look and feel of both of them although they are both really different from one another.Child's Play 3 takes place at a military school and provides Chucky lots of new ways to kill but it's just not as good as the first two. It just doesn't have a good directorial style and flow to it.There are a few suspense scenes and the one that takes place in a garbage truck takes the cake. That one is definitely hard to watch.My least favorite in the series, but it's still a must have in your Chucky collection. "}{"Title":"A great addition to the series.","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" CHILD'S PLAY 3 is far & away a really fun entry in what has thus far proved to be a really fun series! The film really is a treat for fans. BRAD DOURIF reprises the role of the villainous Chucky (His voice) & is always fun to watch, since he really makes the character. In another actors hands, I highly doubt Chucky would ever have had the success he's had in horror filmdom. JACK BENDER does fairly well behind the camera. Like the two directors before him, he not only milks out as many suspenseful & tense filled moments as he can for maximum impact, but also brings wicked sense of style to the film that is all his own. The acting is fairly reasonable for the most part, with JUSTIN WHALIN really standing out as Andy.While ANDREW ROBINSON is a hoot as the military school's barber. What should be noted, is how the film-makers yet again take the same route, the makers of A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET took with the later entries in that series, by making Chucky an almost Freddy Kruger like character, as he spews a series of bad (but funny) puns as he dispatches his victims. Many of the deaths are on the creative side & the Chucky doll is brought wonderfully to life. DON MANCNI returns to pen the script & despite his claims that it's his least favourite entry in the series, I highly disagree, CHILD'S PLAY 3 is a lot more fresh & inventive than most horror sequels (It's much better than the tepid SEED OF CHUCKY which Mancini directed) it has a very well drawn out story, interesting characters & a fresh inventive take on the storyline. The film has many moments to rival the first two films scares & actually shares a few things in common with the first, the return of the winter weather setting, the young boy who sees an advertisement for the Good Guy Dolls, during one of the cartoons based on the toy & is overwhelmed by it saying wow which is the same cartoon & Andy's same reaction from the first film. The film has a few light sprinkles of comedy, but for the most part, it's a straight laced horror film. Andy also carries with him the photo of he & his mother (in colour this time, since part 2 has the same photo but in black & white).On the downside, the film does have some problems. Released a mere nine months after the second film, CHILD'S PLAY 3 not only has the distinction of being one of the quickest arriving sequels in film history, but also suffers from some plot questions that never do get answered like Who wrapped Chucky up to send him to Andy at the Military School? Whatever became of Kyle from Part 2? Chucky removing the paint balls from the guns in order to insert real bullets, also asks one to accept a lot, since it begs the question Why would the army not check the guns to make sure they were paint balls & not real bullets? Surely they would have checked on this before allowing the cadets to use the guns? Despite being young, surely Tyler would have wondered why a walking, talking doll would want to play games with him & ask him to keep his existence a secret, since the doll would have to be pretty hi-tech to be walking & talking like Chucky does. How is it that the character of Whitehurst is the only one to see a grenade dropping by the troops during the forest scene towards the end of the picture? Since there were dozens present when Chucky was around, surely they wouldn't have taken their eyes off a walking, talking killer doll, to watch Andy & one of the leaders have a brief scrap. Also if destroying Chucky's heart was the way to kill him (according to the first) why is he still walking around? why if Andy knows this is a way to kill Chucky off, does he never attempt to destroy his heart? the destroying Chucky's heart angle was never played up again for the rest of the films that followed Part 1. Also if Chucky's blood, which can be seen pouring out all over the liquid plastic in the long abandon good guy doll plant, caused him to come back, wouldn't this also create an army of Chucky's? Since the blood would be in every doll that was made with that batch of liquid? Speaking of the liquid, why would the factory use old mixture & not use a new batch? None of these questions are ever answered.All in all, despite it's bad rap, CHILD'S PLAY 3 is nowhere near as bad as some fans of the series are claiming, in fact I rather enjoyed the film as a whole. It's a really fun entry in the series & closes off the Andy Barclay trilogy storyline quiet nicely. Not only that, but the title would never be used again for the next three entries, which are billed as CHUCKY movies. There's suspense, there's tension, there's atmosphere, a few nifty kills, good acting, directing, fun characters, so what's not to like? Highly recommended. After this films dismal performance at the box office, Chucky would take a much longer commercial hibernation from the screens, before re-emerging for the rather fun, BRIDE OF CHUCKY. ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Not Another One!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Man, when are they going to give up on these movies? The first one was pretty cool, the second was absolutely awful, and now we have the third one that is almost just as bad. The only reason it is any better is because it has a few funny scenes, but in no way, shape, or form is this a horror movie.The plot is exactly the same as the other two films Chucky has been brought back to life, and he is after Andy Barkly. Of course they had to change a little bit to keep it from being a flat out remake, Andy is older now, and he is at military school. Man did this film suck. The acting is just as bad as it was in the second film, and the death scenes are even worse! Tell me how scary this is Chucky tricks a man into going into the back of a trash truck, and Chucky squashes him. That's not scary at all. Granted, it could be very gory, but it wasn't. Nothing about this movie is scary or gory.Not worth seeing at all. Stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Playing With a Dead Horse of an Idea.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The primary character from the first two installments (played by Justin Whalin this time) is now trying to get on with his life as an adolescent at a military academy. Of course those morons at the Good Guys Toy Company unwittingly resurrect Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) once more via spare parts and the terror starts again for Whalin and his friends. Child's Play 3 is a terrible edition to a financially successful, but under-achieving series that struggles with black humor being mixed with aggressive violence and sophomoric story-lines. The performers and film-makers both fail miserably as the production generates no interest and really very little coherence. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"wearing thin","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is where the Child's Play series really shows it is wearing thin, the first two were pretty solid, but this was the same old b.s. a little tired out. Child's Play 3 isn't horrible, but the same story third verse well, Chucky is trying to take a little kids soul Tyler instead of his old friend Andy's. Andy is play by another actor in this one, I guess Alex Vincent got tired of being Andy. Child's Play 3 is nothing to brag about, but is only for those who have seen the first two. I have to say there are some cool kills in this one, but not enough to make this more than it is a tired sequel with Chucky returning again so we can have yet another movie to review on here. "},{"Title":"Hmmm! Not a bad horror flick","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I own this movie. It's a little different to the first and the second.Chucky chases after a kid named Tyler and is no longer chasing Andy.This movie was war alright, and that's what makes it good, some more bad language, and some more blood, and some more laughs, the funniest part was when that girl smothered lipstick all over Chucky's mouth, and Tyler was busy whining, STOP THAT, YOU'RE MAKING HIM LOOK LIKE A WOOS!!!Give this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Chucky is resurrected for the third time again. He follows the little boy whom is now all grown up who survived the events that took place in part one and two to a military school. The guy is now a loner and has very little contact with anyone, because of what happened in the past. There Chucky has some fun killing off the other students in creative, but moronic ways as time killer before trying to switch souls for the third time. Unexciting thriller with little in the way of actual entertainment. Lacks any true scares or humor. What do you expect of a film where the tag line was Don't F*ck with the Chuck?Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Chucky is back.  Stalking is only part of his game.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Andy Barclay(Justin Whalin)the young boy that claimed he saw a doll commit a series of murders is now older and finds himself sent to a military school. Chucky stalks Andy to the school and finds another likely candidate to support his evil ways. Really not a bad flick after it gets going. I thought the chase sequence at the amusement park was very well done. The finale is awesomely fatal; now conjure up a way for this series to continue. Supporting cast features Jeremy Sylvers, Perrey Reeves and Travis Fine. Andrew Robinson is the diabolical barber and once again Brad Dourif is the voice of 'Chucky'. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A really terrible horror movie, with no scares, no laughs and loads of cliches, CP3 is a poor excuse for a horror movie. Chucky's evil smile seems to be getting tired by now, as he enters a military school, where the boy he was stalking in the previous entries is now dwelling. 2/10, only because it's not mind-numbingly terrible. "},{"Title":"Oooh! Chucky's back AGAIN. Oh well, make it worth it then!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Killer doll Chucky is back years after the first two films and he tracks his lil' victim to the military school he's in and lil' victim is not lil' anymore so Chucky will have to settle for another lil' boy who's hanging around. Chucky's back with old and new tricks in the inventive military environment! Funfunfun! Just watch the entire series, ok? "},{"Title":"Watchable but dull","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Following on from the excellent Child's Play 2 this film just seems boring. The plot is just tedious and acting worse than that in the king of all bad films Jason Goes To Hell The Final Friday.Excusing the fact that it would be impossible for Chucky to climb into the doll box wrapping it with him inside and then mailing it to Andy, they could have made this film fun but they didn't. However once the action starts the film is watchable but never anything more.  "}{"Title":"Another Great Follow-Up","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another Good Follow-Up To One of the Best and Well Known Horror Series. This one Had more Twists and Turns than the first Two, But can Deliver an Equal Amount of Shock. Also un-like the first two this one dies down a little on the gore. I also Think that Chucky Grows to be a Little more Ingenious. I Highly Reccommend that you see this. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Masterpiece to Crap Just Like That","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Its almost unbelievable that a franchise can go from two close to masterpiece Horror films to one film that just spits on the entire franchise. Childs Play 3 is the obvious third installment to the doll killer franchise and its undoubtedly the worst to come. Its a poorly acted, odd Horror film that you consider yourself lucky to see because of the awful darkness of the movie itself. Screenwriter Don Mancini confessed to completely and totally running out of ideas for the series which is no doubt why after this one there was a seven year gap until Bride of Chucky, and then a six year gap until Seed of Chucky was made. Seems like ideas for killer dolls that need to find a human soul were hard to come by.This is a weird one to explain, The Good Guy Doll Factory has reopened and reassembled Chucky which still has the soul of Charles Lee Ray in the doll. Andy is now 16 and has been shipped off to Military School and apparently has been in more foster homes then just the Simpsons', and has failed in all of them. Ronald Tyler, a younger recruit takes the Chucky doll to Andy, but in a failed attempt to get possessed, goes on a killing spree again to find Andy and try to transfer his soul. Its the same movie in a different environment, but just unrealistically stupid.What bothers me is two things. One, its so dark in this carnival, military camp, trying to see whats going on is harder than understanding it. Most of the time, Im clueless and just assuming what is happening. Another thing, is we get no mention to what happens to Kyle (Andy's foster sister in CP2). We get zero information. At least in the second one they say that the mother is in psychiatric therapy. So overall, this is shockingly the worst Horror film I've ever seen. There's no adrenaline pumping scenes, and everything is just dark (quite literally). This still amazes me that a franchise can go from excellent to awful in just three movies. If a franchise makes it the third film they should put a lot of effort into it, not just throw some back ass movie together with almost no sense made. Maybe around 1991 they were learning movie sequels attract a lot of money no matter the plot. At very least we get Brad Dourif's excellent voice talents.Starring Justin Whalin, Perrey Reeves, Jeremy Sylvers, Peter Haskell, Dakin Matthews, Travis Fine, Dean Jacobson, and Brad Dourif. Directed by Jack Bender. "},{"Title":"Good horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" CHILD'S PLAY 3, in my opinion, is a good horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good. The only thing about it that scared me, like the first two, was when Chucky (voice of Brad Dourif) suddenly jumped out and killed someone. Other than that, I didn't get scared at all. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did an outstanding job. In conclusion, to all you horror film lovers that have not seen this good horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good, I highly recommend it! You're in for a good time as well as some pure chills and thrills, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, turn down the lights, lock all your doors and windows, and enjoy! "},{"Title":" Nothing like a strangulation to get the circulation going","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Justin Whalin is ordinary as Andrew in this weak horror flick. The supporting cast is exceptional. The costumes are dumb. One of the fair farces in the genre, Child's Play 3 reveals loose creaks. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chucky Goes to Military School, But Even That Can't Set Him Straight!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, it's been eight years since the last encounter with Chucky and Andy. Now the first Child's Play took place in 1988. Part 2 took place a few days or weeks or months after that, still in 1988. So this movie supposidly happens in 1996. But if Part 2 actually did intend to happen in 1990, so CP3 takes place in 1998. Anyway.          Chucky's blown up body get's carried out of the old cob webbed filled factory. But some blood fell out of the doll and into plastic mix. Within no time at all, a Chucky face has been made.         The company chose to put the Good Guy dolls back on the market. Big mistake, because Chucky's spirit was in one of them! Chucky comes back to life, kills the president of Play Pals-Mr. Sullivan, and learns that Andy is now 16 and in military school!          Alex Vincent has been replaced by Justin Whalin who isn't as good. Andy get's a trim, meets a nerd who's always bullied named Whitehearst, befriends a young private named Tyler and even meets his drill instructor Lt. Colonel Shelton! Shelton treats everyone like scum. Andy also meets DeSilva, a feisty female who thinks Shelton is a major dick.           One afternoon, a package arrives for Andy and Tyler is told to take it to him. But curiosity got to Tyler. He opened the packageand met Chucky! Chucky chooses Tyler's body for his soul's new home. The body count grows as well. They include Colonel Cochrane, a garbage truck driver, and the barber. Tyler ignores Andy's warnings about Chucky. Soon it's time for the war games. But Chucky unloads the paint bullets and put's in live rounds so the war games are no longer games. Chucky and Tyler run into an amusement park. Andy and DeSilvafollow. In the housing for a big roller coaster, Chucky tries to transfer his soul into Tyler, but Andy, who's mastered a gun, manages to blow off Chucky's arm, then blows Chucky into the blades of a giant fan. Chucky was completely shredded to pieces!! They lived happily ever after. I suppose.         Now for my commentary. When Andy is being interviewed by Coloen Cochrane, he exclaimed his mom was under psychiatric treatment. For eight years? Couldn't they have already found something wrong with her? Nothing was wrong so why are they keeping her? And whathappened to Kyle? The girl who was with Andy in Child's Play 2? Andy didn't mention her in this movie? They also said at the beginning at the board meeting that the doll they just built and were giving to Mr. Sullivan was the first Good Guy of the '90s. Well what about in the factory scene in Child's Play 2? There were acres and acres of Good Guy dolls and boxes. What happened to them?! So this film forgets about the details of the first two. This was also the worst in the series. If you saw 1 and 2, just go right to Bride of Chucky. Don't bother with this one. --  "},{"Title":"I was an extra in C.P. 3","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1991 I was an unfortunate attendee of a crap military school, the now defunct Kemper Military School, in Boonville, Missouri. Somehow I managed to have good enough grades to be included in the extras cast, and I am prominently visible in 3 scenes. Wow, did this movie suck, buy what else did you expect? It was, to say the least, a bizarre experience. To have all of these L.A. types dropped into the middle of B.F.E. We had quite a few laughs at their expense, for some reason a large number of the crew bought fur caps (why?!?!) in Columbia and wore them during the filming, which was in the winter. We identified them as such, Brown Fox Man, Field Mouse Man, Roadkill Beaver Man, etc. Considering the absolute hell-hole conditions we had endured at this school, this all came as some desperately needed comic relief.The best part, the catering. I had lost roughly 15 lbs during the school year, and when they let the extras eat with the crew, we were overjoyed, I mean I can still taste the steak kabobs!I haven't really been in touch with anyone from the school since I left after that one horrible year, which makes viewing the movie now all the more surreal, like a bad dream from a previous life. Not that I've seen it recently, I wouldn't spend my money on this piece of s#*t. One note, I met the author, a Mr. Mancini, and I have to say he was a cool dude. Cheers all, but if any of you out there reading this were students there with me, go to hell.John Floofin "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chucky, the doll possessed by a serial killer, returns for revenge against Andy, the young boy that defeated him and has since become adult. In Child's Play 3, the cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The film is dark, brooding, intense and most of all violent Chucky is a foul-mouthed doll who will kill you and yours and laugh while doing it! Ohhh, Chucky, you are going to go down, pal! "},{"Title":"An okay addition to the franchise","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Child's Play 3' is one of those films you either love or hate (assuming you liked the first two, anyway). It continues the tale of the killer doll ('Chucky') who's possessed by the soul of a serial killer blah, blah, blah and is still hunting down the only person who he can transfer his soul into. However, his 'soul's desire' is no longer a young boy, but a teenager at military school. This basically gives the film its setting for the next ninety minutes.No, Part 3 is not really as good as parts 1 and 2. Even the writer admits to feeling 'rushed' into doing as sequel so quick off the back of part 2. However, it's not as bad as it could be. There's nothing amazingly original here &#x96; Chucky kills, no one believes that the doll's real until it's too late and so on. Like Part 2, everyone who's in any way nasty (mainly adults) meet a sticky end, leaving you to almost feel that Chucky is doing the world a favour by getting rid of them.But there are some nice set pieces among the obligatory 'teen romance' sub plot, so, like I said, if you liked the first two, you'll probably enjoy this one &#x96; just don't raise your hopes too high.Also, it's worth noting that Part 3 is the last Child's Play/Chucky film to 'play it straight.' After this one, the franchise took a 'less serious' tone. If you continue to watch the films that follow, expect more black comedy instead of chills.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Chucky returns...","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Child's Play 3 is the third movie of the Child's Play series and in this movie we have about the same story with the previous one, but in this one Chucky wants revenge from Andy and he really wants his soul. Andy was the young boy who defeat him in the previous movie when Chucky tried to get his soul to become again human from doll.I did not really like this movie such the previous one and that's because the storyline and the plot it reminded me the previous movie which was equally bad. I also did not like this movie because everything was expected and you knew what is going to be before even happen. I also believe that the direction of Jack Bender this time was not the best.Finally I have to tell you that this third movie was as I expected to be, bad as the previous and you will really spend your time if you watch it and I am sure that if you watch it then it will remind you the previous one. "},{"Title":"Burn this video nasty? It's not THAT bad!","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In 1993, British tabloid The Sun urged its readers to burn copies of Child's Play 3, not because it was an unworthy chapter in a series that was already struggling for ideas, but because it held the film responsible in part for the horrific murder of a three year old boy by two older children; the fact that neither of the killers had watched the movie didn't seem to matter to the newspaper, who had their scapegoat and duly vilified it.The truth is, of course, that Child's Play 3 could only ever be deemed a 'video nasty' by muck-raking Fleet Street hacks out to shift copies of their rag or by the most vehement of pro-censorship campaigners. If they'd taken the time to actually watch the thing&#x97;which is unlikely&#x97;they would have realised just how ridiculous their campaign against the film really was this predictable third outing for Chucky, the toy doll possessed by the spirit of a mass murderer, is harmless, formulaic popcorn nonsense, far less deviant than the press would have had us believe, and&#x97;being fantasy-based rather than grounded in reality&#x97;even less likely to corrupt. "}{"Title":"Seems they ran out of ideas already.","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For me it's also a sign that a movie series is declining when it's placing itself at a new and totally different venue, such as in space, on a school, or as in this case on a military academy.OK, so this is not the worst genre ever made but it is the one in which the Child's Play-series started to turn silly. Chucky suddenly is more busy delivering puns than killing people and the movie is definitely paying less attention to its horror elements, especially when compared to the first two movies. You therefore also really shouldn't watch this movie expecting a lot of tension, scares, gore or other typical horror elements.But that's not necessarily a complaint of course. I mean, if the movie is fun to watch then it shouldn't really have mattered that the movie isn't much great as an horror. But the movie just isn't all that fun or great to watch, since it's such a simple written one, in which the story doesn't even make sense in the first place.I don't get it. It's already established early on in the movie that Chucky doesn't need Andy anymore to regain an human form but yet he keeps going after him. Why go through all the trouble Chuck? I though it was also weird that he picked a new kid for his soul to transfer to, while in the first movie he was complaining about it that he had to transfer his soul into little Andy if he ever wanted to be human again. He now had the chance to literally pick anybody he wanted but instead he went for a stupid (literally, this kid is just stupid), whiny little kid again. What's the deal with that?There really is no reason for Andy to be in this movie again. Guess they thought it would help the series forward by featuring an 16-year old Andy this time but they should have known that the series was never about its human characters but the good guy doll Chucky instead. It also never feels like this is the same Andy as from the first two movies. In this movie, 8 years had passed since the last encounter with Chucky, so Andy had grown and looked and acted nothing like the little kid that he once was. It of course also doesn't help that he is being played by a completely different actor this time. No, it was a bad and totally unnecessary move to have Andy in this movie again. I imaging it was probably due to it that the movie went through numerous re-writes, which really messed things up.It feels like such an uninspired movie, as if they weren't even trying to come up with something good or original, as long as it would be making some money. It's not an horrible movie but I can totally understand why this is a much hated movie, by especially the fans of the Child's Play-series.It's a sequel you can easily skip on.5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Great, Not Terrible","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Alert I see a lot of readers either love or hate Child's Play 3. I think the movie is somewhere in the middle of that. First off, it came out only 9 months after part 2 (way to fast, come on, make the people want it more) like when Nightmare on Elm St.5 came out less then a year after 4 and that movie pretty much sucked. whenever you rush out a new movie for the money, it's not gonna be as good. Also when it came out (1991) Horror was already starting to cool down (till 1996's Scream). As far as the actual movie, well if you liked part 1 and 2 then I don't see why you wouldn't like this one. It takes place 8 years after part 2, which was a good idea because we didn't need to see Chucky chasing Andy as a kid again. So Andy is now a teen and going to a Millatary School. Mean while the Play Pal Company Decides to start reselling the Good Guy Dolls (guess they didn't learn after part 1 and 2, and I guess they didn't notice a big mess of Chucky with no head and Blood coming out from part 2 before they started remaking the dolls....how would his blood not be dried up by then??? It's only been 8 years lol). So Chucky's Blood spills into the new batch of Plastic and boom he's back to life. He finds out the School where Andy is at and thus mails himself there (no comment). This little kid Tyler (who befriended Andy early on) ends up with the box and opens it (tampering with mail is a federal offense Chucky tells him) but, he decides Tyler would be a perfect new body for him to transfer his soul into. Eventually Andy finds out he's there, He trys to save Tyler from Chucky, you got plenty of side characters as well whiteherst (the nerd), Lt. Sheldon (the prick), The Funny as hell Barber (forget his name but he's great in Hellraiser as well) and I can't remember the chicks name but there's a whole lovey dovey side plot with her and Andy (zzzz), anyway, People get killed, Chucky laughs a lot. And then there's a big ending at a Carnival. This one almost foreshadowed what the series would become with large doses of comedy and one liners from Chucky. The movie had some OK kills (I don't know why everyone says how gory this movie is....movies like Brain Damage (Dead Alive), Dawn/Day of The Dead, Evil Dead, etc., now THOSE are gory movies). So overall, I think this is a decent little movie that most horror fans would at least like, especially if your a fan of the series. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly good sequel, better than what came before","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Films are a product no matter how you look at it, they're a means to make money. As film watchers the thing we have to really look at is the quality of the film, which is tougher with sequels, especially to classic horror films. Many sequels are made solely for profit and often times are not only inferior compared to their predecessor, but as films in general. Often times they lack heart. Such is the case with many of the 'Children of the Corn' and 'Hellraiser' sequels that have come in recent years. One thing that can really hurt a sequel's chance of being any good is if it's rushed. That's what happened with the third 'Child' s Play' film, which came out less than a year after 2. But surprise, surprise it's far better than expected. In fact, in my worthless opinion it's the best of the first three films and rare example of a rush job done well. What are the odds? Pros Performances are good all around. The military school makes a great new setting. Cool opening titles sequences. Fast pace. As with the first two the effects are top-notch. A decent score. Some good kills. A good sense of humor. Great finale.Cons Not much plot. Totally lacking in scare and suspense. Some plot holes.Final thoughts After a good, but not great second film the series steps up a bit and becomes a really fun horror franchise. Sure this one is devoid of scares, but it more than makes up for that. You can tell the cast had a great time making this one and had it been the last it would have made a great finale for the series. But I for one am glad it didn't end here, but that's another story and another review.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Now, this is just milking it!","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nothing really works in Child's Play 3.The military setting is never used in any inventive ways, all the characters are plain boring (including Andy) and you'll find yourself rooting for Chucky all the way, there's no real gore to properly wrap up a payoff, it's got zero suspense and the special effects are actually worse than in the first two installments.The Chucky one-liners are the film's saving grace and a couple of semi-well executed kills. The acting is bad, the writing here lame and the ending is ludicrous.The worst in the Child's Play series, easily. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of filmdom's most notorious killers is back to wreak more mayhem as Chucky continues his quest to possess the body of a human child. Eight years after seemingly destroying the killer doll, Andy Barclay (Justin Whalin) turns 16 and is placed in a military school. Meanwhile, the greedy president of Play Pals Toy Company decides to resurrect the popular Good Guys doll line, confident that all the bad publicity is forgotten. As the assembly line recreates the first doll from a mass of melted plastic, the spirit of Chucky returns to renew his quest and seek revenge on Andy. Once again it's up to Andy to stop the unrelenting killer in this fast-paced thriller. "},{"Title":"I have non","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is great movie and really scary and wonderful performens of Justin Whalin. I think that jack Bender did a great job whith the camera linz just like Stanley Kubrick.Great movie a lot of suspense!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Previously Banned in the UK","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a Video Nasty in the UK - even after so many years it remains a very nortorious movie with many scenes of an adult nature. If you get a chance to see the complete and unedited copy you will probably die of fright!buy it.....if you dare!! "},{"Title":"Nothing To Get Excited About","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a rather mediocre second sequel to Child's Play where Justin Whalin plays Andy Barclay who has now enrolled at a military school. Of course, Chucky comes back to plague him.The original was a fantastic piece of work. Child's Play 2 was also very good but this film was rather tired. In most cases, you can make a good sequel but never a good second sequel. Child's Play 3 illustrates that point.There are a few good moments in the movie particularly one scene set in a barber's room but overall, the movie was nothing special and when I first watched it I thought about how Chuck should be put out of his misery.However, this film could be considered a masterpiece (almost) when compared to the truly abysmal Bride of Chucky which was the fourth installment of Chucky's adventures. "},{"Title":"Best of the Series","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie as much as part 2 more than part 1 and definately much more than part 4. This movie is very good although they could have wated a little longer then a year so that they could make this better. Justin whalin is great for the part he's very convincing for being a scared little trouble maker. But the only thing I really didn't like was that annoying little kid who would never stop wining about the stupid good guy dolls. I really liked the music and the opening scene with him and the greedy good guy owner.If you feel like watching a horror trilogy watch child's Play 1,2 and 3 forget about Bride of Chucky. 9/10     "},{"Title":"Standard Chuck flick","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 is nothing new on the Chucky franchise. Andy is a litte older now so Chucky needs to find someone new to possess. Chucky still uses one-liners and the death scenes are ok but once again the script is lame and Justin Whalin makes a horrible Andy. "}{"Title":"tired and without any shock value","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Unbelievably stupid sequel has an air of desperation about it. Years after the events of the first two films, Andy Barclay&#x97;now a teenager&#x97;has moved on with his life and enrolled in military school, though is still troubled by the events of his past. Unfortunately for Andy, the past once again comes back to haunt him as Chucky is again revived by foolish Good Guy manufacturers, and tracks Andy down to his station where he falls into the hands of a naive, much younger child who's unaware of Chucky's evil intentions. Lame excuse for a horror film has more than enough violence, but no suspense, scares, or characters worth caring about. Features a lively amusement park climax, but by that point it ceases to matter. * "},{"Title":"just plain bad","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Chucky is back once again and this time he tracks down the now teenage Andy to military school and all kinds of violence and havoc ensues. If you can get past this idiotic premise then you may want to stick around for the amusement park finale. 1/4 "},{"Title":"Sooo gory but a good film, none-the-less.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What could I possibly write that hasn't already been written about the World's number one walking-talking-slaughtering living doll? I suppose nothing, so I'll settle for giving a review of the film itself. This time around, Andy is all grown-up and serious, with a life ahead of him at a prestigious military academy. When 'Good Guy' dolls go back into production, the manager never thought re-using old materials would cause such a fuss -- and a truckload of corpses. For the materials used contain (drumroll, please).....the spirit of long-thought-dead serial killer Charles Lee Ray!! (Voiced by the wonderfully gravelly-toned Brad Douriff; give the guy a cigar for tirelessly returning for FOUR movies to date. Jeez!).Anywho, after this calamity Chucky is up and running again and out to capture Andy's body again to house Lee Ray's soul. Upon slicing his way through the academy to reach Andy (and taking ALL. THAT. EFFORT.), Chucky is a little p***ed off to find that the once sweet and innocent young kid that loved him so has gotten older and therefore useless. Chucky discovers a new, younger child to possess and sets about doing this, randomly offing some other folk along the way. But Andy is well on his way to halting Chucky and takes the necessary steps to ending the little dolls reign of terror once and for all...See, I think I summed up my overall feel of the film in the last line. I understand that, in this post-modern ironic oh-aren't-we-sooo-funny society, slasher movies are supposed to contain characters that are intelligent and knowing, but bite the big one all the same. And we are therefore supposed to look back at the other stalk 'n' slash movies of yore with distaste and bemusement at the apparent lack of 'post-modernism' the characters have. But for crying out loud -- HE'S A DOLL!! Chucky is wonderfully cunning and evil and dangerous et al, but how can you be convincingly scary when you stand at a height even a vertically-challenged pygmy named 'Shortarse' would laugh at? It's like, c'mon man - get some stilts, would ya? The characters in this film all have their deaths prearranged by being so stupid and,  although I hate to admit it, this happens to make up quite a lot of the enjoyment of the film.It's a highly likeable picture, with a strong main character and imaginative death-scenes that passes the time with ease. I suggest a night in with your buddies and get this for a bit of a scare, Fast Times At Ridgemont High or Mallrats for a laugh and The  Goonies for a bit of nostalgia. Perfect.OVERALL Fun, throw-away horror that is good while it lasts but won't play on your mind for hours after. Unless you are relatively weak-stomached -- in  which case I'd dodge the scene where Chucky gets hold of a few grenades.......****1/2           "},{"Title":"Terrible Wishy-Washy Rubbish.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 is not that great of a film. The original Child's Play is a great twisted horror film, but the second film and this one aren't that good. Especially the newest Child's Play movie The Bride of Chucky. Stay away from that crap. Even this film is better than that one. All in all, this film is nothing but wishy-washy rubbish that puts a terrible mark on filmmaking. I give this film a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad, but not the worst","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I hated this picture. But not as much as Bride Of Chucky. This film is more entertaining than Bride of Chucky. The problem I had with the fourth movie is that Chucky talks too much. That spoiled the entire fun that these movies have. You're not supposed to know what Chucky will do next. At least this one, Chucky jumped out of no where without warning. Which is a good thing. But too bad most of the movie was bad.I give this film 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"the best after Child's Play 2","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the first one was too boring, but the ending was good, the second one was the best and this one was also pretty good. The last two installments are definitely the most entertaining ones. Most people think that setting this film many years later than the last one was a bad idea, i don't. It wouldn't been original like it turned out to be. This movie gets a 7.  "},{"Title":"Child's Play 3","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I heard of the predecessor films in the series because of the fourth film, Bride of Chucky, and I watched bits of this third film sequel in Media Studies for the subject Shocking Cinema. This is because of the controversy it caused, which I will mention later, and I had also seen the DVD poster many times in places, so I had to see the film itself, that came only nine months after the second film. Basically the Play Pals Inc. factory has been shut down for the last eight years, due to the bad publicity surrounding the events of the supposed killer doll, but they are reigniting the business. In the process of clearing up the mess left behind, the remains of dead Chucky the doll, possessed by the soul of Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) (named after Charles Mason, Lee Harvey Oswald and James Earl Ray) are picked up, and the blood drips into the wax that will make the new line of Good Guy Dolls. Of course Chucky is the first doll to come off the line, and reawakened he immediately murders Pal Pals Inc. CEO, Sullivan (Peter Haskell), before locating now sixteen year old Andy Barclay (Justin Whalin) who has been enrolled at a military school. Andy being the new recruit is immediately despised by Cadet Lt. Col. Brett C. Shelton (Travis Fine), who loves to bully all the cadets, also including Harold Aubrey Whitehurst (Dean Jacobson) and Kristen De Silva (Escape to Witch Mountain's Perrey Reeves). Andy has been sent a package, and young cadet Ronald Tyler (Jeremy Sylvers), who has seen the recent commercial for them, is excited to see from a rip made that it is a Good Guy Doll, Chucky comes to life and instead of going to look for Andy realises that he can possess the first person he reveals his identity to, so he tells Tyler. Andy is worried that something bad is going on as one or two people on the base die is mysterious circumstances, and soon enough Chucky comes out to reveal himself alive again, and the young man realises his new plan to possess Tyler. Chucky goes from place to place and murders more and more people, including the school's commandant Col. Cochrane (Bean's Dakin Matthews) and military barber Maj. Botnick (Hellraiser's Andrew Robinson), in the process of trying to pass his soul into the new body. Andy tries to convince Tyler that Chucky is evil, but he does not listen, and Whitehurst sees the doll come to life too, but he refuses to help the situation, fearing the consequences. The base all prepare to go on a war games (military simulation) exercise, split into two teams, red and blue, where they will try and get the other team's flag, using rifles filled with paint bullets, of course the red team's rifles have been filled by Chucky with live rounds. During the night Tyler and Chucky are reunited, and the little boy realises that the doll is indeed bad, and after all the live rounds have killed a few people he escapes and makes his way towards the near carnival fairground. Andy and De Silva follow Tyler and Chucky this way, and all end up inside the carnival haunted house ride as the doll tries to catch the little boy and transfer his soul into his body, having his face sliced off by a Grim Reaper statue's moving scythe. Chucky is stopped from completing his incantation to transfer his soul into Tyler's body, and Andy shoots his arm and cuts his hand off, before he is thrown off the edge and is sliced to pieces by the spinning blades of the large fan below, his remains scattered, the last thing we see is De Silva taken away in an ambulance and Andy taken away in a police car. Also starring Burke Byrnes as Sgt. Clark, Matthew Walker as Sgt. Ellis and Donna Eskra as Ivers. Whalin is a pretty dull and silly replacement for original cute victim Alex Vincent, the rest of the cast are no better, and not even the slightly less good puppet effects and menacing and wisecracking voice of Dourif can save it. The story being set in a military school is a bit ridiculous, the concept is exactly the same as the other two, you are no longer shocked or surprised by the deaths when they happen, this is definitely the worst of the films in the series, also because of the controversial tabloid frenzy it caused. In 1993, in Britain, two year old James Bulger was kidnapped, abused, tortured and murdered by ten year old Jon Venables and ten year old Robert Thompson, and there were reports that claimed that they may have watched Child's Play 3 and been influenced by a scene or two to commit the horrific crime. This claim was dismissed by the police as being false, and neither of the boys would have watched the video, it just happened to be at the house of Venables's father who had rented it, but the boy was not living there at the time it was rented. Never the less, this film is even more disliked in Britain because of these claims and reports, and overall, it is a really terrible horror sequel. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Definitely worse than the first two, but not all bad","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lets get one thing straight; this film is bad. The plot is poorly written and full of gaping holes. The pacing is awful; the film drags by so slowly that it'll take all of your tolerance and patience to sit through the entire film. The acting is hammy, with no exception(well, possibly Brad Dourif as the voice of Chucky... but that almost doesn't count, since he's always good anyway). The characters are daftly written clichés and stereotypes. The dialog is unforgivably bad. The death scenes are slower, less detailed and generally less interesting and cool than the first two. Yes, this film is bad, very bad. But surprisingly, it's not completely intolerable. I found myself actually enjoying several parts of it. I think the main thing making this bad is that it's basically the story of the first; a kid gets a talking doll, it tells him that it's in reality a psychopathic killer, and he stays close to it, despite people around him dying. There are a few alterations to the formula, but they really don't change the fact that this is almost a remake of the first. The changes are that this time, the kid isn't Andy, the kid is slower at figuring out that Chucky is bad and it takes place at a military school. What really bothered me is that there's almost no tie-in with the first two films whatsoever. In the first scene, we get a quick summary of what happened in the first film, told by someone who has no idea what really happened, and then at one point, we see a picture of Andy as a child and his mother. No mention of Kyle, no real justification for him being at the military school. Also, why does Play Pal keep reconstructing Chucky? More importantly, how the heck does Chucky manage to mail himself complete in a Good Guy box to the military school? The film has so many shortcomings, yet I couldn't help but enjoy it to an extent. Some parts of it were actually slightly good. I liked the twist of Chucky chasing someone other than Andy for once. I will say that the Full Metal Jacket spoof was painful, though. If Kubrick wasn't alive when this was made, he would have turned in his grave. The end of this one isn't as overdone as the first two, which I found good(but some may be disappointed). All in all, this is probably the worst Chucky film, but it's not as bad as some say. Note that my rating is below average, but only slightly. I recommend this to fans of the Child's Play series and horror fans... be warned that this is the lesser film of the series, though. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 has to be one of the worst attempts to a horror movie I've ever seen.  The acting was OK, but so many plot holes screwed this movie to death.  The whole story was stupid, one scene of realism, and all bad.  I wouldn't recommend this movie if I was paid to.  The deaths took to long and they were stupid.  Now why would an army man want to cut a doll's hair? Why would a carnival be right next to a military school with grenades and guns? It's stuff like that that screws this up.Overall I hated this movie and would never see this again.  Ever!  Rating 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It in no way tops the first 2 and other one but still...","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Child's Play 3 isn't a horrible example of a horror sequel (like Nightmare on Elm Street 2, Halloween 6 or Friday the 13th part 5) but it definately can not top the other Chucky films.  Here, Chucky returns to find Andy again, this time though, it is somehow 8 years later (though only 1 year after the last film) and Andy is a teen in a military camp, but now Chucky has a new target.  Some very effective chills (I think the line presto, your dead is classic in the barber scene) and another barf-bag climax (I don't think any other film has such decapitation of a kid's doll) bring this film to be not too bad, but of course, the sequel overkill almost makes this film not too good.  But it does have a good beginnign with visual quality.  C+ "}{"Title":"Yeah, it was bad, but I liked it better than the first two","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think deep down inside somewhere in these movies, I think the Child's Play movies are more of a comedy. When I laugh at a horror movie than scream, that can't be good. But I'm not sure why, it's still the same elements as the first two Child's Play films, but I think this one was more scary for the fact that Chucky was finally smart enough to just grab a gun, because it's more unbelievable when a two pound doll attacks a grown person and manages to win the battle. Also it had more gore in it and scary elements, so when it comes to this point, I'd have to say I've enjoyed this Child's Play movie the most so far. I heard Bride of Chucky is really good, so I'm looking forward to it, I just hope I'm not disappointed, I really miss my horror films.4/10 "},{"Title":"Child's Play 3","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't f#ck with the Chuck.Sorry Jack, Chucky's back..again. The third film in the series regarding the psycho doll possessed with the spirit of serial killer Charles Lee Ray needing a human host to exit from his plastic shell. After being resurrected from the doll factory via blood dripping from the damaged plastic(..Chucky's destruction in the previous film), Chucky kills the business executive who decided to start up the manufacturing of Good Guy toys, discovering that old nemesis Andy(Justin Whalin) is much older, shipped to a military school after spending time in multiple foster homes. Chucky finds another candidate in a young black boy, Tyler(Jeremy Sylvers) who Andy must protect, but this will be difficult because of Cadet Lt Col Brett C Shelton(Travis Fine), his commanding officer who makes life especially hard for new recruits. Shelton is simply a bullying thug allowed to treat certain cadets he doesn't like harshly, hiding behind his rank. Meanwhile, Chucky tricks Tyler into believing they're friends with Andy having to figure out ways to rescue him. Chucky, also, kills a few characters around the Kent military school for fun.There are essentially three acts to the film. The first act primarily consists of Andy's troubles adjusting to his new environment as Chucky roams around using his doll disguise as a means to startle victims before killing them. One victim, a garbage man hears Chucky's cries for help, hops into the truck's hopper to find him and is crushed inside(Chucky is able to escape quietly without the garbage man knowing) by the doll with no way to escape. Col Cochran(..the man in charge of the military school, who informs Andy that his place turns bed-wetters into men) actually has a heart attack when Chucky draws a hunting knife, not exactly a flattering way for such a decorated soldier's life to end. A third plans to give Chucky a hair cut(!)falling victim to a straight razor. The second act occurs in the woods near the school where a blue and red team, conducted of the cadets and their leaders, take part in a paint ball exercise with Chucky targeting Tyler(..red team)with Andy(..blue team, under Shelton's command, of course)having to abandon his team in order to save the kid. Chucky actually loaded the red team's rifles with actual rounds, resulting in an accidental murder, also threatening the life of Kristen(Perrey Reeves), Andy's love interest(..also part of blue team)with a grenade if Tyler(..who finally understands why Andy was warning him about Chucky)isn't handed over. A cadet gives his life when Chucky hurls his live grenade at the students. The third act involves the main principles, Andy and Kristen chasing after Chucky(..who has taken Tyler prisoner with a small gun found in the drawer of a security guard's desk)into a carnival outside the woods, with the climax taking place in a spooky funhouse ride.This film certainly was the low point in a series that seemed to digress in quality from one sequel to the next. Chucky tosses out lots of quips after murdering folks, which I admit to grinning at amusingly, but I found the overall film rather tiresome and the kills are relatively tame. The next two films, a far cry from the series which focused on Chucky terrorizing Andy, take a giant leap in terms of originality and casting. The casting in this film is rather colorless for the exception of Andrew Robinson as a military barber with a few screws loose(..who definitely has pride in his work)and Brad Dourif providing the enthusiastic voice of Chucky who thoroughly enjoys murdering people. I must admit that the use of a yo-yo to strangle a victim is rather unique. Dean Jacobson is cadet Whitehurst, an object of ridicule for Shelton who constantly berates him(..among others). Peter Haskell is Sullivan, the businessman who restarts the factory that led to Chucky's rebirth. Chucky's colorful language might earn giggles. "},{"Title":"Don't f*ck with the Chuck. I quite liked it actually.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Child's Play 3 starts as the Good Guy doll factory resumes production after several years of closure after the controversy surrounding young Andy Barclay & his tales of killer doll's. The company boss Mr. Sullivan (Peter Haskell) is presented with the first Good Guy doll straight off the production line, unfortunately what he doesn't know is that the doll is possessed by the spirit of serial killer Charles Lee Ray (Brad Dourif) who calls himself Chucky. Chucky the doll comes to life, kills Sullivan & sets about finding the whereabouts of Andy (Justin Whalin) who has been sent to Kent military school to learn some discipline after rejecting several foster parents, Andy is Chucky's way out of the doll & posts himself to Andy but the parcel is opened by a young cadet named Tyler (Jeremy Sylvers) whom Chucky takes a liking to & decides to use his body instead of Andy's...Directed by Jack Bender I thought Child's Play 3 was a decent film & actually preferred it to the original Child's Play (1988). The script by Mr. Child's Play himself Don Mancini moves along at a fair pace & I never found myself losing interest, it doesn't seem to take itself too seriously, the overall story is good & I liked the military academy setting. But that doesn't really matter because a Child's Play film is all about Chucky & his foul mouthed homicidal ways, the obscenity littered one-liners are present & correct & you see in Child' Play 3 that he is becoming the star of the series. The 'you gotta be f*ckin' kidding me' line as someone has a heart attack is hilarious the way he says it although whether you'll like this type of bad taste humour all depends on what you want from the series I suppose, you either want a straight horror film or a horror comedy & to be honest I think there's a good balance between the horror & the dark comedy. The character's are alright & the dialogue is fine but I thought there was a real lack of kills, I really wish Chucky had gotten to do more as he steals every scene he's in as it is & is the main reason why Child's Play 3 & the series as a whole is as watchable as it is.Director Bender doesn't do anything special, the film while well made is a bit flat & forgettable. The film tries to throw a few scars in here & there but mainly it's in-your-face type stuff as Chucky swears his way through the film, the special effects are pretty good even though there are one or two stiff looking puppet effects. The gore & violence levels are disappointing, there's a cool slit throat but very little else including a virtually bloodless scene when someone is blown up by a grenade, I mean if you were blown up with a grenade wouldn't there be lots of blood everywhere?Technically Child's Play 3 is good, it isn't going to win any awards but since it was produced by Universal studios it has a certain Hollywood polish to it. Released only 9 months after Child' Play 2 (1990) writer of all the Child's Play films Mancini has apparently said Child's Play 3 is his least favourite of the five. I have to mention the opening scene & credits which show Chucky being made because I think they're very cool & very effective. The acting is OK with Brad Dourif voicing Chucky obviously standing out.Child's Play 3 is a good little horror film that I liked more than I thought I would & I prefer it to the original by a fair margin despite it's lack of gore & kills. Followed by the fabulous Bride of Chucky (1998) & Seed of Chucky (2004). "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Child's Play 3 (1991) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Second sequel takes place eight years after the previous film and the Good Guys Company is about to open their doors again. The blood of Chucky accidentally leaks into the first doll off the assembly line and sure enough the killing machine is back. Andy, now a teenager, is at a military school and sure enough Chucky shows up looking for a body to rest his soul. This film is certainly a step up over the previous one due in large part to Chucky being a lot meaner than normal. There's nothing groundbreaking here but if you don't take the film too serious then it offers up some mild entertainment. There's no suspense but there are several very good death scenes including a great sequence where Chucky goes to the mean barber to do some cutting of his own. The ending takes part inside an amusement park ride and offers some fun as well. None of the performances are very memorable but they're no better or worse than what you'd normally get in a film like this. Brad Dourif returns as the voice of chucky and his performance is very good and steals the show. I'm not sure how he came up with that evil laugh but it's certainly priceless. The military school setting offers up some more nice laughs as we get the normal bully stuff with Andy being picked on by everyone in the school. "}]