[{"Title":"A disturbing farce","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"168 out of 190 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I get the feeling through reading the other comments here, that many people miss (or perhaps I am wrong about it) the point of this film.  First let me point out that Man Bites Dog is a brilliant film, a first rate production.  However, it is disturbing and cruel and meanspirited.  And it MUST be such.  It is not a character sketch about a serial killer, but instead and indictment of the viewer.  The main character makes us laugh at his gallows humor, but then continually throws our laughter back in our faces.  We identify with him, but then are repulsed by him.  Ultimately this film is a commentary on human beings and particularly their media driven obsession with violence.  That is what makes this a fantastic movie.This film is not simply about a serial killer, but about a film crew who follows him around in order to get a story (an indictment of journalistic detatchment).  The media is not simply a passive observer, but an active participant in the crimes of the psychopath (this should ring bells with us regarding the recent spate of school shootings and Time magazine's decision to have the Columbine kids on the cover).  However, this is not a simplistic film that simply points its finger at an easy target like the mass media (as happens in Scream), but is much more complex.  The film goes to the next level and indicts the viewer himself as perpetuating this cycle.  We are entertained by the glib killer, we identify with him, he is a cool guy or at least a witty one.  This sort of reminds of the type of people who went to visit John Wayne Gacy or wrote love letters to Richard Ramirez, but these are not the only people that this film is directed at, it is directed at all of us... all of us who are fascinated by carnage, who keep body counts of mass murderers, who watch every special regarding serial killers on CNBC.  This film as indictment of our obsession with these murders, and this indictment is so skillfully played out that this film becomes great.The movie works hard to cause the viewer to identify with the killer and then throws the horrors of what the killer actually does into our faces.  The murder of the child in the house in the suburbs, the horrifying rape scene at the end of the film.  These things are supposed to throw us back into our humanity, out of the fiction of the romantic psychopath, and they do so brilliantly.  I felt really dirty and uncomfortable after watching this film and I believe that this is precisely how I was supposed to feel.I think that the confusion regarding this film arises from these contradictions, that the film sets itself up as a comedy, but becomes something else quite quickly; something complex and somewhat ugly.  The film does not allow itself to be easily pigeon-holed.  Overall, an excellent film... a double-feature with Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer would be an interesting experience. "},{"Title":"Is it real? Is it a movie? What's the difference?","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"104 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog (C'est arrivé près de chez vous).To say this movie is disturbing would be an understatement. A massive, gigantic understatement! But it is also a display of film-genius.The movie is filmed in Black and White and is presented as a documentary of a serial killer. The film crew follows Benoit, the killer, around town as he recites poetry, muses on welfare and housing reform, ponders philosophy, and ... well, kills. Totally randomly.He explains to the film crew the lessons he has learned about killing, how to stay low key, who to go after, and what potential victims are a waste of time. For Benoit, killing is an art form, but not one that should be undertaken frivolously.There are scenes when his lunacy are briefly pierced by humanity - he counsels one of the film crew not to kill, because once you start it becomes a habit. In another scene he laments having killed a suburban family, because they had nothing good to steal, as it turned out. He proclaims that there should be a law against killing for no good reason.Those who shy from blood and killing - about the most graphical violence you'll ever see documented in a film - should shy from this movie. But anyone with an interest in a glimpse at the darkest side of human nature will appreciate this film, not necessarily for its story or its darkness, but for its ability to make us think, and open our eyes to human behaviour we don't like to admit might exist.During the course of the movie you become totally numb to the act of killing (or maming or torture or rape or any violent crime). It is no longer shocking when he kills yet another victim. It has become commonplace. You just sort of scratch your head and wonder - why this one? why now? why him? why her? This mental numbness is made possible by the way it is filmed - as though it were a documentary. Not long into the movie you begin to wonder if this is real, or just a movie. I wonder if this is the kind of numbness that soldiers experienced in wars like WWI, entrenched and under constant fire - to where the violence around become the norm. I read a book once called My War Gone By, I Miss it So (that's a whole 'nother review) in which a war-writer kept returning to the front because after experiencing violence all around him day after day after day, he could no longer live without it. In Man Bites Dog the killing is Benoit's addiction, but we, as viewers become complacent to it. We have been numbed to where it is no longer disturbing. Makes you scratch your head and wonder is such detachment from emotion and what's right really possible???To add to the realism, all the actors play characters with their real names. The killer's mother and grandparents in the movie - are really the actor's mother and grandparents in real life. During most of the filming they were not told it was about serial killing, just that they were in a movie with their son. So they just act normal around the son they love, only to find out in later scenes that the whole film is about killing. Imagine the look of shock on their faces to find this out - to them the story then is no longer acting but real they've just discovered their son/grandson made a film about brutal killings and the shock shows in their faces.Is it real? Is it a movie? What defines the difference?When I told him about this movie, a friend mentioned that society,as a whole, is already numb to brutal killing and violence. He's right about that. But this movie is so ridiculously brutal and violent it is more a mockery of our society's complacence to violence, not an endorsement. "},{"Title":"In defense","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"83 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a piece of art shocking and disturbing, while at the same time funny as  hell in a raw should-I-be-laughing-or-should-I-be-ashamed kind of way. It gives an insight in the very realistically portrayed life of Ben, a serial killer with an  impressionable charisma. Most people who commented on this film either love it or hate it. The division seems  mostly geographical though most Americans can't seem to understand the tongue-in- cheekness of this movie. Probably it has to do with the fake-documentary nature of the movie, which is clearly  western-european. Anyone who has ever seen American documentaries knows they have  a different pace and way of treating images. Those who are used to belgian/french/ dutch/german documentaries will recognise the style of the so-called intimate  documentaries. The pivotal point is the moment a relationship develops beyond the documentary  relationship of the filmmakers and their subject (they take Ben's money to finish the  movie). When watching this movie, try to imagine that this *could* be a real movie documentaries about  terrorists, drugdealers, and even mercenaries (the closest thing to an actual serial killer)  have been made, and some of them were very close to their subject.It is *not* a black comedy in the classical sense of the word; more like a Clockwork  Orange for the nineties. Where A Clockwork Orange bathed in the design of the  seventies, this movie bathes in  the larger-than-life invasiveness of modern-day reality-tv-style television. Anyone  who has seen shows like cops or Big Brother will know what I'm talking about. It asks the big documentary question in how far does the observed change the observer? It makes a statement, not about violence, but about the observer of violence. The way it is portrayed shows the art of the (very low-budget) crew it grips your guts  without fancy effects or gory protrayal of gore it shows fear, despair and psychological  emptyness, by showing emotions! This should be recommended viewing (and debating)  to anyone making documentary films. "},{"Title":"Like Nothing You've Ever Seen","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"69 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd have to rank this with Henry, Portrait Of A Serial Killer as one of the sickest and disturbing films I've ever seen. But like Henry, it's fascinating.....and certainly different.It is a fake (thank goodness!) documentary with sleazy cameramen following around a serial killer as the latter murders a bunch of people while spouting philosophy between killings. Some of the demented killer's words are downright funny because of their absurdity. Perhaps that is why this is labeled by some as a black comedy, but this is so dark it is difficult for me to rate this as a comedy, even though it's there.Most of the killings are not gruesome but there are a few that qualify for that status. They don't dwell on the blood but they don't spare anything in here, either. This film is so strange, so bizarre that one has to see it believe it. That is not just a cliché. You have not seen a film like this I guarantee it.A couple of Belgians - Benoit Poelvoorde, Remy Belvaux and Andre Bonzel - did almost all the work on this movie writing, directing, editing and acting. They were new to the business, had little money and wanted to make a film with those limited resources....and they succeeded very well. "},{"Title":"Pure genius","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"47 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the nastiest and most notoriously evil dark comedies ever is actually filmed in Belgium. Belgium that is, not France like some people seem to think. It's (at least what I know of) the only Belgian film I've ever seen, but it's also just happens to be one of the best films I've seen from any country.Benoît Poelvoorde is fantastic as the totally mad and nihilistic serial killer Ben, his mere presence makes this movie stand out. The shootings in black and white makes this movie feel like a real documentary. And the humor is darker than a black steer's tookus on a moonless prairie night. It's fantastically funny, if you can stomach it, that is.Many scenes of grisly violence against kids, bystanders, elders and various others will probably disgust a whole lot of people, but if you can handle it then you've got yourself a film you'll remember for a long time.I really wonder what happened to those who made this. They should have been stars by now. This probably just proves that life simply isn't fair.Genius doesn't come along often. Do yourself a favour and watch this.10/10 "},{"Title":"Alas only a cult classic, but a movie that everyone should watch with an open mind.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is one that caught me by surprise when I saw it for the first time. I was expecting nothing as I entered the cinema, but it hit me right in the stomach.At first as absolutely hilarious, I was just LMAO as the film crew followed this complete moron around town as he killed people. Nothing heroic at all about this killer. In fact I haven't seen any single character in any movie that was such an idiot and SOOOO full of himself. You can actually see how this guy enjoys his 15 minutes of fame and is quite pleased with the fact that someone is interested in what HE is doing.So there I was laughing all over the place (we were only two out of the entire audience, but we were rolling in our chairs to say the least). One of my favorite places in the film is where Ben explains how he cunningly has saved a bullet in the slaying of an old more or less helpless female. Like a detective showing his extraordinary skills to the humble bystanders (the film crew and me). The Hercule Poirot of the killing industry.The movie kept me laughing, as the camera crew got more involved with the killer and I was reaching my laughing climax as mentor Ben made the crew a Drunken Baby drink at the bar only to be on the verge of puking with laughter as Ben 5 minutes later was on the sidewalk fucking a black plastic bag with a Santa Claus beard on his face. SOOO funny.But then........just as I was enjoying myself the most, I was stopped dead in my tracks and asked what I was laughing at as that horrific rape scene had played out and we found ourselves (the crew, Ben and myself) lying on the kitchen floor with the two gutted people just sitting there on the kitchen table like dolls with their guts all over the place. Very unpleasing not to say unsettling and disturbing.I had become so engrossed in the fun and laughter that I had allowed myself to uncritically tag along without thinking about what was really taking place Murder, Dehumanisation (is that a word) and arrogance. I had become like Ben for just a moment. I had crossed from viewing the horrific deeds to if not being an active part of it then at least condoning what was going on, I had lost just an inch of my humanity which could never be retrieved.As far as I'm concerned the movie could have ended right there, but it kept on going with me laughing along the way, but my laughter was kind of hollow from that point on, I had seen myself from the outside and could not go back.That is IMO what makes this film so powerful, it poses the question of when are you a simple bystander and when are you actually part of the problem. YOU, yes that's YOU, have to takes sides. What is acceptable? What is not? It's all about values and taking a stand when you need to.In this sense, this seemingly inhumane movie is in fact the opposite. A movie that beckons the viewer to make his voice heard in everyday life. You are never just a bystander! Take a stand!!! NOW! "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant mock documentary thats both hilarious and horrifying","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog is a dark comedy truly unlike anything else you've seen. Its also one of the most brilliant satirical commentaries on the celebrity the media makes of murder and the exploitation often involved. It manages to make these points with much more subtly than Natural Born Killers. Also, it isn't overloaded with the flashy overindulgence of that film and has a fascinatingly stark and minimalist style. This is one of those films were the low-budget only enhances the proceedings, making it uncomfortably realistic. Man Bites Dog is sick and disturbing, but thats the intentions of the filmmakers. If you are unable to understand this, than just go back to your safe, watered down Hollywood serial killer films such as The Silence of the Lambs (which treat murder in the way Man Bites Dog attacks).The film works so well because of its seamless blend of dark comedy and shocking violence. The main character, Ben, is quite charismatic if also egotistical and pretentious. Hes witty and its easy to see why the supporting characters are so taken with him. How hilarious his actions can be only make the acts of violence all the more shocking. Hes just an ordinary guy who kills people for no purpose other than to avoid boredom. The fact I've met quite a few people with his personality makes it all the more chilling. Also, the film is quite funny at times, albeit in a very morbid fashion.The only flaw with the film is that towards the end it slightly runs out of steam (it could've been cut of about ten minutes without losing its impact). Still, its a classic whose originality and audacity require more than just one viewing. In my mind, it ranks with Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer and the original M as the most fascinating exploration of a serial killer's mind. (9/10) "},{"Title":"A vivid example of good cinema","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That's the one I was looking for...Beautifully shot in black and white, this piece of art about a killer followed by a film crew is technically incredible.Camera movements or sound effects are among the most innovative I have ever seen. Besides, the dialogues are so funny...We watch a lot of people being shot and this might shock a lot of people, but if the viewers bear in mind the real purpose of this massacre (to denounce the violence rather than glorify it), this movie is really funny.I surprised myself talking with a Belgium accent and learning by heart the dialogues in order to make people laugh. It lasted 3 years...This is definitely a masterpiece that I would not recommend to everybody, especially because of its visual violence, but filmgoers who would like to see something different should definitely check this one. "},{"Title":"Cinema","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Cinema! The documentary of a sadistic killer trying out new methods, sharing his secrets with the camera crew and then going to celebrate by the seaside with a plate mussels. Our killer's absolute disregard for human life, other than a thick crew of visually stunning characters, is nothing short of a masterpiece. Just be warned that it is the most violent movies of all time and you will be fine. You won't believe our killers reaction when you find out that someone had the gall to attempt a similar project. First you need a tear, just a tear of gin......and then a river of tonic. The mock camera crew show a great deal of patience putting up with this guy, but they probably hadn't figured on what they were getting themselves into. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is great, you should make a point of viewing the unedited NC-17 version of this film if you can.  The whole movie loses its power and punch with the two controversial scenes removed.  With them, this film plays in 3 parts.Part one has the film crew basically following along and observing as the killer makes his usual rounds.  Lots of violence and lots of black humor.Part two is where the crew starts joining in and helping out the killer in certain situations.  The humor hits its peak when they come across a rival crew videotaping a rival killer.Part three occurs at the rape scene.  This is where the humor takes an absolute and complete abrupt halt.  And you realize, as the viewer, the utter horror of whats taking place.  This is the part of the film where you feel like you need to take a shower for laughing at the first 2/3rds of the movie.As a whole, this film is a classic.  Its commentary on violence is about as strong as you can get. "}{"Title":"Indisputably the greatest film ever made","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can understand why people have certain problems with Man Bites Dog. Really I can. I just think they're wrong.Yes it's gruesome. Yes it displays a very warped sense of humour. Yes it sometimes goes to far in trying to repulse and cloud the moral sensibilities of its audience (I'm thinking of the repulsive gang rape/murder scene in particular).But you either get it or you don't. The makers have not set out to make a movie intended to titilate the viewer, or to satisfy our morbid curiosities concerning serial killers. If that had been their intention they wouldn't have shot the film on cataract-inducing grainy black and white film.They've made a movie that examines the role of violence in society and more importantly in movies. They've made a purposefully repulsive character that only seeks to prove that old Hollywood moral conundrum - if the protagonist makes us laugh and occupies a large amount of screen time, we, the audience will forgive him no matter what he does.I'm not really into serial killer movies as a rule - I think most of them fall foul of the criticisms hurled at Man Bites Dog. But I have NEVER seen another film that is anything like this. And I don't think I ever will.  "},{"Title":"Hyping an underrated masterpiece - the darkest dark comedy.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If your a fan of cynical, intelligent, dark comedy then I urge you to see this film! It is the masterpiece of the dark violence/comedy genre.Man Bites Dog was way ahead of its time - before Pulp Fiction, before reality TV, before movies about the real lives of serial killers (Dahmer, Bundy, etc..) there was Man Bites Dog. Simply, this film is superb.Benoit is a charismatic up-n-coming serial killer, working out of some Belgian suburbs. A scrappy film-maker convinces Benoit to allow his crew to follow him around on his exploits, documenting the madness. The set-up is somewhat surreal - kind of making out like there is a serial-killer scene in French-speaking Europe. Benoit, a natural performer, really gets into the idea, working the camera, beaming in the limelight. So eventually, to increase the quality of the movie, the film maker + crew go beyond merely documenting and start to become accessories to the crimes. Benoit's super egotistic demeanor starts to catch up with him, with the repercussions of his crimes pulling him down.It is a multi-faceted exploration of many ideas, riffing on each within the episodes which make up the film (the story really exists to bind the distinct scenes - its not so much a story in the traditional sense ,ie. the old fomulaic background - dramatic tension - climax - resolution routine).Many classic scenes, like when one of Benoit's friends is taking a little too much of the attention at Benoit's birthday party. Nothing peeves Benoit more than not being the center of attention, so, as Benoit is playing with his birthday gift (a new gun holster), his gun accidentally discharges into his friends skull. All the other party members sit covered in blood,in shock from the accident. Benoit just sits back down and calmly resumes eating his birthday cake. Another great scene is when Benoit shows off to the film maker how he can save bullets by murdering an elderly woman with psychology (Benoit suddenly screams Snuff! at the trembling woman, inducing a heart attack).This movie is just paced so well. We see Benoit warm to the camera, the film maker is slowly drawn into Benoit's world from mere documenter to full blown co-conspirator. The scenes of Benoit's family are hilarious! Benoit's parent's are stereotypical adorably ignorant bumpkins who will always love their cherished son. Just great stuff.Be warned, this is not a movie for kids, as the violence is intense and graphic, and without proper contextual understanding, could be misconstrued as exploitive. Other than that this movie really hits that balance between violence and comedy, cold intelligence and raving madness. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Film School","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was directed to this after watching the much superior Leslie Verson. That, to my mind, took this notion of a film within and actually did something with it. Here that is not the case. There are two devices only.Unlike Leslie, the main device is a character study. The ordinariness, the strangeness, the shocking otherwordliness of the guy is the whole point. The film within is there primarily to allow this exposure. There is a slow entanglement of the film crew in the deeds, but it seems only there so they can end the film.I have to admit that the writing is very smart, and the acting &#x97; at least the speaking &#x97; is well done. If you believe that cinema can be made worthwhile by discovering an unexpected soul, then this will be for you. If you want some better shaped experience than just that, you won't find it here.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"This is awesome - if you're able not to take it seriously","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best dark movies shot, and if you happen to understand french watch it in its original version. Benoît Poelvoorde literally makes the movie, his Belgian accent makes it even better. His way of talking can't be replaced. He's now a very famous actor; he saved movies such as Podium, a french movie about the singer Claude François. Without him, this movie wouldn't have been worth seeing. Coming back to C'est Arrivé Prés De Chez Vous, if you have enough humor to handle seeing a grandma or a little kid murdered coldly, you'll love this very dark movie. But let's make it clear, this movie doesn't praise murder in any way. You have to see it to understand all the subtlety of it. And as Benoît says Pigeon, Oiseau à la grise robe, Dans l'enfer des villes, A mon regard tu te dérobes, Tu es vraiment le plus agile.Hope this comment helps! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is no doubt that 'Man Bites Dog' is an extremely polarising film. Those who love it (like me) tend to expound vocally at any opportunity how great it is, while those who hate it (As a quick skim of the 'hated it' reviews of IMDb confirmed) REALLY hate it.And in many ways, this is the exact intention of the film makers. I could bang on for an age about how 'violence should be disturbing' and all that cal but that is essentially too painfully obvious and insultingly plain a point to see that it need not be mentioned on a site like IMDb.Man Bites Dog is a film like Texas Chainsaw Massacre or The Shining that totally invites audience participation (I don't mean 'Big Lebowski' or 'Rocky Horror' participation) and asks you to suspend belief and enter it's world. Once you submit to it's will and intentions you see more things if you are willing to and the more you think about what you've seen, the more you absolutely hate yourself for enjoying it. It's odd to see a film made to be so polarising, but I suppose in a way it's quite daring and deserves a bit of respect. Regardless, I can absolutely see people's hatred for 'Man Bites Dog' it's crude, it's very violent, and it's quite disgustingly dark in points. Aside from that, it's entertaining, I'm sorry, but it really is. Not in the conventional sense of course, it simply exists in it's own cartoon world where violence, rape and intellectual debates can rub shoulders comfortably - nay, almost naturally. The dialogue is excellent (I really wish I spoke French so I could watch it, sans subtitle), the acting is quite frighteningly believable, it looks frankly beautiful in stark black and white, and yet - it has been known as for years as some disgusting exercise to be steered clear of - only for the sadists.Is it a comment on the (then) burgeoning culture of sadistic video games and video nasty films? Quite probably. But more likely, it's just some young film makers making a film they knew would really irk people - and loving it. It is not, as some have suggested, the humanisation and worship of a killer, or indeed the rationalisation of murder just in the same way Hitchcock's 'Rope', is not.Benoit is the main character; a bafflingly prolific serial killer from Belgium (this synopsis alone is enough to illicit laughs, and in fact it makes me really chuckle every time I think about it). Through the film, which takes place in about a month of Benoit and the film crew's life, he kills (on camera) about 40 people. In Belgium - just think about that. The film is an 18, and it is violent, but this body count in such a neutral and unassuming country is in itself absolutely hilarious. A brilliant scene that shows Benoit's intellectual yet coldly dissociative personality perfectly is where he talks of killing an Arabian construction worker, I buried him in that wall over there...Facing Mecca - of course.I like to see it as a companion piece to Reservoir Dogs. Yet some people who love Tarantino's classic absolutely hate this - and I ask why? It's essentially the same thing, yet absolutely glorified in Reservoir Dogs. If you have a problem with both - then fine, I can see why many would, but the fact that people see Reservoir Dogs and Natural Born Killers as cool and yet ultra violent, yet see European films that deal with the same issues as to be condemned...Shame on you. "},{"Title":"Crude, depraved, morally abominate... and funny as hell","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As somewhat of an amalgamation of Trainspotting and A Clockwork Orange, this film clearly isn't geared at mass audiences. However, those who perk up at the idea of following a narcissistic, pathetic, bad poetry-spouting, sociopathic mass murderer around for 90 minutes will find this clever, disturbing, and unique alt-classic well deserving of the Criterion Collection treatment it has received.There isn't much plot to be had here, only a document of heinous deeds performed by a nonplussed killer who cares about motive about as much as he cares about human life. We are allowed here to tag along with him as he engages in a series of brutal killings for no apparent reason other than the opportunity to steal money from his random victims, and to scratch our heads in befuddled wonder as he pauses between murders to introduce us to his parents, orate poems about the leaves in springtime, and expound on a variety of pressing issues such as the mating rituals of pigeons and the proper ratios for weighing down corpses before dumping them into the water (old people's bones are porous, therefore five times their body weight is optimal... good to know?).Benoit Poolverde offers us a character without a single positive attribute, yet somehow provides enough incredulous spunk to make even his most mundane actions absolutely riveting. It is a magnificent performance, and it would be ridiculous not to commend Poolverde for plunging himself so fully into the mind of a character so impossible to like. Further complicating Benoit's role is the absence of any sort of understanding about the monstrous life that this lonely and miserable human being inhabits. He'd much rather talk about obscure French films than psychological triggers, but with the zest and childlike buoyancy he thrusts into his extroversion of the most mundane topics one could imagine a serial killer pondering, we still want to hear the guy out.I'm realizing that none of this is making this film sound appealing. The truth is, it's probably not. But it surely is engrossing, and for those who were able to find the pitch black humor in the grim world of Trainspotting, the tone here will tickle the most psychotic funny bone in your body.I'm also realizing that I've mentioned Trainspotting twice, which may seem a bit odd since that film is about heroin addicts, while this one is about sadistic execution. Perhaps it is effective here to break a unique film like Man Bites Dog down to it's component parts. The bond with Trainspotting is the ability of both films to conjure comedy amidst such bleak and soul-darkening backdrops. The comparison to A Clockwork Orange at the head of this write-up is for the unabashedly devastating violence on display here. There are also shades of American Psycho, if only for the callous and remorseless mindset of our central character. We also have to mention Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer, which is referenced heavily in a scene where Benoit and his dehumanized camera crew break into a couple's apartment and take turns raping the wife before performing dissections on her so thorough, they'd make Jack The Ripper blush. We can also compare this film to The Blair Witch Project because of the way the tiny budget complements the piece, as the grainy black and white stock used to capture this catalog of carnage perfectly visualizes the stark documentary realism we're being presented.But, all comparisons aside, Man Bites Dog remains unlike anything you've ever seen. Simultaneously revolting and witty, the film sets a tone that no other bit of cinema has ever dared. This is perhaps most suitably displayed in a scene where Benoit teaches us how to make a mixed drink called Dead Baby Boy, a libation which actually duplicates what would happen to the body of the titular victim after being dumped. In fact, your enjoyment of this film will likely depend solely on your reaction to the scene synopsis I've just offered.This is an unpleasant film to watch, and it seems to be reaching for no significant message or theme, but Man Bites Dog is an exhilarating road to nowhere, and even Benoit's eventual comeuppance at the conclusion doesn't dilute the unsettling feeling this movie conjures. Fans of the bizarre can consider themselves incomplete until they've added this gem to their list. Also highly recommended for pigeon enthusiasts, by the way. "},{"Title":"good fake-doc","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What makes this movie so interesting is not so much the dark and raw atmosphere. It's not the fact that it's gruesome and disgusting. It's that is brought in such a normal realistic way that one actually believes that this could be a normal documentary. It's a beautiful fake-doc that takes an absurd topic and takes it to an extreme level. At a certain point one asks himself where can it lead from here? What could possibly be a satisfying ending to a story like this. The movie succeeds in bringing this satisfaction fully, and the viewers are left with good discussion material. What if this were true? What if I would take my camera and make a documentary about a murderer? "},{"Title":"This isn't just an excellent and ultra-dark satirical movie about a serial killer","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen many movies, but I don't think I've ever seen a movie as strange as this one. You could say it is the sickest thing ever being recorded and no-one would say you're wrong and yet it's also so incredibly funny and interesting at the same time that it keeps you watching until the end.In this movie we see Ben whose every move is being followed by a camera crew. But Ben isn't an ordinary man. He's a serial killer who makes a living by killing mailmen, old and lonely people (Let's call them the easy targets), not just for the money, but also because of the fun of it. He never works in a neighborhood full of villa's, but only in social housing complexes. Why that is? Well, his philosophy is if you kill a wale, Greenpeace and all other 'tree huggers' will condemn you, but if you catch some sardines, they will help you to put them in tins... At first the camera crew has a lot of difficulties to cope with all the violence, but as longer as they stay with Ben, they not only get immune for all the violence, but become more violent themselves.This isn't just an excellent and ultra-dark satirical movie about a serial killer. If you look a bit closer you'll understand that the director gives us a more profound message with his film we all get more and more immune to violence and we don't seem to care about other people anymore. And to make things worse, the media will do anything to give us the goriest pictures we all seem to want. The rape scene is a good example of that statement. Many people don't understand why it was in the movie, but in the mean time they kept watching, didn't they? In my opinion, people who don't see this message, haven't understood anything about the movie and I guess that's the main reason why so many people seem to hate it. Something else that might confuse the audience is the documentary style of filming. Don't be mistaken, this isn't a documentary, this is a fictive story that could have been based on actual events, but that really isn't.What makes me proud is the fact that this is one of ours. I'm Belgian myself and I can tell you that, despite the fact that many Belgian directors have filmed several movies, almost none of them has been able to make such a great movie. Yes the violence in this movie is extreme, but this is really a piece of art that will be understood by all people who are smart enough to see the entire picture. I give this movie an 8/10. "},{"Title":"my viewing experience was a little different than I heard it would be.","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I consider it a brilliant film, but also very very disturbing. I'd sooner warn people about it than recommend it, even though it's an amazing achievement. So, for what it's worth, here's my viewing experience I heard about this film and was immediately hooked on the absurd idea of a serial killer, on the loose, as a willing documentary subject. I also heard that it was pitch-black comedy, and a commentary on violence, society, media, etc. -- blurring the lines between observing and becoming an accomplice and whatnot.Well, in the first two acts it certainly delivers on the absurdity and the black comedy. Both Ben and the filmmakers are as matter-of-fact about his prolific killing as if it were a documentary about urban architecture, and even in the middle of his murderous acts he remains an engaging conversationalist with all sorts of attributes our culture values extroversion, confidence, charm, a sense of humor, and fairly informed views on diverse subjects. The juxtapositions are disturbingly hilarious. He laments that African immigrants like the one he just shot don't have equal opportunities in this racist society, or that the color and layout of a certain housing project encourages violence and other social evils. He kills an entire family in their home, then reflects on the waste of human life and how there should be a law against that sort of thing. He explains a lot of aspects of his trade (like how to dispose of bodies and which victims are most likely to carry money), but leaves other elements in the dark. He first seems like a murderous variety of the common robber, but then plenty of killings seem to have no material motive at all, while others are clashes with rival killers (the absurdity reaches meta-levels at some points). I was shocked by the violence and I was also laughing, and I was feeling uneasy about that.Many reviews talk about how the documentary crew moves from observers to accomplices, but any court of law would already consider them accomplices within one minute of the film starting, so that development didn't register so much to me. Sure they started taking a more active part in the carnage, but this wasn't something I considered an unexpected development.What did register to me was the shift somewhere in the third act. Suddenly I was no longer watching a dark comedy. The violence escalates to a nasty scene that I couldn't even watch, and that left me disturbed and depressed for days. It's like the movie finally decided to show me what I was looking at and say, well, are you still laughing? Are you? And I realized what was there about Ben that was engaging? Even his charming ways among his friends and family were just socially acceptable methods of getting his way and remaining the center of attention, just like killing people and starring in documentaries.So among the unexpected things I found in this film was a chillingly believable portrait of a textbook sociopath. (The scary thing is that I know someone in my neighborhood who fits that profile as well.)The film is brilliant and disturbing. Proceed at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Brigitte Bardot 's Panties","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow. What a disturbing film. It sure packs a wallop. It is suppose to be a black/comedy but I did not find anything amusing about it. Except for the hospital scene when our so-called hero Ben is bothered by the smell of his neighbor in the next bed who all day just, s*^ts and sings all a day! There are plenty of very disturbing scenes in these so-called comedy. but i could not pull myself away from watching it till the very end. It's just like the movie, HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer with Michael Rooker. This guy Benoît Poelvoorde exhibits some strange charismatic quality about him even if he is playing a most despicable character. I guess in the end I wanted too see him get his just desserts for all the pain and violent things that he did.I felt no remorse for his crew of film-boy/fan-boys that are getting killed along the way for being with this crazy, insane psycho. When they finally cross the line and become part of the madness it is just too much. they deserve what they get as far as I'm concerned.All in all it's one of those films that stays on your mind because of certain scenes. So if you are not in to this kind, stay away. Anyone else proceed at your own risk. "}{"Title":"Spoof serial killer documentary","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A uniquely original idea by three film students from Belgium. Man Bites Dog is a twisted black comedy of a film, that has a very particular sense of humour. You either get it, or you don't. The film contains many awkward moments and pushes the envelope for violent film. Random outbursts of extreme pain and violence for his victims are followed by slow interview style clips of the killer discussing his highly prejudiced and arrogant views on race, sex and politics.I think that many people would not get on with this film due to juxtapositioning of so many themes and words and ideas. Other films of the time which had the same sort of violent content were far more structured, Pulp Fiction (Tarantino, US, 1994), for example, which contains gangsters and criminals causing carnage but it was OK because you liked the characters. Jules and Vin discuss McDonalds, women and life, distracting themselves from what they do for a living - hurt people with extreme violence. In Man Bites Dog, Benoit is a well-spoken, educated, white middle class male, who talks frankly about sexism, racism and other prejudice - and yet he kills with none whatsoever. He is arrogant and wholly unlikeable. But isn't that the way a ruthless killer should be?Essentially, he brings no glamour whatsoever to the serial killer lifestyle - a point further pushed by the black and white picture and jerky hand held camera-work. It is definitely a far cry from the appealing and exciting world of Hollywood killers such as the ones in Pulp Fiction.This is most certainly not a film for your average cinema-goer, but if you can get in the feel of the film and the message that there is nothing that you should like about a serial killer then you will enjoy it, and be able to laugh hysterically at the stupidity of him and how seriously he takes himself - if you can do that then you will be in for a treat - this is a great film, if you know how to watch it. "},{"Title":"A work of evil genius","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Your reaction to this film, I can promise you, will be one of two 1. I find it completely unwatchable; 2. It is darkly-funniest movie ever made. Another promise I can make without hesitation is that you won't be able to watch this movie without cringing. This film makes Reservoir Dogs look like Bambi. Sure, there are more cringeworthy movies (Audition, Ai No Corrida), but these set out to merely shock, not entertain. And Man Bites Dog almost dares you not to laugh. In this way, it is very much like a Bill Hicks sketch take an uncomfortable premise like abortion (or, in the film, rape, robbery and murder) and see if you can get the audience to laugh at it, then turn up the violence a notch, and make you feel uncomfortable and guilty for having laughed in the first place. The story is of a low-ranking, no-good-for-anyone, semi-intelligent self-taught philosopher, whom we join somewhere along his killing spree. We, the viewers, do this by looking through the lens of a camera crew, who are following the killer's every move. The killer has a dubious moral conscience he sees himself as a modern-day Robin Hood, except that his justifications for his acts ring hollow and arbitrary, and he is not exactly kind to those to whom he redistributes his ill-gain wealth (which, hilariously, includes the film crew, who have run out of money to buy more film stock; the killer thus becomes the financier of the movie). As the film crew become more and more involved, they implicate themselves, and you start asking yourself how it is that this movie is ever going to be released (which it must have been, since we are watching it). It draws on the same kind of paranoia as, say, Dostoevky or Kafka. As the whole project comes off the rails, we witness a brutal rape scene, and even I found myself thinking - was this really necessary? Then I realize that I have been caught out by the film I am editorializing, and have become the fourth member of the film crew, thereby giving up any last semblance of distance from the events, and becoming more than a voyeur - a participant in the acts the film portrays. And herein lies the film's true genius it is exactly what it is, nothing more, nothing less. It looks shaky and grainy, because it was made by a bunch of film students with no money. The sound is crappy because of the same reason. You feel you are following a murderer, because you are (oh, no, of course not, he is an actor, I have to keep reminding myself). In a way, it is reminiscent of the Blair With Project, but whereas there was no point to that film, there is to this one. Namely, it questions our voyeuristic nature, in the process blurring the boundaries between fact and fiction, good and bad, complicity and responsibility, and does this by getting under your skin, reaming some gashes, and then dare you not to pick at the scabs. "},{"Title":"Sharp and Witty","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I ever watched this film was in the cinema, and I am very glad of that, as watching films on the big screen is most certainly the best way of viewing.  This is particularly because you then get the addition of the audience reaction.  For example at the rape scene the cinema was silent but for the sound of 100 jaws dropping.I watched the film again last night on video.  This time I counted the killings.  There are 43 that I counted although I may have missed some, although 8 of those are by people other than Benoit.I particularly like the way that when we first meet Benoit he comes across as being a cold hearted being who kills postmen at the beginning of the month to get more money from the pensions in the postbags.As the film develops we see him playing the piano with Valerie, quoting poetry and appreciating art and architecture.  They have cleverly managed to give the viewer the feel that he is still making a show for the camera while doing some of these things.Also as the crew get more into the film they stop feeling revolted at the thought of killing and start to participate in the carnage.We see Benoit as playing a sort of godfather type, who boasts about the charity that he has given, and the fact that he kills people for a favour to family and friends if they want him to.  We see him and his friends talk of his 'profession' as if it were a career in accountancy.We also see his warped values - telling remy not to kick the dead body of the man who killed the soundman as revenge turns into a habit, but giving a critical analysis of his failed attempt to kill a postman while wearing a neckbrace.A fascinating fake fly-on-the-wall documentary, which is both keenly observed and witty.Record of Benoit's killings1 x garotted; 3 x beaten; 25 x shot; 1 x asphixiation;  1 x shocked to death (I always like to try new work methods); 1 x suffocation; 1 x strangulation; 2 x don't really know. "},{"Title":"It has to be seen to be believed","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that most definitely will not appeal to all people.  It is very extremist - detailed footage of a moral-free serial killer at work; some people will just be offended and upset by a select few of the scenes. But for those with an open mind, and a black sense of humour, this is one of the funniest and most amazing films I have ever seen.  Charting the progress of a serial killer being followed by a TV crew, some scenes are stomach churningly grotesque whilst others involve a blend of sophisticated and black humour.  It is this mix of comedy and obscenity that make this such a great work of art - it is a wonderful experience to watch.  Take heed though - those with the wrong sense of humour or a delicate disposition should steer clear... "},{"Title":"The only movie that places my country on the maps !!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS AHOY !!!My roots lie in this little country called Belgium. True, we don't mean much in the field of memorable cinema but we do have one title that still stands as one of the most disturbing and groundbraking movies ever made. By the way, if I hear someone claiming this is a French movie one more time...people will get hurt !! It's Belgian...at least give us that ! Roughly translated, the title means  it happened in your neighborhood and the movie is about a film crew that follows around a serial killer. At first, the just film his actions and ask for explanations. After a while, the crew becomes more involved and they start to work in team.C'est Arrivé près de chez vous is able to group several elements that are hard to group. It's a comedy in the first place, the blackest comedy you'll ever see. Ben - the murderer - talks about mutilating and killing like it's the most normal thing to do. He gives tips how to get rid of the body, he explains why you should stick to killing average people instead of rich or important people and that sort of things. You wonder whether you should laugh with it or feel uncomfortable... It's a satire and an ironic view on modern society but a pretty realistic one from time to time. The murders and the clean-up afterwards are shown very explicit and raw. The good thing about it is that, every time you start liking the character of the killer he does something that you can only abominate... Like a very brute and inhuman rape scene for example. This movie owes a lot of his power to the very fascinating performance by Benoît Poelvoorde. Ben shines as the normal looking man who can't really see the evil in what he does. Too bad Poelvoorde never received the fame and success he deserved after this film. He kept active in Belgium, in smaller and inferior movies. The reality-TV style of filming is great to build up the tension and to create the ideal atmosphere. With the vibrations of the camera and the close-ups of the characters, it really feels like you're there when it happens. For those of you who think that The Blair Witch Project introduced this kind of tension, I really advise you to watch this film and think again. This movie was the complete role model for films like Blair Witch Project ( the abrupt ending included !! ). C'est arrivé Près de Chez Vous grew out to be a low-budget cult favorite all over the world and I'm really glad for that ! It really deserves an immortal status.Favorite rewind-scenes Ben's birthday party, without a doubt. The guests just witnessed a horrible murder but they're so afraid of Ben they can't move and inch. They just eat their cake and keep their mouth shut. The terrified look in their eyes impresses you very much...  "},{"Title":"Awesome, Everybody has blown this movie so out of proportion, it's sick","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" And with all the reading and comments and all together talk around it, I was pretty much ready to break down and buy it, just to see it, I mean these foreign movies become almost like an enigma,2 or 3 go straight to the top of my must see list, but I found this DVD at a video store by my house, my expectations got thrown way off, my interpretation of it, is completely opposite of what I was expecting, it's almost like cartoon violence, it's in black and white, I mean don't get me wrong about this movie, it is what it is, it's innovative and flippant odd minded movie, the simple but clever plot is what triggered my curiosity the first time I ever read about it, I'm American, and not at all familiar with any of the actors in this movie, so my all around viewing of it was very unbiased, in that regard, The actor who play's Ben, is just unreal, way to convincing of the part,the serial killer. I was expecting to see some of the most violent unthinkable acts, I'd ever seen, according to the reviews, I was gonna have to watch it in segments!!!! because I would be so overwhelmed by the acts of violence, I would just simply break. Considering what kind of territory could have been dabbled in with regards to the plot alone, I think this is a very well constructed violent masterpiece, but! it's, NOT GORY!!!!!!!!! thats what is so misleading with all of this B.S. on the message board, the way Ben goes on about his business is genius, and the very substance of Ben and all around him, is just to realistic feeling to provoke anything bad to say about this movie, Remy plays to Ben, like a kid would if he were shooting a film, on let's say, Kobe Bryant, or Stone Cold Steve Austin, etc. I mean he's so enthralled and captivated by the actions of Ben, it's almost like he really is, with almost an unreal chemistry these actors have, Remy is so solid in his role of selling and convincing you he's the kid. getting taken down the wrong path, I thought that was what was a little bit disturbing, it's like Ben is secretly his god, he idolizes everything Ben does, but serial killing isn't something you can really voice your enthusiasm over, so the whole playing it down scheme was also done to perfection, I recommend this movie to anybody that thinks for themselves, this wouldn't work in Hollywood for the simple fact that it's just way to much of a good thing, but come on, it's a very disturbing and violent movie, and definitely not for everybody, but the violence is given to you with disturbing scenarios, and almost no gore, It's a Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The Ugly Side of Truth TV","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog would have to fall under the category of the antithesis of Hollywood movies.If you can purge the shocking undiluted violence and put enough comfortable distance between yourself and the show then viewing the film with a critical eye isn't hard at all.That is, if you can do it.Because Man Bites Dog is as harsh as reality comes, displaying the warped sense of what counts for normalcy for different people and weaving in underlying messages of where we are heading with the genre of reality TV.The black and white footage, perhaps done to spare us gruesome details of massacre, effective does the complete opposite. Whatever immunity you have towards those Hollywood slash-fics will be speedily thrown out of the window within the first 10 minutes of the show.It's not glamourised and in doing so, you actually start to believe what lengths people are capable of in the Real world.So, if you look at it from the point of view that it bulldozes the message across... 'don't get in too deep before you start to realise you can't get out'... then with all surety, it is great enough a movie to shock viewers right into common sense.However, it's not something I would recommend for anything beyond critique circles or research unless you find scrubbing your brain out with carbolic soap as a fun post-movie experience. "},{"Title":"A deadly professional","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow, I wasn't expecting all of this when I rented the film at Blockbuster! I was hoping for it, though. Not in my top 5 of controversial films, but this one comes in a close sixth. By far, one of the best and most memorable endings ever. Hands down! I was expecting to be really disturbed by the horrible morality going on in this film, but I just wasn't. Maybe the killer made up for his horrible crimes with an amiable attitude and interesting views on society and architecture. Watching this now, there was a hint of Blair Witch Project about it, but I can't imagine what reviewers thought of it back in '92! The gritty film stock and the shoe-string production values really add to the atmosphere, and I love the wham-bam editing of the murder flashback (or flashforward?)sequences. Don't be scared off by this film - it's actually quite enjoyable, if you can get past the murders of old women and children. "},{"Title":"edgy premise","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A camera crew follows serial killer Ben as he kills and steals. He pontificates on life and the world. He likes to steal from old people. As the filming continues, the crew gets pulled further and further into Ben's world of crime.The premise of a film crew following a serial killer is really edgy. The violence is brutal. The only drawback is the film crew. I don't find them realistic. The movie opens with Ben killing. The film crew should be going to cops unless they're also psychopathic killers. I need to get a sense of the camera crew from the start. Their devolution needs to be better mapped out. The whole crew needs to be as important as Ben in terms of character expositions. Although I can understand the attraction of concentrating on the serial killer. When the crew switches side, I don't feel it like it needs to be. Nevertheless, this is an interesting film that should be seen. "},{"Title":"A dark comedy.","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first fifteen minutes of Rémy Belvaux's debut film, Man Bites Dog (1992), is a sort-of test for the viewer. It's not as graphic or as obscene as scenes to come, but can jar viewers, especially those who aren't forewarned. The first scene starts on a moving passenger train. A woman walks down a seemingly hall and is quickly accosted from behind by a man. The assailant pulls her into an apartment and strangles her with a wire as her feet kick helplessly. Now, compared to other contemporary movies, this seems a mild scene; I mean there isn't even a chainsaw decapitation or brains splattered on a car window. What sets Man Bites Dog apart is how the violence is presented. And what sets it apart from most violent movies is it's wildly funny.Man Bites Dog is a mockumentary about a Belgian serial killer named Benoit. Benoit's smiling face, charm, and his knowledge of the arts in all areas, makes him seem an unlikely candidate to be a cold-blooded killer. This dichotomy is where much of the movie's humor is drawn from. One scene, while the camera crew is following Benoit as he chases down an escaped victim, Benoit stops mid-pursuit to pick up a fallen pigeon feather. He notes its oily texture, which means mating season is upon us. He then regales the crew with a poem about pigeons in love. Benoit Poelvoorde's (His real and on-screen name) performance is comedic brilliance. The film was shot with a shoe-string budget in black and white. This coalesces with the premise of the mockumentary; film school students trying to make their debut documentary. In this way the film deviates from others in its genre, say a Christopher Guest movie (Although most people who appreciate the humor of his movies would probably appreciate Man Bites Dog dryer approach to comedy). Here the filmmakers are part of the story, as opposed to outside of it. In this way Man Bites Dog achieves social commentary. It's a satire with similar themes of Stone's Natural Born Killers. At first, the crew seems like objective filmmakers. Pretty soon Benoit is taking them out for dinner, and the crew is carrying victim's bodies for him. Half-way through the story Benoit is financing their film. Remy (Who is the director of Man Bites Dog and is the character who is directing the documentary) and the crew are passive, especially juxtaposed next to the infinitely charismatic Benoit. Like Natural Born Killers this satirizes the media's role in violent culture. Of course Man Bites Dog being an independent European project, achieves this in a subtler, dry fashion. In one poignant scene the crews helps Benoit spot and capture an escaped victim, who is a child.This is where the aforementioned viewing test comes in. There are disturbing scenes that are enhanced by the film's documentary feel. A realistic scene of Benoit suffocating a child with his pillow is something not everyone can bear. There are others equally upsetting. But if you can stomach horrific scenes of violence then you are in for an engaging comedy that challenges the viewer to question the relationship between violence and those who gain from it. "}{"Title":"cult classic","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" On the shelf of disturbing movies, Man bites dog will earn a place without even breaking a sweat. While A Clockwork Orange is stylized violence, this is your everyday garden variety of butchery.Filmed in a black and white documentary style, the camera crew follow Ben - part serial-killer, part hit-man, part petty thief - as he indulges in a variety of violent acts. Unlike most documentaries, however, the crew starts off as bystanders to Ben's work but go on to become participants leading to a twisted destructive symbiotic relationship.Ben is a killer - He kills for paid assignments, kills as a part of robbery, and sometimes even out of sheer annoyance Aside from his day job, it is simply one of his techniques of problem resolution. He does not enjoy the pain inflicted but rather has a preternatural level amorality and lack of empathy.In one of the scenes he shoots an obnoxiously loud acquaintance in the head without warning or fuss and resumes eating dinner. It is dark humor at its best; The camera timing on this particular shot is outstanding - panning between a man lying with a head shot, and the shooter consuming his meal with quick fork movements at the dinner table.Gangly and awkward at times, Ben is most easily identifiable as the lonely office worker with the uniquely European sense of (misplaced mostly) self-worth resulting in a pseudo-intellectual commentary on topics ranging from architecture to art to music. He goes about his work in a competent but non-flamboyant manner, much like an insurance auditor would. But you are acutely aware that if there was competition, he wouldn't be the best hit-man - just an average one. That he is not a meticulous serial killer is humorously evident when he finds that his body dumping ground is clearly visible from two hundred feet away with bones sticking out in every direction.Ben's only acknowledgement of society seems to be the egotistical need to ensure that the film is completed. Initially awkward in front of the camera and it's artistic crew, he quickly enjoys the attention. The crew perceive this weaknesses and proceed to exploit it in the opportunistic manner only the continental artsy type knows how; Even goading him on to go beyond his usual modus operandi to rob a suburban home - only to find that rich suburbans only keep credit cards at home and no cash.The film works hard at at many levels to ensure that the viewer cannot distance himself from the movie. The documentary style is only one aspect of this. Discerning viewers cannot categorize Ben with any mental illness because unlike clinical conditions that describe lack of empathy, Ben does maintain semi-functional family relationships and friendships; He also has both appreciation and moderate skills for music and sport - Piano and Boxing. Conversely, there is no opportunity to develop any sympathy for Ben either as he mercilessly smothers a ten year old boy.And that is the brilliance of the film - Adroitly manipulating the viewer's mind and shaking away any predilection to slot away Ben as an aberration. Forcing the viewer to accept Ben's existence as fact; accept society's helplessness at ever reforming or redeeming Ben; accept that for a turn of chance, they might be the next random victims of Ben.Multiple side-plots efficiently explored give a depth to the narrative that goes beyond the 95 minutes of running time. The most interesting side-plot is his relationship with the crew. The crew, through their meanness and pettiness, create a temporary sense of sympathy for Ben. It is easier to relate to the lone misfit who is cruelly unaware that he is being mocked than to the snobbish crew with their disheveled artsy attire and unwashed hippy hair. Their own baseness is evident when they are willing partners in a bout of rape facilitated by Ben and his ever present gun. While Ben is the skilled panther fending for himself, they are the hyenas of society feeding off the scraps. The situational and temporary power shifts are blindingly realistic.Eventually though, there is no conceptualization of redemption for a man like Ben. Even when his girlfriend and mother are brutally killed - his remorse comes from a selfish loss of relationship, not love. Revenge for such an act is simply a matter of professional courtesy for Ben and personal grief is only incidental.Benoît Poelvoorde is outstanding as Ben - from every drunken facial tic to the professional manner of hunting down his victims. Benoit masterfully represents Ben as a human with all the petty pride and insecurities that go with it even while indulging in demonically violent acts.A disturbingly brilliant movie - with each scene worthy of expostulation - punctuated regularly with points of high black humor, Man bites dog is an enduring cult classic. "},{"Title":"Great film for 20 something nobodies","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Me and my mate went to see this film in 1992 when it came out.We were 20 something nobodies in London. It was the only friend we had and I think it still is!!!! We howled all the way through.The sangfroid with which the killer dispatches his victims. The gutless bumbling of the film crew were just brilliant.The pieces to camera were great as was the black and white photography.If I could get a copy of the poster I would hang it on my wall!Perfect for 20 something nobodies and one of the best experiences I have had in the cinema. "},{"Title":"Great but extremely disturbing.","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just saw the movie bout ten minutes ago and the second it finished I felt dirty. The movie makes you laugh at things that you wouldn't ever think you would be able to laugh to. The characters are a weird mix of extremely likable and extremely unlikeable. The movie has two scenes which made me want to fast forward 1. The rape scene 2. The child murder scene.The only problem i have with the film is that at times it get a little two slow and to much talking and the ending was a tiny bit too sudden. Overall it was a very funny and disturbing film which I'm not sure if I could watch it again soon because of the extremely hard to watch rape scene, I gave it a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cinema! Cinema-a-a!","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everybody shut up please, and listen. I am from Belgium, so I have a right to speak. Hear ye! Hear ye!No, seriously, everybody's opinion is worth as much as the next one, I'm just joking, but I want to write a few words about this movie, so people can understand it better.First of all, some people don't realise that this film was made with a budget of less than 50.000 dollar. The actors in the movie are mostly family and friends. Benoit Poelvoorde, who plays the main role, is the only professional, and he delivers a fantastic performance as the talkative, self-absorbed, hyperbolic, maniac Ben, we all come to love. It was the role of his life. The director and sound engineers had just graduated film school. They still had a lot to learn. So you have to give the makers credit for that. Knowing all this, you understand this has to be seen as a cult-movie. A cult-movie, with a great script, witty dialogues, and legendary scenes. With a great sense of irony.My favourite scenes of Man bites Dog are the chase in the abandoned factory (with the pigeon poem), and the bar scene, ending with Benoit Poelvoorde singing the cinema song, with fake beard. Most film fans in Belgium can recite whole passages upon request.The ending is a bit abrupt, and some scenes are superfluous, but the film has the streak of genius all the way through.Hope you enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Man will psychologically bite you!","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well I've had my fair share of disturbing films, from Martyrs to Inside (also French films) but what sets Man Bites Dog apart from other French horror is the sheer realism. I was scared that the film would just be a man going around killing people, and essentially it just is. But nevertheless it is a strangely compelling and gripping film that has a serious message about the desensitisation of violence in films. I was laughing at it at the start, but then things stop become being funny, pretty much as soon as he kills the old woman in such an unsettling manner. The killing of children is also something I found particularly shocking, but I suppose that's what made the film so compelling, the protagonist is such an unusual and highly unpredictable character. It's impossible to know what he's going to do next and some scenes really did have the power to shock. Overall, I think Man Bites Dog did suffer from a lack of narrative drive and a predictable ending, however it was still a captivating experience, and one I'm not likely to forget. "},{"Title":"Cinema","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A cerebral hybrid between Monty Python, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer and American Psycho, Man Bites Dog is one such film that certainly lives up to its underground reputation. The film's grainy black-and-white photography sets up the overall tone as the viewer goes on a violent, blackly-humorous joyride masquerading as an actual documentary.Meet Benoit Poelvoorde, a clever, cultured, quick-witted, well-liked young man. A seemingly normal man with a fondness for mussels, running down the beach in the nude and most of all, he kills innocent people for a living. Cameraman Andre Bonzel and reporter Remy Belvaux are on hand to film the mundane activities of Ben's daily life along with his friends and family. Unfortunately, the two men begin to realize that their archetypal subject is doing more than just being Mr. Nice Guy.From losing his cherished ID bracelet to accidentally killing a birthday party goer, Ben becomes more than just your garden-variety serial killer in the movies. While viewing the film numerous times, I don't know what my natural reaction would be whether to laugh or be horrified. The final reaction would be both.Yes, the film is indeed shockingly violent, offensively funny and proud of it. But thanks to Poelvoorde's naturalistic performance, we know Man Bites Dog will be an out-of-this-world experience filled with manic glee and intense energy. The main saying goes No rules, no consequences. Which reminds me of that fine American institution for censorship? The Motion Picture Association of America better known as the MPAA.Man Bites Dog makes sense for receiving the dreaded NC-17 rating. While the latter rating is usually reserved for sexually-themed films like SHOWGIRLS, it is finally put to proper use for a movie with such realistic depictions of violence.Forget Blair Witch. Forget Paranormal Activity. And forget Quarantine. Those so-called home video genre movies don't hold a candle to the pure down-and-dirty celluloid that is Man Bites Dog. The best film of 1992.Viva Cinema! "},{"Title":"dogma 95","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I was watching this movie, I started to think about the 'real' documentaries that were made in late 80's and 90's, one of the documentaries which have won an Oscar, was about children selling themselves in order to earn money. I imagine, the directors also have watched these documentaries and started to ask themselves where is the line? which is a question often discussed by the documentarists. They gave a good spin to that idea and come up with making a documentary about a serial killer. The way they did is also brilliant, the acting is impeccable, except one scene all the scenes contains a humor and have a natural feel. It is really hard to believe that this movie was the first movie of the directors. I recommend you to watch it however don't expect Hollywood type motivations. "},{"Title":"A Macabre Comedy","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If this movie took place close to my home, then I am definitely moving. The purpose of this film was to show how desensitized our culture has become. We laugh at the killer Ben's unsound logic, we wait for the next kill. The montages of destruction provide us with entertainment that we strangely enjoy, yet feel just a twinge of guilt about. This movie was revolutionary for the way it was done. The technique of a making a fake documentary was not widely used in 1992. The black and white cinematography is just a visual gift. Twenty minutes passes, but it feels like a much longer time. The movie is like a train wreck, what is happening is so terrible, but we cannot look away. As the movie progressed, I found myself laughing more and more. At first, I laughed out of pure shock, but later the comedy strangely made sense. The act of desensitization takes place at a rapid pace. After the film was over I felt nauseous for a period of time. How could I find the ruthless destruction so funny and entertaining? The movie made its point. "},{"Title":"A stunning example of how to do a realistic serial killer film","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I heard good things about this movie but it wasn't until I watched it that I realised how good it actually was, the movie is a mockumentary about a serial killer who goes about his daily life and also murders people, this is what sets it apart from your average horror. It genuinely humanises the murderer and you really start to like him as it goes on even though he is doing really bad things.The acting is great and a lot of it is really believable except for the quite bad gore effects but you can't really blame it because of how low a budget it had and the rest of it really makes up for it.If you love dark humour and non-traditional foreign horror then I would definitely recommend this to you. "},{"Title":"Still funny","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film when I was a lot younger. I just recently watched it again, and though man this still kicks ass.Sure the film contains lots of questionable material, but even so you just can't hate the main character. Even some of the ways he kills are funny.The budget must have been peanuts, but still this film captures all the essentials. It just shows that you don't need anything except a good script! That's the key to making great cinema, a great story.Robbing the old lady is really funny although terrible at the same time. How many films can actually do that? "}{"Title":"A cult groundbreaker without question...","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...Man Bites Dog, aptly re-titled in English to reflect its illustration of a long-standing journalistic aphorism (i.e. unusual events get the headlines, rather than the mundane; also well-stated as if it bleeds, it leads)--the original French title translates as It Happened in Your Neighborhood--is a Belgian faux-documentary gem that rightfully generated much controversy upon release, and continues to stand as somewhat of a yardstick for countless films since. The basic conceit is that of a film crew following the exploits of a serial killer as he plies his trade, and the blurring of the moral lines between observation and participation. Despite its flaws, it remains a potent satire of the darkest order, and in some ways superior to similar mainstream fare like Natural Born Killers, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, and mostly recently, Funny Games, as well as thematic forebearers like A Clockwork Orange and others.Taken at face value, of course, the film is blatantly absurdist. The viewer is placed *in media res* as the subject of the piece goes about his brutal business duly recorded by three filmmakers of dubious means. No attempt is made to explain how this project came to pass, nor is there any genuine attempt to establish the credibility of such a thing; Man Bites Dog is a satire that simply can't work within the parameters of reality--(Are Belgian forensics/homicide units truly so incompetent? Can a film crew really operate within such a bubble of outsider inattention? Is a serial killer at all likely to allow his crimes to be recorded?)--and that is how it should be. The killer, played by Benoît Poelvoorde, a member of the screenwriter/producer team, is simultaneously repellent through his actions, demeanor and appearance, and yet oddly likable; his logorrheic wit and goofy charm disarm the viewer as readily as his brutality and lack of conscience repel.The absurdity deepens as the film progresses and the filmmakers themselves are drawn into the mayhem, transforming from complicit observers into willing accomplices and finally into active participants. The viewer, of course, implicitly follows in their footsteps by continuing to watch the goings-on. As a result, when Man Bites Dog at last climaxes in a sordid scene of rape and post-coital butchery, said viewer is confronted with some stunningly unsettling conundrums of self-aware moral responsibility. Soon thereafter, there follows one more startling demonstration of the killer's true nature, and then a closing epilogue of discovery and retribution that offers a facile cleansing of conscience, but by then it's too late; the viewer has already been irredeemably indicted. It's a neat trick, to say the least, and one that will strike a nerve in all but the most incompetent, unfeeling of audiences.Highly recommended to all but the squeamish who may be interested in matters of mass media portrayals of violence, the associated culpability of said media, and the various moral and ethical questions involved for manufacturers and consumers alike. The filmmakers made it clear in various PR appearances that Man Bites Dog was meant to be as much about making a cheap, successful film as it was about the subject matter, but don't let that fool you. Man Bites Dog examines the fallacy of documentarian objectivity, anticipates the phenomenon of *found footage* films like The Blair Witch Project, etc., as well as the rise of reality-TV excess, but its true strength lies within the unflinching gaze it casts upon its audience's innermost hearts, minds, and souls. Watch at the risk of your own self-satisfied and smug ethical certitude. Edit It came as no surprise to me to learn that one of the film's creators committed suicide a few years back. Correlation doesn't equal causation, of course, but one can't help but wonder... "},{"Title":"A grimly good time","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rémy Belvaux's Man Bites Dog follows a serial killer as he goes about his daily life. This mockumentary is often dark and sadistic yet manages to remain playful and comedic. I found certain scenes very hard to watch, and I was a little disappointed by the ending which I feel was confused and abrupt, however I liked the movie. Overall I found it witty, and filled with funny dialogue. The concept is wildly creative and the way it's shot pulls you in like you're part of the film crew. You may feel guilty for enjoying it, as it offers a lot of shocking imagery and offensive situations, but it's a very unique movie and definitely worth the watch if you're not the queasy type. "},{"Title":"A TV Crew follows the exploits of a killer.","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is seriously one of the blackest movies that I have ever seen. Man Bites Dog is in fact a black comedy, a style that makes a mockery of death. It is a movie that takes what we consider to be horrid, immoral, and evil and turns it into a joke. The comedy is of a style that the video cover claims that it was banned in Australia.Man Bites Dog is about a professional killer. He is not a hit man, meaning that he gets paid for killing people, rather he kills people simply because he likes it. If he is offered money then he will take it, but generally he kills people and takes the victim's money. A director, Remy, decides that he wants to make a documentary about this man, so they follow him around everywhere and watch him at work.This movie is a very anti-society movie. It reveals a side of society to us that we don't want to see. We have a sadistic killer that simply has no mercy, and not only that, he jokes about what he does. As far as he is concerned there is nothing wrong with what he does. He will kill a person, and then make a detailed commentary on the person, such as the Negro he kills at the construction site, explaining that they generally work in night clubs, though it is sneaky having them as security guards because they are camouflaged in the night.Another interesting thing is his commentary on housing estates. He refers their red bricks to that of violence and evil, claiming that red, being the colour of blood, is an evil colour. In fact, this killer is a very philosophical person and uses this documentary to air his views. The scaring thing about the movie is that is looks very real. From the beginning to the end of the movie, it is made as if it were a serious documentary. The only comfort we have in knowing that this rather confronting movie is not true is that it has been scripted.The entire movie is made in black and white, which is not surprising as it is a very low budget film. The figure quoted in the movie as to the cost of the film is $10,000, though it may have been a little more. This film is a lot of Clerks in the way that it was very cheap yet thrilled the critics so much that it won numerous awards, and was also banned in other places.As to my opinion, it is a very disturbing movie. We are watching a man kill people yet not once does he admit that what he does is wrong. Instead those filming him slowly become more involved in what he is doing, and begin to become his accomplices. In the end, they are considered to be working with him and suffer what he suffers. There is no repentance in this movie, nor should their be because what we see is the extent of sin, and how it corrupts people so much that they no longer realise what they are doing. The other truth is, is that their sin found them out. "},{"Title":"A film that would make you frightened and then you will laugh","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog is to me a cross between This is Spinal Tap and A Clockwork Orange, it is both a comedy that we can take seriously no matter how comical it gets and gives us a character who no matter how inhumane he is we are still engrossed with him, the character Ben is one of the most evil characters in cinema history but we still see what is like a 'sub-plot' of the story which is of Ben living a life we can relate to, at parts, such as him interacting with his friends and family and of him watching film reels of him as a child and that is why we are still intrigued by his many theories no matter his inhumane actions. Though we do laugh many times Man Bites Dog is still one of the most disturbing films ever as it portrays a world of injustice with little regard for human life and has a character who is a ruthless serial killer who isn't the mentally ill loner that is usually portrayed in films such as The Silence of the Lambs but is instead a character who we witness going about his everyday life which involves brutal murder and still manages to fit in his normal routines which include developing his relationship with the determined film crew following his actions. "},{"Title":"One of a Kind","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A serial killer (Benoit Poelvoorde) has a camera crew follow him around so he can explain his work. He also explains drinking, architecture, art and more... one part killer, one part aesthetic connoisseur.The first thing I have to say is how I was duped. When I first saw Behind the Mask, I thought that film was brilliant. While I still think it has merit, I now realize it was not the original concept I believed it to be -- Man Bites Dog covered almost the exact same ground over a decade earlier. There are some differences in the humor, and this one has a more realistic serial killer theme as opposed to a horror villain theme (Mask takes place in a world where Freddy and Jason are real.) There are a handful of moral questions with this film. The bulk of the plot is humorous and the excessive amount of murder can be excused. But there is one crucial scene where the humor is perhaps too dark and a line is crossed... does this one scene darken the whole film, make the whole experience immoral? I do not know, but I do know that the way the film crew gets involved without even a peep of protest does not sit well.Reviewer Matt Zoler Seitz points out the contradiction of the documentary we protest that the crew should stop the killing, but doing so ruins the realism. That sounds a bit absurd when talking about murder, but what about other subjects? Many documentaries feature crime or immorality, with the crew standing back and filming away without stepping in. Of course, again, here the crew went beyond stopping the killing to actually assisting. That is a hard thing to defend...What to make of it all? I do not know... Spinal Tap meets Blair Witch Project, but not as funny and much darker? I left the movie feeling dirty. If that was their goal, they succeeded and congratulations to them for that. If that was not the goal, I fear what it must have been. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Hilarious, Disturbing","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A dark surreal horror comedy mockumentary. Yep, that about sums it up! Man Bites Dog takes the black comedy genre and hits it with the gore stick. Shot in black and white, this movie (as with most I review) is not for everyone. Some may say this is not a black comedy but a truly disgusting horror film. I would say they are half right. MBD doesn't hold back on what it shows, including a nasty gang rape scene. However; underneath the gruesome images and complete lack of moral fiber from the main character, Ben played by Benoît Poelvoorde, this movie has some really hilarious parts. For me this is a black comedy with some genuine horror mixed in.Ben, our star, is a charismatic serial killer who has agreed to a documentary film that showcases his motives, desires and actual killings. He explains how going after elderly people is best because they put up less of a fight and that Postmen are his favorite targets. Ben discusses classical music, architecture and philosophy all while murdering random people. After a while, Ben brings the film crew further into his world than they had ever wanted to go. Along the way learning about his interests and witnessing the random killings, even becoming part of the action so to speak.Director, Rémy Belvaux did a great job and I think it was smart to film in B&W. If it were filmed in color, I think this would have been an entirely different movie experience. Make no mistake, Belvaux has made one of the most violent and disturbing movies I have ever seen. Luckily for us, the gore isn't as impactful due to the black and white. Thankfully, this adheres to the A Killer Comedy tag-line and further pushes the comedy aspect.What makes Man Bites Dog so powerful is this roller coaster of emotions. One minute you are laughing your ass off and the next you are legitimately terrified and disturbed. It causes you to question what you were laughing at to begin with. It sort of takes away a bit of your humanity. You are almost ashamed to have laughed at all. After the two main brutal scenes the film reverts back to it's black comedy base. At the end I felt like I had been through a very stressful experience yet I loved every minute of it.The film is wonderfully acted and the script is great. There were many times that I was questioning whether this was real or not. A testament to all involved. Man Bites Dog is a brilliant film, you have NEVER seen anything like it. "},{"Title":"Comedy doesn't get any darker than this","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" C'est Arrivé Pres De Chez Vous, or Man Bites Dog if you want to get complicated, is a mockumentary about a deranged serial killer that somehow gets to be incredibly amusing. From a distance it looks like a pretty clichéd art-house film (very talky, grainy black-and-white film, no real plot), but once you get into it I can assure you you stay into it for the entire run. It's truly a beautiful mixture of comedy and drama, it makes you laugh but at the same time it makes you wonder what the hell you're laughing at. I remember some people were quite shocked by parts of this movie, but overall the atmosphere is just really too absurd to call this movie intensely disturbing. It is in fact extremely (extremely!) violent, and the obligatory rape scene is indeed very uncomfortable to watch, but hell, you'll probably live. Just lay back and enjoy this avalanche of hilariously weird dialogues, grotesquely immoral characters and bizarre comedic situations, because it's really quite a treat. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and brilliant","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay so this is my first review here on IMDb, although I've been of fan of this website for some time. I'm gonna keep it short and simple.This is one hell of a disturbing movie. I found it hilarious at times, but I can see why one would not. It is dark, very dark. To some people, I can imagine it being dark to a point where you don't see the humor. As for myself, I found some scenes very funny, but not in a very laughing-out-loud sort of way, but more subtle. Some of the random monologue Ben puts out is just spot on. I also very much enjoyed this main characters behaving, the way the actor talks, moves... his facial expressions... it's all funny and brilliant. Many of the macabre situations also, to me, are funny, in a very twisted way.However, about 2/3 into the movie, one single shocking scene puts an end to the comedy and from the on... it's just pitch black. Still very good though. I highly recommend this movie on the basis of being unusual, shocking, very well acted and humorous. If the comedic material just isn't on your wavelength... well, at least I hope you will enjoy for some other reason. It somewhat and somehow reminds of Reservoir Dogs by Quentin Tarantino. Not that these movies are really alike, but they made me feel the same way. "},{"Title":"Postmodern beauty (possible spoilers)","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ben is a murderer. Remy, a director, and his crew try to make a documentary of Ben's life. An absurd central idea and it makes you wonder how it will eventually work out. In 'C'est arrivé pres de chez vous' it works out pretty damn good. What the audience gets to see is a 'documentary', the 'actual footage' of Remy and his crew. The interesting aspect of this movie is that first of all Ben seems a psycho - but in the course of the film the crew also gets pretty psychopathic. The question arises whether this crew gets accessory to the crimes that Ben commits.The main focus of this film is on a philosophical level. What is reality? Do we see the truth or do we see an exaggerated form of reality? Belvaux plays with this question. It makes it a postmodern movie with postmodern philosophical questions. A beautiful example is the encounter with another murderer, that is also followed by a film crew. This is not only enormously hilarious, but also clear proof of the multiple realities that this movie tries to hand out to the audience. There are dozens of other examples of this postmodern approach of reality.Normal ethic morals lose their significance. Violence and humor collide into a never ending hilarious stream of images and dialogues. It makes us feel comfortable with all the violence. Child killing, rape, robbery - the audience simply can't seem to stop laughing. The taboo breaking character of this film, makes us think of our own morals? Do we still have them when we laugh about these serious matters? Again a postmodern issue what are ethics, what is morality?For those reasons 'C'est arrivé pres de chez vous' isn't just a joke from a few filmmakers. It is a question for it's viewers. What are you watching? And why the %&*@#$ are you laughing? "},{"Title":"twisted","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this a few years after it came out and it is a very disturbing film. On a certain level it has to me the same message as films like Natural Born Killers in that it exposes the viewer to the fact that they are complicitous in the horror that they watching by the sheer act of watching. This is conveyed in the film through the camera crew, who while filming the serial killer, gradually get involved in the acts that they are originally only there to film. It is our morbid curiosity that draws us in, and then we see more than we want to. If there wasn't such an appeal to this, a demand if you will, would films like this be made is what I think the film asks, and we see this all around us everyday. Biography shows that focus on serial killers or current court cases elevate the worst of humanity into a spectacle that gives celebrity status to the depraved. We watch it, and like the camera crew, who wouldn't be there if it wasn't for us needing to see it, we are guilty. The next time you watch a tragedy unfold on video or film, you have to remind yourself the camera is not just a passive, objective lens, it is being held by a person in most cases, a person who despite the tragedy they are witnessing, continue to film it! "}{"Title":"Imagine Apocalypse Now re-written as an urban sitcom","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a cruel urban content shot in gritty, nightmarish black and white, one recalls the energy but despair of the classic La Haine. This is no documentary of urban angst though. Man Bites Dog (the title is more closely rendered as 'It's Returned to Your Doorstep') is a hilarious, shocking black comedy. A camera crew follow an unhinged social blister called Ben around, played flamboyantly by Benoit Poelvoorde. The documentary crew get dragged into the perpetration of malevolence they are initially looking to record objectively. Their investigation, having gone awry and lost all it's integrity on the way ends in the same terrifying but pathetic fashion as that of the naive investigators of The Blair Witch Project.Satire then is the driving force of this film and achieves its apex in a sequence which starts, appropriately, with Ben and the filmmakers drunkenly singing a song, like an anthem of bondsmanship 'Cinemaaah!'. They then go on to commit one of the most rank, depraved and yet, confusingly, funny gang rapes committed to film. Jodie Foster's ordeal in The Accused is painful, but not as explicit nor does it have the buffer of being morally prejudiced (we know it's a 'bad thing'). In Man Bites Dog we have to struggle harder to regain our perspective as the act unfolds without warning.If this film has a weakness, it could be that it seems willful and not serious enough, enjoying the cruelty its setting up to lampoon. It is, however, original and effective. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cinema! Cinemaaaa!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What a great little film this is. A documentary following a serial killer gets out of hand when the boundary is crossed and the filmmakers become part of the filmmaking process. It poses many questions of ethics; how involved should a crew be? Is there any subject too taboo?It's interesting that the major voyeuristic point of the film is often missed, that anything can be turned into entertainment, and eventually will be as TV ratings and advertising space rules all.I think it's the next step for reality TV, after all the only way is up.Back to the film, shot on half a shoestring budget, the film relies on humour and shock to keep you watching, as you yourself become part of the crew. Ben is probably one of the nastiest, but strangely likeable (don't ask me how, but you can't totally hate this guy, even when he goes over the top) characters I've ever known in film, the multiple sides to his character make him more human than the stereotypical killers and what have you in many mainstream pictures. But it's not about that, it's about a group of people going out and making a film from scratch, and to make it this well, you've just gotta hand it to them.Not for the faint hearted, but then that's the point, how are you to know your limits if they aren't pushed and you allow someone else to censor you?The DVD is packed with extras. "},{"Title":"Wow!   A paradigm Shift in viewing movies","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Surfing the tube and coming upon Man Bites Dog really bit me. I was sucked in almost totally at first, thinking that it was an actual docu-drama in a foreign genre, and I'm thinking, Man, how can they legally allow this stuff on TV.....it's like the Smut Films and extreme pornography that's available under the table that most people only hear rumored, let alone see.  In light of being sucked in, it was very well done, from my perspective.  It is sick, it's morbid, but it's the stuff unfortunately that many of our dark sides crave to see and half hope is a real docu-drama.  It's disturbing also to note that this kind of project, given the right crazed individuals and impoverished starving artists, could actually be done. Another disturbing side of it is that I would be curious if this film has been a permission-giving catalyst to anyone out there in an authentic copycat way. "},{"Title":"Darkly Hilarious","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Apparently, a mockumentary about the life of a serial killer looks like a violent and serious trip through the coldness of a central character. But these filmmakers decided to do something completely different. They created a comedy about this same subject. And if you think that it's difficult when the body count is above 25, well see this to believe it's possible. Shot like a documentary in black and white, the movie takes us through the normal living of a cold but always funny killer, which always murders with honor, and with a great philosophy to go with it. Even when the crew starts losing people, the film goes on, and you won't be able to stop laughing. Always with a great sense of comic timing, Benoît Poelvoorde leads the movie like a wicked tv presenter which keeps pushing the movie forward and innovating new forms to kill people. My favorite must be the one with the old lady. Sheer raw brilliance.  "},{"Title":"This has occurred near you","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The title of this film should be translated as This has occurred near you or This has occurred near your home.  How they came up with Man Bites Dog is beyond me.In any case, this is an exercise in voyeuristic violence akin to Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, Violent Shit, Natural Born Killers, and A Clockwork Orange.  If graphic violence and sadism turn you off, then just skip it.The movie is about a team of Belgian student film-makers who follow Benoit, a local sociopathic killer, as he goes about his business -- robbing and killing innocent (mainly older) people.  They are not only vulnerable, but generally possess plenty of money.  Evidently, many Europeans still stash a good deal of cash around the house rather than investing it.  Maybe it's to avoid taxation (as in Juzio Itami's Japanese movie A Taxing Woman).Gradually, the film-makers go from passive onlookers to active participants in the most ghastly crimes.  Showing no empathy for their many victims, one of them breaks down and cries when another crew member is killed.  It's an us-vs-them mentality -- and they are ordinary citizens rather than criminals.During the process, as in other films of this genre, the viewer begins to feel as if he himself is becoming a participant.  As Holly Willis'  notes on the cover put it It is at this moment that we recognize our complicity as spectators in the spectacle we are viewing.  This is one of the reasons why so many find this type of movie so repugnant.  But for me, it's an excellent catharsis -- a vicarious way to vent my suppressed anger, hostility, and frustration.  It's excellent therapy, and cheaper than seeking professional help.It may be hard to find this one for rent (I own it on laser disk), but it's well worth the effort.  Just be careful about who else is allowed to see it -- NO CHILDREN PLEASE! "},{"Title":"Brutally Disturbing Mockumentary!!!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film numerous times and upon each viewing the content seems more horrifying and realistic. Fans of Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer should definitely watch this. A summary of the plot is a camera crew follow a serial killer round on his daily routine and they later join in, in his sick events. The film features some great cinematic shots but that cannot make up for some of the unnecessary violence especially on a young boy. If you like something abit different give it ago it is an experience to watch. I was also pleased to hear it is being released on Criterion DVD so I will definitely be purchasing it.  "},{"Title":"Often misinterpreted,albiet by teenage fans of the 'non violent' die hard series","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this is not in any means a remarkable film or groundbreaking in any aspect. It does have something to say about the power of the media and the tone in which violence is presented. Its perfectly fashionable for Bruce Willis or Arnie, to boot any other action hero(that awful Vin Diesal a fine example of manipulative expliotation of naive 12+s) to blow away stereotyped europeans for the benefit of gung-ho ,flag waving patriotism. Man bites dog did depict murder and violance as it is , one of films prominent points of existance is to imitate life and reflect the state of society(which is diverse). Its philosophical sub-text was limited but present. V.good 16mm camerawork, an inspiration of low-budget film making.  "},{"Title":"Likeable","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  C'est arrivé près de chez vous, Man Bites Dog, is the documentary of a bumbling criminal, who in his spare time criticizes architechture and writes poetry.  Man Bites Dog hits its mark on nearly every level.  First, it is a low-budget film.  We musn't view it in the same light as a big-budget blockbuster movie.  In fact, for a small time film, it is incredibly well-made; acting was superlative, interesting ending and the gore was gut-wrenchingly realistic (I watched the edited American version, so I missed out on about 4 minutes of violence).  Second, the documentary style of movie makes the difference.  If you liked This is Spinal Tap, you'll enjoy this movie.  The subtle gags and outrageous blunders contribute to the greatness of this film.  We must realize that the purpose of C'est arrivé près de chez vous is to ignite and incense the viewer, and it serves its purpose well.  The character of Benoit is the running joke; we're laughing at his twisted personality, not the violence he causes.  If you keep an open mind and allow yourself to laugh, this film will surely be quite likeable. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made.......","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I took the time to read a few comments before writing my own.  I was suprised to read so many negative sentiments regarding this film.  People either missed the point or snobbily turned up their noses. Whatever the case may be, my feelings are quite positive.  When you take the film for it's merits,ie excellent acting, gritty camera work in B & W and quite hilarious dialogue and scene structure, one has to recognize the brillant minds at work on this project.  Certainly many will read these comments and think I'm too generous.  But, I think not.  I think it's even more fresh and funny in this reality tv environment which we find ourselves living in at present. I cannot think of one of these shows which can make me bellow with laughter like Man Bites Dog. "},{"Title":"Benoit, you're the best!!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just can't get enough of this movie.  I'm sure I'm not the only person who thinks the same about this masterpiece.  This movie proves that low-budgets are not supposed to be 'disqualified'.  It's a portrait of a serial killer where the killer has no problem being followed by a team of cameramen.  I think Benoit Poelvoorde is the perfect man for the role.  His monologues are fantastic! And the idea to bring the picture in black and white gives it all a authentic touch.  It's a movie about useless violence, brought in a loaded way by soaking it in sarcastic humor.  I like this genre of movies. 'Funny games' for example, is one I like to mention here.  CHILDREN NOT ALLOWED!!!! (Sorry for my English) Ciao      "}{"Title":"Interesting, after all these years","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing the NC-17 version on IFC (Independent Film Channel, cable, USA) the other evening, I immediately came to the IMDb reviews. First of all, I feel that it was incredible that the US - any channel, cable or not - showed this in its uncut version, and it was a treat. I use treat in the broadest sense.Rather than rehash old reviews of blow off any steam, two of the most memorable reviews written were by Delly and Aaron King, both constructive and informative. Delly's only problem was in identifying the film as French, but was instructive in identifying the meaning of the original title.For anyone using these reviews as guideposts, although a couple years old, these are good ones. I know I had to read all the opinions just to  get a grip on the general feelings for and against the movie, as I saw this in my home on a television, NOT in a movie theatre, with a benefit of an audience, and the mass participation of one, as such. I cannot say it was a horrible movie, other than the depiction of the sheer horror.It has been compared to The Blair Witch Project, unfortunately for *Man Bites Dog* I have now seen this this long after the Blair Witch Project, which I felt was pure cinematic tomfoolery, (as IF they had invented the style, and all).....Well, they didn't, and it was only a bit of overblown, overmarketed low budget hype -- as they would have you believe it  cinema verite -- no way, I say. Man Bites Dog is in a league of its own.This Belgian piece deserves some thought, is provocative even now and shall be, and hasn't lost its edge since the early 90's when it was made. It is a fine study (for lack of another phrase) of Man Without Impulse Control. This film works on many levels, as a good film or any work of art should, and rather than reviewing this in one big catch all, or one giant listing of how it works, I leave it at that. 02/02 "},{"Title":"Vouyeur as criminal","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The comments I've seen from people regarding this movie tell me that folks are missing the point about Man Bites Dog.  Sure the filmmakers are telling us that violence is bad and that society is too accepting of violence in our everyday lives. However, they are are also showing us, through the characters of the film crew that we are active participants in the violence.  The film crew at first takes an detatched role in Benoit's killing streak.  They are leery of him and he is not a character they have a great deal of respect for, but they are in a quest for realism and accept his indulgences in order to get a groundbreaking film.Soon they become enchanted by his violent lifestyle and start assisting him with his crimes.  By the end of the movie, there is no separation between the film crew and Benoit.  This is a direct commentary on the public's contribution to violence in society by our patronizing of violent multi-media.  The movie is also commenting on the media's (especially TV) willingness to glorify the actions of various and sundry criminals with overexposure.  But really, the film crew represents us the viewer, the consumer, who are initially repulsed by the crimes of Benoit, but soon want to know more about him, and eventually become his boosters and ultimately his co-conspirators.The filmmakers are ultimately saying that because we as consumers too readily accept violence in movies, TV, books, magazines, etc. etc. that we are ultimately responsible for a more violent society.  "},{"Title":"The day-to-day life of a serial killer","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie at the cinema several people got up and left. It was criticized, wrongly by my opinion, for glorifying violence. Because it can be experienced as harsh I feel I have to defend it.The film is telling the day-to-day story about a film crew and the serial killer that is subject for their documentary. The film crew thinks the world about him as though he's a celebrity (and in this particular world he is). As the movie goes on our favorite serial killer is depicted as more and more human; and thereby more and more pathetic. This is in clear difference to Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal and Natural Born Killers where the killers stood out almost as Gods to be worshipped (that's what I call glorification).The acting and direction was exquisite. Doing the movie in black & white was a good choice as it gave the impression of low-budget documentary.A lot of the scenes are unforgettable and some witty, but never hilarious because it's not that kind of a movie. The opening scene where he gives the film crew a lecture on how to soak corpses in water, as though it was a perfectly normal thing to do, is one such scene.See it. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly realistic movie","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being from the same country as the makers are(although i come from the dutch speaking part) makes me understand the reason why they choose the 'camera follows guy' concept. I don't know how it is in other countries,but here in Belgium the 'I wanna be on TV and get famous' is pretty high. What the young film makers did with this movie(in my humble opinion)is make an 'over the top' human interest TV program,which we sadly have in plentitude on our national and commercial TV stations. I love this movie as it makes fun of those crappy programs on TV where a camerateam follows some 'supposedly interesting' people.I give this movie a 9.(Keep in mind that this movie is an end exam work from the directors) "},{"Title":"Slick, Stylish and unusual thriller","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"      I can understand why a lot of people hated this film. Its not the easiest of films to watch, kind of reminds me of reading american psycho. After I got through the first half hour (which was pretty horrific) I started to enjoy the film. certainly not a film for the faint hearted but a dark look inside the mind of a serial killer. "},{"Title":"My Number one movie, and why ??","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I usually don't write comments on movies but for this one, I have to make an exception, I have just read somebody's comment saying it's not hilarious, but yes indeed, it is. First of all I am French and speak both english and french, since it is subtitled in english, english speaking people won't have the chance to FULLY understand the meanings of what this crazy guy is saying, and that, I think, is why some of the people I met didn't get the movie. A good thing would be to watch it twice. I saw it at least 15 times ! This guy think he undestood everything, he think he is sensible, philosophical, and clever. He is everything but the contrary and shows it all the time whithout even realizing ! This movie is funny from A to Z, forget the violence, and focus on that Benoit guy, watch every move, every sound, everything he does is hilarious ! The actor fits the role perfectly, I even think the actor is the one who invented the role, it is not possible the other way, it's too perfect really. Don't ever think about missing this movie ! "},{"Title":"Big Bullet","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, a movie only belgian guys can make, after the short Pas de C4 pour Daniel Daniel, here comes the hell of a movie about a killer documentary you'll never see on tv... This is big shot, starring the big Benoit Mr Manatane Poelvoorde in his first movie, for the happiness of every kids... "},{"Title":"Get to look over the killers shoulder","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an all time favorite. Really in my top 10 all time bests. Blair WP was great for the amateuristic cameramoves, but C'est arive pres de chez vous invented it.I DO think this is funny, and really think it was ment to be funny as well. As the crew gets thinned out by accidents 'on the job', they are invited to participate in the sick games and ideas of the Killer Ben.Especially the theory on putting weight on dead bodies is wonderful.See this, it's not to be missed. "},{"Title":"The funniest, bravest, and most disturbing black comedy ever","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is pushing everything in film, everyone's sense of decency and flipping it on their ass. It's funny, twisted, clever, and brilliant, but very very dark. This movie is not for the light of heart, but if you like movies like Happiness and Weekend at Bernies you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Violence as social criticism in film","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog  from Belgium, is one of the most brutal and unrelenting films I have ever viewed. Shot in a cinema vertie documentary approach, the story is about a film crew documenting a real life serial killer named Benoit. We watch the documentary crew  with horror and amusement as they film  Benoit as he complacently murders people at random while discussing the nature of people, civilization and culture among other sundry topics. The films violence is stark and brutal and not for the squeamish but is necessary. It is balanced though by the cunning satire and sharp humor. Not for all tastes but if you want something unconventional and different this is worth seeking out. A personal favorite from my collection. "}{"Title":"Worth seeing for it's weird plot and prediction of sad future","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Noteworthy film that might have foreseen development in TV-media/culture/society by (maybe not even) 50 years.A man, who obviously has nothing better to do, is accompanied on his violence-spree by a cameracrew, which record his atrocities. This wacko is really totally obsessed with violence and the story isn't far-off from present day realities in some urban centres one has heard of.  "},{"Title":"A film about death, a film about us!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best Belgian films in ages, Man Bites Dog is more a real-life documentary than a fictional fantasy. Perhaps it's because it is filmed like a news report off the streets of some war ravaged country, with its shaky camera, scared reporter & unscripted surprises.MBD excels not because of the film's subject matter, or because of Ben's rather belligerent attitude to what he does; the movie works because of the film crew following his every exploit with a kind detached ghoulishness. The film crew is really an allegory of us, the viewer, ever fascinated in the macabre & depressing even though we would never publicly admit to it.But think about it for a moment-Why is it when there's an accident on a motorway do so many people travelling past slow down and rubberneck?Why, when someone is having a heart attack in a public place do people gather and form a ring around the hapless person pointing in dismay & horror but waiting for someone else to come to his rescue because they don't want to miss what will happen next to the poor victim? Why do people watch horror films where total strangers are viciously murdered in the most gruesome manner, even though we know full well its only fantasy?What attracts us to the dark side of life? MBD regales in its pleasure while we sit uncomfortably with our conscience & throws it back in our faces via the camera crew.The murders are quite brutal & more realistic than any Hollywood action film could ever be; Ben's attitude is one of disinterest to the victim, even approaching contempt that the person should ever have been born in the first place. And it doesn't matter if we disagree with him or not because we're too busy watching, observing, wondering what he will do next while not realising that the joke being played is really on us.The film is very well put together on the smallest of budgets & limited acting ability. But that doesn't matter the film looks cheap because killing someone is cheap, just like life itself to Ben's way of thinking.Of course the movie struggles a little near the end, especially when we see a second film crew shooting their own murder-documentary before they meet up with the first. From that point the mystique fails and we realise we're in the world of slapstick tomfoolery.Nevertheless for what the film lacks in clarity is made up for in human self-awareness. The film isn't just about the mad killer to whom we should hate (yet don't) but it also points the finger at ourselves and our own unhealthy interest observing (feasting!?) upon someone elses misery.****/*****  "},{"Title":"Spoilers ahead...","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to review this film without spoiling it for others who haven't seen it. To be sure, people offended by violence will want to steer clear. There is no plot whatsoever, so it's mainly the things Benoit encounters that makes the film memorable. So if you don't want to have your experience spoiled, don't read any further.I feel this film was fun for those who are game. Very funny in spots, I have to admit laughing at many of the killings and even the rape scene (though not at the morning after shot), and who couldn't love Benoit? There are many things to hate about him, his racism for one, but who didn't laugh at what he 'checked' after killing the night watchman?Overall, I think that might be why a lot of people are spooked by this film. The violence/gore really isn't any worse than some R-rated horror films.For one, there really is no moral to the story. Sure he and the crew dies in the end, but the fact there is no big Hollywood disclaimer of Crime, bad! some people are automatically turned off.I also think it's the fact that it makes us laugh at things that are totally unacceptable. Sort of the way Pulp Fiction did, but only in a more extreme sense, since this film cover more extreme subject matter than PF.Favorite part of the film when Benoit and crew run into a fellow serial killer and a team filming him.Overall, I give it a 8/10, since it does drag in some areas.  "},{"Title":"On the whole, an excellent piece of thought provoking cinema","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the whole point of this film is to make the viewers sit up and ask some questions. As film watchers we should be asking ourselves why we might find the premise of the film initially hilarious. Why is it so funny when he announces in a mundane voice that he likes to start the month by killing a postman, in much the same way that you might announce that you go to the bank at the start of every month?Why do we as viewers ,stick with the trail of violence as it moves from the stuff of comic books to the deeply disturbing realms of sexual violence? How do we feel at the end when these thoroughly unpleasant people die? All these questions can only be answered by each individual, and therefore the film is trying to tell us more about ourselves and our own attitudes to violence, than it is about the whole of society. As consumers of cinema, we hold valid opinions about these issues, and it is very rare that a film really provokes us to ask such questions- this one does it marvellously however, and in a much more entertaining way than say Funny Games, which tries to do the same ,but doesn't quite manage it. On the whole, a thought provoking masterpiece. "},{"Title":"unbelievable","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First I want to say the title Man bites dog sucks. It has no connection to the film. But the film is a masterpiece. The location of the film is very known to me and the way the characters are played is very typical. It's a film you have to see a couple of times because each time you discover new things. The first time I saw it, I couldn't believe it was really Belgian.This is ain't a film you expect to be made here, it took a lot of guts to make it. The film received a lot of awards and it deserves it. Benoît Poelvoorde is one of the greatest actors for me. His monologues are so cool, he really has you going. The third time I saw it whas in class at the age of 17 and it was cool to see my teacher actually liking the film because of that and he detests violence. But at the real cruel moments such as the rape, he didn't look. Some nerds of my class where really shocked by the film and I love it. BELGIUM RULES!! "},{"Title":"One of the 10 best films ever made","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what it's about this film that amuses me so much.  I guess it's the personality of Benoit.  He has many different personalities.  One minute he's killing men, the next minute he's playing the piano, the next minute he's killing woman, then he's talking about art, and then he's killing more people.  He always has a smile on his face, he seems to enjoy life very much, alteast until the end of the picture.  There are 2 versions out, the unrated version, and the NC-17 version.  The NC-17 version has a rape scene and a killing of a child, where the unrated version has those scenes edited out.  The film is done in French, and is shot in black and white.  It's one of the most brilliant, and most original films I have ever seen.  I highly recomend it to anyone who enjoys the cinema.  Well I go now, because I'm Cinema.  Cinema, Cinema, from screen to screen film to film, I am cinema.A+ "},{"Title":"Funny but also painstakingly accurate pseudo-documentary","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I watched this movie a few years ago on public TV over here (is this thinkable in the US?). Now I was reading some comments and often noticed a misunderstanding this is NOT a French movie, but rather a _Belgian_ movie. (I know we have a small country, but that's no reason to completely ignore us  -) ) Even though I belong to the Dutch-speaking part of the country, which is quite different from where the movie was actually shot, I still would like to put this right.The country is not such a trivial point as it might seem... When being viewed now, 7 years after release, this movie has gained a completely different dimension over here. In 1996, Belgium was hit by the famous Dutroux-case a child molester having killed at least 4 children and a few other people. It not exactly improved the image of our country (whether this was right or more a matter of how the press handled everything is another discussion...)Anyway the truely scary thing about this movie, in retrospect, is its almost Nostradamus-like qualities! The story is located exactly where Marc Dutroux would commit his crimes 4 years later. The entire setting, the social background... they are picture perfect copies of the Dutroux-reality! The actual crimes are not, but the atmosphere of an old degenerated industrial environment fits perfectly. Dutroux and Benoit both have this self-employed attitude (don't know whether this is the right way to put it in English). They're managing their small business and they're doing well not because they are so intelligent, but because the police seems to have other priorities.They both don't have the slightest notice of guild or empathy. Benoit may think of himselve as professional in his field, educated, interesting but in reality he is mediocre, talks in clichés and makes mistakes (like when the dumped bodies are exposed at the end of the movie and Bens genius plan collapses, or when he's screwed by a competitor). His single strong point is that he has no consciousness, otherwise there would be a hundred colleagues out there with more success.Thanks for listening and I hope I provided a new perspective. And oh yeah watch it 'cause it's excellent!!!! "},{"Title":"Powerful, perturbing and accomplished","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is documentary type film shot in black and white about a man who likes to kill people, and he tells us all the various techniques that he uses and the range of people he kills, from postmen to old women and even a child, which he feels a slight remorse for. He usually dumps the bodies wrapped up into a water-filled quarry, and they start to fill up the quarry after a while. Then it dries up and all the bodies are revealed, which makes him very cross. The cameraman and other crew get involved also in the rape of a woman in front of her husband, and the scene after of the mutilated bodies is perturbing. The man seems to enjoy his spree and has no remorse. He is cruel and callous with a smile has he takes us into his world of depravity. It is a provoking and accomplished film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Takes some time to process...","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bizarre, brilliant film. >Don't react to this film right away. Think about it for a while >first. >I hated this movie when I first saw it. It made no sense to me >at all and I thought it was too sick to make up for the humor. I >was baffled by the inclusion of the rape/murder scene, as it >seemed not to fit in with the rest of the movie. >But, a few hours later, it's all falling into place, and I'm >starting to realize just how deliberately absurd it all is. It's >still not comedy in the sense that most Americans think of it, >but that's not necessarily a bad thing. >As for the rape scene, yes, it's revolting (no doubt someone out >there will enjoy it anyway, or at least claim to), but it also >marks an important turning point in the story; the documentary >crew has gone over the edge, and their brutality isn't tempered >by insanity as their subject's is. You begin to see that they're >actually sicker and crueler than their mentor. They take >pleasure it in a way that he really doesn't. It's sick and hard >to stomach, but so's a lot of the stuff that goes on in real >life -- and that's the point  "},{"Title":"Morbidly Hilarious","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film, the obvious influence for The Blair Witch Project, is morbidly funny with twists of drama. The acting is superb, allowing for laughs and astonishment alike at the actions of the deranged murderer. However, the final fifteen minutes or so devolves into a molasses of disturbing seriousness which makes the film seem uneven, and leaves the viewer unsure of what to think. Overall very entertaining, and very well presented. (Especially the sick twist on the Godard- like realism.) "}{"Title":"What filmmakers will do to get the picture.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  People often focus their attention to the killer in this daring little film. Go back and watch it the second time and focus on the filmmakers.  The story is more about them and not the serial killer.  Then hopefully you will see that this is a dark comedy that shows to what lengths filmmakers will go for their art. "},{"Title":"Killer camera crews.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whoever translated C'est arrivé près de chez vous into Man Bites Dog  ?! ) needs to be spanked with a machete.  It doesn't take a devout Francophone to notice the shortchanging action going on here; after all, the original title is twice as long.  And then there's that pesky word Dog.  Call me crazy, but I have a feeling QT idolatry is to blame.  Remember, at the time this movie came out, bloodiness was next to godliness, and young filmmakers were huddled en masse around the Reservoir, desperately trying to lap up the coolness.  Man Bites Dog is a cool title, all right, but it's also nonsensical.The original French title, on the other hand, ties the whole package together in a pretty little bow.  C'est arrivé près de chez vous  means literally It's coming near to your house.  This cannily combines ( a ) the folk homily that everyone crosses paths with a serial killer at least once in their lifetime and ( b ) the stipulation attached to every movie preview Coming soon to a theater near you.    Serial killers and movies -- NOW we're getting somewhere.But Man Bites Dog -- the movie, not the title -- is no more a media critique than Pulp Fiction is a religious tract about a sinner's conversion.  Yes, there's a lot of tosh bandied about concerning viewer desensitization, and viewer implication, and the morality of depicted-as-opposed-to-real violence.  But really, none of this amounts to much more than collegiate crank-yanking.  Call me desensitized, but I watch this film purely as COMEDY.  Whereas most people turn to Jim Carrey or Adam Sandler for laughs, I turn to Benoit Pooelvorde.  He's funny as a motherf***er.I will say that the first time I saw Man Bites Dog I was shocked.  But that's only natural.  Keep in mind that it's not only a young man's film, it's a young FRENCH man's film -- and what young Frenchman worthy of the name could afford to neglect the obligatory shocking of the bourgeoisie? Out of our com-play-zan-zee, yes?  The three filmmakers ( excuse me, Les Artistes Anonymes ) have rigged this thing out like a Lexus to disturb the hell out of you.  But the more you watch it, the more its charming naivete begins to seep through.First of all, what kind of criminal IS Ben exactly?  When the movie opens, he's strangling a woman on a train, biting at her ear like a crazed sex fiend.  Naturally, we assume he's a Dahmer-esque serial killer, someone who gets kinky gratification out of taking lives.   But the very next time we see him in action he's murdering a postman, explaining in voice over how he plans to collect the man's pension.  So that means he's a garden variety thief? These two personas shift wildly back and forth throughout the movie -- in one scene, Ben is the consummate professional; in the next, he's a raving psychopath.  And let's not even mention the fact that he has Mafia ties.  A serial killer... with Mafia ties?The truth is, Man Bites Dog is not well thought-out.  The filmmakers have clearly seen a lot of movies -- The Godfather, Silence of the Lambs, and Le Samourai among them -- and wanted to include all their favorite scenes from each.  Consequently, we get this Series B mishmash where Ben is acting out the role of Renaissance maniac  gangster, serial killer, thief.  There's not one nefarious pot he doesn't have a finger in.It's also painfully obvious that the movie was shot over a long period of time ( probably thanks to dwindling funds. )  In some scenes, like the famous one with the black night watchman, Pooelvorde is skinny and young-looking, chattering incessantly at warp speed like James Woods in Pee Wee Herman's body.  But in most of the movie, he appears demonstrably older. His conception of the character has also evolved; he's a little more suave, a little more philosophically mature.  The disparity, sad to say, is impossible to ignore.I'm not pointing all this out to discredit the movie, exactly -- I just want to discredit its pretensions to wisdom.  If it can't be taken seriously, it's not evil; and if it's not evil, I can enjoy it without guilt.  You see what I mean?  One of the arguments the directors make is that people who laugh at violence in a movie are also prone to laugh at it in real life. I would qualify this by saying that it depends entirely on the movie. Someone who guffaws through Schindler's List, for instance, may indeed have issues. But Man Bites Dog is harmless.  It's just a group of young, talented guys having fun and pretending to be scary.  Relax and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Hauntingly disturbing.  Exceedingly brilliant.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog is quite an impressive work.  The violence is 100 times more shocking than Pulp Fiction or Reservoir Dogs because you think it's REAL. This film will shock you.  This film will scare you.  The images will stay with you.  But it's worth it because Man Bites Dog is an amazingly brilliant work. "},{"Title":"Tres Disturbing","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the more disturbing movie experiences I've ever had.  This film is shot in a documentary style giving all of the murder and mayhem a very realistic quality.  Not for the faint of heart, but I thought it was great.  "},{"Title":"explicit","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of my favorites of all time! It looks very real...but is not. I like Benoit with his bizarre sense of humour - he has no feelings..no emotions and he kills people just to steal their money. He acts very professionally and knows who has the money. This movie is not for children due to its graphic violence, but is not hard to watch. If you like violent and disturbing movies, this one is for you! "},{"Title":"Not as funny as everyone says, but still worth your time.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The box says it is hysterically funny.  This is not true, but it is still very funny.  The parents and grand-parents are especially well acted and the interplay between all the characters who know what Benoit does for a living and the film crew is absolutely masterful.  I enjoyed this movie so much, I am recommending it to everyone.  The scene where an alternate film crew is discovered is without equal.  The movie also makes a good statement about the way that we can become jaded and calloused against violence.  "},{"Title":"Deeply disturbing and darkly comic.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog is without a doubt one of the most disturbing - and in a way frightening - films I've ever seen.  The film exemplifies the kind of meaningful and original ideas that can be done without special effects and big name actors.The film follows Ben, a serial killer, as he is joined by a low budget film crew who are documenting his career.  As the murders grow in number the film crew finds itself being pulled into more and more active roles in them.The first thing that strikes you about the film is it's stark honesty and brutality.  The murders committed by Ben seem so easy, and Ben's philosophies seem so natural, that you catch yourself agreeing with him, and you feel like the blood is on your hands.  All the while the tension grows as Ben and the film crew joining him become more and more buried in a sea of violence.Watch this film.  If it doesn't stir something up from deep inside of you and send you to bed thinking, then there's something wrong with you. "},{"Title":"A disturbing look into the world of a cold blooded killer.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even though I am not 17 yet I have seen this disturbing graphically violent movie. I must admit I was shocked at the graphic violence in this movie. A crew of reporters follows and records the doings of this killer. Slowly and slowly the reporters begin to get involved in the murders. This movie is in black and white. I think they made it in black and white not to glorify  violence. This is a disturbing look into the world of a serial killer. But with it violence and strang humor it is a very good movie.  "},{"Title":"Knock, Knock&#133;&#133;&#133;.who's there?","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I notice that the two previous comments were written in the UK, perhaps demonstrating again the lack of following this imaginative film has found in America.The premise of Man Bites Dog (which the original French translates to I come to YOUR house) is very 90's&#133;film students  with little money enlist  a serial killer to finance their film. He agrees provided the project be a documentary on his life, and career.Of course Ben, is not a REAL serial killer in this mocudrama, but he might as well be. And the film within the film style in combination with layers of the blackest of humor and the harsh, stark realities of brutal murder make this film a must for anyone who strays from the mainstream.The scene where he kills the old lady? A classic.   "},{"Title":"A brief comment on the content of an extraordinary and disturbing film","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An extraordinary film, with very clever use of the film within a film mise-en-scene. Disturbing, confrontational and yet shot through with vivid, blackly comic moments. Profoundly more disturbing and visceral than a film such as Reservoir Dogs, to which it was (irritatingly) compared on release, it offers no easy answers, and leaves the viewer with deep feelings of ambiguity and unease (both about the film's characters and ones own reaction), reminiscent of George Sluizer's The Vanishing in mood. "}{"Title":"Absolutely horrid and a waste of talent","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This 'film' rudely surpasses not only the point of cinema in its sheer purpose of entertainment or infotainment, but it also fails at mocking the media in its attempt to shock audiences by zooming in on rude violence on a daily basis to get viewer's attention.Labeling this film as a form of art would be similar to labeling actual violence and rape as art. Killing someone in a fashionable or seemingly emotionless manner, doesn't making killing and rape a form of art. In the same way, filming killing and rape in black and white, adding some clever sound tricks, bad lighting and philosophical lines straight from the cereal box, doesn't make these inhumanities funny.If there was a point to be made with this film, they should have made it clearly. Violence like this always demands a reason or an explanation, and what the film does without it, is exactly the opposite of what fans of this picture advocate for it inflicts ruthless violence on people and makes them label it as fun and entertainment.As to the film effects and acting performances - many potential there. A waste of talent and a lack of intelligence. There were so many other ways and topics in which these could have rendered. "},{"Title":"Man Bites Dog","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This French film featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die was obviously not one I had heard of before until reading about it, the title certainly sounded interesting, and I was hoping it would be deserving of its placement in the book. Basically this is filmed like it is a fly on a wall documentary, as a camera crew follow serial killer and thief Ben (Benoît Poelvoorde) around as he goes about his everyday routine and life, good and bad, and with holding nothing back. Ben boasts his architectural failures, his interest in writing poetry and listening to classic music, and we see him spend time with his girlfriend, but also boasting and carrying out murders, which he sees as his craft. With the cameras capturing his activities Ben soon involves the camera crew in his escapades, and they question whether what they are filming and continuing with their film is really a good idea. When Ben murders he has no specific victims, he targets random people, most being the older generation, but also he is profoundly misogynistic, a racist xenophobe (hates foreigners) and finds postmen his favourite targets kills these types. In the end Ben finds himself the victim of crime when he finds parents and girlfriend have been murdered by someone taking revenge, and he makes his farewells on camera to the crew, but an unseen gunman kills him and the crew members one by one. Also starring Rémy Belvaux as Reporter, André Bonzel as Cameraman, Jacqueline Poelvoorde-Pappaert as Ben's Mother, Nelly Pappaert as Ben's Grandmother, Hector Pappaert as Ben's Grandfather, Jenny Drye as Jenny and Malou Madou as Malou. I can imagine the controversy that this film brought in its day, where it would have got complaints for sensationalising violence and murder (Natural Born Killers did a similar thing years later), but whatever people think of it, it is a bold contribution to the genre, I admit I couldn't follow it all fully, but in general it is a worthwhile satirical black comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"An absolute masterpiece!","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is without doubt one of the greatest and thoroughly original films I have ever seen. It was obviously filmed on a shoe string budget with no big stars but my word did they strike gold with this! I found myself in fits of laughter at most of the humorous dialogue, which is surprising given what actually takes place here. I think had that element of humour not been introduced the film may not have found its way past the certification board. I have to hold my hands up and say that I was in hysterics during the scene at the work site where they check out the black guy's manhood.This was a flawless performance from Benoit Poelvoorde. You can see that he had such fun playing this part and he shines in every scene.To think that this was made by a few Uni students is astonishing and I am shocked that they did not follow up on this and become huge names in the industry.If you want to see a completely original picture that is as funny as it is depraved then look no further. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Faux documentary indicts media","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog is a low budget faux documentary about a serial killer. Unlike other serial killers, this guy acts perfectly normal when he isn't killing people and there's no clear reason for him to kill people. He's aided in his crimes by the documentary crew, ostensibly there only to record his actions (as if that isn't immoral enough) they benefit from the money he steals from his victims and play an increasingly large role in the crimes themselves; for example they bury bodies for him and even help him rape a woman by holding a gun on her husband as well as having a turn raping her themselves.The point of the film is to point out how complicit the media is in the work of celebrity criminals. For many decades there has been a media and consumer obsession with high profile killers like Charles Manson and Ed Gein as well as fictional representations of these kind of people such as novels by Thomas Harris (Red Dragon, The Silence of the Lambs) and a multitude of films and television shows. It's undeniably true that these real life psychopaths thrive on the attention given them by the media as much as the media thrives on the gruesome details of the crimes themselves and it's very likely that some criminals (not just serial killers) actually commit crimes just to gain fame. This isn't a new idea, however one can easily find the same theme in more traditional films such as Bonnie and Clyde (1967) and Badlands (1973). The documentary format sharpens this film's focus on this issue, however.Man Bites Dog is also a comedy of the blackest variety. This aspect of the film sometimes falls flat but it adds to the absurdity of the entire concept and thus strengthens the theme. Doubtless Man Bites Dog is a film that will appeal to some while repelling others. Personally, I'm generally not interested in serial killers narratives (fictional or otherwise) and this film was no exception. I can appreciate the film's message, of course, and I give the film-makers credit for expressing it so well but the message itself is terribly obvious and unoriginal. "},{"Title":"Black comedy at its best","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have witnessed one of the greatest movies of all time Man Bites Dog. The movie overall is just amazing in every aspects the camera work, the black and white style, documentary style feel to it, and last but not least, this movie was black comedy at its best.I'm a huge fan of dark comedy films, and when I came across this film, I have realized what I've been missing out.I'm assuming many people might find this movie offensive, hard to watch, or just considers it a garbage. This is the ultimate black comedy; this movie is as taboo as it can get.The film contains rape and serial killings and it does it in a way that can easily offend most of the sensitive people.They do those taboo acts in a comedic way(as if the movie is making the serial killers look like they're the protagonists), which makes it even more offensive to those easily offended people.But this is meant to be offensive; after all, this movie is black comedy. All I can say is, for those who are fans of black comedy, I strongly recommend this film to them; as I've repeated several times, this movie is black comedy at its best.And even for those people who aren't a fan of black comedy, it is worth checking out for the interesting way the movie was filmed and for the dark themed story. This movie is shot with either an XL2 or one of the basic cameras you use to film either documentaries or stock footages.And it's shot like a hand-held camera but it does it well, unlike those mainstream films that try to attempt the POV styled film and fails miserably.Check this movie out whether you might like it or not because it is a movie you don't want to miss out on. "},{"Title":"Why Man Bites Dog can be good for your daughter","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Contains spoilers of movies Saving Private Ryan and The Clockwork Orange.On message boards someone asked 'Is this movie OK for my 10 year old daughter'. The poster may have been joking, but let's answer his question and while doing so, let's try to find a different point of view.If your daughter has already seen '300', Saving Private Ryan, Natural Born Killers, Stanley Kubrick's The Clockwork Orange and any or all of the Saw flicks, she should be OK to watch Man Bites Dog. At least in theory. In addition MBD includes element of sexual violence, which is less existent in aforementioned movies, although NBK has some. Plenty of kids are allowed to watch movies with very graphic scenes and even if not allowed, they will find a way to watch them anyway. Perhaps Man Bites Dog is disturbing for most 10 year old girls, but in this day and age, it's nothing out of ordinary.A viewer has to be educated and indoctrinated to violence as a form of entertainment before watching Man Bites Dog. Otherwise viewer can be shocked and at least dark comedy aspect will not work for him. Because of this it would be healthy to watch before MBD. In MBD violence, sexual violence and killing is not as entertaining as in most hardcore violence movies there are, although this flick revolves around violence and killing.In '300' violence was there just because it's cool. This is why it's most loved by males aged under 18. Generally young males have impaired capacity to feel empathy, but they form a important part of audience. Empathy trait will emerge only when they pass the final stages to adulthood. In Saving Private Ryan violence was there to make the heroes appear more heroic, and because it's cool. In the opening scene soldiers suffered extensively so their victory in the end is justified, even though the final battle reminded of a comic book action. Again SPR is most loved by males under 18, as is the Saw series. In the Saw flicks violence and torture is so cool it's almost sexual, all them sick toys penetrating human skin and flesh. All this is portrayed in Kubrick's The Clockwork Orange, a story about under aged males who find violence so exciting. If you read the book behind screenplay, you'll know the main character Alex heals of his blood lust as he starts to turn to adulthood.So, in a way, many of the viewers will find violence in Man Bites Dog, The Clockwork Orange and Natural Born Killers disturbing, while again many of the viewers of '300', Saw and Saving Private Ryan will actually find violence entertaining. There's a reason for this. The producers and makers of latter three used violence to entertain the audience, while people behind first three aimed to question violence as entertainment.A short review A fine movie, a cult movie in certain circles, very to the point as a dark comedy, extremely well done for its budget, leading actor does an excellent job, raises some healthy questions about violence as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Man Bites Dog.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog (1992) is a demented and twisted dark comedy from a trio of Belgian and French film makers. The movie follows the daily life of a serial killer/ hit-man. A small film crew documents his activities and various odd jobs that he does in order to provide his film crew with fresh rolls of film. But his life is dangerous as various criminals and police officers try to end his career. We meet his interesting family and friends of the Serial Killer. As the film goes on, it gets bleaker for his student film makers. He slowly corrupts them and soon they join him in his debauchery. A couple of errors in judgment causes his little world to collapse around him as he tangles with foes that are better than him. The police finally catch up with connecting him with various murders and disappearances. In the end, the killer and his naive crew are taken out.An interesting indictment of reality television years before it caught on like wild fire in the United States. I found this movie to be crazy to the extreme. The main actors are also the film makers who basically play themselves. Friends and families round out the supporting cast. I found this film to be well acted and written, If you want to watch something weird and can handle scenes of depravity then you'll want to watch this. French with English sub-titles.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A awesome movie that shows you a life of a serial killer.","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you ever looked up Man Bites Dog then the first thing you will probably be told is that it is very violent. Although it is very gory it has some very funny parts. The story is about a killer named Ben. Ben has a camera crew following him around while he kills random people for no good reason, as he visits his friends and family, and lets the crew in on his poetry.A lot of people say this film is disturbing. In my point of view its nothing that a movie watcher never saw before. Yes there is rape and a whole bunch of violence. SPOILERLike this one scene were a little kid see's his parents get brutally murdered. He runs from Ben but he catches him and smothers him with a pillow. That and the rape scene is what makes this film disturbing in the critics eyes.If you like serial killer movies this is a very good one. If you like art films this is a pretty OK one. So it attracts a lot of film viewers from different types of films. I gave this a 8 out of 10 because the dark humor is flawless and the violence is so incredible.You got to BUY this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Breakthrough Film-making","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Filmed on a shoestring budget this mockumentary is both scary and funny. Not laugh out loud funny but in a sadistic way. I saw this film for the first time three years ago on IFC. Right away I was hooked. Filmed in black and white on what feels like a grainy home video camera which adds to the fear you feel. The scenes are as graphic as a car wreck, but just like a car wreck- you cant look away. This movie has been spun off and copied by movies and music. VIDEO X, BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, even Eminem's new CD's alternate cover is a spin off of the original VHS cover. If you like Horror films, or are a film student then this is a must see! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Benoit Poelvoorde rocks!","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For those who are not familiar with the small country Belgium ... Here's a little explanation. There are two parts in Belgium a French speaking one and a Dutch speaking one. Benoit Poelvoorde (the main actor and one of the directors of this flick) is world known in the French speaking part but nobody knows him in the Dutch one. So, if you're in Belgium and nobody reacts when you say I think Poelvoorde is so funny, now you know why! It's a pity that so little people are well known with this fantastic comedian. He is a great actor and this movie really shows his great talent. He is a joy to watch! Now, this movie starts as a dark comedy with satirical jokes, but leaves with a shocking and disturbing mood. Not for everyone, I'm pretty sure. Completely filmed in black and white, great actors, great jokes and with some disturbing scenes, this movie will amuse AND shock you at the same time ... you won't forget this one pretty soon!  "}{"Title":"Belgium Bites Cinema","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog is the most brilliantly sick and twisted, exhilarating and outrageous kick in the ass I've ever seen on film.Benoit is a serial killer.  He is charming and funny, recites poetry and philosophizes on love and architecture.  A documentary camera crew follows him while he goes about his day &#150; eating, visiting friends, playing music and killing.  At first the camera crew merely observe his crimes but they soon become actively complicate and eventually everyone ends up dead.Filming in documentary style is not merely an attempt to make the subject appear more realistic. It is a provocative way in which to illustrate what the film is REALLY about.  It is an indictment of the observer.  The audience identifies with the film crew, fascinated and disturbed by Ben's behavior and unable to look away.  The observer is changed and manipulated by what is observed and the danger is that in observing we become immune to violence and ultimately become part of it.Satire is tough.  When it works it makes you think and see differently.  When it fails it can give the appearance of celebrating what it attempts to mock. For those who see Man Bites Dog as simply depraved and exploitive, the satire has failed.  I saw this when it first came out in an appropriately desolate and grimy London cinema.  It shocked me then and it shocks me still upon second viewing.  I've never seen anything else quite like it.  Other films have attempted to incite similar discussions on violence but Man Bites Dog is simply the best of its kind.  "},{"Title":"rabid pitbull with aids - nasty!","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember the first time i saw this film a few years back and it stuck in my head, i really liked the main character played by Benoit Poelvoorde, the serial killer who kills one minute rather nastily and then spouts philosophy the next; a charismatic killer.  the black and white documentary style suited it as it is almost like it mocks the fly on the wall documentaries we have nowadays that are closer to the bone be they violent or sexual.  it also makes it more real as you watch the carnage on screen.  Some of the violence is pretty nasty but as i am not squeamish or easily offended i was not put off.  a brave film with equal amounts of BLACK comedy, horrific violence and a sharp skullcrushing ending make this a superb film i would recommend to any serious film lover.  but do take my comments seriously regarding the casual violence as it does get pretty nasty.  this man was bitten by the dog but came back for more. "},{"Title":"As dark as humor gets, simple strong and pure cult movie.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie by coincidence and was overwhelmed start to finish. I think the fact it was a very low budget film, was what ultimately made it so unique and good. Very  basic camera work, black 'n white, strange use of light / darkness... and some really strong acting.This movie is hard to describe in terms of categories, and I am sure some people will not like it, but the least I can assure interested people of, is not a movie you'll easily forget. "},{"Title":"Understated pitch black comedy of the highest order","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A very droll little European black comedy about a documentary film crew following a serial killer on his daily rounds, and getting more and more emotionally involved with their subject matter.(Spoiler Warning)The amazing thing about this movie is how it manages to handles such a very dark subject with total candor and casualness (which is probably why it was banned in many countries for a long time). There is even a scene where a young kid is stifled, which is rare in any style of film-making. The film really starts with the crew hanging out in a bar with their host, then the story just casually moves to the subject of his occupation, which is interspersed with his rhapsody on the subject of pigeons.My favorite scenes are the ones when the director gives eulogies to the camera for the sound guys, as several are killed in the course of the story.What this film really comments on is the relationship of film-makers to the subjects of their work, and the accompanying ethical dilemmas and responsibilities.The ending is a twist, but somehow expected and appropriate.Obviously NOT for all tastes; this should be viewed with discretion. "},{"Title":"Black, black, black","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  MAN BITES DOG is, quite simply, one of the blackest comedies ever made.  The documentary following a charismatic serial killer about his daily business contains some of the most biting satire and perverse irreverence ever put on film.  It's also perfectly scripted, directed and acted on a non-existant budget (most of the cast are members of the crew, who made the film whilst at school).  Years before NATURAL BORN KILLERS, these Belgian students made a far smarter and wittier satire of media violence, that challenges our society to look at its morbid fascination with the macabre dead in the eyes.  Perhaps you will not like what you see of yourself from this perspective. "},{"Title":"A truly disturbing film","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film draws you insidiously in, the killer takes you into his little world, and won't let you leave...It follows the exploits of Ben, a serial killer, and the documentary crew who follow his every move. The situations are handled with pitch-black humor which distracts from the increasing horror of his actions. This allows the viewer to excuse Ben's activities and even join him in the enjoyment of his little adventures, so when the full horror of one of his later homicides hits you it's too late, you're already an accomplice. The film crew, first view, incite and then actively participate in Ben's crimes.This film asks serious questions about the participation of the media in the glorification of violent crimes, but never lectures (Natural Born Killers anyone).  Yet as it criticizes films and documentaries for encouraging the most extreme acts of disturbed individuals, it too exploits these same extreme acts. Watch this film and you to may see disturbing parallels between this and the current trend in reality T.V shows and may be left wondering, like me, whether this is a fantasy or a prophesy... "},{"Title":"Better than (but similar to) Breathless","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is just about the best darn movie on the planet, i think, and i've seen thousands upon thousands. It's funny, hilariously funny, truly TRULY funny but in an blackly and evilly ironic way that sparks self-concern and even distress the minute you do laugh, and it starts those heavy mental cogs turning, which i think is far better than mere escapism. Yet it IS escapist as well. Beautifully shot, convincingly acted, flawlessly written, MAN BITES DOG is also filled with useful information-- how much SHOULD i weight the body of the dwarf before i sink it into the quarry lake? I've had three copies of this video stolen by various former roommates, and i know i'll buy it a fourth time. What better recommendation can i give? The deeper message of the film is roughly the inverse of Jodorowsky's The Holy Mountain-- instead of this is a film, whatever else it means, so go and live and create, it's more of is this just a film? how do you know what's real and what is artifice? But it's so stylish and so clever, it just chilled me to the bone (all the while i was still laughing, of course).  "},{"Title":"Man Bites Controversy","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A mock documentary about the life of a serial killer shot in grainy black & white. Don't expect a Jeffrey Dahmer type killer going around disemboweling, dismembering, and eating the hearts of his victims. Man Bites Dog is much more pleasant than that. Our serial killer is simply known as Ben (played charmingly by Benoit Poeloorde) who kills without remorse for kicks and for money. Ben is intelligent, cunning, funny, and psychotic. Well, aren't all serial killers these days quickly labeled as being psychotic?Ben's cheerful little life is being documented on a regular basis by Remy and his crew as he goes about his business of killing innocent bystanders. We meet Ben's relatives, friends, and for a brief while his enemies. Life is good for Ben as he goes about doing his job which is made easier since the documentary crew willingly assist him. Enough about Ben, lets get down to the movie. Wait, Ben IS the movie. He is in nearly every shot!Man Bites Dog is a DARK comedy which (like dark ale) is of an acquired taste. Most people can't or simply refuse to laugh at the absolutely ridiculous situations, humorous characters, and dialogue because of a few (alright, perhaps a lot) senseless killings. Ben's face alone is capable o f making me laugh. There was a lot of controversy over the brutal violence in Man Bites Dog. Some people thought it was way over the top. Well, what did you expect? It's a documentary of a serial killer not a priest. The graphic gang rape is what infuriated most people, but again, watch it closely and the sheer ridiculousness of the act and the manner in which it is being conducted should make you chuckle. That's the beauty of Man Bites Dog, it makes you laugh at things that you normally would not laugh at. Sort of like the S&M scene, and the guy getting accidentally shot in the back seat of Pulp Fiction. Same thing, dark humor at its best.What is the purpose of the film other than to make one laugh? The 2 directors/writers (Remy Belvaux & Andre Bonzel) of the film will have you believe that it's a satire of media violence like the movie Natural Born Killers. I don't buy it, but it's open to interpretation. Man Bites Dog is a brilliant low budget film that really pushes the envelope of film-making. I've noticed it's still pushing it with the new DVD cover which shows a man shooting a gun pointed downward and a pacifier in mid-air with blood behind it. This clearly indicates a baby has been shot. Controversy, controversy, controversy! It sells.  "},{"Title":"the pc audience really helped this one for me...","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***mild spoiler***I went to see this at the Vancouver Film Festival when I lived there years ago. As I stood outside in the line-up, a CBC camera crew approached me and asked why would I could possibly want to see this atrocity? They'd heard about the violence and decided anyone who was interested in this film must themselves have sociopathic tendencies. After plumbing moral depths and scaling mountains of scruples, I finally deduced that my seeing the film hinged solely on the fact that I'd purchased a ticket earlier, and it'd be 'such a waste' not to go, now that the transaction at the box office had already taken place.The highlight of the ensuing entertainment, occurred when my girlfriend at the time - a wonderous, curvy Dane with a wicked streak of black humour where her soul should have been - laughed out loud at the rape scene.The entire audience turned to face the two of us, with scowls of disapproval. We were soaring in the apogee of political correctness, which had a vice-like grip on North America at the time. 'twas wonderous to see such a reaction...Canadians are so cute when they're angry for the wrong reasons.Afterwards, some people approached me and asked incredulously why we had laughed at 'the' scene. I could only think of the wall in east vancouver where some kindred spirit had sprayed 'carrot juice is murder' in orange paint.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, funny and brutal.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is, among many other things hilarious.  Some might be offended by his off the cuff remarks about Arabs or Blacks, or his flippant attitude towards inducing a heart attack in an old woman or strangling a child, but this movie is a first rate example of tongue-in-cheekness.  This serial killer is followed around by an unwitting crew of filmmakers, eventually sucked into his world of murder, rape and robbery.  We learn the weight ratio for weighing a dead body down so it won't float (including children, midgets and old people).  The character does remain loveable (at least laughable) until he and the rest of the crew gang rape a young woman while her husband watches at gunpoint.  Why in the world would you want to see this movie?  Just his rants from modern architecture to mussells and back to impromptu poetry readings about pidgeons and the beach are enough without the graphic violence.  But the violence, uncomfortable as it is brings a sense of reality to the movie.  But the brilliance comes with the Spinal Tap inspired sound men being shot one by one suffering from a cliched occupational hazard.  Rent this movie with friends. "}{"Title":"filmmaking at its best","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are few films that come to mind when I think about the best the medium has to offer- like Abel Ferrara's The Funeral and Jim Jarmusch's Deadman or Ghost Dog- and Man Bites Dog is a superb example.It is frugal in its means and yet it is fascinating to the last minute- with essentially a handful of actors and sober black and white imagery it manages to tell a great story that no special effects and overpaid Hollywood phonies, be it actors/directors/screenwriters could ever, ever pull!And- TGIF- Thank God It isn't French! talk about the other side of phony... "},{"Title":"The best. Truly. I mean it.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possibly my favourite film. Laughter, suspense, murder. I was rolling in the aisles. Apprehensive as I often am about anything French, this one deserves any praise it gets. If only there were more people in the world making movies like this, we would be happier as a species. I guarantee it. "},{"Title":"A laugh fest through the whole 95 minute journey. - Contains Spoiler","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has to be one of the most hilarious movies ever created.  The movie had everything from action to my favorite brand of comedy mixed with the oh so wonderful ultra violence.  *spoiler alert*.  Some people were alarmed by the brutal but funny gang rape.  Don't let that hold you back from viewing this masterpiece. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I Still Have No Idea What This Film Is About, But It's Still One Of My Favorites!!!  10/10","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  C'est arrivé près de chez vous (Man Bites Dog) is a mocumentary (fake-documentary) from Belgium, released in 1992. It is great. Some people just don't like it, and you wonna know why? It's because they probably don't have the mind to understand what it is about. From what I've seen, I think the film isn't about one particular subject. That's why some people feel cheated. That's how I thought the first time I saw it. But I guess the film is aimed at how all human beings are the same. If they're poor, rich, black, white, young, old, nice, mean, helper, or killer.  But after all the times I've seen it, I still remain uncertain.  Maybe I'm completely wrong.The main character, Benoît Poelvoorde, is a serial killer. He kills for money, and for pleasure. Basically, all that is done in the film is the crew hangs around Poelvoorde.  We watch him do stuff we can compare to, and then we see him do stuff that would make us sick.What this film taught me was that there are two sides to every single person. Benoît Poelvoorde was a cold-hearted, s**t talking, serial killer; Yet, at times he seems like your best friend, like you know him so well. And that's what I think this film is about. No matter how bad a person is, they're still a human. You find so much in common and uncommon with each other. Or, once again, maybe I'm completely wrong.  Why don't you see it for yourself?10/10 "},{"Title":"I feel the fusion!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Normally I wouldn't enjoy a movie like this.  I don't enjoy seeing innocent people killed in excess in an up close and personal manner.  Other movies have tried this before  The much praised (unfairly) Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is one example.  One thing all of those movies had in common is that in my opinion they all failed, they were all too sick and disturbing.  But, Man Bites Dog is just something out of this world!  It is so slick, charismatic, and plain and simple primitive fun that you have no choice but to like it.  It's a guilty pleasure if anything!  The killer is great, his enthusiasm and his eloquent way of killing people (yikes!) will keep you laughing throughout the whole movie.  I recommend this to everyone. "},{"Title":"Best of its genre","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unrivaled as a pseudo-documentary.  Frighteningly real in its representation, I was never sure if was real or not.  Maybe because the performances were not polished. Only matched by the current hit, Blair Witch Project. "},{"Title":"Have you ever been snuffed?!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Killing without conscience.  It sounds like a rare occurrence that ends up being the title for a story on 20/20.  'Man Bites Dog' digs a hole filled with something that we are all afraid of, and throws us right in.We laugh at absurdity.  To take a drastic action such as a brutal murder and think nothing of it is very absurd, indeed.  You can't help but laugh.  If you can't laugh, you're a victim of sensationalism.This film isn't so wise as it is logical.  It isn't so intelligent as it is witty.  It makes sense for it to be so, though.  'Man Bites Dog' takes you off your high horse and drags you down to a place where you never thought you'd stoop.  Down in this hole, you're not going to find vast wisdom and intelligence.  You're going to find reality dressed in its harshest outfit.'Man Bites Dog' will make you uncomfortable.  Then it will make you accept the harshness of reality, and laugh at it.  Then it will show reality's ugliest guise.  Then you will see justice served to the horror.Ben's nonchalant attitude towards senseless violence is the funniest and most eye-opening thing you may ever see.  It's basically saying, You're screwed, make the best of it... so we do.We laugh until we are taken to that unbearable place.  We are taken to an area of this pit that is too deep to reach, too dark for courage, and too horrible to be desired.This comes in the form of the controversial rape/torture/mutilation scene. This movie needs this scene.  Without it, we might walk away with a bloodlust.  We can relate to Ben until he takes a step over the edge. When he comes back, we see someone else... someone that we loathe.Then we see him, and all that encompasses him, get destroyed.We walk away from this film with new knowledge.  We've been taken to that hole in the ground that we've tried so hard to avoid, yet trampled upon the entire time.  We escape from this hole knowing where we must go, and why we keep are heads up as high as we can.10/10 "},{"Title":"It probably worked because...","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this film I was depressed and disgusted. I couldn't care less about all the other violence in it, but that rape-scene was way out of line, and believe me, I have seen a lot. That scene was the one that made me hate this film. If some of you are wondering if the film is funny I can tell you it isn't.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating look at how the mass media often intrude on people's private lives","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Benoit is a murderer and a thief. He is also an amateur poet and philosopher, a musician and wannabe art critic. He is high-spirited, youthful, quaintly eccentric; very charming and funny. We laugh at his cheeky humour then wince in disgust at one of his murders moments later. As Andre Bonzel (one of the many co-directors/ producers/ actors) stated, We wanted to make the audience laugh then have them think about what they've just laughed at. The whole point is to say to the viewer &#x96; 'Look, how can you accept this?' The contrast works perfectly to the point where we ask ourselves why we are watching this. The film has a peculiar effect on the viewer, as it strangely both compels and repels. We continue to watch as we are excited by gratuitous gore and believe we need to know what's going to happen next; however, at times the violence can seem a little overwhelming and the shocking impulsiveness of the scenes to come makes us want to look away; but we can't, as our utter fascination with the killer on screen does not allow it. Following his exploits are a young film crew (played by the real filmmakers), making a documentary out of the man's daily routine. I usually start the month with a postman, he narrates as we see him beating one on screen to death, I get up in the morning and spend it pinching pensions. At the same time this allows me to locate old folks with money. This scene is shown after one in which Benoit's family recall his childhood, a warm-hearted and cheerful part of the film. For obvious reasons, Ben can't tell them of his darkest hobby.Along the way, we make friends with Ben; and by befriending him, we become his accomplice. We are taken under his wing and become his protégé; we are there as much as Remy, Patrick and Andre are.The creators of the film make us feel a vast range of emotions regarding Ben at varying degrees throughout. We feel empathy, sorrow and sympathy for him when he loses his ID bracelet in the old abandoned factory. He tells us that he bought that with his father as a child. We aren't told whether his father died or moved away, but nevertheless we feel sad at the fact that he didn't know him for too long. Then a warm kind of joy is felt as he views charming old films featuring his grandmother and her sisters dancing around in a circle. A gentler, less harsh Benoit is shown here; only to be shattered by a horrific rape scene minutes later, a deed wherein we and the filmmakers involve ourselves the most with the young killer. We feel pity for him later as he stands in his prison cell, his sobbing mother telling him that he'll need more than just cigarettes; yet this moment comes after the comedy has stopped, after the deeply affecting rape scene. Now we must ask ourselves what we found so funny. Few films dare to be as challenging and provocative as this. They also don't come as morally complex as well. It doesn't exclusively blame one group or entity. The finger is pointed at the media, the filmmakers and even the viewer.Instead of trying to make us continue watching, 'Man Bites Dog' tries everything to make us stop. As we keep our eyes on the screen, the cartoonish, over-the-top violence and stark realism continuously blur the line between reality and fiction until we don't what's real and what's not.While its cinema verite documentary style and pitch-black humour may put off most mainstream audiences, not many others can claim to have seemed as real as this. "},{"Title":"Best French-language Movie of Past 30 Years","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I believe C'est Arrivé Près de Chez Vous (Man Bites Dog in the lackluster English-dubbed version) is probably the best French-language movie of the past 30 years.Suffice it to say Belvaux was able to condensate in a single character, Ben the killer (played by Benoît Poelvoorde), all the nastiness, violence and vacuity of our society.Ben is mean, misogynist, racist, lazy, asocial, alcoholic and deranged- not to mention the fact he speaks French with a heavy Wallon accent.Yet he's a charming character.Probably because he would make a bad G.O.P. Christianist&#133;and an even worse Saudi Wahhabist or Israeli Pharisee!... "}{"Title":"more real and objective","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Interesting that two of the films I've seen recently are pseudodocumentaries full of two distinct images violence to the extreme and narrators that end up personally involved in their subjects. Both of them use said images for criticism of status quo.Whereas Punishment Park is hateful and extreme, however, this movie is playful and endearing. The latter film has a tendency to show the narrator's absolute loathing of the situation at hand, while Man Bites Dog shows the tendency for the narrator to fall in love with his subject. Ben and company tramp around the city, making their film and having their fun, and it seems like a documentary any filmmaker would love to make.It's interesting that the back of the box says that the fictional documentarists sacrifice their objectivity and their morals considering this film seems so much more real and objective than most of the documentaries out there. It's actually missing a bit of scenes and imagery as if stuff is being done in one take, it isn't so filled with the desire for objective proof that it doesn't show anything, and it slowly ingratiates us with a character who is lively and real and enjoys the camera around instead of pretends to ignore it.Most likely the most brilliant part of this film is the moment they come across the other filmmakers. Not only does the absurdity in self-reflexively showing how untruthful documentary style is come full circle, it poses a fascinating question on the popularity of documentary to the level that documentarists could run into each other. Of course they can't use each other's work... That's video, this is film. A nice little jab at the industry by the creators.All of that and a spectacular set-up at the end to tightly wind the film to the close--an ending that makes The Blair Witch project seem like a laughable farce.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Not a Comedy","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems that most people commenting this movie see it as a comedy. I have to admit, when I first saw it (about ten years ago), My friends and I had the same impression. However, after revisiting the picture, I don't think as it as a comedy at all. And I don't actually believe, the creators intended it to be a comedy, either.True, quite some dialogs and scenes are humorous (mostly black, naturally) but that is not the nature of the film. Instead, I agree with the commentators who stated that it is about the viewer itself While many people laugh at the blatant humor, the movie constantly asks the viewer what actually is funny. In the end, there is not much comedy left (not more than in Dramas with witty dialogs that are sometimes humorous).This Movie messes with the viewers brain in a very subtle way. It's a very interesting piece of work and the best (uhm, yes, and only) Belgian movie that I know of. Those, who can cope with outrageous violence shown without censorship and appreciate independent movies definitely should watch this. Those who are seeking a comedy definitely should avoid this -- it is none. "},{"Title":"Cool Serial Killer Mockumentary","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" MAN BITES DOG is a very cool film. Shot in black-and-white in a documentary style - the film follows the exploits of a serial killer as he goes about his daily business. This film works on several levels horror film, documentary, dark comedy, exploitation film...this one just succeeds all-around.Some will be put-off by the subject matter and graphic depictions of violence and rape (especially in the Criterion un-cut DVD - watch out - there are chopped versions out there...), but those film-fans that are seeking out subversive cinema should definitely get a kick out of this one. Personally, the violence and rape depicted in MAN BITES DOG is not that over-the-top, and shouldn't be too offensive to viewers who dig this sort of stuff. Definitely recommended 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful and disturbing","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this as a child/teenager. I was around 16 years old at the time. It was around the same time American Psycho came out, and everyone read that, including me. I think such works of art are very powerful and disturbing and they have something to say about the horrible nihilism and absurdity we find ourselves in today. One could also compare with dark masterpieces such as Clive Barker´s Books of Blood and Hellraiser (this awesome and horrible tale of family relations gone wrong). Moreover, there are similarities to A Clockwork Orange.  Why are the young men so immoral and angry? Could it be that they are victims of something? Could it be a sign of our times? Certainly there´s never any indication that people like these, Bateman, the guy from Man Bites Dog and the main character in Clockwork, are abnormal in any way. It could be your own brother or neighbor. This is what is so truly disturbing and it is the fiction we find ourselves in today.  At my present age, I have grown weary of such victimization and would never watch a sadistic rape on screen again. However, I am truly grateful to have witnessed such dark truths.   "},{"Title":"Man Bites Dog (The R-rated version).","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Co-director Benoit Poelvoorde stars as Benoit Patard, a cheerful, obnoxious, name-dropping serial killer who seldom shuts up and considers robbing and murdering innocent people his job. A cameraman (co-director Andre Bonzel), a reporter (Remy Belvaux, yes another co-director) and a succession of boom operators who have a bad habit of getting shot, travel around with him documenting his killing spree. Ben, an aspiring poet and boxer, preys on easy targets (the elderly), looks inside a dead black victim's underwear to see if the old saying is true, stabs and shoots dozens of people on screen, belittles a teenager with acne, drinks, vomits and makes an old woman keel over with a heart attack by screaming at her. His family is too vapid to notice. His friends and the filmmakers don't seem to care, but offer up their help when bodies need disposed of. In one side-splitting moment of raw irony, the reporter busts into tears after a crew member is killed (nevermind the fact he's seen dozens of others brutally murdered!). Just like him, the violence doesn't seem to affect anyone in this film UNTIL it hits home.MAN BITES DOG is basically a satire on our increasing, voyeuristic fascination with violence and at times, don't be surprised if you find yourself wondering why exactly you're watching it OR why the filmmakers even bothered making it. It does has the perfect look and feel (grainy b/w 16MM, documentary-style hand held camera-work), the performances aren't bad (the cast and crew are interchangeable) and the violence is effectively disturbing, but this becomes overwhelming, irritating and redundant before it's all over with.My review refers to the unrated version (which runs 92 minutes) but an uncut, NC-17 version restores 3 minutes (including internal organs and a rape scene). In French with English subtitles.Another note I once talked movies with a Belgian man who knew all three of the directors and came to America to tour with Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds before opening his own bar in Cincinnati, Ohio and, interestingly enough, he said this film is one of the most acclaimed and admired films ever produced in his homeland. "},{"Title":"Laughs, while hearty at first, decline ...","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing about Man Bites Dog in various cinema discussion groups, I finally rented the movie about a year ago. I was in the foreign section of the video store, looking for My Life As A Dog, and being in the M's, noticed this picture. What a difference, eh?Much of the movie is interesting and humorous, particularly the early parts. Watching the filmmakers go from being tentative about hanging around the serial killer after work (not wanting to go out to eat with him) to slowly joining in the malaise is a nice bit, and some of the things in the movie are hilarious the astonished tone when Ben kills the security guard (the camouflage bit, although he's wearing a bright yellow jacket); Ben's stories about concealing victims in walls of buildings which are going to fall apart soon; Ben getting one-punched after bragging about being a prize fighter; and so on. It works ... for a while.The complete 180-turn following the drunken scene (Cinema!) to the couple's apartment was a shock to the system. The suffocation of the child also sent a chill (actually, that whole bit did, with the spastic mother and the man done in by porcelain). It got a little out of hand for me -- the comedic theme was lost upon me. I suppose the extent of the violence is supposed to be a send-up of violence in society and entertainment, but the way it was presented in the first hour was working fine. Why get heavy on us all of a sudden?All in all, a pretty good movie. I like the very end, with the film running out. Not for the faint of heart (duh), but a film I would recommend to lovers of film. Subtitles alone might drive others away before the violence itself! "},{"Title":"Benoit is great, sometimes.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a movie.  No other movie can make you laugh while your gut clenches with disgust.  Benoit is awesome in his portrayal of a serial killer.  He manipulates the camera well giving us a sense that he is in control. Could've done without the rape scene though.  I don't know why they put that in.  Other than that the movie was great, if it had been a half and hour shorter. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best black comedy I've ever seen, not because I'm from belgium. The mix of sadistic humor and excellent performance of belgiums best actor Benoit Poelvoorde makes this movie a classic. If you didn't see the movie yet then its time that you run to your videostore and buy it because you don4t have enough by watching it one's. You have to know that this movie was a school project from Benoit Poelvoorde and two other guys. The movie is full of crazy dialogues and raw footage and is shot with family from Benoit Poelvoorde and no professional cast at that time. THIS IS DIFFENETLY A MUST SEE for everyone that have enough of Hollywood movies. THIS IS IT !!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"How is it Mass-Murder has Become so Tedious?","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I honestly don't know what to make of this mockumentary.  It's very well-acted, and its use of amateur cinematography and gritty, relatively cheap film stock adds greatly to a chilling urban atmosphere, and it's certainly unsettling for a while (to say the least).  But by the end, problems with the concept caused me to lose all interest, and in retrospect, find the film rather distasteful.The acting is excellent; unlike other mockumentaries, where it is fairly obvious from the actor's mannerisms that all is scripted and just an act, the actors portraying the film crew stay in character the whole time and, speaking and interacting with each other in a totally nonchalant manner (they even give off vibes that they are rather bored in most discussion scenes, which isn't surprising, given that compared to the excitement of filming murders, anything else must be excruciatingly tedious and dull), giving the impression that maybe it really is just a group of friends shooting a documentary project for film school.  The film builds greatly on this excellent acting (and makes it still harder to tell this from a real documentary) by having most (if not all) of the characters share the real first name of the actors playing them, a subtle but effective touch.This film also features one of the best urban atmospheres I've ever seen. The black-and-white, low quality film used for shooting adds greatly to the run-down, sleazy apartments, streets, and hideouts most of the film is set in, and even gives traditionally good-natured places such as the suburbs and a fancy restaurant hints of darkness.  It also makes the film more convincing as a real documentary, as such low-budget production is all real students are likely able to afford.  The camera-work, though still amateur, is rock-steady; unlike the dizzying mess of The Blair Witch Project (which, in comparison, is such a poor attempt at copying the style and other aspects of this film), it is only really unstable and shaky during scenes when the crew is in hasty retreat after being shot at.  This film is almost totally indiscernible from a real documentary of a heartless mass murderer.Which is what troubles me about this film, which is that most of it is just senseless violence on random people.  Now, I watch a lot of silly horror and action movies, so its not the fact that its senseless violence that bothers me, its that the senseless violence seems to be the only focus of the crew's documentary.  The crew just stands by, silently watching and filming, not even stopping when members of their own crew, their friends, are shot in the crossfire.  They are quite used to it, and, after seeing a myriad of people remorselessly dispatched of within an hour, so are we (this rapid desensitization to the killings is more disturbing than the actual killings themselves).  However, Remy, the interviewer and leader of crew, makes no effort to explain why they are making the film, nor even attempts to ask Benoit any deep, relevant, or serious moral questions.  The film is an endless cycle of him killing someone, robbing them, bragging about it, and then going on a political or racist rant.  After about 30 minutes, one hates the characters so much (Benoit for being so uncaring only because he is such a shallow bigot, and Remy for not trying to bring any conflict, thought or message into the documentary) that they start wishing for one character to come to his senses and turn off the camera and walk away so it will end.What I truly don't understand about this film though, is why it is labeled as a comedy.  I have a pretty deranged sense of humor, but I didn't find any of it funny at all, just mildly disturbing and a little ironic, then boring. It didn't take long for me to begin wishing for the film to end the way it did, and I'm glad it did, when it did.  This film has highly effective mood and atmosphere, excellent acting, and an intriguing concept (all of which I really wanted to like), but the characters' total lack of humanity kills what makes the concept (in my opinion, to execute this concept well would require at least a substory of a moral conflict between one or more members of the crew and Ben or Remy) so interesting. "},{"Title":"Terrific little comedy","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mock doco about an affable serial killer.I'm not sure it intended to say anything deep about the role of the media (gimme a break), but it does say something about its makersThey have a sharp, ballsy sense of humor.Much of the material here is fairly repugnant from certain points of view, but it's funny because of its refusal to walk the politically correct line.Mirroring most real docos, the camera does more than record its subject, it becomes a participant -- in this case, the camera crew act as look-out for the killer.The performances are of a high standard and the black and white photography suits the style.One scene, in which the film crew line up to rape an old lady, is cut in some countries.Overall, a terrific little comedy that makes me glad cinema exists.Some will disagree, so form your own line.  "}{"Title":"Oh yeah?","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One thing I really resent about this noxious film is the element of justification it purports to carry which is little more than intellectual blackmail, and which some commentators have alluded to. Because I paid money to see this film, (solely because of the reviews it got), I resent then the implication that by doing so I am either a voyeur or a fellow-traveller in the violence and cruelty depicted. Had I got up and walked out, no doubt I'd have been called a prude or my exit regarded as moral panic, and, by not having seen the whole film to the end it would be argued (with reason) that I would therefore be unqualified to comment... the no-win situation so beloved of those who have an answer for everything! Certainly, there is no question of banning this film for adults, in fact it is a useful artifact to show just how desensitized and decadent Western culture has become in part. And yet, that same society (in Britain at least) bans the depiction on television of abortion procedures, and carefully filters out graphic scenes of real carnage. But when it is claimed to be part of the solution rather than part of the problem, then I have to dissent from the mainstream opinion regarding this movie, and take issue with such arrogrance. What is funny about seeing a child murdered, or a woman raped and then disembowelled? Isn't this reaction precisely the mind-set that perpetrates so many war time atrocities? That rather than allow ourselves to be swamped with revulsion and self-loathing at our propensity for barbarism, we have to transmogrify it into some sort of giggle - a lark, a bit of fun, or, god help us, sport? If this odious and squalid little piece of artistic pretension HADN'T revolted and nauseated me, then I'd be truly worried. As it is, it has a kind of schoolboyish feverishness about it, like trying to see who can next come up with the most shocking anecdote, or see who can pee the highest up the wall. Crude and cruel, it at least parades its scabs with some sort of attitude. And possibly that's what worries me most. However, just to try and be truly balanced, maybe, just maybe, the film-makers were in fact creating a double bluff just to test and examine how far a parade of unremittingly cruel images might find intellectual champions in today's society! Remember, the film as auteur concept originated as a scam! "},{"Title":"Comedy has rarely ever been so black","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog is a mockumentary about a serial killer called Ben. He is followed around by a small film crew who film his every move. As the story progresses, even the crew become more and more directly involved with the murders they document.This is surely one of the most extreme comedies ever made. The humour is pitch black but still very amusing. Ben is a character of extremes. One the one hand charismatic and intelligent, forever spouting poetry, while never shy in giving forth his views on all manner of social issues. On the other hand he is a vicious sociopath, who not only kills a huge number of people but instigates a gang rape and the murder of a child. By any true measure he is a vile character, but the film doesn't let the audience off in the normal way here. Where ordinarily such a person would be depicted as being irrevocably evil, by making Ben so entertaining and likable we are drawn into his madness and are left viewing brutal acts with a measure of indifference at times. The film purposefully asks us to question why we enjoy watching such things. Admittedly for most people there will be moments here that are too much.Benoît Poelvoorde is quite brilliant in the central role as Ben. It's a difficult performance to pull off so well, but he is successful in doing so. He handles both the nastiness and comic moments equally well. For this film is certainly a very funny one as well as being relentlessly vicious. It's a humour of an extremely dark kind though. Scenes such as inappropriately-timed pigeon poetry recitals or the awkward moment where Ben shoots a guest at the dinner table - don't you just hate when that happens? &#x96; are uproariously funny. Man Bites Dog is a one-of-a-kind film that combines extreme violence, black comedy and social satire into the framework of the mockumentary. It remains a terrifically original and clever piece of work. It goes without saying it is not for everyone though. "},{"Title":"An Intelligent  Black Comedy Masterpiece, denouncing our hypocritical approach to Violence ...","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most violent movies ever made, the documentary-like shooting makes it all the more gripping, and the black humor even more disturbing. Remy Belvaux's Man Bites Dog doesn't reach the level of violence of Cannibal Holocaust but is more intense and powerful because the setting and the atmosphere of the film are ordinary  an everyday life in an average town, that could be mine or yours. In fact, the literal translation of the original title is It Happened in Your Neighborhood. Basically, whatever happens in this film can happen to you. In such a random way that fear is useless, and such ruthlessness, it's scarily democratic.The movie follows Remy Belvaux and his friends, a crew of young wannabe film-makers shooting a documentary about the life of a ... guess what? A serial-killer, named Ben as an allusion to the main actor's name  Benoit Poeelvorde. Why not? The movie is from Belgium, not a hazard since the country was famous in the francophone world for a TV documentary named Strip-Tease which followed the everyday life of a person, a community, or a group of people, in their jobs, lives, or specific activities. The movie is a parody shot in black and white. The main protagonist kills for reasons, basically money and revenge, never fun or pleasure, though he seems to enjoy it sometimes. He puts so much perfectionism in his acts  how to correctly ballast a dead body to prevent it from floating in the river? or to spare some bullets by freaking out a poor granny with a heart condition? Ben, the killer, is a delight to watch, and we, as viewers, are put in the same position as the crew, we observe, follow, listen to his speeches, and amusing anecdotes. The act of killing becomes almost banal. And the feeling is so real, we even stop at one point, early in the film, to question the morbid nature of his job.Indeed, the character is so sympathetic, so colorful, we really enjoy watching him working, just because it's so damn funny despite the realism. How did the film manage to make us laugh at such cruel acts? In one word genius. Every single element makes the movie work  the writing is clever and subtly cynical, the acting of Poelvorde is what I consider one of the greatest male performances ever, his interactions with the crew are priceless, the situations are funny and the violence exaggeratedly graphic. This guy is one of the most unforgettable characters ever, he's flamboyant, friendly, educated, exuberant, he loves his family, yet all the charisma he brings out to the character is nothing else like his sadistic mercilessness and immorality when it comes to killing. This man is a professional with no limits, no morals, no taboos. The fact that we laugh to this violence is a credit to the talent of the actor, and the genius of the film. His racist, macho, and sometimes xenophobic comments are offensive but hilarious, they're almost objectively hilarious. And if we can't not laugh, because that would imply we are offended by dialogs more than violence? Besides, the movie doesn't make any segregation every social, racial or demographic category is targeted. So, are we supposed to be shocked only by the violence that is against us? The movie highlights our hypocritical approach to violence by condemning only the aspect that touches us.In fact, the movie doesn't desensitize us, but makes us realize how desensitized we already are. We can't help but feel empathic to Ben because he's the main character, and his background makes him even more sympathetic. The documentary-like shooting made it as far as showing his real mother and grand-parents, a lovable family who didn't know about Ben's activities. He also has friends, who like and care for him. Yes, we fear Ben but are charmed by his bonhomie at the same time. His crimes, as brutal and gruesome as they are, are watched in a very tolerant mindset. After all, aren't antiheroes cool? Isn't the act of killing a man so common now that we don't even care? Wouldn't we enjoy being Bruce Willis or Arnie's sidekick in a film &#x85; this level of empathy inspired by cool or sympathetic character is illustrated in one moment of the film when the crew joins Ben in his activities. It's a clever but predictable turn of events that highlights how inclined we are to feel sympathy for villainous characters, which lead me to the most important point. The movie brilliantly reveals the darkest side or our human sadistic nature, because in one scene, it reaches such a level of violence than we stop finding cool. The movie breaks its point, the charm ends, and the horror finally appears. At this point, we feel guilty for having enjoyed the film. In the final Act, the Black Comedy is dethroned by a very dark climax. It's dark but necessary, because it's cathartic. Violence is not cool, nor fun. I felt guilty at the end, and this is one of the few violent films that made me feel that way.Man Bites Dog is an offensive, brutal, violent, sometimes unwatchable, but most of the time hilarious, masterpiece of Black Comedy, working like a clever mix of Henry the Portrait of a Serial Killer and This is Spinal Tap. It features one of the funniest scenes you'll ever see, with a clever use of meta-humor. A movie I recommend to watch, especially in those days, where violence and humiliations became so banal, we don't even care, where the multiplication of TV reality shows and voyeurism fed a kind of sadistic pleasure to watch people suffer.The movie will make you question your own morality. Sadly, it's a movie both loved and hated for the wrong reasons &#x85; Man Bites Dog a misunderstood intelligent masterpiece. "},{"Title":"I Get It, Well Made, But Too Disturbing For Me","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***WARNING MILD SPOILERS***I'll forgo any plot synopsis as you've probably read a million of them in the 100+ reviews here. I'll just give my personal opinion of the movie.The premise is ingenious. A fake documentary following a serial killer, which causes the crew to get caught up in the killing and debauchery. Performances were great and believable, and the dialog and some scenes were funny.But this film was too disturbing for me. Once it hit the rape scene, I had to turn it off. The killing was tough too, but I have a hard time with rape scenes in movies and this one was just too gleefully unapologetic. I understand that satires are supposed to make us cry and laugh at the same time, teaching us in disturbing and unflinching ways. This hit all the right marks, but the NC-17 (on unrated) rating is well deserved. If you have a hard time with violence and cruelty directed toward innocent people, even with an understanding that it is fictional, I recommend not seeing this film. "},{"Title":"They already have a gun","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This review is based on the uncut European version, which I definitely suggest you go for, as well, as apparently otherwise, vital portions are removed. When you leave the sphere of what is Hollywood and mainstream, you sometimes find something very interesting and different. It challenges you. This is a case of that. The form isn't the typical approach for a feature; we aren't witnessing something clearly constructed for the purposes of entertainment. Instead, this is a mock-documentary(a couple of people are portraying themselves). A crew is following a serial killer, as he goes about his days. He talks about art, culture and social problems... and murders people. Like A Clockwork Orange and the Spanish Tésis, this treats the issue of society's and the media's addiction to violence and the subject of voyeurism. It can be debated if its frequent and arguably gratuitous depiction of strong, disgusting, disturbing and outright sadistic bloodletting, gore(some of the most unpleasant ever committed to film), rape and nudity is this falling into the trap it seeks to discuss. Are we meant to be drawn in and then realize its truth, or be repulsed and feel bad for our moments of sympathy towards the largely despicable lead? The acting is convincing at worst and excellent at best. This is partly a character study of Ben. He is charismatic and intelligent; he can recite poetry and play with heart, but at the same time be callous and cold in his scientific description of his craft. The hand-held camera refuses to let us distance ourselves from what we are witnessing. It comes off very authentic and natural. There is philosophy and food for thought in this. It is shocking from mere seconds in. This is satirical, if not necessarily funny even if taken as a pitch-black comedy. The dialog and lines are well-written. This doesn't have an awful lot of plot; there isn't meant to be. I recommend this to anyone looking for solid commentary. 8/10 "},{"Title":"We'll never have enough","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A crew of filmmakers follow around a serial killer, recording his crimes and grotesquely candid commentary for a documentary they are producing. At first dispassionate observers, they find themselves caught up in the chaotic violence which basically sums up the synopsis which I found on wiki. It's basically a serial killer psychology that show how to pick, track and easily victimize. The film also shows the killer deal with emotions and to forget, while also showing how he disposes the victims bodies. He analyzes failed attempts but celebrates on his successes, even talks about child victims and kidnapping- which is just the tools of the trade. This film also includes dark and off beat humor with a indifferent view on violence...Random violence with an almost comedic return to normality. Most people will see this movie and like it quite a bit, including me. This was a solid spot on film that is also disturbing, I liked how the movie goes in a hand held perspective which makes you feel like your hanging out with him and you sort of get taken in by his personality cause he is somewhat charismatic. At first the movie starts off a bit comedic but gradually it starts to get disturbing especially when you see the film crew become who like the main serial killer in the movie. If you watch the unedited version, there is a rape scene that is pretty messed up and maybe crazy to watch and may catch you off guard cause the killer starts to show his really brutal side. I don't usually like the hand held perspective types of movie but this film does it right to the point emotionally involved.8.4/10 "},{"Title":"Brutal horror/thriller with enough comedy to keep it light","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A camera crew follows a serial killer/thief around as he exercises his craft. He expounds on art, music, nature, society, and life as he offs mailmen, pensioners, and random people. Slowly he begins involving the camera crew in his activities, and they begin wondering if what they're doing is such a good idea, particularly when the killer kills a rival and the rival's brother sends a threatening letter.To get an idea about this film, think a nasty combination of 'Behind the Mask The Rise of Leslie Vernon' and 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer.' 'Man Bites Dog' is a very, very dark comedy that is equal amounts humorous and horrifying. One second you'll be snickering at the latest escapades of the crew, and the next you'll be coiling in disgust as a person is viciously raped or murdered. Overall, while it is a comedy at its roots, it should not be taken as lightly as some.Final verdict 8/10. Très bon-AP3- "},{"Title":"Cinema!!! Cinema!!! Cinema!!!","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ben is a very intelligent person, who likes to play the piano, talk about films, write poetry, talk with his friends and family but also he is a serial killer. With a film crew made by other 3 guys, they start making a film about the murderers of Ben and later the crew start to participate in the murderers.This is the main plot of this strange and unique Belgian film made by 3 young film students Rémy Belvaux, André Bonzel and Benoit Poelvoorde. The only thing that this guys want is to make a film without any money, and just like the characters in the film, they were desperate for make a film. An for me this film is about film-making but some people said that was an exploitation film because all the disturbing scenes, but as the directors said, the main character is a killer but he could be a door to door salesman because the point was to make a film without money about a crew that is also making a film without money. And for me that is the most valuable thing of this film, that they create such a unique film just with their talent.And of course i have to mention that the performance of Benoit Poelvoorde as Ben is nothing but excellent and also i love a lot of scenes in which we can see the personality of Ben. The most amazing and disturbing apart from the rape, is the one in Ben's birthday party when he shot one of his friends and nobody could make anything because of their fear to Ben. Also a lot of his dialogs are very good and surprising funny.Conclusion this is such a unique and strange film that have a big impact when it was released in 1992 at the Cannes Film Festival, where it won the International Crtitic's Prize and by now is one of the most influential films of Belgium, just watch the English film The Last Horror Movie (2003) which takes the subject of a film about a serial killer but with elements of an horror film; i highly recommend that film also. So Man Bites Dog is a great film that is highly recommendable, mostly for true cinema lovers. 9 out of 10DVD i receive for Christmas this DVD , that is the number 165 of the Criterion Collection. Is just great as the film, contains an interview with the filmmakers, Pas de C4 pour Daniel Daniel that is a 13 minutes short film by same filmmakers, an essay by André Bonzel and the most important thing the quality of the DVD is excellent; also is the unique DVD available in America. "},{"Title":"Brilliant but unsettling","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSMock documentary of a camera crew following around and filming the crimes of a vicious serial killer (Benot Poelvoorde).  The violence is very graphic and in full view. The camera crew just films at the beginning--then they start joining in. It all culminates in a truly revolting multiple rape and murder sequence.This film can be viewed as a very extreme joke filled with black humor; a comment on violence and society or a VERY sick exploitation film. I saw this 10 years ago in an almost empty art cinema.  It sickened me, (in a way) entertained me and, surprisingly, made me laugh.  I was surprised to find myself laughing out loud at some of the jokes in the film (e.g. at one point they run into another camera crew following another serial killer!).  It also made me think about violence and its role in society and how it affects other people.  The graphic violence is needed to get the point across--still, this is not for people who have weak stomaches.So, if you can take it, it's well worth seeing.  Try to catch the uncut NC-17 rated version. "},{"Title":"Vive Benoit Poelvoorde !!!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is definitively the funniest and the most violent movies ever made. People who have seen this movie like all gangster movies  can't understand it. If you've liked this movie, you'll probably love Dobermann, still more violent... "}{"Title":"Just sit back and enjoy it for what it's worth","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This flick is for those who can laugh. Not for the squeemish! Don't take it to serious! It's an interesting story (a documentary within a movie). Well done.  Definitely worth an overnight, or more, rental. Repeated viewings recommended.  A nice companion flick for a double feature is Series 7, The Contenders. "},{"Title":"Mine will be a complimentary comment","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And here's why First, the guy loves to hear himself talk, which makes it a more realistic film. If a murderer will accept to be filmed, he must love himself. The humor, the realism of the murder scenes, the interaction between him and the camera crew, everything has been well thought of. I saw this movie for the first time in theater, twenty people in the theater, not one wasn't laughing, or mesmerized by the scenes. They all left silent, unable to speak. That's when you know you saw a great movie. "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the best mockumentary I have ever seen.  I thought it was great how the film crew became involved too, almost sympathizing for the actor.  The acting is near as brilliant as I've seen..in the likes of Kevin Spacey and Roberto Benigni.  This movie has the feel of Natural Born Killers and The Blair Witch project combined.  A work of art. "},{"Title":"Dastardly villain...","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For many years, now, I've been touting foreign films as the adult alternative to much of what's being cranked out in this country. MAN BITES DOG, while certainly not a typical foreign film, goes a long way toward pointing up the difference between what adults find funny and what people weaned on television consider comedy. The dastardly villain who is the focus of the film- so to speak- has much more in common with the cardboard characters usually found in American movies than those typical of most foreign films, but that's one of the movie's strengths. He's heartless, and amoral, and could be viewed (if one so chose) as a typical tourist type. (Certainly, there's no more bloodthirsty nation of filmgoers than Americans. HANNIBAL- among far too many movies, of late- would tend to bear this out we've devolved to the point of the cannibal serial killer as hero.) Years ago, MAN BITES DOG struck me as biting satire; looking back, it's simply prophetic.   "},{"Title":"one of the funniest parodies I have ever seen","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite alltime movies, which sucks because it is so hard to find. I watched it a few years ago when a friend of mine rented it. We watched it 3 or 4 times before he had to return it because it is that funny. It is a parody of documentaries done on serial killers and is very well done. I hope that it will be available in the USA on DVD soon because, as far as I am concerned, it is a must have.  "},{"Title":"Violence as art or art as violence?","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film in 1993 and I've continued to enjoy it since. I think when we're looking for some kind of pay-off in a film like this we are missing the point (and I would argue anyway that art is not obligated to offer an easily recognized point). What could the pay-off be? We're drawn in by the charisma of the killer and yet repulsed by his violence. Though we've all been trained by Hollywood to look for redemption it just isn't going to happen. I think those who see the film as lacking a `point' are simply unsatisfied with some of the film's unusual assumptions. For example, the hero, Benoit, is an essentially flawed character whose charisma is juxtaposed with his cruelty. He has no real adversary (except maybe the audience). If we're looking for commentary on violence in film, we can see first the documentary filmmakers are drawn to Benoit because of his violence. A common assumption is that violence makes for a more exciting film (of course, the film crew is naïve and idiotic and this assumption is probably arrived at by noting the public interest in violence on TV news and the popularization of violence in film). But the kind of violence we see in Man Bites Dog is gruesome and cruel, senseless even. It has no point unless seen as a reaction to the popularity of violence in film, and perhaps, as a reaction to dualistic thinking. Also, that the film crew is involved with the violence suggests the complicity of filmmakers everywhere whose films rely on violence.Violence in most films is justified with morality. The `good guy' resorts to violence for the `greater good'. But in this film the veils of morality are stripped away and the popular assumption that the character's virtue will prevail because he is on the `good' side is subverted. There is no struggle between good and evil, and so at the end of the film we're left with the stark reality of violence, that there is no point to violence and that what you should get from films that dwell on violence is that violence is truly horrific. Anyone who's experienced real violence will understand the sense of emptiness it creates. Also, the contradiction of using violence to undermine violence works in the same way the seat belt campaigns use violent car wrecks to shock people into wearing their seatbelts. It's meant to catch the viewer's attention. Maybe some folks who are turned on to popular film violence will get a wake up call by watching this film. But more than simply moralizing, I think the film wants us to question how we've been exposed to violence and how we justify violence.Having recently seen Memento, I would have to put it in the same category as Man Bites Dog. There is no traditional `point' to that film either. It's actually quite scary to think that so many of us see a film as failing when it doesn't offer the conclusions we expect. After all, life is much more ambiguous than the way we usually package it in film, history and fiction. "},{"Title":"fabulous as well as shocking","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is breathtaking in two ways. Interesting and shocking. People often blamed the makers that they used the investigation of our tolerance for violence as an excuse to show us as much as possible... To the question about the makers integrity and their meanings, one can actually find no reasonable answer, but personally I am willing to give them the benefit of the doubt.  If you agree that their intentions were right, then this is a very good film, very cruel en very funny at the same time. The audience is manipulated in a majestic way and even starts to feel some sort of sympathy for the socio-pathic killer. You even start hoping he actually does not get caught; this is done in a very cunning way and thus makes it sort of worrying...but once every while it's good to be worried, so, if you can stand it, SEE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"Euro-Disney of psychotic tendencies","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you were breath-taken by Natural Born Killers then you'll be quadraplegic by the end of this one!  Though it is all in French there are subtitles at the bottom for English.  But if you want, you don't even have to look at the bloody subtitles, the movie is still hype!  This is an incredibly artistic movie!  The main character is hilariously calm, poetic, and enthusiastic while doing the most psychotic things.  I really can't say much about this movie, except that you better go and get it.  Though the subject is dark humor it does not seem dark at all!  It is dreadfully interesting and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Violence has never been more funny","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A fake documentary about a camera crew following a killer!  This movie has everything blood, guts, swearing, slaughter of all innocent people and it's funny as all hell!  Everyone's performance is flawless, & it comes across so real.  So if your in the mood for a ruthlessly violent comedy, this is the one.   "},{"Title":"Connection to The Blair Witch Project!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw an immediate connection between The Blair Witch Project and Man Bites Dog and David Holzman's Diary (1968) yet the mention of these two films is curiously missing from the media reports about the surprising original summer blockbuster.For me, all three films have in common moments of absolute boredom where nothing seems to be happening and you want out. However, there is also a fascination with how far the film makers can go with this very limited form where the audience only sees what the acknowledged camera can see.  Since the characters in the film are aware of the camera the ordinary conventions of film stop working. The feel of future or a neverland quality in Man Bites Dog distanced me so that I never felt the reality that this type of film making is supposed to have.  Blair Witch does a better job but distanced me by not presenting the footage in a form that a real documentary about lost film students would  "}{"Title":"Quite pointless.","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" And yet again here is a movie that everybody seems to love but I just couldn't care less about. I appreciate it for its originality and the way it got shot and done but other than that I got nothing out of this movie at all.It's supposed to be a fake documentary, or rather said mockumentary, in which a camera-crew follows the everyday and normal life and work of a serial killer. I'll admit, this premise sounds quite awesome and potentially interesting but the movie doesn't take a too good approach on it.Perhaps I would had liked it better if this movie indeed was a realistic looking and feeling one but the situations, events, characters and all of their responses to things are so over-the-top and ridicules that you can't take this movie ever serious as a realistic one. Therefore I also really had no feelings toward this movie at all and couldn't care less for any of its characters or message it tried to send out.And that brings me to the message of the movie. I really have still no idea what the film-makers were trying to tell exactly. What was the point of this movie? Guess it tries to make a point about violence and how we consider it to be almost normal in this present time but even if the movie tried to make a point about this, it did a poor job at it.There are similar sort of movies that do a far better job at this and besides give us a better look into the life and mind of a serial killer. I'm talking about movies such as Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer and Schramm. Still I really couldn't hate this movie, since I surely still appreciate it for its originality and style. It's shot documentary style and in black & white, which makes the movie visually still a great experience. Guess it also helps that the movie had many different directors involved behind the cameras, so that the movie feels different in style and tone at times.It's being quite straightforward with its violence, which is one of the reasons why some people consider this movie to be a very shocking or even disturbing one. But again, a problem I had with all of its violence and graphic stuff was that it all felt so over-the-top and far from realistic. And also, I just didn't see the point of it all, in the context of the movie its story and message that it tried to send out.Seems that this is case of you'll either love or hate this movie. And even though I could still appreciate the movie in some ways, I'll guess you'll have to put me on the hate side.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"What makes a film bizarre  Is it our fascination for violence or grossness of life ?","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is very rare in the history of Belgian cinema that such an abrasive film was made by three broke youngsters who cast their own family members in their film.To begin let us have a word about this film's titles.Let us assume that when one considers an apt title like Man bites dog it should be made clear that it is a very rare happening.It can mean that men are doing things which were formerly done by the animals.There are too many of such grotesque happenings in this film.If we choose It happened near your place to be a far more superior title then we are to be blamed for not having paid any attention to all the grossness which was happening around us over a long time.What the film is all about is difficult to decide as it is an assault against women,children,old people and homosexuals.Its strangeness comes from the fact that although it has adopted a tough stance against depiction of morbid violence there is additional visual violence in the form of a television crew shooting violent scenes.This film has got many supports one of which is famous American actor Steve Buscemi. "},{"Title":"A strong film, a strong opinion on our world","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man bites dog is obviously a strong film. It compares to Trainspotting and is the offspring of The running man. It should be taken for what it is a spoof reality TV show where the authors take a strong stand against violence in the media and voyeurism on TV.Because there is absolutely no room left for spoof, the fake documentary reproduces the techniques of reality TV - and apart from the subject, could well be. Benoit Poelvoorde and AA go very far, show how violence and its depiction have invaded our everyday life, to the point where (as another user comments) you are just unaffected by the next and then the next crime. The issue of what the media do by being there, the 15 minutes of fame, and how just watching is enough to be part of it.It is not a movie for kids, but for adults who are ready to accept that this film has a message, a strong message, about our society and a vice worse than alcohol or possibly even drugs, all very legal and delivered free and anonymous to your home. Turning you into a peeping tom for others' feelings, experiences, lives.In many ways it rings the bell like The running man so many years ago. Since then Big Brother and al. has pervaded - perverted - our TV the way we were afraid it could happen. The bell is ringing. The bell is ringing. Hardly anybody hears it. What do the years to come have in store? How could we escape it? "},{"Title":"Dog Bitten, film at 11","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Granted, I saw a cut version of the film, but gang rapes aside - this is what NATURAL BORN KILLERS should have been with a fraction of the budget. The THIS IS SPINAL TAP of spree killer films has the kind of black humor we internet-jaded people have come to know and love, but here's the twist - it was made in 1992! Way ahead of the curve on cultural morbidity.Yes, Ben's a bastard - and a wee bit daft considering he calls the Italians small time. But you have to bear in mind that literature and art aren't always mimetic. Only an idiot would view these as imitable acts - this is an escapist substitute to reality, not unlike your GRAND THEFT AUTOs and such. That's not to say it's completely amoral, because there are always bigger bastards out there to make a small fry out of any so-called bad-ass - *spoiler* THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT totally stole the ending from this. *end spoiler*So, bite your tongue on the moral criticism, sit back, and watch the poet manqué cum sociopath do his stuff. Save the real outrage for when something like this actually happens. And it's Belgian too, so you can brag you saw a film with subtitles and act cultured.~Ray "},{"Title":"Simple, controversial documentary gone wrong","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was told about this film after viewing Ichi The Killer and Irreversiblé (spelling?) as a great movie to check out when it deals with shocking, artful desecration of mortality. I just saw it for the first time, and it was better than a mere violent film; with cinematography that intense and acting as good as it was for all actors involved, it is surprising that more people haven't been talking about it as a must-see film.For an American viewer, I could tell as I watched my roommates get lulled into sleep by the wash of the French language which abounds this film, and for me, it was fine. It took nothing away from the strange future that could be had by this stoic career-killer. There was a lack of music of any kind, but the sound-direction (the idea seems like an after-thought in most films today) when, for example, the sound man gets shot, and the boom mic goes down with him, is a great example of what strengths this director and the movie's cast had.A little bit Blair Witch, a little bit American Psycho...even though neither of them came out at the time this film hit the Cannes Film Festival for its awards.I gave it a fair 7 out of 10 stars. Had my viewing taste been more patient and more magnetic towards the screen and the character's every move, I would bump this up to an 8. (Who knows? I may change my vote altogether with a second viewing) Must see! "},{"Title":"Man Bites Dog is bloody amazing","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Benoît Poelvoorde plays a mass-murder called Ben, he kills people without motive and does it for fun! A documentary film crew finds out about his hobby, and rather than turning him in, they decide to make a documentary film on him. The film crew joins him and at times they even help him! Man Bites Dog is a spoof of the documentary genre, can also been seen as a spoof of mass murder and slasher films. Actually the brilliant mocumentary This is Spinal Tap is pretty much the same thing, but here we follow a mass murder instead of a rock band. I consider myself as a fan of this weird genre, and Man Bites Dog is one of the best. It's a macabre film, not everyone will like what they see. The jokes are as dark as comedy can be, and I love it, Man Bites Dog is absolutely hilarious. "},{"Title":"point of view from Belgium.","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Totally amateur film. Best seen if you are french speaking. Accent from Namur is so amusing. Banoit Poelvorde was discovered on this film and made a lot of other films afterward. This a cult film for french speaking guys especially in Belgium. Many cannot imagine how much. Many quotes of this film will be used for years. So funny at the beginning and finishing very hard. But I believe most versions are not complete, because some scenes are very hard like the one of the child being suffocated that I heard was cut in some countries. Merits a 10 in original version because of the delightful (and real) accent that cannot be reproduced. However I understand older people wont like it. View it if your 18, it's a must.gamin, reviens gamin, c'est une blague. "},{"Title":"Granny Snuff, ever been snuffed out?  - Benoit","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is extremely rare when I come across a film as warped, demented but so strikingly brilliant as the Belgian-made French-spoke indie-cult phenomenon 'Man Bites Dog'. It's set in a faux-documentary style (much like This is Spinal Tap or Best in Show). It follows a bunch of young twenty-something filmmakers following around a homicidal maniac around the streets of Belgium. From strangling tourists with piano wire to giving elderly ladies fatal heart attacks for fun, the eager camera crew follows crazed killer, Benoit (or Benny), around town, but manages to loose some of the crew too. 'Man Bites Dog' has to be one of the most revolting and disturbing yet one of the most hilarious flicks I've ever gazed my eyes upon. There are scenes in the film (including the smothering of a ten-year old boy or the brutal rape of a innocent woman) that are turned into being kind of funny by the marvelous but so goddamn depraved filmmakers of 'Man Bites Dog', Remy Belvaux, Andre Bonzel and Benoit Poelvoorde (who portrays the role of the serial killer Benoit). Okay, so I found the rape to be the only really non-funny just terrifying scene in the film, but the smothering of the ten-year old boy while mean-spirited and horrific was pure comic gold the way it was presented. The acting in the film is actually quite good since it's mostly coming from amateurs -- Benoit Poelvoorde was so utterly fabulous in his role that he should have picked up Independent Spirit Nom for Best Lead Actor. The only complaint I had about the film is the last half-hour wasn't nearly as innovative or engrossing as the first hour, and the sound/picture quality flat-out sucks. But hey, it's a foreign indie, what do you expect the film quality to be? If you can get past these few flaws, I think 'Man Bites Dog' is overall quite a find. 'Man Bites Dog' got acclaim, but didn't win much awards. That's a damn shame, but it did get released in the same year as other brilliant films such as 'Reservoir Dogs', 'Unforgiven' and 'The Crying Game'. I could only recommend 'Man Bites Dog' if you have a very high tolerance for violence and atrocity and have a significantly twisted sense of humor like myself. Don't expect to see this on many top 250 lists, but you can sure as hell find it on mine. Grade B+MADE MY TOP 250 LIST AT # 231 "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of dark humor","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hate me if you like, but I loved it. It's so wrong, so dark and so funny. Those three cinema students that made this movie are doing a similar job than Miike's Bizita Q. Where will you go just to watch, just to see what is going to happen? Are you addicted to image? Remy, Andre and Benoit are pushing back the edge of bad taste with this mockumentary of a serial killer. Extremely grim and mean movie about Ben, a serial killer who calmly enjoys what he's doing. Lots of horrible image and lots of twisted but funny ideas from the directors. It's a dedramatization of the unbearable. Ben is doing it all, he even kills a kid, trying to explain how he hates to kill children for the uselessness of the thing.Like Bizita Q , Man Bites Dog is asking for a courageous viewer. It's questioning society and most important it's questioning YOU, the viewer, the one who's watching it. It's extremely cold. Sensitive people, pass your way, because you won't sleep for days. "},{"Title":"LOGICAL CONTROVERSY","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  MINOR POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADI'm aware of many people disapproving of, and even hating, this movie for being so utterly black, controversial and repugnant. I understand such reactions but I don't share them. I neither liked nor disliked this movie. For me, it's just one of many. I admit that, while  watching 'Man Bites Dog' for the first time without prior knowledge about it, I did not expect the child murder scene or the repulsive rape scene but they seemed to be - and don't get me wrong here - logical in terms, and ONLY in terms, of making a cheap movie!!! How many modern movies do you know that were filmed in black and white? On a minimum scale with almost no budget? With a handheld camera? With no famous actors? Face it, this movie needed or even depended on some shocking and disturbing scenes. And the louder people complain about a movie the more they are likely to induce others to watch it. Nobody would even know about the existence of this movie if it wasn't for the controversial content.My guess is that one day there will be another film of that category and it will cross another certain line. It will present us with even more disgusting images and spark more controversy. And after a time there will be yet another film to shock us even more and then... (etc.)That's the circle of film evolution. Accept it. You can't change it, and if you genuinely believe you can, then do something...  "}{"Title":"black humour. belgian. second degree +++!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  if you don't want to be chocked, prepare your second degree humour sense. (especially for the rape scene, which goes maybe a little to far). i appreciated a lot, and i see this movie four times (my maximum, exception made for star wars). note that the main actor is now a star in france (very rare for a belgian... who has the brussels' accent!). unique! but i don't know if one can enjoy of all the aspects of the film if it is subtitled. "},{"Title":"Good overall","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Leave it to the French to put out some of the most disturbing films of the last 10 years.   This is one of the first in a now long line of artsploitation from our fallen continental allie.   The premise of this film is great and predates a lot of the lesser mockumentaries that are being churned out by the scores at the moment. Poelvoorde is perfect as the frightening, funny serial killer who invites the documentary team to follow his exploits.  The film loses some focus about midway through, as if it's already said everything it wants to and then we are subjected to a lengthy downfall of the character.  That said,  MAN BITES DOG still has more teeth than a hundred HANIBAL's.  "},{"Title":"wow. what was that!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who is sicker? The character on screen or the guy who came up with the idea!? That's some serious disease!! Like some killer fungus spreading across your brain down the spine!! The mold is all over your nerves! This movie compares the intrusive, obnoxious, I'm-free-to-do-whatever-I-want-ness of a serial killer with that of a film crew trying to make a film out of him. Let me tell you, people ran out of the screening room like chickens! Too much momentum, too wild, too bad the ending winded where it did. It gives the illusion that the burden on the character translates to its actors' and story's tire of themselves and the characters. I want to believe this wasn't an inevitable cop out for future movies, this type of ending has been played too much. Much better than 15 minutes though. If you are going to watch that movie, think of this Robert DeNiro is in that movie. There are three ways a star that big co-stars with pretty boy Eddie Burns in a movie like that he does The Rookie's Clint Eastwood, Highlander series' Sean Connery, or Seven's Morgan Freeman. So there you know, it only takes three guesses. In Man Bites Dog, there is no such warranty, there is no such safe way out. You don't have a Heather Graham bitching that she won't do a Elizabeth Hurley in the next Austin Powers. One moment you're laughing along with a man with a gun, the next one your organs will be ripping out of your stomach!  "},{"Title":"","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What goes without saying is that this movie is in fact  about an unlikable, bigoted, arrogant loudmouth who kills a lot of people indiscriminantly.So why does this move succeed?We can see the main character as an anti-hero. He is an extrapolated example of some of the more lively rogues that exist in life. It is a documentary-style production, so the point of the movie is to key in to Benoit's understanding of the world. We are provided a biographical account of this fictional character and are left to appreciate, for its superior craftmanship, the more broad-stroked, baser emotions of human nature.He isn't redeemable -- no one in this film is -- and because that note is played so purely throughout the production it removes the doubt involved as to whether or not this character is to have a point. He doesn't, he is irredeemable as an individual.To me, the movie lived up to itself in several ways1) the character was unrepentant and unchanged until the end2) the film crew, such as is perhaps considered a modicum ofintelligence and reason, is starkly revealed to be but made of the most hideous instincts; to rape and murder and cry false tears.3) the acting of the main character (also a writer/director) was indeed, perfect. His character was very consistent and his range went from serial killer to drunken joke-telling barfly, to petulant, naughty child.4) i swear i know people like the main character, but without the killer bit.5) it is a Film de Belgique and not French. A different sort of thing.6) he speaks bad poetry, and kills people7) in the end, people get shot8) the violence is unsettling and random, which is precisely what real-world violence is (and therefore a cinematic whats the point? question is easy to answer the violence is used to shock and make aware)  "},{"Title":"pigeon, winged cloaked of grey","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's few things more satisfying in life than to watch such a film as this, where an idiotic serial killer gets to expound his racist, homophobic, xenophopbic, base-level and ego-filled views comedically throughout a film in which he kills maybe 100 or so people, most by blasting them with a handgun. Few things are spared in the killer's appropriation of his world, which is what makes this so great. Silly, entertaining and quick-witted, yet crass, tacky, and jokey; our main character draws the filmmakers into his world as victims and perpetrators just as real life archetypes (less dangerous) of this type of personality draw sychophants and suckups to gather in all the yuck-yuck stories and live for the experiences.Well, if that's too high-falutin, what you should at least get out of it is that the film crew are dupes and suckers who'll do anything to get a story or to follow someone with wits and character in more abundance than themselves.This leads to two (at least) different sound men getting shot by the serial killer in the movie, and then later the remaining crew members join in on a Clockwork Orange-style rape/murder scene, delectable in its sickness.A theme for the movie comes with this song, from an incontinent hospital mate (after he goes down in a boxing ring) I sh**t for nights, I s**t for days, I s**t all over, I s**t always!  and this line You sure raise a stink over a crap!At a birthday party for the killer, he gets a holster as a present. He practices pulling his gun out of it, and then plugs the guy who's throwing the bash for him. Everyone remains silent, disappointed by his boorish behavior. He pays no attention, and asks for more champagne. Finally the stunned dinner guests, conveniently forgetting the murder (one of them has blood spattered on her face) bring him the rests of his presents, finish eating the birthday cake, wrap up the victim and take the body to the quarry where they've been dumping the bodies.Towards the end, he is watching his moves on a steenbeck. He has become the director, and the crew follows him. The lead is also apparently the guy who directed the film, Quite genius, then. Have to hand it to him. This movie even has bad poetry, intended as such.There are so many funny moments in this movie, its hard to compare to many others. And check out the pre-Blair Witch ending....  "},{"Title":"Am I from Mars?","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Do you ever find yourself asking that question when people seem to find something funny (or sad, whatever) and you just don't? That's what happened to me after reading some of the comments about this movie being funny. I can see how this movie is many things, but funny? Oh well, to each his own.I did find it horrifying, though what I found horrifying about it was not so much that this man was doing these things or that the crew was joining in with him; rather, I found it horrifying in the way in which some of the murders were filmed. That rape scene followed by the dis-embowling (sp?), for example. Holy Toledo. Along with feeling vaguely depressed, I found myself much more interested in how that scene--and some of the others--was actually filmed than I felt in any point the film-makers were trying to make.It'll be a cold day in Hades before I ever want to see this one again, Holy Moly.  Okay, I'm back to Mars now. "},{"Title":"You really can't get it!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm horrified to see all your comments about this movie. No one seems to take it as it is  only a dark comedy about society. No one has noticed that in this movies there are a lot of killers? There's a purpose  it's kinda job in this movie. I can't imagine people taking it seriously - it's impossible, I mean, why comparing it to Natural Born Killers? The message and the treatment of the subject is far away the same! I noticed that europeans tend to accept more easily 2nd degree than americans. Often ironical and satyrical movies know poor success in the USA and great success in Europe. Just take Man Bites Dog (the french title is more explicit  It happened in you neighborhood) as it wanted to be  a killer's life treated like it was a employee of society. "},{"Title":"Repulsive, revealing","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Count me as one who read the hype and watched, waiting for some measure of redemption.Artistic? No more than a daybreak or taking out the garbage. Less, because of its impact.I didn't find it redeeming. The voyeuristic time I spent watching it--I did give up, not finishing with about 20 minutes left--sits heavily on my mind. I feel shamed, dirty, questioning my own character for having sat through so much, the senseless killings, the sexless rape, the immorality of proponent and film crew and their self-inflicted distance from their actions.Man Bites Dog can tell us a lot about ourselves. Are we willing to sift these images of senseless violence in our consciousness? Are we the kind of human being that will gawk at the carnage of a roadside accident? I've always turned my eyes away from such scenes in real life. Et vous? There's much made of the moral questions involving the film crew. How deeply does media affect events? How complicit are the eyes and hands of the media in the unfolding of events? The tone of the film is far darker than necessary to find those answers. For better insights into those questions, I suggest Marshall McLuhan or Dog Day Afternoon.The film preceded reality television by a few years, perhaps foreshadowing its success. It's a shame, such a waste of time, such a bankrupt preoccupation with trivial violence and actions.If those are your preferences, I suggest a straight advance to chainsaw films. Why clutter your vision with supposed moral questions? "},{"Title":"This is about as black as comedy gets","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd say I'm a fairly open-minded individual, and I love a good movie that will challenge me psychologically. I'm no prude, and really have no issue with the portrayal of sex or violence in a film......but this movie has to be one of the most disturbing things I've ever seen.I had heard about the movie, that it was a humorous black comedy, with a unique (at the time) perspective. What I ended up watching was a movie that was either boring, pretentious or sickening, with a few moments of great comic timing.The main character comes across as a slimy, egotistical bigot, very unlikeable and without any redeeming characteristics. I think he was supposed to be a charmer, but if memory serves me well, I had no empathy for the guy (and in a movie like this, if it's going to work, & challenge the audience, it would be better if the audience would take a liking to this serial killer) The death scenes were clearly fake. It does bug me how many people on the IMDb are asking Was it all real?. - Well, if the odd bobbing adam's apple or moving eyelids of supposedly 'dead' people were anything to go by, then no. Of course it wasn't, and if you are the sort of person who doesn't swallow your own hype, you would see that in the film.OK, it's not all bad. It can get a bit arty, but there were some great comic moments. It just felt to me though that as stand-alone moments, they would have failed. The moments of comedy worked only because they are surrounded by drab monologues, spontaneous murders and moments of tedium.Man Bites Dog also contains one of the most disturbing scenes I have ever seen in cinema. The rape scene, while not as graphic as Irreversible, or Baise-Moi, is a very well-done scene (probably the only well-done scene), not least due to one moment where we see one of the film crew laughing away as he drunkenly partakes, then grimaces to himself in disgust as he leaves the scene. That, and the aftermath, were probably the two most jarring & galling moments I have witnessed in cinema, and believe me, I wish I didn't see them. I will give credit where due though, if that was the reaction the director was after with that scene & with the film, he succeeded with this viewer! It's not an easy movie to recommend to anyone. I suppose it does have redeeming qualities, but I certainly do not think I would ever watch this film again. "},{"Title":"Who Wants to Hear a Liar Lecturing About Life?","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to admit, I'm rather puzzled at how these film makers arrived at this idea of having a video camera follow around a serial killer while he committed his crimes. Among the more recent examples that have done this are The Last Horror Movie and the yet unreleased The Poughkeepsie Tapes. It appears that at least part of this trend may have started here, with Man Bites Dog.Part satire, and part brutal, the film follows a serial killer around as he commits his crimes and lives his seemingly rich life by enjoying female companionship, fine wines, and a passing taste in cuisine which is in part funded by the money he steals from his victims.There are certainly some fascinating scenes of wit and originality that are deserving of praise one in particular had the 'star' of this film stalking and then dispatching another serial killer, and then his camera man, lighting and sound men. In another scene, the killer is knocked out cold in a boxing sparring session. Its hard not to crack a smile when watching these scenes.However sadly the film is not so much content with demonstrating this kind of wit. Far too often the film settles into two different kinds of scenes 1- Images of cold blooded, brutal killings of men, women and children. 2- Ridiculous sessions of talking to the camera.Let me elaborate on this second one. The killer, amongst other things, gives his take on life, on the role of 'well endowed' black men in clubs, on the betrayal of government in sacrificing aesthetic neighborhoods for the sake of low income housing, on why he likes to start his crimes with postmen, and so on. It is almost like they make this guy seem so educated, yet after about a couple of minutes of this, I was rolling my eyes and trying hard not to distract myself.Another example the weepy eyed camera crew when they lose members of their own crew. Their effort to produce a 'tribute' when they have been complicit in the murders of so many others. One of these slugs even goes as far as to kick the dead body of a victim who killed one of the crew defending himself, and then afterward delivers his weepy eyed testimonial about his colleague.Now some will call this satire, but personally I buy that. In fact, I think that the subject matter is getting rather tired and played out! Pushing the envelope is as old as time, and espousing racism and hypocrisy while doing it just makes this less a film than a cheering video for an extremist political faction.My advice if you've got a low tolerance for scenes of excessive violence, but just HAVE to watch a film like this, then this is the one for you. Shot in B&W, the more intense scenes of gore are minimized in comparison to gorier fare. However expect to hear all sorts of talk, talk, talk that will, on more than one occasion, cause you to shake your head, roll your eyes, or utter a low will you just shut up already! If you want to watch a better movie though...it won't be hard to find one. This one is pretty inane and pointless! "}{"Title":"Great Idea, But Too Long","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog is a rather creative and original black comedy, about a fake documentary on the life of a serial killer. It's darkly humorous at times, and violent and sadistic at others. It starts off fresh, but unfortunately, becomes tiresome and repetitive as a full-length film. There's only so much you can do with this premise, and the filmmakers hammer us over the head with it for quite a while. It would have been wise to snip off some of the running time, and would have made the film drag a little less. However, there are still enough spine-shivering moments to recommend it, such as a truly chilling scene involving a child murder. Watch it for its rawness, but expect some redundancy in the mix. "},{"Title":"Semi-interesting... Possible spoilers","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was... okay. I didn't like it, but I didn't hate it. Reading others' comments made me think it was going to be awful. I saw the NC-17 version. The movie was more bizarre than anything. It was somewhat graphic-- which would have been more disturbing if it had been more realistic. The most disturbing scene was the rape scene, but at the same time it was not as awful as it could have been. I got bored with all the talking that the killer was doing. It bothers me that someone could kill so ruthlessly and yet go on about his life as if he were doing nothing wrong. Others wrote about how funny the movie was. The only part I found funny was when the crew member died and the way Remy was talking about him. I am betting most of those who said it was funny were talking about the hospital part-- which was not funny to me, but of course I have volunteered in a nursing home. Perhaps I just did not understand what the director was going for, but for me it's not a movie I would watch again.  "},{"Title":"Who Wants to Hear a Liar Lecturing About Life?","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to admit, I'm rather puzzled at how these film makers arrived at this idea of having a video camera follow around a serial killer while he committed his crimes. Among the more recent examples that have done this are The Last Horror Movie and the yet unreleased The Poughkeepsie Tapes. It appears that at least part of this trend may have started here, with Man Bites Dog.Part satire, and part brutal, the film follows a serial killer around as he commits his crimes and lives his seemingly rich life by enjoying female companionship, fine wines, and a passing taste in cuisine which is in part funded by the money he steals from his victims.There are certainly some fascinating scenes of wit and originality that are deserving of praise one in particular had the 'star' of this film stalking and then dispatching another serial killer, and then his camera man, lighting and sound men. In another scene, the killer is knocked out cold in a boxing sparring session. Its hard not to crack a smile when watching these scenes.However sadly the film is not so much content with demonstrating this kind of wit. Far too often the film settles into two different kinds of scenes 1- Images of cold blooded, brutal killings of men, women and children. 2- Ridiculous sessions of talking to the camera.Let me elaborate on this second one. The killer, amongst other things, gives his take on life, on the role of 'well endowed' black men in clubs, on the betrayal of government in sacrificing aesthetic neighborhoods for the sake of low income housing, on why he likes to start his crimes with postmen, and so on. It is almost like they make this guy seem so educated, yet after about a couple of minutes of this, I was rolling my eyes and trying hard not to distract myself.Another example the weepy eyed camera crew when they lose members of their own crew. Their effort to produce a 'tribute' when they have been complicit in the murders of so many others. One of these slugs even goes as far as to kick the dead body of a victim who killed one of the crew defending himself, and then afterward delivers his weepy eyed testimonial about his colleague.Now some will call this satire, but personally I buy that. In fact, I think that the subject matter is getting rather tired and played out! Pushing the envelope is as old as time, and espousing racism and hypocrisy while doing it just makes this less a film than a cheering video for an extremist political faction.My advice if you've got a low tolerance for scenes of excessive violence, but just HAVE to watch a film like this, then this is the one for you. Shot in B&W, the more intense scenes of gore are minimized in comparison to gorier fare. However expect to hear all sorts of talk, talk, talk that will, on more than one occasion, cause you to shake your head, roll your eyes, or utter a low will you just shut up already! If you want to watch a better movie though...it won't be hard to find one. This one is pretty inane and pointless! "},{"Title":"interesting but no work of genius.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty horrific movie that is also very funny. What works is that the serial killer is charming (sort of) and intelligent (sort of) even though he's also a sick degenerate. The flaws, however, are numerous and suck the interest, energy, and empathy from the film. First of all, it's at least a half hour too long. What starts as a startling and audacious film becomes, in the end, repetitive and tedious. You know the filmmakers are just trying to see what they can possibly come up with next that will further repel the audience. it's like, OK. OK, I get it, I get it. Where I disagree with some other reviewers is that I think the movie really has no meaningful larger context that it operates in, say the way Taxi Driver or A Clockwork Orange does. And the fact that it was made after these classics further diminishes the point that it might actually have something to say about post modern society, the influence of media, blah blah blah. It does, however, say a lot about the people who made it. But that's about it. "},{"Title":"Trying to make sense of a difficult and provocative film (skip on if you want a proper review)","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Essentially an attack on the individual viewer and our sensibilities in approaching film from an objective standpoint; with the ideas behind it focusing on everything from the nature of voyeurism, violence, social dissatisfaction, and the always contentious implication of the culpability of the media in how they choose to document brutality in an often wholly gratuitous way. With this in mind, the film can definitely be seen as a product of its time, with the subject matter tapping into the territory of similar cinematic think-tanks such as Kika (1993), Natural Born Killers (1995), The Doom Generation (1995) and Funny Games (1997); all of which use the platform of creative expression to the point the finger at our mainstream media (and the audiences that support it) for blurring the lines between fact and fiction, journalism and exploitation. Of course, such presentations leave the filmmakers themselves open to the accusations of hypocrisy, and indeed, exploitation; as the presentation of the film and the resulting controversy becomes an almost salient point in selling the film to overseas distributors.With this in mind, the film becomes targeted to the very audience that it was originally attempting to critique; creating a sad irony that renders much of the film's satire completely flaccid and the presentation of the events manipulative in the extreme. This is always a difficult argument to reconcile when discussing cinema of this nature, as the intentions of the filmmakers are often shown up by their choice of presentation. Something like Funny Games for example - which attempts to criticise the overriding desire for violence and brutality as presented by contemporary cinema - strives to go against the whims of its audience by setting the scene for the eventual carnage, only to then pull away from it; denying the viewer the sweet relief of hard-core violence and leaving instead the suffering of its central characters and the hollow desperation of its eventual end. Man Bites Dog (1992) attempts to convey a similar idea, with the story of a group of documentary filmmakers following one of Belgium's most vicious and notorious serial killers as he goes about his everyday activities. However, whereas Haneke chose to go against his audience, taking away the thrill of the violence and inevitable retribution, the filmmakers here have gone all out with numerous instances of gore, brutality and genuine mean-spiritedness.Technically, it's brilliantly done and is incredibly well acted; with the cinema verite-like quality of the images and the natural charisma of lead star Benoit Poelvoorde conveying both the thrill of his actions and the necessary horror. In choosing to realise the film in such a way, the directors make a self-conscious decision to place the audience in the midst of the action; putting us in the position of the filmmakers themselves and forcing us to go along on such a journey with this dangerously charismatic figure. However, once again we must ask ourselves what this presentation adds to the satire of the film, as the continual bombardment of sadistic violence and random acts of brutality perpetuated against innocent, everyday people, becomes completely numbing. So, by the end of the film - at which point we've been privy to strangulations, child-murder, rape and home invasion - we're no longer sure if we should be enjoying the film or turning it off in disgust. If the film is to be taken as a work of entertainment, then the satire that many argue is the most prescient point is completely lost; making the film a failure. If it is a satire, meant to push the audience into rejecting the presentation of violence in the media, then the majority of the film's fans have obviously missed the point.As a result, it is impossible to review the film in a traditional sense, as I feel - ideologically speaking - that as a work of both satire and entertainment, the film is fatally flawed. Instead, I'll concentrate on the technical presentation, mentioning only the basics of the appearance and how it might be interpreted by a more appreciative audience. After all, just because I didn't value the film, doesn't mean that you won't. In fact, you might even love it. The way the filmmakers exploit the set up of the situation - with the film camera becoming our eye, showing us only what it reports and turning the audience into voyeurs (or accomplices?) - is self-reference at its very best; compelling the audience into the proceedings when we should be walking away, but also acting as a necessary barrier. It's the famous tagline of Last House on the Left (1971) suggesting that to avoid fainting keep repeating, it's only a movie, it's only a movie... perfectly subverted by the fact that the movie in question is purporting to show actual real-life events that mock the seemingly endless (and pointless) cycle of violence that the audience screams out for. The ending helps to put things into context, but even then, I'm still not sure whether it clarifies the satirical intentions of the filmmaker, or merely continues the idea of shallow, sensationalistic entertainment?The film goes to some shocking extremes in an attempt to repel the audience; pushing us to a limit of discomfort that few films can equate. However, unlike similarly controversial films like A Clockwork Orange (1971), Straw Dogs (1971) and Irreversible (2002), the intention here is more towards comedy; creating a sense of definite entertainment value from the violence and degradation. However, in spite of these flaws, the argument remains an intelligent one; with the filmmakers (sort of) implying that those who subject themselves to prolonged and extreme depictions of violence will eventually become so desensitised that all violence will lose its ability to shock. Or are they? Either way, we're free to interpret the film as we see fit, taking it as a somewhat flawed critique, or simply as an outré black comedy. Regardless of my somewhat formless critical opinion, the actual classification is ultimately your own. "},{"Title":"nauseating revolting sick film","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like to think i can dig cult movies,repulsion, paris texas, eraserhead yknow so i can think im a bit arty or something, black comedy yeah i can do that i think, but rape and child murder just have no humor in the context of this film, im not too sure they would be funny any time, i missed this one obviously cos so many people say great film, hilarious. Ive seen lots of bloody voilence in lots of films,but its rarely funny to see realistic voilence, i wasnt laughing in resevoir dogs or in saving private ryan, voilence can be flashy and unrealistic such as bond films or general action movies, this stuff is almost cosmetic but as a viewer i know its not real and just a function of the narrative,the problem here is that the narrative is the voilence and hey lets all laugh at the voilence?i forced myself to watch the film without enjoying any of it i wanted to get it but i just felt repulsed by the whole thing, whats funny about chasing a child and killing him? the films full of stuff that is just vile,i felt you had to be weird and sick to enjoy this film "},{"Title":"A Miss","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though I agree with Mark Pytlik's comments that this film had potential, I do find faults in some of his arguments.  I don't believe this film was meant to be anything more than a study of a terrible person.  He suggests that the filmmakers should have created a likeable character, and I disagree.  The aimless feel to the movie perfectly accompanies the character it is centered around, and I find it to be more realistic- if we grew to love this guy, it would be missing the point.  Here is a serial killer- a bigot, foul-mouthed, fairly stupid murderer of innocent people. Liking him is not the point- it is simply a document of this man's pointless life, and let's us know that there are probably people like him around as we watch. "},{"Title":"savage satire, horrific horror-show, and one helluva saga of film-making","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog has a reputation preceding it that I was very well aware of- the first docu-horror type of film, or rather one where we're brought right along with the filmmakers into a subjectively shot style (later somewhat attributable for Blair Witch Project). But it's more than than, despite being at times hard to look at; it's funny in ways that make one cringe and hold on to the couch for support. It's so matter of fact about the brutality and nature of violence- and the camera itself as an entire entity and/or character- that it's hard not to find the humor in it (gallows style, to be sure, but also with that awkward, piercing power that one might associate with the Office). It's the work of true originals out to break conventions while in a state of awe for its main subject Benoit (played by the man himself, so to speak), a charming, witty, harsh, racist, sexist, somewhat lucid figure that defies simple categorization.So original and daring is its attempts at black humor that I'm reminded of Clockwork Orange; you know it's wrong to laugh, and at times seeing how shocking it is, and how shocked one is, becomes part of the context of the humor. It's because there's a self-consciousness, of the filmmakers taking the subject matter very seriously in a dramatic sense, that the narrative takes on for the nature of the people in it. This is the present state of things, the world we know, but it's bizarro in some big ways, too. Take when it's Benoit's birthday, things seem cheerful and whatnot, and Benoit gets a gift from one of the crew members a new holster for his gun, which he then waves around a bit and fires, accidentally perhaps (maybe not) at someone at the other end of the table. There's a silence, and it's a very funny one, but then with the woman at the other end blood-spattered and the film crew unfettered, things go on fairly normally but with edge to it.What the hell is this? How does one make a movie like this, where drunken rape and murder has the tinge of exuberance and we see the killer Benoit's family portrayed around him in such sympathetic means? Well, for one, it's not entirely a film about a serial killer anyway, but a film about making a film, about the struggles of an independent film crew using Benoit for the cash he robs for film stock- and Benoit in turn using the film crew for attention and companionship and, sometimes, to 'help' on the crimes. Everything has the right look and feel and expression of a film made on the edge of society and sanity, and somehow the cunning and joyful madness that Benoit projects- which rubs off very quickly onto the director and cameraman (the sound guys get knocked off at a quick rate, reminiscent of the gag in Spinal Tap with the life expectancy of drummers)- works its way into the mood of the harrowing comedy.This isn't to say Man Bites Dog doesn't also take violence seriously. It's shown as it is, very ugly, brutal, crude, and in the manner that Benoit acts often like it's nothing at all. But as the trio of directors/writers/producers/stars say in an interview included on the Criterion DVD, it's not meant to just throw up the violence for childing reveling. While they might not hit their target entirely with their critique of the media, as Kubrick did exceptionally in Clockwork Orange, they do hit a bulls-eye mark on ripping apart the psychology of a psycho killer into pieces that are human, crazy, humorous, dark, light, and even poetic. The only question comes as a cheerful hypothetical who would win in a face-off, Benoit or Patrick Bateman? A+ "},{"Title":"Who's watching you?","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Heard much about this Belgium film, and decided to watch it.The film starts with a camera crew making a 'reality tv' documentary on a serial killer in the process of his reign of terror.The obvious issue raised which doesn't seem to enter the minds of the camera crew (or indeed many of the people who watched the film) is that *by their very presence*, is the camera crew actually facilitating this guy to murder?This soon becomes apparent when the camera crew start to take an active involvement in the murders.Finally, the serial killer and the camera crew get murdered themselves, and the film ends with the camera left filming the scene of the crime ala Blair Witch.The point? Who's left *watching*?  "},{"Title":"WELL DONE BELGIUM !!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who'd have thought it. Finally something worthwhile comes out of Belgium. This has to be one of the must-see films of the 1990s. A dark comedy that's almost pitch-black. You'll chuckle, but hate yourself for it. It asks many questions about our media society, before you turn over to watch Big Brother. Extreme warnings were provided about the violence, but worryingly I didn't think it was too bad. Well done to the U.K censors, for passing it uncut.Heavily influential, especially the ending on The Blair Witch Project. Excellent. "}{"Title":"Reservoir Dogs meets NBK in France","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog is a movie of very good points and very bad points. Usually the idea of French movies with sub titles doesn't fit weel into a manly man category. This movie comes about as close as possible with that. Strong points in the movies include the opening scenes of Benoit explaining how to weigh down victims bodies when dropping them in rivers, and the barrage of gun fire cuts. One hilarious moment in the movie is wear Benoit and his film crew run into another hitman with his own film crew. The movies coolness is off set by several scenes of Benoit breaking into stupid poetry these scenes take away from the masculine subject matter and give the movie a crappy coffee table arthouse feel. Thereby ruining the movie. Also moments of shear boredom threw lack of action pop up all over the place. The unnecessary use of black and white film also detracts from the entertainment value. However if there is one strong point in the movie besides is comedic writing it is the film technique. Acknowledging the camera man as being there and giving it a home made quality works well to help move the plot along. I give it 5 and a half out of ten. This movie is not meant for mass audiences.  "},{"Title":"Too much hyperbole and not enough substance ... naive art school project","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What pathetic gratuitous violence ... OK I got the message a third of the way through the film. This is a low budget film that tries but ultimately fails to engage and enlighten. It's boring, excessive and shallow. Reminds me of a naive art school project ... let's shock and awe. The only redeeming feature is some of the acting and camera work ... but even these lack depth of creativity and experimentation. I find it extremely hard to take this film seriously and to that extent the message of the mass murderer as celebrity loses it's relevance. Too much hyperbole and not enough substance. Other truly great film makers have addressed similar concepts with more success. Charles Laughton's Night Of The Hunter, Fritz Lang's M, David Lynch's Blue Velvet and Stanley Kubrick's Clockwork Orange are good examples ... all of these films have a few important thing in common; professionalism, philosophical integrity and a true understanding and application of film technique. Not like this art house crap. I am not surprised at not seeing any other work by these guys ... If this is such a great film I really wonder WHY? As I've said earlier. Too much hyperbole and not enough substance. "},{"Title":"Give Em Credit","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog (1992) *** (out of 4) Original title C'est arrivé près de chez vous Controversial Belgium film about a documentary crew following around a serial killer (Benoit Poelvoorde) as he talks about life while killing various people. To me this film came off as a mix between A Clockwork Orange and Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer but no where near the brilliance of those two. There's a lot to admire here and you have to give the filmmakers a lot of credit for pulling this off on such a low budget but in the end the movie just didn't work for me. I think the biggest problem is that the black humor is so hit and miss that the whole message of the film gets lost over time. There are some downright hysterical moments in this film including an unforgettable sequence involving an old woman with a bad heart but for every great scene like this one we get at least three that don't contain the humor. The graphic violence, which earned the film the NC-17 rating, wasn't as bad as I was expecting and in fact I found it somewhat light considering a few other movies out there that I've seen. The violence that is on display certainly goes to the message of the film and on how people of today look at violence but at the same time I think some of this gets lost as the film keeps going. The entire premise of the story is a rather interesting one and I couldn't help but think how realistic the film was if something like this was to ever really happen. I can't help but think some nutty film crew would eventually end up helping this maniac for the sake of their film getting finished. I also couldn't help but think people watching this maniac would be so scared of him that they couldn't try to stop anything he was doing, which is the point of one scene at a birthday party. Poelvoorde gives a very good performance and is certainly the heart and soul of the movie. His comic timing hits the mark on most occasions but once again, a stronger screenplay would have helped. I know this film has become a cult favorite over the years and it's easy to see why so many people would love it but for me the thing just never really came together. "},{"Title":"Classic low budget black comedy. Grisly and amusing.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember first watching 'Man Bites Dog' about ten years ago when it was lumped in with 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer' by some British journalists under the tag the new brutalism. Now, those are three great movies in my opinion, but have virtually nothing to do with each other. Granted 'Reservoir Dogs' has several humourous moments but 'Man Bites Dog' is let's face it, a comedy. A very black one, true, but it's basically played for laughs with a little bit of social commentary. And 'Henry', like 'Man Bites Dog', is also a story about a serial killer, but the approaches of the two movies couldn't be more different. This movie really seems to divide people. The squeamish or easily offended seem to have a very negative reaction to it which is difficult to understand. Hard core fans of extreme cinema seem to find it a bit ho-hum and disappointing. Maybe they have an idea of what they thought the movie was going to be and it was nowhere near as shocking or disturbing as they imagined. The movie does contain some grisly bits and a few scenes of extreme violence but I always just regarded it as a comedy. A very funny one. The movie was a real labour of love and shot on a very small budget over quite a long period of time. I congratulate Belvaux, Bonzel, and Poelvoorde the three actor/director/writers who are the brains behind this for making such an excellent film under difficult conditions. Poelvoorde especially impresses as the main character, the charming and slightly wacky serial killer Ben. One would really think he was going to become a major star after watching this, but sadly it never really happened. 'Man Bites Dog' comes with my highest recommendation. I think it is a black comedy classic. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, funny, and ultimately boring as hell","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yep, this film had some great ironic laughs, some painfully disturbing scenes (the dinner table scene and brutal rape), but yet, in a way, it was predictable and seemed to go on forever. Maybe I just didn't want to feel it anymore - I'd love to watch parts of it again, but the entire film? Nah. "},{"Title":"Horrible, tedious, predictable and pretentious...and those are the good points...","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS! After hearing so many good things about this film, I decided to give it some of my time, as I do have a fondness for black comedy. Two hours later I felt cheated and disgusted. This is 'comedy' in the same way that Plan Nine From Outer Space is a masterpiece. The lead character is a gawky, loud-mouthed, obnoxious bigot who *somehow* wins over a nerdy, thrillseeking film crew with his supposed charm and insousciance. Now, this would have worked fine if, say, Willem Dafoe or Kevin Spacey was playing the part, but it's hard to imagine anyone falling under the spell of this geek. And let's be honest, would the film crew REALLY have recorded themselves helping the repugnant 'hero' with his dastardly deeds and participating in the brutal rape and mutilation of an innocent woman? (While we're on this subject, as soon as the tiresome Cinema, cinema drunken scene came up, I instantly knew the director was going to follow this buffoonery up with something really sickening. It's the oldest trick in the book, and has been done so many times before with much more style and impact - even the juxtaposition of the two bumbling cops with the murder of the two young girls in Wes Craven's LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT was more effective than this shambles.)But don't worry, the director has contrived his own genius escape route from all the tricky moral dilemmas his naughty-boy antics may throw up. The film ends with everyone dead, and a tip of the hat to MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, of all things. (I could have said CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST, but I'll give this the benefit of the doubt and assume the film-makers intended a Python reference.) That's that wrapped up neatly, then.MAN BITES DOG is pompous, pretentious, wannabe envelope-pushing arthouse arse at its most revolting. If you meet anyone who claims this derivative junk was a brilliant piece of cinema, you should get as far away from them as possible. "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing..","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While I enjoyed the character of 'Benoit' in this film, I didn't find this film enjoyable all that much.  It was rather one big non event.  Some have commented that it is really  more of a criticism of film-makers and documentarians who get overly involved in glamorising their subjects.  However, it seemed more like it was a boring romp that was so fixed and ridiculous.Controversial?  NoSick? NoFunny? NoGround-breaking? NoDisturbing violence? Didn't seem real to me..Boring?  YesRating 4 out of 10Why any country would want to ban this film is beyond me... "},{"Title":"Loses Steam","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Embracing the quirky satirical nature of the film is one thing, because it's dark and disturbing, but the film loses that edge when it relies on pure comedy.Benoit is absolutely brilliant, however, as the serial killer with social skills and a wealth of knowledge to boot. The story does lag in the third act and I actually fell asleep and had to rewatch the end. Sure, it's over-the-top, and you can even read about how controversial some people thought it was, but in the end, the wit and charm fell to the wayside and we're left with an average film. Simply put, the film lost steam, withered and died.Too bad. What should have been a phenomenal character study making us question ourselves, turned into a sophomoric bad joke without any real substance. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, Funny","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the edited film from Blockbuster and liked it.  However, the Criterion DVD disturbed me.  The edited version really make the movie better.  I personally think it just went to far at its initial release.The removed scenes, that are on the DVD, contain a brutal rape and a little kid getting killed.It has a very unique style.  You hate the characters through the entire show, but you keep watching.  The satire behind it is very good.Fast forward through the brutal scenes, take a shower afterwards. "},{"Title":"The documentary style makes it what it is","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Man Bites Dog is the film that famously won a lot of praise at the Cannes film festival in 1992; and upon seeing it; I can't say that I'm surprised. Personally, I don't consider this work to be a truly 'great' film; but it is clear why it did well at the festivals. This Belgian film is often mistaken for a French one because of its cinematography, which is very reminiscent of the Nouvelle Vogue cinema, which was kicked off by Jean-Luc Godard's masterpiece Breathless. This sort of thing goes down well with artsy festival crowds, and when you add the fact that the plot follows a realistic documentary style and that it hasn't been seen too many other times before (the closest film at the time would have been Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer), the reasons why it did well are all the more obvious. The plot follows amoral serial killer Benoit, who kills innocent people in order to steal their money. He calmly explains how he usually starts with a postman, and then takes his letters to find out where the rich old people are. The plot largely centres on the camera crew that are making a film about this killer. As they get more involved in what they're filming; they begin to wonder whether it's such a good idea.The film is billed as being a 'black comedy', but to me this seems more like an excuse for the filmmakers to show amoral killings without a big backlash. The comedy is so dark that, despite a few laughs, isn't all that funny and the film seems to look more like a serial killer flick, hiding behind the 'farce' genre tag. Not that I have a problem with this, I just don't find the black comedy element to be exactly true. Respect has to go to the directorial team of Benoît Poelvoorde, Rémy Belvaux and André Bonzel, as the fact that they made this film on the budget that they did is astounding. Shooting was continually delayed because the crew didn't have enough stock to continue, and yet despite all the problems with production; the end result is at least as professional as most big budget Hollywood productions. Most of the film's 'bite' comes from the idea of someone going round killing people for profit, and the way that the filmmakers have made the film ensures that the idea is shocking. On the whole, while I don't rave about this film as much as some; I cant deny the power of it, and I don't hesitate to say that Man Bites Dog is a film that you need to see. "}{"Title":"Can't get any lower than this...","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, I didn't like it... There was nothing in this film for me to like. It seemed like a stupid idea of some amateurs, aiming to make a film that would be vulgar, violent, raw and stupid in the extend that wasn't done before. Strangely and to my disappointment this movie seems to have a favorable audience. I won't even try to understand why is that. It is beyond my power to do anything about it, other than to state my opinion, to have illusions of a clear conscience. The film is a rough and clumpsy needlework of scenes, that while they follow a timeline, seem to lead nowhere, other than the next violent act, gruesome killing or an exchange of gunshots. Somewhre in between the main character is raving about his theories on contemporary life style and culture, - a lot of boring stuff that you could have heard from any drunk if you ask me - and then goes on to the next murder followed by the camera crew which seem to approve and even help him in his criminal activities. So much for the plot.Since the whole thing is shot from a hand held camera, there is no point in talking about photography or a soundtrack. There was no provision as to those. As for the secondary characters, they come and go serving little or no purpose, as the film moves to a pointless -yet cliché- ending.I have read through other people's comments, who said they laughed many times during the movie. I didn't. I was bored yes, disgusted yes, but amused NO. Even if there was a funny part in this movie, it would be overshadowed by all the rest low life stuff, so I could not have noticed it...And the truth is after watching the movie, I could not feel like laughing for anything at all. In the end you get nothing out of this film, not a moment of emotional movement, you surely cannot sympathies with the serial killer or his crew, you cannot learn anything from the story and you surely cannot recommend it to your friends...Well not your real -and in right state of mind- friends anyway. On the other hand, the film TAKES things from you. Things like your sense of humor (definately), your sensitive attitude towards watching lifes being taken wrongfully, your mental balance (very likely)...I felt like something died inside me watching the movie and I fear that movies like these have their share of responsibility in making people a little more accepting and tolerant towards the ruthless taking of lives.The plain fact is shooting a movie that emphasizes on killings and violence in many other forms, is just wrong in so many ways. Bottom line the movie is garbage. It sadly lowers our expectations of modern filming achievements. I am very sorry to have watched it and it does not deserve the high rating it's got here.  "},{"Title":"very stupid","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't believe that some people consider it as a cult movie.One guy (serial killer and psychopath) very talkative, kills and destroys anything he wants to for a pleasure and tried to find out the purpose of his behavior in the front of the camera that follows him. This is very cheap movie without any sense. The main protagonist thinks he is smart and keep talking about his life while killing other people, robs their money and throws corpses over some kind of bridge while explaining the technique.In the end he got killed for causing troubles to the other gangsters.The crew that follows his crime and record it is sick and dumb too and off course got killed too.Is this kind of a movie that you wanted to see? Just sickness. "},{"Title":"Does Belgium actually need to exist?","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...That was one of the random thoughts that came to mind over the course of this movie, a kind of one trick pony that makes it's point within the first five minutes, then keeps repeating it in some variation or other. It reminds me somewhat of a little story I wrote back in the 1970's about a serial killer who's been around so long that nothing he does is news any more; the police don't even bother to come investigate him after he mails them a confession with his name and address on it. Here there are no particular social ramifications to the lethal exploits of Ben; we just see a succession of hapless victims. When he's briefly in jail towards the end we don't even know if it's for one of his many murders; after he escapes, there are no newspaper headlines or news bulletins on TV about it. When he and his servile camera crew are eventually killed by some gangsters, it's more of an anti-climax than anything else. My own lingering response was more or less What an unpleasant little country this appears to be. I seem to recall there was a real serial killer in Belgium who let two little girls starve to death in his basement; that, I think, would have been a more compelling topic for a pseudo-documentary. I would have happily killed Ben myself, maybe even more for his abrasively self-promoting personality (in general I can't stand people who think too well of themselves, even if they're entitled to) than for all his crimes.As for the movie within a movie gimmick, I'd say it comes off not as well as the earlier Cannibal Holocaust but better than the later Blair Witch Project. Since the fictional filmmakers (played by the real filmmakers, using their own names) were killed before they'd finished the fictional film, I suppose we have to imagine some unknown personage putting the finished touches on it, e.g. all those shock cuts with Ben shooting his victims.Favorite moment Ben and the crew getting killed at the end. Second favorite when while stalking a victim he motions to the crew to come look at something... turns out to be a couple of birds mating. Least favorite when he scared the old lady into having a heart attack. Maybe if he'd been depicted as only preying on old people, the movie would have achieved the black-hearted edge it so clearly was seeking. As it is, it comes off as a nasty little prank. Doesn't make me want to explore further the Flem film industry, such as it is... "},{"Title":"A good start, then all downhill","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This might have made a great short film, for the movie gets off to a good start.  It is darkly comic and engaging, but becomes so repetitive and unrealistic that the mockumentary style becomes a joke and the content boring.  There simply is no story development, and what at first is amusing, simply becomes irritating. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 96 minute film was directed by Rémy Belvaux (who killed himself in 2006) and André Bonzel, and written by Belvaux, and its frat boy level humor is what ultimately kills the film, and makes it a lesser part of the genre that includes the Christopher Guest mockumentaries. The DVD, by The Criterion Collection, lacks an audio commentary, has a trailer, and a brief interview with the film's three principals. There are also a couple of essays on the film, in the accompanying booklet- one by Bonzel. Given the subject matter, the film would have been more effective as a 'straight' mockumentary playing along a Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer Line. As is, the film is just a lower budgeted version of Oliver Stone's hit and miss Natural Born Killers (which, itself, would have worked better had it played things straighter, like Kalifornia). Also, despite being under a hundred minutes, the film loses steam midway through. At an hour, the film would have been far more effective. As it is, the film becomes less of a critique of the media using violence and more of a pornographic pile-on that simply bores. After the tenth body or so there is no horror left, even if anyone had chills to start with. Also, Ben, despite changing his methods of death, is so predictable (each first of the month he kills another mailman) and sloppy (he leaves fingerprints everywhere, that he would never have gotten past three or four victims, tops, much less the dozens he's slaughtered in this film (and the hundreds he likely killed before cameras were rolling). Had the film been a documentary on an unrelated subject and then we slowly got hints of Ben's darker nature, it would have worked much better.The filmmakers countered such criticism by claiming that the film is not about violence, but about the day to day life of anyone, and the main character just happened to be a killer. If that was so, though, then why is the film not about one of the mailmen Ben kills? It could have ended with the murder of the lead character, and been a comment on how easily people accept such violence and death. Thus, the filmmakers' claims are bogus and disingenuous, and merely an attempt to minimize criticisms of technical and structural flaws with the film and screenplay. Technically, too, the film falls into triteness, such as shots of endless running and hand-held camera techniques. Yet, the scenes, as such, do not demand the techniques, which are merely low budget razzle-dazzle to pad out the film's length. Another problem the film makes, with its screenplay, is that the people killed can never affect the viewer in a visceral way. They are mere chattel for slaughter, not characters we care of. They are dead setups for Ben's jokes, or less, things to merely get him from point A to point B to propel the putative plot of the film along. In short, there is no heft to the film. It is an occasionally funny film, but it asks no deeper queries of society nor the viewer, and certainly gives no answers. It is an exercise, period. But, one with no possible benefit, since the only answer and reason for the film they can muster is that old Hannah Arendt fallacy the banality of evil, which is, let's face it, triter than its claim. Benoit, despite the filmmakers' intent, is nothing but a frat boy. He says nothing, does nothing, and there is no logical (even in the film's skewed universe) reason that he should be of interest (unlike, perhaps, the Italian killer he kills, whose alleged Mafia ties end up doing in Ben and the crew).At least in a film like American Psycho, one can gauge the silliness of the cartoon violence by the fact that none of it happened (even within the world of the film); it was all the violent fantasies of the lead character. The faux documentary style of this film does not let the filmmakers that out, and its lack essentially and eventually suffocates the film under its pretenses. Yet, true to its nature, the film never really lets loose in the other direction- in the style of Borat, that it is a comedy, first and foremost, not some deep psychological exploration. Thus, it does not engender enough chills, cogitations, nor guffaws, and remains a gray lumpenmenschen of a film, loaded with potential, but killed by its creators' lack of skill and vision, rather than a rainbow of tears- be they of fear or laughter, the way Charlie Chaplin's underrated Monsieur Verdoux did. It sits on a fence that is none too stylish, and even less effective at achieving its aim. Yet, it is the viewer that gets the splinters. Thanks, Benoit. "},{"Title":"Try's to say too much!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mild SPOILERSC'est arrivé près de chez vous (imaginatively titled in English as Man Bites Dog), is a film brimming with Ideas that it just doesn't know how to put across to the viewer. After an interesting and quite brutal set up (Benoit kills a woman on a train and then tells us - the audience - all about killing as he disposes the body) the film rapidly becomes tedious. I really think this would have worked better as a short film, because at a feature length running time, it just seems strained... Even the actors look bored. It's not a bad film - the documentary style and the off-set humour (it's not as funny as everyone says) make the images more disturbing, and it's certainly one of the better Euro films that tackles the issue of violence in cinema, (but I've always thought that notion was pretty contradictory). Anyway make of it as you will, I find the film dull, boring and a missed opportunity that should have been so much more.4/10  "},{"Title":"Neither art nor entertainment","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on an implausible premise that a documentary team would film a hitman at work, this film fails to work on a number of levels.  It is difficult to see how this could be entertainment.  The main character is completely unlikeable, there are the regular senseless killings which we are apparently meant to regard as part of the black humour.  This take on the killer's rather stomach-churning business is interspersed with his hokum philosophy about life which on the whole is rather boring and irritating.  As art it seems to fail by virtue of being completely unbelievable.  Maybe this film could have worked if it was a student submission and about 10min long. Making a feature length version seems to amount to cruel and unusual punishment for any unfortunate viewers. "},{"Title":"Truly reprehensible and as the French would say, 'banal and vulgar'!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And the Francophiles are always so concerned about violence.  This movie is truly tasteless.  It's supposed to be funny, but graphic scenes of gratuitous violence, rape, and even child killing are not funny, just repulsive.I suppose they thought they were really being clever and making a statement, but the statement is completely missing other than; when you have no talent and a lack of competition in such a small Francophile world anything will sell, even this trash.  I'll bet they were even subsidized to make this trash.Truly reprehensible. "},{"Title":"Once Bitten.. Twice Seen","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After watching and enjoying 'Behind the Mask &#150; The Rise of Leslie Vernon,' I read it was a cheap rip-off of 'Man Bites Dog.' Sure, they both involve serial killers being filmed. But, that's where the similarities end. It's like comparing 'Godzilla' to 'King Kong' since they both involve large beasts. Yes, this movie was interesting, ruthless, but all the way through it, I couldn't believe how the main character is such an anti-hero. Never before had I wanted the main subject want to fail or be caught, heck, I even rooted for Hannibal Lector over this guy. Apparently foreign (to this American, that is) police/investigators are fairly stupid for not catching such an obvious murderer. I guess this was an original concept of a film, roughly 15 years prior to 'Behind the Mask,' but I would highly recommend that movie over 'Man Bites Dog.' Basically, we follow a film crew follow a psycho who kills/harms at will, as if the family in 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' made it to the big city and how they would react. It was hard to watch at times, I guess it was trying to be arty by being shot in black & white, but basically, all we see is this incredibly bad human being killing off anyone he comes across for any reason and never alerting suspicion. No one watching can take this movie at all seriously, I mean, not only is this man killing, but they're filming every detail of the murders. Doesn't it ever occur this might be considered evidence? Overall, it's entertaining in the original field, but I would highly recommend 'Behind the Mask' over this piece. At least to Americans that grew up, like I did, with Freddy Krueger, Michael Myers or Jason Voorhees and appreciate the satire it created. "},{"Title":"confused","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The opening scene of the killer garroting a woman on a train sure got my attention.  I guess this is supposed to be a satire on cinematic violence/voyeurism, but this ironic attitude towards violent death is starting to spill over into real life.  Moral novacaine.  Burn the damn thing... "}{"Title":"I expected more.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man Bites Dog was a disappointment for me.Of course there are some scenes of extreme violence(even a little boy is murdered),but I've seen Italian spaghetti shockers like Cannibal Holocaust(1979)which are more shocking than this one.The main character Ben is a serial killer.He is cold-blooded and very intelligent,but he can be also a very funny guy.He loves his family.Anyway if you haven't seen Man Bites Dog check it out-just don't expect something really nasty.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Immature and vulgar black comedy that thinks it's saying something of relevance.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  REVIEW CONTAINS MILD SPOILERS Many films have tried to attack the media for it's seeking out of violent and exploitative stories with complete disregard for the victim's feelings, and very few of them have actually succeeded.  Last year saw the release of 15 Minutes, which to me was nothing more than jumped up entertainment, the age-old scenario of pot calling kettle.  Before that we had Oliver Stone force-feeding us his message with Natural Born Killers, which to this day is still the most effective of the cycle.  But before any of those films (not to mention Michael Haneke's Funny Games, which I haven't seen) there was Man Bites Dog.  An immature and decidedly vulgar little film that so badly wishes it was saying something important under it's guise of sick social satire and supposed black comedy that it's as painfully obvious as the poor acting of the lead.  The film is nothing more than a badly made student film, supposedly a mock documentary about a group of film-makers who follow around a serial killer?  I'm sorry, but I don't buy the plot at all, are we supposed to be shocked later in the film, when the film makers begin to actively take part in Benny's murders, because if they where such good human beings to begin with they wouldn't passively stand by and watch him murder women and children.  If the character's were journalists maybe I could have understood this, but no, there was never any mention of journalism made that I picked up on.  This film is nothing more than a bad joke, committed against moviegoers who take this rubbish seriously.  Not only a waste of film, but a waste of time for anyone who watches it.  2/10, and that's just for the black and white photography.    "},{"Title":"","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to pinpoint what's so frustrating about Man Bites Dog. The acting, for the most part, is impeccable. The screenplay is full of wonderful exchanges. The jerky, erratic cinematography and sound are both first rate.Ultimately, though, you're left feeling a little bit cheated. While the film is an interesting case study, it's not rewarding in any way. Classic example of a film that has all the right ingredients and fails to pay off. What's the point supposed to be?And, if I may counter many others' comments, it's *not* hilarious. There're some intriguing scenes with Benoit where we get a unique insight into his skewed philosophy, but they're not particularly laugh-inducing. On the flipside, the violence is random and occasionally unsettling, which would be okay if there was an underlying point to it.Best I can figure is that the filmmakers were trying to provide a portrayal of an indiscriminate serial killer who is also a human being. This might've worked if Benoit was likable, but he comes across as being nothing but a racist, idiotic lout.So, in a nutshell, this film is about an unlikable, bigoted, arrogant loudmouth who kills a lot of people indiscriminantly. Thrilling stuff. Perhaps I wouldn't be so frustrated if it didn't have so much potential.6/10 "},{"Title":"Wanted to punch video store clerk for recommending this","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contains spoilersThis title was recommended to me by the local video store clerk as hilarious. When I got to the scene where the woman is gang raped and disemboweled, I guess it was so funny I forgot to laugh.It's 10 years later and I still hate this movie. My advice... don't bother with this derivative and unfunny comedy. "},{"Title":"pretty pointless","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Can we simply agree that this film is pretty pointless? It's not asshocking and horrible as it could be, it's actually quite boring attimes, and it just fails to make an interesting point.If you want to see a film about society and violence, watch MichaelHanecke's Funny Games, which is both much more creepy and amuch better film (camera, narration, style, provocation - all is muchmore elaborated in Hanecke's film). Man bites dog doesn't live up to its reputation! It's not really worthwatching, but I don't terribly regret it either. It simply left me ratheruninterested.  "},{"Title":"Won't someone tell this guy to SHUT UP?","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For some reason, this pile of excessively boring, pseudo-artistic junk has gained cult status; perhaps the fact that it's European and shot in black-and-white has something to do with that. Natural Born Killers, which is no masterpiece itself, is about ten times more violent, disturbing AND socially relevant, yet it has a much worse reputation. The killer's talk in Man Bites Dog is incessant, annoying and uninteresting, while the ending comes out of nowhere and is as illogical as the rest of the picture. The film is more boring than offensive, and has nothing to say, unless YOU force yourself into reading all sorts of messages in it. I give it 0 out of 4 stars.   "}]