[{"Title":"Unique Gem of a movie","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Trust me, this is one of the best made movies of all times.  I cannot believe that more people don't know about this movie. It has a great story, brilliant acting and it's really funny.  This is like the best Inde movie ever.  But just see it for yourself and if you like it tell someone about it, because although it is a small film, it is great American art and should be recognized.   "},{"Title":"Low-key Hal Hartley, view at least twice or don't","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't understand it right after the first viewing, but 'Trust' certainly is of Hal Hartley's finest works, excelled only by the somewhat more conventional drama 'Henry Fool'. As with many other of Hartley's earlier works, it takes a while to let the film sink into you. But with the second viewing one starts to appreciate the film's subtilities, both the dry absurd humour and the fine, deeply compassionate portraits of the characters.The story starts up with a scene typical for Hartley rebellious teenager Maria Coughlin informs her parents that not only will she drop out of high school, she is also pregnant. A quarrel takes place, and when her father calls her 'slut' she slaps him in the face. He drops down dead. The movie can begin.Things get ugly for Maria. Her boyfriend, a chauvinist pig, leaves her when she informs him that she's pregnant, claiming he's not the father anyway. And at home her mother waits for her and coolly claims that since Maria's killed her husband, she is now forever in her mother's debt and have to work for her. Never again will she do housework... This is when she meets up with Matthew Slaughter, a truly gifted engineer but with a somewhat sociopathic behaviour, and filled to the brim with anger and hatered.Martin Donovan truly does an outstanding portrait of Matthew, and perfectly manages to forge his paradoxal feelings of extreme anger and vulnerability into a fully working unit.A deeply moving story of two scarred, somewhat maladjusted souls manage to find each other, told in a low-key mood that doesn't get to you immediately. But eventually it does, and when it does...you're hooked.8/10 "},{"Title":"Years later and this movie still get me","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had the honor of viewing this, one of Hal Hartley's first films, last night. This being 2006, needless to say it has been some time since my first viewing of this very special film. This is the kind of movie that I recommend to certain friends and younger people I know (I first viewed it when very young). So many moments sit in my mind unnoticed until another viewing years after the last. An amazing tale of growth and awakening in a world that often does not present itself as being conducive to growth. The dialog is pure Hartley (if you are unfamiliar with his films I would recommend this as a good place to start). Halfway between John Hughes and Samuel Beckett. The actors portray their awakenings delicately and with precision. Please see this film! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie Of All Time","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in 1990 while I was in college and I loved it. I watched it over and over on VHS. I told everyone that this was my favorite movie of all time and watched every Hal Hartley movie I could find. Last night I stumbled across Trust on Netflix Instant and I thought I'd check it out to see if this film that I was so passionate about when I was 20 years old held up over time or if the 40 year old me would find it silly or dated. To my surprise I was blown away all over again by how ridiculously great it is. The smart stylized dialog, the music, the starkness, the silences, the camera framing, all of the whacked out but fully human characters, Martin Donovan and Adrienne Shelly so young and beautiful. As the final, simple, beautiful, frame of the film disappeared and credits rolled I was left sitting on the couch in a state of shocked amazement at the effect this film still has on me. Hands down my favorite movie of all time! "},{"Title":"I Really Like This Movie!","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I stumbled across this movie about midway through on IFC one morning...I was hooked! I couldn't look away. I had to see it from the beginning, all the way through, as it was meant to be viewed. I studied the IFC programming schedule well into the future in order to see this movie again. Eventually I did. Several times. And even now I'm still haunted by it. Some films don't stand up to repeated viewings very well however this one does.This movie has moved me as much as any movie ever has in my life. Do a friend a favor, turn em on to this one, but don't tell them ANYTHING about it beforehand(need that really be said?), let em experience it for themselves. My next goal is to own this movie in some form or another one day. It'll be a welcome addition to my collection. "},{"Title":"Hal Hartley's signature film","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TRUST (1990) ***  Adrienne Shelly and Martin Donovan shine as a pregnant, naive teen who is befriended by troubled loner-type, respectively, in this sharply written satire/black comedy/and at times gimmicky bloodless acting (but that's also the warped appeal) that brings into question the monotony of dreary jobs, thankless relationships and bad parenting.  Directed by Hal Hartley in his signature solemnity. "},{"Title":"Positive review","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I caught this movie on the television network Bravo.  I didn't see the very beginning but found myself glued to the machinations of the Matthew Slaughter character.  I felt the performance of Martin Donavan was wonderful and I enjoyed the odd way the characters spoke with one another.  The lines were rapid-fire, almost like Moonlighting, but with a different nuance which I can't quite put my finger on.  The movie was funny, but the best word for it is interesting.  It truly was a movie unlike any other I had seen, with a Coen Brothers sense of humor.  I wish I knew more people who had seen it, because it is a movie that warrants discussion afterward. "},{"Title":"minor spoiler great performance by Shelley and Donovan!","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching Hal Hartley's Trust for the second time 15 years later is exhilarating and somewhat disappointing. The characters are contrived and overintellectualized, and the conflict between parent and child here doesn't ring true (it seems to have the usual bitterness of college sophomores). Also the gestures and dialogue are stagy and slightly pretentious. Never mind that; you're missing the point. The film is not aiming at realism; it's aiming at conveying the emotional turbulence of young adult struggling to break free from the orbit of their parents.Plot and incident flow naturally and often end up in unexpected places. There's lots of surprises, many of them comic. The film is about throwing characters together and watching how they react. The moment where the girl messes up the kitchen makes you wonder, how will the father react? The dialogue (reminiscient of Stoppard or Mamet) is curt and enigmatic and challenging. And always entertaining. People are learning from one another and changing..possibly improving. The movie Trust is less about plot than a certain attitude toward life--how much trust should we place in family, friends, peers? People don't have secrets or histories; they have metaphysical complaints and frustrated dreams. Martin Donovan and Adrienne Shelly are not only young charismatic actors, they act and react with subtlety and focus. Yet both have chemistry with one another and manage to sustain this intensity without going too far (Kudos to Mr. Hartley for not aimingfor sympathy or making motives too transparent). Donovan seems adept at playing characters about to boil under, but manage to hold it in (He's at his best in the film Surviving Desire,).Adrienne, that moment when you put on your glasses at the end was a great cinematic moment. Hopeful, assertive and maybe even cocky. Your fans will always have that moment to remember you by. If you liked Trust, you'd also enjoy Hartley's Surviving Desire (although it's more arty), Jill Sprecher's 13 Conversations about One Thing and her earlier film, Clockwatchers). "},{"Title":"wonderful, horrible, mystical, hyper-realistic ride of a movie","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the film that made the film world (well, a tiny corner of the film world, anyway) sit up and take notice of an up-and-coming filmmaker named Hal Hartley.  Trust exists as a unique little motion picture, a movie which creates a world which manages to be both ridiculous and real at the same time, a mixture mirroring the absurdity which, often times, dominates the structure of actual life.  The most remarkable thing about this movie, though, is its ability to craft a charmingly sweet love story in the center out of what seems to be utter emptiness.  Martin Donavan and Adrienne Shelley portray two characters, the likes of which I would challenge you to find carbon copies of anywhere in celluloid history.  They are real, honest sketches of humanity, and with them Hartley is able to explore why and how we fall in love, and whether you agree with his interpretation of what is love, his love story comes across loud and clear.  I once had a professor who claimed there are no new stories to be told.  Well, I think Mr. Hartley may have stumbled across one...no, make that, calculatedly made one. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard about this film but never got myself around it to watch it. But one night I had nothing to do so I decided to rent a movie. I came across Trust and rented it and I loved it. It had a great story, brilliant acting and character development. The direction was excellent. It is a movie that is pretty hard to desribe and I am not the one who should be writing to many words about it but I really liked the movie and recomend every movie fan to see it. "}{"Title":"Unusual characters brilliantly portrayed","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Trust opens with a stereotypical ignorant high school girl named Maria making petty demands of her parents and deliberately scandalizing them by explaining her future plans which involve marrying her jock boyfriend. She explains that he'll have to because she's pregnant and then leaves before she has a chance to realize that the news has caused her father to have a heart attack.Since she does leave we have a while longer to become familiar with her before her perfect world begins to crumble around her. She carelessly goes clothes shopping during the day and only stops by the school she is supposed to be attending to talk to her boyfriend. He's more worried about the upcoming football game than anything she can tell him; news of her pregnancy only angers him and he makes it clear that he won't take care of the child. Things get progressively worse for her as she's kicked out of her house, has a conversation with an insane woman, and is nearly raped before retreating to a quiet street where she attempts to drown her sorrow in a six pack.At this point Maria happens to meet Matthew, a gifted machinist who is so unsatisfied with his foolish employers and demanding father that he has developed a nasty violent streak. This initially seems to be an excellent match as the newly disillusioned Maria has become just as averse to nonsense as Matthew. The two slowly get to know each other and each one realizes that the other satisfies an innate desire that has previously gone unmet. Unfortunately circumstances keep arising to drive them apart and Matthew puts his trust in the wrong people.Writer/director Hal Hartley infuses this film with a uniquely cynical wit that meshes perfectly with the material to create a work that is at once funny and emotionally engaging. The film also is thematically satisfying in that it explores the attitudes of the characters and how those attitudes have been developed. Specifically, we see how the trust characters place in other people, particularly family members, is abused and subverted and how this has shaped various characters over time. Trust is one of those rare films that not only encapsulates a certain time and place but also presents some genuine truths about human behavior and offers a consistently engaging viewing experience. "},{"Title":"A gem that's hard to find but that's worth the search","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been waiting for years to see this movie, as it's only available on VHS and when I had a VCR I couldn't find it anywhere. I just got cable and I was thrilled to discover that IFC has been showing it recently. Thanks, IFC, for making it possible for me to experience this gem! The performances in Trust are amazing. The characters really do develop in subtle yet profound ways over the course of the film, and it's a joy to behold. Adrienne Shelly's character is shallow and self-centered at the outset - her hair and clothes are flamboyant and she has no real worldly concerns. As the film progresses and she interacts with Donovan's character, her entire demeanor changes and she becomes much more likable - I almost forgot how annoying she was at the beginning of the film. Donovan's character maintains his ennui but it gains purpose as he develops his feelings for Shelly's character. The supporting cast is phenomenal and all of the minor plots serve to enhance the film in utterly charming ways. It's funny and clever, touching and sad - a perfect little gem that needs to be seen by Hartley fans and independent film enthusiasts alike.This may sound drastic, but it might be worth it to get cable just to see this movie on IFC. "},{"Title":"simply brilliant!","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this one when I was working in a small movie theater as a student back in 1991 in Leuven, Belgium. I cannot explain why but this little gem of a movie touched me and I fell in love with all the characters (specially the main ones played by Adrienne Shelly and Martin Donovan), the modest soundtrack (loved the synthesizer score at the end), the dialogs, the humor mixed with social and realistic situations. Now, 23 years later, I had the chance to rediscover this movie by accident through a local internet movie site and honestly, after having seen hundreds of movies in all genres during the passed years, it still remains my favorite movie of all times. Thank you, Mr Hartley! One from the heart! "},{"Title":"One Of My Fave Rave Indie Films!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I discovered Hal Hartley with this film and with Simple Men.  This is Hartley's greatest work and everything else since this has been second rate in my opinion.  Friends have told me how much I'm like the character of Matthew, all that seething anger at the world and all.The music, writing, acting, direction all add up to a wonderful and weird film experience.  Hal Hartley's films are not for everyone and that's the way a lot of us Hartley fans like it.  They are almost like a little private club of people who well...get it.  Some people get his films, most don't.  I've seen lots of people walk out in droves in the slower parts of some of his films.  Case in point the Japanese dance scene in 'Flirt'.  His films are filled with deadpan humor that reminds me a lot of the old 'Dragnet' TV series style of acting.  Go see Trust and have a great time at the movies!  "},{"Title":"Still the best of Hartley's movies IMO","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw 'Trust' in 1991 in an outdoor cinema tent at Glastonbury Festival. I came in late, had no idea of the title, the plot, or had a clue who any of the actors were, but from the second I sat down I was in love. The style of it, the characters, the story, but above all the dialogue changed the way I thought about movies forever. Later, when I got interesting in writing for TV and film those ideas continued to shape me. I love deadpan humour, lengthy soliloquies that read like Beckett and I love love LOVE stories about simple people and small lives. They will always be the realest, the deepest felt and the most heartwarming of all.24 years (and a hell of a lot of movies) later, 'Trust' still remains one of my favourites. I felt genuinely bereft when Adrienne Shelley was murdered, especially since 'Waitress' had also made it into my top twenty. I continue to seek out movies like 'Trust' that stick in my soul and never de-tangle. And I thank God for Hal Hartley every Thanksgiving. "},{"Title":"This is What You Can Make in 11 Days","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When high school dropout Maria Coughlin (Adrienne Shelly) announces her pregnancy to her parents, her father drops dead on the floor. Her mother kicks her out of the house and her boyfriend dumps her, so Maria is left alone and homeless.Martin Donovan really excels here and represents a type of person some of us know all too well. The man who rebels against the world, but in a sort of passive-aggressive, nihilistic fashion. It is interesting that this film came out in 1990, as the 90s were very much a nihilistic decade for film and music, and the character of Matthew Slaughter sort of anticipates that.Hal Hartley may not be as well known as Jim Jarmusch or (early) Richard Linklater, but he has that same independent vibe. He has done here for Long Island what Linklater did for Austin. "},{"Title":"Beautiful funny thing","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 20+ years after I first saw it, this remains one of my favorite films of all time. Hal Hartley's second feature is built around the same deliciously weird sense of humor as his debut The Unbelievable Truth -- even if the balance here tilts a bit more toward (melo)drama than comedy. Hartley has been known to explain that he felt almost as though he put Adrienne Shelly's character on a pedestal in that first film, and wanted to explore the darker implications of that.Shelly herself (RIP) is even better this time around, and in place of Robert Burke, we now get Martin Donovan as one of the more intense, flawed, and ultimately lovable romantic leads you'll ever see on film. (I almost put quotes around romantic, because this is not really a love story in the traditional does the guy get the girl sense. It's more interesting than that.) Donovan would go on to appear in five additional Hartley films, even playing Jesus Christ in the terrific featurette The Book of Life, but none of those roles is more iconic than this one.Between the characters and the dialogue, Hartley and his cast created something here that is wonderfully unique, humorous, and poignant. Think _Sex, Lies and Videotape_, sort of while the writer-directors have different voices, there's that same sense of careful economy, and of wondering whether these two messed-up people are ever going to get their acts together -- and cheering them on either way. "},{"Title":"Top 100 of All Time","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hal Hartley's film TRUST is one of the top 100 achievements in the history of cinema. Hal, if you ever visit this site and see this statement I hope it makes you feel good. A d-girl in LA (development person in Hollywood) at a party once showed me a bookshelf at her home that contained her 10 or 15 favorite screenplays of all time... KANE, CHINATOWN, ... and one of my old screenplays (!)(she didn't know I was the author) and yeah... that makes you feel pretty damn good.So why does TRUST work so well? Maybe it's alchemy... getting sorta the right combination in the right quantities of abstraction, hyper-realism, irony, and distance. Hartley plays with archetypes and yet makes them singular. (That ain't easy.) It's like reading Theodore Dreyer filtered by Bertolt Brecht, or running into a Long Island Godard, but the fun version of Godard before he became too p-ssed off at the world.Hartley will stage a scene that you've seen a thousand times before, almost as genre commentary or put-on, then morph it into something you have NEVER seen before. Come to think of it, although Hartley is often thought of as the American Godard, at times he could almost be the American Bunuel (sorry Mr. Lynch).It would be easy to hate some of the characters in Hartley's TRUST, but Hartley doesn't. He may hate the situations, the contexts, the environments... but he certainly has no hatred for the people. It's a great love story and a quasi-homage to PIERROT LE FOU.It contains multitudes. It is a great film. "},{"Title":"I'll marry you if you admit that respect, admiration and trust equal love.","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Trust (1990) - 10/10 As a filmmaker, Hal Hartley will forever divide audiences due to his unique story-telling style, dead-pan humour and tendency to favour words over action. His themes are often subtle and can take more than one viewing to fully understand or appreciate. Something which, understandably, can put off many.But whether you adore his style or think it to be moronic, no-one can deny that he is and always will be an inspired writer and director. A director who has influenced many and will continue to do so, I am sure, for years to come. Now I fall into the category of adoration and I believe 'Trust' to be his finest work.'Trust' focuses on the coming together of two characters. Maria Coughlin, a pregnant high-school dropout who has just been the cause of her fathers fatal heart attack, and Matthew Slaughter, an intellectual loner who still lives with his sadistic father. Sound like a standard, if a bit over the top, romance? You couldn't be more wrong.What makes Hartley's films so special, and 'Trust' is no exception, are the characters he manages to create. Though the situations they get into and the characters around them are nothing short of surreal, the way the react to each situation and deal with very serious issues could not be more realistic.A huge reason for this is his dialogue. Reminiscent of early Richard Linklater or Godard, his flowing, straight to the point script has you hooked from the word go. Fantastically direct delivery from both Shelley and Donovan allow this dialogue to shine and have you believe you these characters are friends you have known for years.In 'Trust' I believe Hartley has created one of the most earnest romances ever to be filmed. Utterly believable and almost heartbreakingly beautiful, this is certainly not a film to be missed.10/10 "},{"Title":"One of my top ten favourite films.","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was toss-up between what film will represent the early nineties style of independent films that I like &#x96; Trust could easily be replaced with Chasing Amy, Swingers, Metropolitan, Dazed and Confused or even Scream but I chose this Hal Hartley flick because I think it is the most profound in exploring the relationships we have with our partners, our family and the people in our immediate environment as well as having the most charming minimalist style to express those thoughts. A lot of the film is pretty much shot with talking heads but the execution works well because of the deadpan while nuance performances of a cast who remain very appealing and likable regardless of the dark twists and turns the story takes. Trust is probably the only Hal Hartley film you can guarantee finding at JB Hifi in Australia at any time and I definitely recommend it as an impulse purchase. "}{"Title":"I wish more people could see it","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've never written a comment for a film before and this was the first Hal Hartley film I've seen.  I was absolutely blown away by how good it was. It was a very distinctive style and the dialogue was  unrealistic but this was intentional and completely added to the film.  The accompanying soundtrack was absolutely perfect and the whole thing fitted together seamlessly. Although it dealt with telling almost a fairytale story, there were also much wider issues about the banality and conformity of life in the city. In this sense, it was very acerbic and would hopefully make people think if only it could be shown to a wider audience.  It is a tragedy that the only people who will watch this movie are a few independent movie buffs because there is so much that is good about it. "},{"Title":"Trusting","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Marketed with the promotional tagline A slightly twisted comedy, that is not even the half of it as this Hal Hartley film focuses on an unconventional and entirely non-sexual romance that develops between a pregnant teenager and a social misfit twice her age. Both characters curiously defy the initial impressions that they give. As the teen, Adrienne Shelly seems bratty and brainless, wearing heavy makeup and disrespecting her parents, however, she gradually becomes more dowdy after her parents and her boyfriend both reject her upon learning about the pregnancy. As the social misfit, Martin Donovan (no, not the director of 'Apartment Zero'; another Martin Donovan) seems dangerous and prone to violent outbursts, but totally submissive when around his bathroom sanity obsessed father, Donovan also shows us a beating human heart beneath the anger. The film takes a bit too long to bring the two characters together (it is a full 26 minutes before their separate plots converge), but there is a lot to like in how they trust each other for different reasons; her for his sincerity and workplace integrity and him for her genuine warmth. Hartley unnecessarily complicates things with a stolen baby subplot that awkwardly pops up every now and again without offering any real perspective on how Shelley feels about her own baby to-be. In the scenes where Hartley just lets his characters interact with each other though, the film rarely skips a beat. Rebecca Nelson is also very good as the girl's mother who goes from resenting Donovan to trying to manipulate who he likes for her own advantage. "},{"Title":"Trust","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I heard the title in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die I wrongly assumed it might be a foreign film, it was certainly an obscure probably not that well known film I wouldn't have heard of without the book, and one I was willing to try too. Basically Maria Coughlin (Waitress actress and director Adrienne Shelly) is a high school dropout, and causes her father Jim (John MacKay) to drop dead from heart failure and mother Jean (Merritt Nelson) to throw her out when she announces to her parents that she is pregnant, her boyfriend dumps her as well, leaving her alone and homeless. With nowhere to go she wanders into her Long Island town hoping to find somewhere to stay, and there she meets educated high school graduate Matthew Slaughter (Insomnia's Martin Donovan), who also has a great talent for fixing electronic devices, but he can't keep any job he finds because of his moodiness, he just lost his job repairing televisions because the company wanted him to cut corners, and he carries a hand grenade in case of an emergency. Matthew volunteers to help Maria any way he can, including letting her stay with him and anything he can do during her pregnancy, but she is highly considering getting an abortion, because of all the hassle a baby would cause, and spending time with each other the two misfits change each other and form an unusual non sexual relationship based on trust, but of course each other's families try to interfere, without success. Also starring The Sopranos' Edie Falco as Peg Coughlin, Gary Sauer as Anthony and In the Company of Men's Matt Malloy as Ed. This is one of those Marmite kind of independent films, you either love it or don't understand it (I doubt anyone will hate it), I found it a really interesting alternative love story with a good tragicomedy element to it, it was funny with it's dark humour, and it definitely unusual, I agree it may not be the most involving story all the way through, but it is a watchable drama. Good! "},{"Title":"You can feel a new talent emerge","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From the first sequence of Hal Hartley's Trust a viewer knows he's in for a dark, obscure ride. It opens with the shot of a young teen named Maria (Adrienne Shelly), smoking while being scolded by her parents on what a punk deviant she is after being kicked out of school. She informs them that she is pregnant and the consumption of shock and shame leads to her father's on-spot heart attack and death. This should give you an inkling on what kind of film you're in for.Maria winds up running away from home to inform her jock-boyfriend she is pregnant. He, of course, couldn't care less, as he wants to focus on sports with little distraction. Now, Maria is alone until she meets Matthew (Martin Donovan), a man whose life keeps intercepting the focus of the film up until this point. Matthew lives with his abusive father, who looks on to his son with a condescending eye. He regards him as an irrelevant failure with no ability to hold down a job. This puts Matthew in a suicidal position, barely holding on as a whole. When both of them meet, we truly see that misery loves company.The relationship Maria and Matthew have in the film is talky and quiet, with Matthew bringing detached realism into the life of Maria's, which is already dominated by teenage naivety. Hartley paints both characters as flawed people that do not magically become repaired by each other, but find a more stable sense of life and trust in their opposites. Shelley captures the reckless spirit of Maria well, and Donovan is superb at giving his sadsack character Matthew a face and a soul. Their chemistry is the driving force behind Trust's success.There's a constant use of bright, vibrant color in the film that really amplifies the overall look and tone of the picture. In the opening shot is where this can be viewed as being most prominent. As stated, Shelley remains in close-up and the colors of her makeup and lip gloss remain eye-popping and totally in your face. The remainder of the movie can occasionally turn up as grim, with a gray palette, but often does Hartley gather up the brightest, most visually attractive colors to see on-screen.But where Trust really excels is in its dialog. Smooth, fluent, and often subversively philosophical in terms of direct contact, he establishes a relationship between two unlikely characters that we can see grow and build as time goes on. They expand from the one-dimensional caricatures we initially view them as to complete humans we can recognize and sympathize with.Trust is the second film from Hal Hartley, who has made a career out of making comedy-dramas with an emphasis on character and monologues. He establishes himself quaintly here, assuring his independent status, and carefully makes use of such neglected things as mood and tone to set a nice standard in this drama. It's the kind of feeling that I see many going for. We walk in unsure, but emerge with the mindset that we've seen a new filmmaking talent in the works. God, do I love that feeling.Starring Adrienne Shelly and Martin Donovan. Directed by Hal Hartley. "},{"Title":"a very fine film with no inherent gaps or mislead characters","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most popular films delineate their stories in a rather comical and insipid way the dialogue is often exchanged between characters as if it were bounced off a Spartan gladiator - and, in some cases very little to short-of-nothing is penetrable in the film.Trust is a film that inverses that idea - and does so with wit, charm, and most importantly astute cleverness. The story begins with careful sequencing that portrays each character a new journey of life. We see an antisocial protagonist, a pregnant girl who recently dropped out of high school, and a motherly type whose apathy is cunning and partially insane. Trust is a love story that defies any cliché of filmmaking. The lead character pours his organism into the film and invokes integrity of personality without apprehension or any constipation (who can forget that wit from Mr Slaughter??) The film is about what happens when we take chances, and don't take chances. In short it's about being and what happens when we share our being with others.The film's sequencing is what I loved most of all. It's weaved into a fabric that reminded me of early avant-garde films (the envelope of the story is reminiscent of Kubricks's older film The Killing) and perhaps more-or-less surprising is the protagonist(played by Martin Donovan) exchanges silence; those rare moments in the film that can't help to be compared to the work of Godard. Momentarily, it shines solicitude and violence (the symbolism is slightly ironic and very insincere.) My favorite moments are about jeering characters who feel unwanted.A definite must-watch. I recommend it to anyone, everyone. "},{"Title":"Learn about Trust","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A father drops dead after arguing with his daughter, who's pregnant. In another house a grown man is still living at home with his father and can't clean the bathroom to suit him. Together these stories come together with vivid reality, almost too much so. Despite the feeling they seem to be getting nowhere and fast, its mature take on people's troubles and the way the two leads connect make for an intelligent and engrossing film. I don't know if I would really want to see it again, but the more the viewer thinks about it after wards, you realize just how much it makes an impression on you. The viewer is really invested in these people and that's a credit to the writers and makers of this film, which stars Adrienne Shelley and Martin Donovan and a young Edie Falco, before The Sopranos. If you want a real slice of life with an ending that's not really an ending, but just the beginning of another stage, watch this and learn about Trust. "},{"Title":"Darkly comic, excellent film from a true independent","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An all-time favourite. Hal Hartley's world may take some getting used to &#150; and judging from some reviews here, not everyone does &#150; but once you're in, it's a parallel universe where disaffected people exchange darkly funny deadpan lines in a rhythmic fashion, reflecting on weighty topics whilst existing in a bleak, northern working town world. Hartley regulars Martin Donovan and the late, wonderful Adrienne Shelly perfectly represent disaffection and spoilt self-inflicted misery respectively. Their growing intimacy echoes that of the viewer, being drawn into this world. Judging by how relatively few user reviews Hartley's films get on IMDb, I think they're maybe being lost slightly in the mists of time. But younger film fans shouldn't be put off by the look or sound, which fixes them in time if you liked Ghost World I think you'll like this - It's as rebellious, and as dark and funny.Donovan's character, Matthew, is bored, angry, an electronics genius. His control freak, bully Dad keeps fixing him up with dead-end electronics jobs, and Matthew can't stand them. He's a picture of hopeless disaffection. Shelley's Maria is an over-dressed, over-made-up brat, convinced her life is all mapped out. She's pregnant, and her blunt, selfish breaking of the news to her parents proves the death stroke to her father. With her bright hair, her pink painted pout, her awful college football boyfriend and her breezy confidence that life will bend to her shallow desires, she's just made for a fall in the biblical tradition.They meet, as they must, and drag each other through a difficult transition from where they are, to where they might, just possibly, get to be, together. They both try to transform, with varying results. They discuss love and the nature of love; her vengeful mother tries to trick them both; Matthew, whose stark life becomes more complicated, tries to stick with the steady dead end job he's always despised; Maria's lurid life steadily simplifies to beautifully stark things. Sideline characters add colour; the weary nurse at the abortion clinic, the divorcée sister, Matthew's dad, the baby-thief.As a troubled teenager, I watched Hal Hartley's films on the - then - visionary Channel 4 in Britain in the late 80s and early 90s, and felt that they were speaking to me, directly, not necessarily with comforting messages of hope &#150; just communicating, as little else around me then seemed to have the power to do.Hartley's films are in no way pieces of realism, or even magical realism. His style embraces artifice, but in so doing he creates a very consistent world, where themes and character types recur, and in being artificial, expose the artificial in life, too. It's somewhat bleak, but I find that a very comforting place to be. I can't recommend his films highly enough for anyone for whom the ultra-shallow glossiness of mainstream Hollywood output is just not good enough Trust, The Unbelievable Truth and Amateur are the ones to see. "},{"Title":"In Hal Hartley we TRUST","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maria Coughlin is pregnant and her life becomes a mess when her father collapses and die after the great news. Her mother blame her and her boyfriend leaves her. Now the question is Who can Maria Trust? The answer seems to be Matthew Slaughter, an intelligent twisted young man who also has his own explosives issues to deal with.This movie is definitely one of my favorites. I had watched several years ago and still remains that must see movie feeling in my brain.It's not just a romantic comedy, but an unusual drama about guilt and trust in a fantastic point of view. Since this is a movie by Hal Hartley, we only can wait for something unique and almost unlabeled.Great cast and rich dialogue, which dynamic give us a sense of visualizing a book on screen. Mission accomplished! This movie is 10!I really recommend ! "},{"Title":"A pregnant high-school dropout and an isolated intellectual loner form a bond.","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What I loved most about this movie, is the evolution of the characters, how Maria started out very (to me) unlikeable and then became an interesting person. The script is taut and at times laugh-out-loud funny, Maria's estranged relationship with her mother, adds a more serious tone but the banter between the two main characters in always captivating. It is fast-paced and realistic, the relationship between the characters feels so pure and the ending is definitely worth the film. Trust has some truly quotable lines in it, mostly from Matthew's witty observations of modern life and Maria's naivety. If you are looking for a wonderfully executed comedy-drama, Trust is for you! "},{"Title":"A Hal Hartley gem that will appeal to all audiences","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Trust is an absolutely beautiful film full of terse, poignant, funny dialogue that rivals (and reminds one of) the best of David Mamet. A great film whether you're a fan of Hal Hartley or not, Trust, both an endearing character study and a page-turner of a plot, is much more accessible to the general audience than Hartley's other gems, such as Amateur and No Such Thing. Anyone would love this film. Trust relies heavily on the acting of a great cast who expertly deliver lines in a fashion reminiscent of theatre. See it You'll remember it and think about it fondly for a long time after. "}{"Title":"Trust me on this one....this is a great movie!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Over a decade later and this movie still hits me hard. It might just be for personal reasons...I'm a computer professional who had a father similar to the one in this movie and I've had to overcome many emotional issues in order to ultimately find true love, etc. etc. Anyway, for whatever reason why, I just loved this movie and still do. It is unique, original, witty, interesting and most of all, touching.In the end, you care about all the lost souls in this movie. The music is haunting and moving too. I hope you see it. "},{"Title":"brilliance","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. The writing, directing, acting... Love it all. It is slightly out of the box.. Coloring just beyond the lines. It takes place in a time that seems real on the surface, but it is also evident that this is in no world we've ever been in... I have no idea how else to describe it. This movie is quite funny. not laugh-track funny.. There is an underlying humor throughout the film (largely brought out by Martin Donovan's excellent performance).. some of the funniest scenes are with Matthew and his father. Give the movie a try. It isn't for everyone. I know many who found it boring, or didn't get why its listed as a comedy. It's too bad really, because they're missing out on a really great film. "},{"Title":"Excellent character study livens slightly flawed film","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film poses an interesting dilemma for me. Why do I like a film that I found to be unevenly scripted with mostly unremarkable acting? Somehow the characters are so honest that I couldn't help become engrossed in the plot. The leads don't do a great job, they pass. It's like a good college theater production. Only Merrit Nelson as the crazy mom impressed me a an accomplished actor. There are times that the script is so artificial I was wincing. The Casiotone music track is annoying. But with all that, the movie succeeds on the pure enthusiasm that Mr. Hartley puts into the entire production.Recommended. A good American independent film that doesn't rely on guns or psychotic behavior. "},{"Title":"Pretty impressive","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was sitting in on a film class that my friend was taking. His film teacher decided to show them this quiet little film, made for about five  bucks.From the start Trust grabs you. It's smart, funny, beautiful, and very well written.  I'm not going to make this a lengthy review, I'm just going to say Don't miss it! See this movie.3.5/4 "},{"Title":"A dry, witty look at teenage life on Long Island","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hal Hartley's Trust, like his very similar film, The Unbelievable Truth stars Adrienne Shelley as a distraught teenager (Maria) trying to make sense of it all.  Maria's dry wit and defeatist attitude are extremely entertaining.  As with many of Hartley's films, the brilliance is found in the clever exchanges of dialog.  These exchanges often involve people having a conversation with themselves, in the presence of someone else doing the same.  The effect is very amusing to watch.  The scenery and jangling score also add to the overall quality of the film. "},{"Title":"a gifted filmmaker, treading water","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Long Island filmmaker Hal Hartley fights the sophomore jinx in the follow-up to his disarming debut feature 'The Unbelievable Truth' (1989). His second film is an overwritten satire drawn around the usual clichés of modern suburban culture (television, dysfunctional families, etc.) and filtered through the director's trademark cast of quirky characters, none of whom resemble anyone raised in a genuine suburb. It lacks the offbeat appeal of his earlier effort, presenting a darker, more emotionally violent story about a pregnant high school dropout and her unlikely friendship with an alienated electronics whiz-kid, who carries a hand grenade just in case. The odd, choreographed rhythm of Hartley's dialogue is still enjoyable, but this time his characters have nothing amusing to say, and the impression is left of a gifted talent trying too hard to overcome a creative block. "},{"Title":"Comforting like a good sad balled...","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Probably one of the least seen films that I have discussed over the last 6 months, this was a movie that I remember vividly as a teen, though in more glowing terms than I now see it.Trust was made by indie filmmaker Hal Hartley, who was renowned for his dialogue heavy films exploring regular people going about their lives. Now that I revisit this some 20 years later I think that perhaps his work also merits the dreaded quirky tag.The film starts with a domestic between a young girl and her Dad, the scene culminates with the Dad keeling over dead of a heart attack.The girl is one of two leads, her name is Maria, she is apparently high school age, is pregnant to the quarterback who she now wants nothing to do with, and not wanted at home as her mother blames her for the death of her dad. She also looks a lot like a duck.The other lead is Matthew, played by Martin Donovan in deadpan mode. He is a marginally psychotic TV repairman who is bullied by his single Dad and carries a grenade around with him.Real people dealing with real issues.There is much more of a plot than Maria and Matthew meet, share their problems and decide to make a go of things together, the action occurs as they progress through and come into contact with the various other characters in the film.No-one seems to get along, Maria's mum hates her, and later Matthew. Matthew's dad hates him, and everyone else it seems. Matthew is an angry loner who hates everyone and everyone hates, which leaves Maria and her unborn child as the victim of a tug of war.Everyone in the film seems to be 5% off-normal, not quite enough to be a caricature, but more than enough that they could all aptly be described as weird (at least) by normal people.In this vein Hartley is like Kevin Smith (really), he puts people that you might almost convince yourself that could exist, and in fact you might know someone who really reminds of one of them, only he fills every role with these one-in-a-million characters, so you have a town full of people that would ordinarily be the nut-job.The dialogue is scripted down to the nth degree, which unfortunately leads to conversations that alternate between snappy and robotic, at times in the same scene. At times it is almost like the characters are starting their response before the other sentence is finished.This film is most notable to me as being the first film I can remember seeing that had a character say the C-word, and a female character at that. If this sounds juvenile it is because when I watched the film I was, so it was a genuine surprise to me to see such a taboo word bandied about in an art house film.Even now that I watch this movie and see that I perhaps was looking at my memories with rose coloured glasses, there are moments that are both calculated that still have an impact, you know that the director is trying to scream this is important and want to ignore it but it still works.Like a good sad ballad, you know it is simply trying to manipulate your emotions, but turn off the lights and crank it loud and you can't help but caught up in it. Only Trust is a 90+ minute movie, it's hard to be swept along for that long when everything is so mechanical.Final Rating - 6.5 - 10. As I said at times it works, there are just too many dead spots in between those times.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Great Movie, worth a watch","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is now one of my favorite movies, i just watched it and i'm trying to find it.The story is excellent, the dialogues are incredible!! there are many parts of the movies that are worth quoting.The acting is very well done, the tension that is built upon the characters can be felt in the acting, it feels truthful.The situations and all the things that make each character part of one big thing are made so smooth and nice!! Each character has it's reason for being how he is, you get to understand the people in the film, what seems crazy for some may be regular for others, it's all in the eye of the beholder.This is a great movie, a must-see in my opinion! "},{"Title":"A great black(dark) comedy.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie 'Trust' directed by Hal Hartley in 1992 is a black comedy about a man and woman falling in love and the trust that has to be there to make it last. 'Trust' is focusing on just that trust. The trust people put on other people, which is then broken or earned. The trust Mathew and Marie hold is never broken just like in 'Harold and Maude' another black comedy. This movie had the same style as 'The Breakfast Club' and 'Mallrats' which shared the same color, editing style, camera angles and dialogue. The dialogue is paying attention on the youth's perspective of language, which is slang and broken English. The editing involved some quick cut but primarily longer shot that creates a mundane life style to the whole movie. The black comedy moments in the film is looking at the absurdity of life. For example, stealing a baby out in the open public, carrying around a hand grenade to commit suicide and killing the father in the beginning of the movie with a heart attack at the moment he kicks out his daughter for getting pregnant. It was the ideal moment a parent would say your killing me, and Marie actually did at that instants. Matthew's character in the movie fixes everything, like computers, electronics and 'Marie'. I got the idea that Matthew can fix anything except his own life. But Marie appears and begins to help him fix his own. Which is the idea that behind every great man there is a good woman and a good woman will change any man which it the same idea as these movies 'Harold and Maude', 'The Breakfast Club' and 'Mallrats'. I all so believe that these are sharing the same idea love at first sight. Mathew and Marie are against institution. Two loners misunderstand and abused by the institutions parents, authority figures and businesses. The two develop this trust almost immediately in the old abandon house, fitting for the two characters both feeling abandoned from society. Just like in 'The Breakfast Club' and 'Mallrats' using the school or the mall as their jail or confined domain I found this movie entertaining. Taking everyday life and compared to other black comedy like 'Harold and Maude', 'The Breakfast Club' and 'Mallrats'. They all had a character that was depressed, the mentality of 'Damn the man' and twisting or concentrating on the absurd. Which are primary elements of a black comedy.  "},{"Title":"Still in my head after 10 years...","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film over ten years ago and I couldn't get it out of my head. The first time I saw it, I remember thinking that it had a strange feel and flow, but I couldn't stop watching.  Then I saw the film 2 more times shortly after - again I couldn't stop watching it - and I loved it.  I am not usually affected by films like this, but I almost felt like I knew Adrienne Shelley's character (or even Adrienne Shelley herself) intimately after watching it.  I haven't ever followed independent films consciously, and I don't own this film, but I may decide to seek it out, along with other Adrienne Shelley and Hal Hartley films.  I would have liked to see her become more popular - she showed great talent and natural appeal, though a little a-typical from the Hollywood A list of actresses (kind of like Rene Zellweger). "}{"Title":"One of those movies you wake up thinking about...","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely fantastic!  I adore Hal Hartley and the troupe of actors and actresses he uses in his films.  Trust is awe-inspiring...for the performances, for the stark cinematography, and for the interesting and original story.  It's a great movie, and anything with Adrienne Shelly is probably going to be good.  Also...it's independent which in my opinion makes everything better.Being a small-time writer, and theatre arts enthusiast, I can say it is completely refreshing to see a funny drama that doesn't look like all the other comedic dramatic romances polluting the screens out there.  The ending would be the only part I have problems with, for unlike the Unbelievable Truth...there was less of a culminating end.  But some would say it was appropriate.  Great movie, I'm buying it...and watching it again as soon as I can. "},{"Title":"My first encounter with Hal Hartley, I was amazed.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I knew the films of Jim Jarmousch and Aki Kaurismaki and I thought that they were the best until I saw Hartley's film Trust. It was the best I ever saw and the soundtrack is awesome too. After seeing it maybe 10 times on my vcr it still suprises me. They don't show the early short films in Holland or I missed them and I wonder if they are as strong as Trust. I would not mind seeing Adrienne Shelley in a Hal Hartley film again. "},{"Title":"David Mamet v. The Coen Bros.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a fantasy world, if Mamet and the Coen Bros. fought for control over making this 1990 film, it would be Mamet who won but he would include a lot of the Coens' work in it. That is the best description of this film's character and will be easily understood by readers knowing the work of both. It's not nearly as good as good Mamet or the Coens, but it has a similar appeal, especially in the deadpan Coen-like humor and in the short, snappy Mamet-like dialog that people don't speak in real life. Maybe just a little Buster Keaton in it too.The story was unremarkable and character driven and I prefer plot driven stories, but the odd way the characters interacted made for some funny moments. Not Coen Bros., but not bad.It was a slice of life combination of the conventional and quirky, depressive and optimistic, sad and funny, psychotic and realistic, good hearts and those not so good. The interplay between these opposites when done well are memorable. This film fell short of memorable, but it was nicely goofy and off-beat and a pretty effective overall effort for a low budget indy.The terrific Edie Falco of the Sopranos had a small part and showed why she has done so well in later years. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" brilliant film, i look forward to checking out the other work of the director.the character development in this movie can't be topped. you generally feel like you know the two main characters and can predict their next move by the end of the flick. the amazing dialogue is reminiscent (to me, anyway) of mallrats. the social commentary (televisions, relationships, etc) absolutely blows me away. Matthew brings to mind such admirable and enviable anti-heroes as John Bender...you see how screwed up they are, but you're magnetically drawn to them anyway and have no choice but to root for them. it could be that these flawed characteristics are more realistic and you're in turn more likely to identify with them than some over the top hero lead. i'll write a much more educated review with my film course studies utilized when i'm not so tired...just wanted to get up a lil something for now...see this movie at any cost! IFC runs it a lot... "},{"Title":"The best independent film ever!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen it many times. It is such a unique little gem of a movie. Funny, black humorous, touching. And I love Martin Donovan's dry performance. The best independent film of the 1990's! This is what independent filmaking is about, a writer and director being allowed to be as creative and unique as this production was.  "},{"Title":"Not too shabby.","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I identify with the lead....he's a brilliant idiot, suckered into caring about a hopelessly stereotyped whitetrash suburban familyI think I've met this family a few times.This strikes me with the same sense of nostalgia for my teen years growing up in the urban sprawl, that I got from seeing Clerks.The story line is a lot more accessible exspecially to a person slaving away in a dead end BS white collar mind trap.Have a blast watching this one.favorite line  TV is Herion for the masses  "},{"Title":"A Surprise...","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was half asleep and a little unnerved. I was asking myself,  What in gods name is this movie trying to say? That was long ago. Now, I understand What I was missing. This movie deserves much more credit than what I gave it. I admire the actors and their brilliant displays of reality. The story may have veered into numerous confusing ruts along the way, but sorts itself out in the end. I'm still kicking my past self for missing the point. "},{"Title":"It's so determined to be odd, eventually indifference sets in...","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pregnant, unwed teen (Adrienne Shelly) falls unexpectedly into relationship with brilliant-but-stubborn young man (Martin Donovan) who's on the fast track to nowhere. You gotta credit director Hal Hartley with fashioning a bizarre, yet puzzlingly amusing scenario cast with unknown actors who tap right into his offbeat spirit. Still, trippy, edgy comedies like this often pummel their one-note to death, and the film's incidental charms are nearly overshadowed by the filmmaker's inherent smugness. The plot is practically non-existent, but fans of quirky dark humor will find a lot to cherish here. ** from **** "},{"Title":"tsurT","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film and would like to comment on it. Trouble is it's a hard film to comment on. What was it all about? The way other people can change us? Or is it ultimately about trusting in oneself? Who cares, it was fun getting there with some memorable lines and cracking performances. wonderful moments include dad's head jammed in the fridge, the head in the vice, Matthew's drinking duel with Maria's mum Jean (way out of even his league) and Jean's unexpected discovery of a soulmate in Matt's dad, do you want something to eat?The style is problematic though, the group of businessmen all coming down the stairs in the same exaggerated look is a case in point. If Hartley manages to move away from this rather showy and comic book style, he could one day make a film of real power and truth. I trust he will. (Captain pompous strikes again!) "},{"Title":"Cardboard","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I watched this picture, I started asking myself, What is this disease we have that makes us stay to the bitter end to see what a creator of fiction decides to impose upon us as his choice of a myriad of endings? If the work is at all plausible, then perhaps something can be learned of the human condition from seeing a plausible ending. But Trust is simply implausible. As credible as following the story line of a comic strip, Mandrake the Magician, or Beetle Bailey. The characters in this film were totally unrealistic composites of . . . something. Add in the absurd scenarios, that might have been there for comic relief, but failed. The people standing on the sidewalk like Soviet housewives in line to buy bread, all holding super-lightweight tiny-screened TVs to be repaired. Matt's father, helping a woman start her car, who concludes it sounds like the battery, when it is obvious to even a technoramus that the battery is the one part of the car that demonstrably does function well. Maria, who at the start of the movie is highly fashion-conscious. but later we learn that the eyeglasses she had chosen for herself are 1948 style. Yet, without their thick lenses, she sees everything clearly without squinting. If the viewer cannot possibly take seriously any of the anecdotal elements of these cardboard characters, how can one possibly care enough about the final outcome to invest another hour waiting to see what it is? I happened to see Trust on IFC, back-to-back with Our Song. The latter is a great work of cinematic art, in which I really cared about the genuine characters and their fates. But in Trust, I was sort of hoping they would jump into a volcano together, and had no interest in sticking around to see if they did. "}{"Title":"I just didn't get it","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was tipped off to this film by a couple of friends who raved about it. I can't see why, but then again, a movie, like music, works differently for each indiv. person. The story was quirky, with the central characters decent actors who I was not familiar with. I sure couldn't buy the premise that Martin Donovan's character was a young twenty-something, as he was about 32 years old in real life when Trust was filmed. And some of the various scenes were obviously written to provoke some ironic laughter, but I wasn't smiling.Everybody posting here seems to have liked it. I didn't.I guess my only reason to recommend this is if you'd like to see what Edie Falco (a/k/a/ Carmela Soprano) looked like in 1990, before the bleach set in. "}]