[{"Title":"Go Ninja Go Ninja Go!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Good times once again as we return with our turtles in a half shell, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is the popular sequel to the very popular and successful movie Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. We had some minor changes to this film, while the first movie was a success, parents complained of it's dark nature and mild cursing. So this film was a little brighter and family friendly, while it drug the film down a little for some odd reason I still loved this movie. Not only me but some of my other friends loved it as well, I don't know if it's because we grew up with this film or whatever, but we still have so much fun watching it despite it's cheesy themes and the fact that Vanilla Ice makes a cameo with the ever infamous Ninja Rap that he knew the lyrics and dance too before he even knew the song existed.The Turtles have been forced to live with their friend the news reporter April O'Neil because the Foot Clan know the whereabouts of their lair in the sewers. While the Turtles are looking for a new home, they encounter a pizza delivery boy named Keno, who is trying to fight off a band of robbers by means of his skill as a martial artist, where the Turtles intervene on his behalf. The Foot Clan, no longer as large as it was in the first film, have retreated to a large junkyard, where Master Tatsu, Shredder's second in command, attempts to take control of the gang, but is challenged by Shredder himself. Shredder was thought to be dead. He now appears physically deformed and obsessed with obtaining revenge, to achieve which he sends a Foot member to pose as an intern at the news network and trail April. April is shown making a report on the efforts of an industrial organization known as TGRI to neutralize pollutants that have resulted from their experiments. Splinter, seeing the report on television, shows the Turtles and April the canister of ooze that had caused himself and the Turtles to mutate into their present forms, revealing that it was made by the TGRI. The Turtles infiltrate the TGRI offices to seize a sample of the ooze, only to encounter Tatsu and the Foot. Despite the Turtles' efforts to stop them, Tatsu and the Foot escape, taking the last canister of ooze and Professor Jordan Perry with them. Shredder later instructs Perry to use the ooze to transform a snapping turtle and a wolf into monsters, creating the characters Tokka and Rahzar.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is silly and over the top, but it's still a really fun movie and has all the action and good times the first one had. I absolutely loved the scene where the turtles try to trick Tokka and Rahzar with the donuts, inside the donuts are the cure to make them small again, but of course they don't fall for it after a while and the turtles have the butts handed back to them, big time. I also love the little flaw where the last film Shredder is crushed in a garbage truck, he comes back to life, but he becomes super Shredder where nothing should kill him at all, except for a bridge that falls on him and the turtles, but the turtles manage to survive, lol. It's all good though, this is just a fun movie and I'll always watch it, besides you have to keep that Ninja Rap alive.7/10 "},{"Title":"Superb but lacks darkness like the original","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The sequel to the smash hit 1990 TMNT, starts off greatly with an introduction to a new character (Keno) and has a great pizza scene showing how the city loves New York pizza as well as metaphorically showing the viewers watching that this indeed is a turtles movie...The opening music is great and is perfect for the city scene.The plot is not as well thought out as the original but still does the turtles a good name for them...I still feel they rushed it a little seeing that the movie was in production right after the 1st movie went into theaters...I seem to feel the super shredder was the turning point in the franchise, meaning that it went from a sort of Tim Burtan feel with TMNT 1, and ended up with a corny kid focused feeling with the introduction of the super shredder..and the ninja rap didn't help either..all though I thought it was cool....I just wished secret of the ooze was more of a dark TMNT movie....which the 1st movie held on to strong.The addition of Professor Jorden Perry and the whole TGRI company was a great idea to explain the chemical spill and the mutation the turtles went through. His mature nature and serious tone helped the movie maintain a sense of maturity as well as stability in the plot.The acting was great in this one as well and the comedy was just as good as in the first movie. Although Corey Feldman did not voice Donetello in this one, the replaced voice actor was great...I even might say that the actor that voiced Don in TMNT 2 is just as good as Cory Feldman's voice acting in the 1st and 3rd movie.IN conclusion, TMNT Secret of the Ooze is a great sequel that is both funny as well as serious and is a great movie for any age. The only thing that bothered me was that is was slightly too focused on the youth audience and didn't stay 100% with the original's dark atmosphere. "},{"Title":"This sequel is entertaining enough to overcome certain silliness and flaws.","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The fearsome foursome turtles go after the glowing cannister that mutated them as babies. While the turtles are trying to find the meaning of their lives and the ooze is slipped into the hands of the evil Shredder (Francois Chau). Shredder asks the help of an unwillingly scientist (David Warner) to make his mutant allies, Rahzar and Tokka. The Turles seeks help with the young pizza deliver boy-Keno (Ernie Reyes, Jr.). The Heroes dive into action and of course, Pizza! Directed by Michael Pressman (Doctor Detroit, Some Kind of Hero, To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday) made an entertaining sequel. This is a bigger budgeted film than the first movie. As usual, the highlight is the animatronic characters by Jim Henson's creature shop. The plot of the sequel is extremely silly but never boring. Paige Turco replaced Judith Hoag from the original and Turco is appealing in the film. Too Bad, Elias Koteas didn't return for the sequel and Corey Feldman didn't return to voice Donatello also. The film was a hit like the original. The only flaw in the sequel is the ending, which it is a mess. RapperVanilla Ice appears in a embarrassing cameo. This sequel is amusing for the kids and fun for the fans of the comic book series. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film opens with tremendous confidence and energy. The humor of the Turtles may be so 1990 but I still dig it. The opening scene in the shopping mall is way funny and a great way to introduce is to the sequel. At the time the style of the Turtles wasn't so stale, so the plot may seem a bit childish or dumb now.I have no doubts that if this movie were made today it would not be subtitled 'The Secret of the Ooze'. One can hardly expect high art from a movie called Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II but they could have subtitled it something a little less crass. Apparently taking place right after the first movie (where's Casey) it wastes no time bringing back the Shredder and the rest of the Foot Clan.This time Shredder aims to steal the cannister of ooze that mutated our heroes so he can make his own monsters to avenge his defeat. The result is Tokka and Rahzar and it seems like a half-attempt at a live-action version of Rocksteady and Bebop. As you can imagine, this plot isn't very clever. But the movie never really lulls so long as our heroes are on screen.Look out for a cameo by Vanilla Ice (looking alarmingly like Dolph Lundgren) at the end. It's so dated it may be difficult to watch but as long as your alone you won't have to cringe.The DVD has wonderful motion menus as well as a great 1.851 anamorphic picture with Dolby 5.1 sound. Extras are thin but still it's a great buy.  "},{"Title":"Nothing's as good second time round,but ultimately everything was as to be expected","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe turtles have thwarted the evil Shredder and his army of ninja thieves and are now searching for a new home.However,it soon emerges The Shredder is set to return to wreak more havoc,and has the ways and the means of unleashing a terrible new threat to the crime fighting awesome foursome.As they set out to stop him,the turtles come to learn more about where they came from and the secrets of their origin...At the time of the original film's release,the TV series and the toys were at the height of their popularity and so a feature film was inevitable.However,it was a relatively low budget Golden Harvest production that went on to become the most successful independent film of all time.GH still played quite a huge part in the proceedings with this second instalment,however the first film had been a major success,a sequel was as inevitable as the original adaptation that preceded it and so now,a worldwide big major studio like Twentieth Century Fox wanted to have a cut in the stakes and so stepped in to cash in on the franchise.And hey,nobody makes family blockbusters like Twentieth Century Fox,right?Well,maybe Universal.Anyone who would regard Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 as pointless is,in essence,unable to see past their own nose.The law of physics practically states that any successful (especially family based) action film will have a follow up,in the interests of franchising and,well,basically making money.And it's certainly the family that TMNT2 appeals more to.It's a much lighter,sillier and more family friendly feeling outing,in comparison to the dark,grimy feel of the original.The Shredder,for instance and most significantly,manages only a fraction of the dark,menacing vibe he gave last time and for the most part completely lacks substance here.There's a scene in which the Tokha and Rahzor monsters clamber up and cuddle him that forcefully strips him of all the fear and respect he commanded from the last film.To a degree,the same could be said of Tatsu,although in fairness,he did carry a slightly bumbling quality to him in the original.That's not to mention a number of woefully under-used supporting characters,such as April and Chief Sterns.And what the hell happened to Casey Jones?!?Of the new characters the new film introduces,Ernie Reyes Jr. emits a fairly engaging charisma as kung fu fighting pizza delivery boy Keno and David Warner is impressive as bumbling professor Jordan Perry (or maybe the film holds too much sentimental value for me!)One of the main compounding factors of the film (in my eyes) was the plot (or,rather,lack of it) that at best feels very slight and at worst feels practically non-existent.The film is very short,so the feeling of it all being slapped together to make money is never far in doubt.Yet,for all this,the film still manages to carry a charm all of it's own.The script,though patchily assembled,still manages to be engaging throughout and the Jim Henson creature shop creations are as well made,colourful and pleasant to the eye as you'd expect.And hey,when even a Vanilla Ice cameo can't spoil it,something has to be right.***  "},{"Title":"Less gritty than the first, but more fun","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, this second film was more kid-oriented and played more for laughs, but I still got a kick out of it. Paige Turco made a better April than Judith Hoag (and what a cool apartment April has!) and Ernie Reyes Jr. (whatever happened to him?) is a lot of fun to watch too. What WAS the secret of the ooze? I haven't seen the film in years!Re Vanilla Ice. Yes, his very presence is laughable, let alone his performance. But in his defense, he's less embarrassing here than in 1991's other blockbuster smash hit, Cool As Ice! "},{"Title":"The turtles return to shell out more damage.","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There really is no point in going over everything once again for newcomers who should really watch the harmless and entertaining first movie anyway.This time around we get a new April O'Neil (Paige Turco, a vast improvement over her predecessor), no Casey Jones, a little bit of mad science, a returning Shredder, some little athletic kid who kicks people to the ground in between delivering pizza and some great enemies for the turtles to try and destroy. Oh, and as the title would suggest, there's a more prominent role for the ooze that helped make the turtles what they would become and that's the main thrust of the plot that ooze and how it is to be used/abused by those who get their hand on it. Simplicity itself.This is, let's be frank now, not a great movie. And yet, somehow, it kept me entertained throughout and actually left me with a big grin on my face in places. Perhaps it was the familiarity of the characters, perhaps it was some of the genuinely half-decent action sequences, perhaps it was even just the excuse all these years later of STILL being able to laugh at Vanilla Ice (oh, do watch for that scene as it is priceless).Nostalgia is all well and good in small doses but, thankfully, this movie was amusing, light and entertaining enough in a standard family movie way to pass the time without too much pain.See this if you like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Double Dragon, Tank Girl. "},{"Title":"A regular Fan","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw the first debut of the turtle's  movie I did not want to miss a second. And I did'nt. When the 2nd one came out I loved every second as the 1st, and to this day I still have the collection, and the credit I want to give to is the puppeteers and the suit performers they were awesome bringing those characters to life. Great Job. My full respect for these movies is still strong. Some say I'm too old to watch it still. I don't think so! TMNT Rocks. Let's keep it that Way! "},{"Title":"The Most Kiddish Of The TMNT Movies","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just finished watching this movie. I thought about watching it, because I recently saw the first one which I also wrote a review on. I also felt like watching it, because you remember how the turtles like pizza and in this one, one of the main characters is the pizza delivery guy, Keno. While watching it, a lot of the movie didn't entertain me that much. It might have a good storyline, dealing with the ooze the turtles mutated from. But, a lot of the movie seemed too kiddish for me. Don't get me wrong, I like a lot of kid entertainment. Like my favorite movie in the entire world, which I also left a review on is a movie called Junior High Spy, even though that movie has bad acting. I also feel like if you want to go to places like Disney World, you still have some of your youth inside. Sometimes if something is too kiddish, it just seems too cheesy to watch and doesn't entertain you as much.Now, there's the first one which is entertaining. I enjoyed the first film, I like the dark atmosphere in the film. I also like how they show the Foot Clan and teen boys from back then entertaining themselves. This movie is the 2nd in the series, and we miss the days when the turtles were stuntmen in costumes. This movie while meant to be a sequel from the first, seemed to leave things out as sequels often times do. I mean, April seems to change in this one. Yeah, she's played by a different actress. But, in this one she lives in a nicer apartment in a nicer area of the city. She also seems to appreciate antiquity in the first, which isn't shown in this one. Also, Danny was a main character in the first film who even hung around April in a deleted ending scene. It doesn't look the same without him, or his Dad Charles Pennington, especially at April's Channel 3 News. It also isn't quite the same without Casey Jones, even though Keno probably replaced his role. The foot also seems different in this film than the first.What else do I want to say. I saw the 3rd one recently, as I have a Blu Ray set with the first 3 TMNT movies. I saw on wikipedia how the 3rd one got mostly negative reviews, including one review of somebody who considered it only entertaining for kids and almost as if that movie was written by kids. I don't think so. The 3rd one seems less cheesy, and it takes us back to 17th Century Japan. Also, I felt like the plot for that movie was hard to understand, even as an adult. That movie could also look like you're watching a different movie when you see ancient Japan. It also is nice to see the turtles in the past, and not in their typical urban environment, and a villain besides Shredder. That movie couldn't be written by a kid, I don't think most kids are really familiar with the Samurai in 17th Century Japan. This second one seems more like it was written by a kid, as it's a plot a kid could come up with.So, the movie entertained me a little. I mean the Go Ninja Go Ninja Go sequence was cool. The climax while it could have been better was cool. But, a lot of the movie seemed slow pace, and cheesy. I'm sure the first one will entertain you more than this one. If you like history, like me you'd probably prefer the 3rd one. So, for entertainment purposes and remembering the turtles from when they were men in costumes, I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"OK, but not as much fun as I remember","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the early 90s, everywhere you went you'd see something related to the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. The craze took the country by storm and kids like you and I were nuts for it. The first feature film was both a hit at the box office and with youngsters, so it was only natural that we get a sequel, right? New Line Cinema wasted no time and the following year we were given number 2. It too was a hit, but was it even as good as the original? Some seem to think so, some even like it more. I like it, but nowhere near as much.Pros Acting is decent. More of that corny, yet endearing humor. Moves at an OK pace. As usual the Jim Henson people did a nice job on the animatronics. Some breathtaking shots of New York City. The fight scenes are fun, plus the choreography has improved. A pretty cool final showdown.Cons Lacks some of the energy and fun of the first. Putting everyone in the middle of a Vanilla Ice concert just dates the film. Plus much of it feels like they were trying to pad the running time.Final thoughts This first of two sequels isn't bad, in fact it's pretty darn entertaining. But like a lot of sequels that came out a year or less after it's predecessor, it feels like it was made for money and nothing more. Still if you're a fan then it's worth seeing.My rating 3/5 "}{"Title":"This Turtles movie is cool too!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Minor Spoilers I was amazed how fast this one came out!Tell you the truth I like this one the most out of all of the movies.The film is really presented well and when the Turtles show up boy is that a great scene.I just love it when Shredder returns!April is played by a different woman and there is no Bebop and Rocksteady but it has two new mutants which doesn`t fail.The end of the film is really cool.Shredder takes the ooze and becomes Super Shredder!Super Shredder is played by wrestler Kevin Nash.When I saw him I wanted to see him again and again.This is really a good movie.Its one of the best!  "},{"Title":"So bad it's good?","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze has oft been described as so bad it's good. I disagree, as it fits none of the criteria where are the horrible lines, the bad acting, the abundance of ham and cheese which makes many a bad movie hilarious? Aside from those who have nostalgia for it, Secret of the Ooze is a dull venture the fight scenes are boring, the characters are uninteresting, and the story feels like only the bare bones of an actual script.The first TMNT movie was no masterpiece, but it was fun and sported good fight scenes, a dark atmosphere, and gave the characters actual personality. Secret of the Ooze has none of this. Due parents bewailing the violence in the first movie, the fight scenes are toned down considerably, now filled with slapstick that's both uninspired and ridiculous. The grittiness is eliminated altogether, yet the film never really has a light-hearted feel to it either, at least not in the same vein as the enjoyably goofy '87 cartoon. Everything, including the humor, just felt bland.But what really hurts the movie isn't the slapstick or goofiness it's the characters. The turtles have become stripped of their individual personalities; each one of them is the same goofy, catchphrase-spewing person (or turtle, if we're going to be technical). Splinter is given little to do, April is given nothing to do save for looking pretty, and Shredder proves to be less threatening than even his '87 counterpart. The new characters, Keno, and the mutant duo of Tokka and Rahzar, prove to be unexciting as well. Now, I was not expecting Shakespeare here, as it is a kids' film after all and one obviously made to milk money, but I at least wanted entertainment, no matter how mindless or contrived it might be. The problem is this isn't mindless entertainment it's just flat out boring.So, is there anything entertaining about this film? Well, Shredder's new costume is laughably bad. There's the infamous scene with Vanilla Ice doing his Ninja Rap. Keno pulls off some cool moves. And... yeah, that's it. Secret of the Ooze fits the description of meh it isn't enjoyable, it isn't terrible, and it most certainly isn't bad enough to be good. It's just rushed, mediocre, and isn't likely to inspire repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"The spirit of the comics and the cartoon is alive and well in The Secret of the Ooze.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In this sequel, which was rushed into theatres the year after the first film, the Turtles get in touch with a scientist named Jordan Perry (David Warner), who has access to the mysterious ooze that originally transformed them. Unfortunately, the Shredder has returned, and he wants the ooze to transform himself into an unbeatable opponent. The Turtles work to keep the Shredder from using the ooze.This is one of those rare sequels that actually lives up quite nicely to the original. While it's not as good as the first, it really had a shot to be almost its equal. In fact, I enjoyed this movie better than the first, until it swerved into this goofy night club dance sequence with Vanilla Ice.Still, the spirit of the comics and the cartoon is alive and well in The Secret of the Ooze. It's also a good TMNT movie because it deals with the Turtles' origins, which always makes for some great storytelling.This lacks the darkness and subtlety that makes the first film so good, and so adult, but its simplified plot and gags will appeal to the under tens. The sequel plays things very safe "},{"Title":"Go, Ninja, Go!","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As I sit here on the eve of what is sure to be the greatest event in the history of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (more accurately, the greatest Turtle event of the new millennium), the release of the much-anticipated animated film TMNT, I feel it's only proper to go back in time to when the original Turtle-mania was at its peak. I was only five in 1990, when Turtle-mania was sweeping the nation and now I'm 21, as Turtle-mania Part II threatens to grab a hold of a new generation of young fans of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.Of course the TMNT got their start in the black & white pages of Mirage Comics, as first printed by artists Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. What began as a one-shot parody of popular independent comic titles at the time (namely Frank Miller's Ronin and his revisionist re-workings of Marvel Comics' Daredevil), quickly turned into an overnight sensation, launching the greatest and most successful comic craze and merchandising campaign of the last 50 years. Several animated series and three live-action movies have only added to the madness started by Turtle-mania.The first film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, was released in 1990. Its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze was released in 1991. The second sequel came out in 1993. The Secret of the Ooze picks up right after the events of the first film. The Foot Clan (a group of martial arts-trained teenagers) has been virtually wiped out by our four mutant reptilian heroes - Leonardo (my favorite), Donatello, Raphael, and Michaelangelo - and a much-deserved rest is at hand. However, the Shredder returns, angrier and decidedly more fearsome than in the first film, with only one thing on his mind vengeance. So he reassembles the Foot Clan in the hopes of getting his revenge off the ground.But TGRI, the corporation responsible for the experimental mutagen that created the heroic foursome, has been hard at work recovering and disposing of the remaining canisters of ooze. Jordan Perry (David Warner) has been leading the mission of retrieval and disposal, with Channel 6 reporter April O'Neil (Paige Turco, a little less convincing than the first film's Judith Hoag) on the story. Shredder manages to steal the last remaining canister of ooze and uses it to create two mutants of his own Tokka and Rahzar (filling in for Bebop and Rocksteady, from the 1987 animated series), who have both been swimming in the same toxic cesspool as ye old Toxic Avenger. Guided by their Yoda-like sensei Splinter, the Turtles must find a way to battle their new mutant adversaries.Considering that The Secret of the Ooze is a sequel, it is a surprisingly entertaining sequel. Although not as a good as its predecessor (it is less dark and less violent and more slapstick than the first film), it is obvious that accommodations were made by the filmmakers to cater to a younger audience. Director Michael Pressman takes his cues from Turtle-mania hype, much rather than Eastman and Laird's source material, but The Secret of the Ooze is still a fun ride through and through.The acting and plotting is all sub-standard, but hey, it's a family movie based on a hyper-violent underground comic book. Along for the ride is high-kicking martial artist and stuntman Ernie Reyes, Jr. as the Turtles' new human friend Keno. Without a doubt, he probably gives the most enthusiastic performance here, even if his talents are somewhat underused; it's a shame he hasn't faired better over the years even though he has become something of a cult figure. The special effects by Jim Henson's Creature Shop (the film is dedicated to his memory) are astounding, even if somewhat dated. The action climaxes with a battle royal in a dance club where (who else?) rapper Vanilla Ice is performing Ninja Rap as our four heroes duke it out with Tokka, Rahzar, and a bunch of Foot Clan members (this segment alone is what will surely date the picture).For this Turtle fan, I plan on seeing the new movie next week with friends, just so you know. From looking at these movies today, they probably haven't aged all that well. But one thing is clear the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are here to stay. TMNT will only prove that.8/10 "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to the original classic Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie!","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze (1991) it is a worthy follow up top the original classic action film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990). This sequel is way improvement over third film and reboot. It is my childhood film and I grew up with it. The first one was dark and awesome kick ass film, my favorite childhood film of all time, this sequel is good on the same level as the first is, just the first one is the best and far way better than all the films about Ninja Turtles were made! After the big success over the violence in , Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles the movie makers dumbed down Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze, making the turtles more funny, less weapons and less fights. The TMNT star in the greatest movie of the 1990's, maybe even HISTORY! Our Heroes in a Half Shell must battle the Foot, and that dastardly devil Shredder to save New York. This movie shows that on rare occasions a sequel can be as good or better than the original! The Turtles look awesome and Keno definitely adds to the excitement of the movie! You have to give props to any pizza delivery guy that knows martial arts and can kick it with the Turtles. We learn more of the origins of the turtles as well as meet a few new characters who help the turtles out. Raph's voice/actor replaced unfortunately, his personality lost. He angers for no real reason. This is Donnie's movie, he gets to be a geek, which worked. His original voice talent also replaced due to Cory Feldman's issues back then. The story would have been a lot more enjoyable without the horrible Ninja Rap and Vanilla Ice, that sequence ruined the movie for this viewer. Tokka & Rahzar are adorable. It got a little too much like the cartoon with super Shredder and the more laughs than drama that the first movie had. Jim Henson's Creature Shop designs where outstanding which the animatronics did work for the film as well as its predecessor. I love Jim Henson's Creature Shop! Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is still my favorite childhood memories film that I have always enjoyed and I always will. There isn't any drama in it, which I like it, there is a lot of comedy in it a lot funny moments, less sadness in it. Raphael, Leonardo, Michelangelo and Donatello are awesome!!!The main problem with the film I have Turtles don't use weapons at all, There they are caught in a well laid trap and Leonardo could cut the net with his swords and he did not. In stead awesome Splinter had to save them, that was a little disappointment for me, but a good thing to do for a Splinter character, because in this film, he did bot do almost anything except siting trough whole film. But firing with a bow and arrow cutting the net was awesome from Splinter! Shredder almost do nothing trough whole film, he only yells and talks trough whole film, also I am confused how was resurrected if he was killed on the end of the first film? He is not a superhuman gosh! Shredder He emerges transformed him self into a Super Shredder! He ends up destroying himself and is gone for good, he destroys all the pier and doesn't do anything, he didn't attack the Turtles, he just destroyed the pier with himself stupid. Why didn't Turtles used weapons on Tokka and Rahzar? They could slice them to dust with the weapons. I wish that, they had Casey Jones instead of Keno in it. I did not like a new sidekick to Turtles, Keno.Anyway the film has some flaws, but I still enjoy it and I still love it!!! I love The sequel to the original movie. It is still at least my favorite film of the trilogy. I love the fight scenes with the foot clan, and with thieves in the beginning of the film! GREAT opening sequence when the TMNT fly over Keno and kick butt in the toy store. Awesome storyline to connect their origin..... to the Ooze and TGRI. A new April ( although Mrs Turco did an alright job) I still wish there would be Judith Hoag in it, she was a lot of better than Paige Turco was. Those are the main problems with the film I have. The Turtles and the Shredder battle once again, this time for the last cannister of the ooze that created the Turtles, which Shredder wants to create an army of new mutants.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is a 1991 American live-action film based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters published by Mirage Studios. It is the sequel to the 1990 film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. The rating I am giving is a 6, it is not that good like the first one was but it is still good and it is my childhood movie.6/10 Grade C Studio New Line Cinema, 20TH Century Fox (International) Starring Paige Turco, David Warner Director Michael Pressman Producers Thomas K. Gray, Kim Dawson, David Chan Writer Todd W. Langen Based on Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles by Kevin Eastman, Peter Laird Rated PG Running Time 1 Hr. 28 Mins. Budget $25.000.000 Box Office $78.656.813 "},{"Title":"Absolute smash-hit!","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE is the second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film in the overall TMNT film franchise.It is the sequel to TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES (1990),and it is really good and amazing to see this film.The film is commonly abbrieviated as TMNT II and the film is distributed by New Line Cinema and internationally distributed by 20th Century Fox.The film follows the adventures of the four Turtles Michaelangelo, Donatello, Leonardo and Raphael and their master, Splinter.Roughly resuming from the original film, the villain, Shredder, returning to New York City to get take back command of the Foot Clan and work towards getting revenge and work towards getting revenge on the Turtles.When he learns the secret behind the Turtles' mutation, he becomes more dangerous than ever.The film sheds some light on the origins of Splinter and the Turtles, as well as introduces two new villains Tokka and Rahzar.Unlike the original and first film, this one rarely showed the use of Turtles' weapons. They instead fight bare-fisted for much of the film as part of an attempt to tone down some of the violence of the previous movie.The film was March 22, 1991, and received mixed to negative critical reception from critics who felt it departed from the much darker tone of the original 1990 film and was more light-hearted.The story is very coherent and just fantastic, unlike some people says that it is not as good as the first film's story.The action sequences are just amazing and fantastic, especially the action sequence at the end when the Turtles are inside the dance club and that is where Vanilla Ice sings The Ninja Rap.Nothing is bad about the music and the music in this film is just fantastic and yes, it is composed by John Du Prez and it is just spectacular and just fantastic.The turtles look as good as they did with the other previous film and it is just so amazing. Speaking of Turtles, the voice actors are all good this time.Kevin Clash, Michael McConnohie and Robbie Rist returns in their roles as Splinter, Tatsu and Michelangelo. Corey Feldman played Donatello in the previous film and was replaced by Adam Carl.The other actor who got replaced for Raphael, was Josh Pais, and he was replaced by Laurie Faso. Brian Tochi plays Leonardo and he does a great job again as well.Frank Welker plays the roles of both Tokka and Rahzar and he does a great job with both of them and his performance is so great.Another actor who got replaced was Judith Hoag, who previously played April O'Neill in the first film and Paige Turco took her place and she is amazing in the part. Ernie Reyes, Jr. plays the role of Keno and he is fantastic in his part and just amazingly.Overall, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE is amazingly well-done and it is just fantastic and good and much better than the first film.This film is an absolute smash-hit, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Go ninja go ninja go!","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To be honest, I think I might have slightly liked this one more than the first installment in this trilogy. Although the actress that played Search April O'Neil was just horrendous and the worst Search April O'Neil portrayal in the trilogy. The fight sequences was goofy but fun to watch and the chemistry between the turtles and character still works for this one. Shredder didn't seem that much sinister at all this time around until the very end when he gets jacked up on ooze steroids. The bad guys using the ooze to power up the dog and snapping turtle to fight against the Ninja Turtles was a bit lame. But it did make sense to a degree and didn't really take much out of the movie. However the best part was Vanilla Ice rapping a Ninja Turtles rap while the turtles kick butt on the dance floor. Overall this is a good follow up to the first one in my opinion. This installment even has the most in depth connection when it comes to the turtles on where they came from and what their purpose is (no, not that we were all made from a tube of green ooze). Looking back now, it isn't as cool as I thought it was when I was a kid, but it still has enough to make it watchable even today.6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The turtles are back, and this time they've brought... Ernie Reyes Jr.? That's right. Reyes Jr. actually emits a fairly engaging charisma as a kung fu master / pizza delivery man named Keno. TMNT II is a much lighter, sillier outing than the original, which had a grimy feel. The Jim Henson creations are well made, colorful and pleasant to look at. The Turtles and Shredder battle once again, this time for the last cannister of the ooze that created the Turtles. I like the scene where the turtles try to trick Tokka and Rahzar with donuts. The plot is not as well thought out as the original, but it still does the turtles well. It's Die Hard in a Sewer. "},{"Title":"It could have been just as good as the first","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It was obvious that with the successful release of the Ninja Turtles comics, cartoon TV series and first theatrical release, that another story of the turtles was asking to be told. As told by the released date, it seems that the production of the next installment was already being set up very quickly after the first film. This is OK if everything is thoroughly prepped but most of the time, this isn't the case. The product becomes rushed and comes out nothing like it's predecessor. From the trailer it may seem like nothing changed, when in fact there are, and its rather distracting.The story takes place after the events of the first movie. So it seems like along with this setting, all the characters should be back too right? Actually, it's a bit of both. Some require explanations for both the missing and the present. Fans will appreciate that their four turtles still look the same and voiced by the same actors. However, a new actress named Paige Turco has taken over for the role of April O'Neil. Although she fits the look of the character more, she isn't given much to do this time. Her character hangs more on the sidelines than anything else, than actually helping her turtle friends fight crime. Also, where is Casey Jones? He's not to be found or even mentioned once throughout the film. Not to mention, the writer behind the screenplay worked on the first movie. How'd he miss that?Another issue that comes into question in this installment is the return of The Shredder. In first movie, audiences witnessed him being crushed inside a garbage truck compactor. How in God's name did he survive that? The continuity is lacking here and it's very unclear. But the piece of the movie that fans will not appreciate is the fact that for action sequences, the turtles no longer use the weapons they carry. It would be one thing if they didn't carry them at all, but in every fight they do and they never decide to use them. This particular aspect was something that fans enjoyed about the first one. Why upset the fans? It all comes down to money sad as it is.When it came to other parts of the screenplay, the whole plot behind the secret of the ooze, pardon the pun, didn't contain enough substance to really expand upon anything that wasn't already known. This is rather disappointing because the setup behind the first made it feel like there was more to be told. Yet when viewers arrive at the sequel, the explanation to this setup feels almost washed over like there wasn't anything to begin with. With all this said though, there are still a number of redeeming qualities. First and foremost are the turtles themselves. Although they don't use their designated weapons, they still are fun to watch rolling around, have kicks flying and throwing fists. It seems that even the facial expressions move more fluidly too which is a good thing.It's also nice to see that Splinter is still included in the movie. Even David Warner, better known as Ed Dillinger from Tron (1982) plays a scientist who understands the toxic ooze. And most possibly, the most surprising of them all is seeing Vanilla Ice performing the most nostalgic of all raps, the Ninja Rap. To think that the first movie had music that dated it is now and understatement. With Vanilla Ice chanting his Go Ninja Go lyrics, there's nothing to think except that THIS is the dated movie now. The composer is also the same for this movie and it is understood now that John Du Prez's themes from the first movie are still kept in tact for this movie as well. At least now, there's an official theme. Surprisingly, it still entertains with all its issues.It still contains fun action sequences and the same turtles but on the whole, the story feels like an empty shell of the first movie. Not to mention, there are a number of things that go unexplained. "},{"Title":"Only a shell of the first film","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After deftly balancing the fun with the serious in the first film, 'Secret of the Ooze' inexplicably regresses into more light-weight, cartoonish fare. If the goal was to increase mass-appeal by once again sanitizing the Turtles, it backfired, as 'TMNT II' made $120 million dollars less globally than its predecessor did just one year earlier.While the tonal shift is jarring, there are two other key components missing here; 1.) The substitution of sets and sound-stages for actual location shooting, and perhaps most of all, 2.) The lack of Casey Jones. The athletically gifted, but charisma challenged Ernie Reyes Jr. is no substitute for the wise-cracking charm of Elias Koteas.'Secret of the Ooze' is still blandly amusing at times, but like watered down sequels such as 'Conan the Destroyer' before it, it simply can't touch the original. "}{"Title":"Not As Good as the First, But Still A Barrel of Fun","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a wonder of a movie with all it's high flying action and impressive animatronics done by Jim Henson's Creature Shop. The sequel, The Secret of the Ooze is a horse of a slightly different color. It's not as good as it's predecessor but I still think it's a highly entertaining flick and a great way to kill 1 and a half hours. This sequel, like many superhero movie sequels, dives deeper into the main characters' origins and explains where the mysterious ooze that made the turtles what they are came from. In the original Mirage comics, the ooze, which was called mutagen was created by jellyfish like aliens called utroms working for a research company called T.C.R.I. In the movie, the ooze was created by humans for T.G.R.I. and the whole cosmic aliens from another dimension element was eliminated. Jordan Perry, played by David Warner (Sark from Tron) is captured by the reborn Shredder to create two new mutants to take on the green teens and eliminate them once and for all. He may seem like a bad guy at first but he comes around towards the end and he evens helps the turtles conquer old Shred head.The new mutants, Tokka and Rahzar are this film's Bebop and Rocksteady. Sure they are dim witted and inarticulate, but they are also strong and cunning and brought to life beautifully by Jim Henson and his creature making team. Henson also works on the turtles once more and even though they have slightly bigger heads and their facial expressions are a bit off, they are still just as stunning and breathtakingly realistic as they were in the first movie. Ernie Reyes Jr. who was Donatello's stunt double in the last movie plays Keno, a pizza delivery boy martial artist who does his best to fight on par with the turtles. The new actress portraying April does a decent job filling the shoes of Judith Hoag and all the voice actors do a good job giving a voice to their respective characters. Unfortunately, Casey Jones is absent in this movie, but we all know he'll show up once TMNT 3 rolls around.The action is good, even though the turtles don't fight with their respective weapons and the atmosphere and look of the movie really sucks you into the world both Eastman and Laird brought to life back in 1984. I like to consider TMNT 1 and 2 a two parter, for their similar style and direction almost makes them feel like the same movie. And although The Secret of the Ooze didn't intrigue me as much as the first film, it's still full of great TMNT goodness and entertainment only four anthropomorphic turtles could deliver. It's a grand addition to the turtles mythology and the kids will have their eyes glued to the screen the entire time.There's also Vanilla Ice. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Turtles and the Shredder battle once again, this time for the last canister of the ooze that created the Turtles, which Shredder wants to create an army of new mutants.The general consensus is that his film is not as good as the original. And, you know, maybe that is the case. But all I can do is express my opinion that it is equal and possibly better than the first -- feel free to disagree.As much as I liked the darker tone of the first film, the humor in the second really makes it the more enjoyable picture. And then when you throw in the Vanilla Ice scene, what is not to love? My only real complaint is that the actress playing April did not return, so the continuity is a little bit off. But that is more than made up for by losing Corey Feldman. "},{"Title":"Some good elements, but generally quite bad.","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES 2 THE SECRET OF THE OOZEThis is a film I have not seen in many many years&#x85; and I can see why. The first one for me was very nostalgic. It brought back some great memories and even though it was bad, I still loved it. This one on the other had was far worst.The film carries on from the original with the Turtles celebrating their win over the Shredder. But when Shredder comes back and reforms the Foot Clan, the Turtles need to watch out as he wants revenge. This time Shredder wants to know what changed these guys from little turtles into the mutants they are now&#x85; his investigation leads him to this chemical factory that is producing this green ooze. Shredder steals the last tube of ooze and changes a couple of little animals into huge super strong mutants. The Turtles have to defeat these 2 new monsters and the shredder.The story to this one was not too bad really. What ruined it for me was the 2 monsters that Shredder brings in. They were terrible. The costumes were quite good, but they could hardly move. You could tell that inside these costumes were 2 guys really struggling to move. It looked like something out of a really bad kids TV show. I know this film is aimed at kids, but even when I was a kid I thought they were bad. The Turtles costumes were still pretty good. It looked like they had upgraded the mouth movements as they seemed to have more expression in this one. The fighting scenes were also a little bit better in this one than the original. They were fighting much faster and more smoothly which made a huge difference to the film.The casting was probably the worst part about this film though. A lot of the original cast did not return for this film. The Turtles were played by Michelan Sisti, returning as Michaelangelo, Leif Tilden returning as Donatello and 2 new cast members Kenn Scott as Raphael & Mark Caso as Leonardo. I have no complaints about them&#x85; you can't really comment on their acting as they were just wearing rubber suits. Kevin Clash was playing Splinter&#x85; I love this guy. He has done so many classic films and TV shows&#x85; the man is Elmo after all! Paige Turco came in to play the new April O'Neil&#x85; I loved Paige in the TV show American Gothic, but in this she was so bad. Her acting was not great and unfortunately she didn't have the same personality as the April in the original movie so it was hard to believe she was April. Also, where the hell was Casey? Not even a mention. He was one of the better characters from the original but he was not in this film. Ernie Reyes Jr. played the pizza delivery man that found the Turtles and helped them on their way in this film. He was OK. He has got some great martial arts moves, but his line delivery could have been a lot better. The less said about Vanilla Ice the better&#x85; probably the worst part about the whole movie.There were some great things about this film. I liked the idea of explaining where the Turtles came from. It was very similar to the classic cartoon that I used to watch as a kid. I also like the idea of the monsters, I just think they were very badly made&#x85; which is a shame as they were made by the Jim Henson company. This film was dedicated to the memory of Jim Henson. My favourite part was the ending&#x85; unfortunately it was over very quickly. I thought the twist at the end could have been stretched out a bit more. It was a good twist, but was very short lived.All in all it was very average. It had some good parts and a lot of bad parts. I will give this film 5 out of 10.You know, if I had a face like yours, I'd try to make up for it with some sort of personality!For more reviews, please check out my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"a nice film for the kids","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Looking for great lines and dialogue, there is none here. Looking for cool costumes that look extremely realistic, not here Looking for pure turtle fun&#x85; you have come to the right placeTeenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the OOZE, oh boy when I was young this was the movie to see; there is nothing better than seeing something that you loved when you were young, and then just knowing all the lines before they are said.Anywhere anytime, during my youth days I will sit down to see these guys take on Shredder again and bring down Tokka and Rahzar. The Foot Clan could not even measure up to the task of taking on these guys, as they have failed in the first part of this film.The event in the movie follows the first film, after Shredder was believed to have been dead. The Shred-Master was not dead though and he reunited with the remainder his Foot Clan and he now wanted to take down the turtles, a revenge mission that he decided will be freak against freak.So he kidnapped a professor who knew about the Ooze that made the turtles and he (the professor) was forced to create two monsters for Shredder, and they were named Tokka and Rahzar. Now Shredder has the upper hand and he promises to release the creatures into the city if the turtles do not come and face them.The movie was received with mixed reviews totally because the movie was very tuned down from the dark theme of the first and also, many of the fight scenes featured the use of hands rather than weapons. All this was to make the film more appealing to younger audience, which worked in my case as I was young and found the comic references interesting and great.The only thing that may have not made this movie so appealing to older viewers will be the fight scenes, removing the weapons was not just cool for me, and they changed the April, which to some was not needed. In the first movie April O'Nei, was played by Judith Hoagl who did a fine job if I may say so, but she was replaced in this movie by Paige Turco, who wasn't half bad.Also the person I missed the most in this movie was Casey Jones, who was a prominent character in the first movie.To put it like this, if you were my age when you saw this the first time you will have learnt the Vanilla Ice rap song, and be singing on the streets Villains you better run and hide&#x85;Go Ninja, Go Ninja, Go.., so reviewing it like I was watching it back in 1991 when Vanilla Ice was still popular I say this is a good movie.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"The best of the series.","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The turtles are back in a more family friendly--either a good thing or a bad thing, depending on the viewer--and well-balanced story. The plot digs deeper into the back-story of the ooze that transformed all of the dudes into surf-slang talking' ninjas, and it leaves the viewer watching a more concrete story. Because of this, the film succeeds in avoiding the sequel-cliché of being redundant because it answers and develops things that the preceding film didn't do. Vanilla Ice's Ninja Rap--and also the presences of Vanilla Ice himself--may have been appropriate for viewers at the turn of the decade, but watching it anytime after 1992 is just cringe-worthy. Also, very peeving, is Tokka and Rahzar being obvious substitutes for Bebop and Rocksteady. However, its few flaws don't reflect the overall film&#x85; at least, not too heavily, that is. Aside from Tokka and Rahzar, who actually become likable the more times you watch the movie (if you're willing), the film should be complimented for being strikingly similar to the 1987 animated series that popularized the franchise.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Even at that age I knew something smelt funny.","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was 7 when Turtle fever first gripped my world. It was grounded in a mixture of my fascination with creature special effects, animatronics, along with models and other fantasy beings, after seeing films or programs on TV such as Star Wars, Star Trek, Dinosaurs, Labyrinth, Willow, and a little later Time Bandits and The Thing. I claimed I'd become a model or creature maker for movies. I'm not, but that's not important. I'm young yet, and may still pursue that one of many dreams.I remember knowing a great deal about the world of the turtles, with all their fighting capabilities etc. It was a major talking point among my male friends. Later I even had a latex turtle arm I begged a friend to give to me. It was a reject from his uncle who worked in the design studio. I wore it around my local Scottish neighbourhood. It was only 1 arm mind. Funny stuff.Then it came time to see the movies in the cinema. I don't remember whether I saw them with my friend or my mother, or both. I was amazed by how they got the faces to move on the turtle characters and impressed by the actors moving so well in all that latex. I saw some fantastic documentaries on TV at the time about how it was all done. However, even at that age, I began to recognise how atrocious the acting was. In the second one it was even worse. I haven't seen the films since, so I can't have been influenced again.It was a fun time in my life, and I thank the creators for influencing that, but ultimately it was myself and my friends who created the great memories and not the film. "},{"Title":"One of the cornerstones of the modern cinema...","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having just re-watched this delightful film recently, I found it amusing to finally notice that it was a little strange that during the opening credits, all the citizens of New York were to be observed eating massive slices of pizza. Until now, it appears that the unlikelihood of this scenario had simply never occurred to my childish and pizza-infatuated brain. Such is the power of this marvelous film which I am currently writing 'bout.Comic timing has never been this amazingly and consistently translated to the sublime language of film as it is here (sorry Buster). Shredder's eventual and inevitable demise is a touching example. Splinter's lines comprise a veritable encyclopaedia of distinguished and memorable one-liners. To spoil them would be stupid, I'm afraid. All the more reason to go out and watch this wonderful and rare gem of a movie.To watch Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is to live and breathe in New York City and take the turtles' journey with them. The film-making is exemplary; the technique second-to-none. The audience, ready or not, is taken on a rhapsodic roller-coaster of passions and triumphs, laughs and more laughs. If that sounds like fun to you, well, then, of course it does, silly! And what's more is that you're sure to love this movie and cherish it as I and so many others have. There's a funny feeling one gets just by thinking about the movie afterwards. You can almost tell just by looking at a person whether they've yet experienced the raw visceral experience this film represents. Ask them about it and their facial features melt into this indescribable (but I'll try anyway) heavenly ecstasy of fond reminiscence and inner peace.Ninja, ninja, RAP! Ninja, ninja, RAP! One can hear the evolution of hip hop taking place right before their ears in these very words. It's nearly overwhelming. Has there ever been a more exquisite and justified cameo in a major motion picture before or since? A rhetorical question if ever there was such a thing. John du Prez returns from the original to pen the score; a score which once again proves his unparalleled talent in the grand and noble universe that is film music.Howard Hawks once said that a good movie had to have three great scenes and no bad scenes (I think). This enigmatic sequel has all great scenes. Even The Godfather had that scene where Talia Shire was breaking plates and stuff. What was up with that?! "},{"Title":"Great childhood memory","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I still remember when i woke up as a little 7 year old kid and my mother asked me if i wanted to see the new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie,i was a little kid that was crazy about them (what kid was not at those times when the Turtles where at their height of their fame) and had allot of stuff of them,from a Turtles lunch box to the action figures,Turtles mania they called it,if they could find a product big enough to print something on it they got it printed with the Turtles brand. We did not had much money back than so going to a movie was a real treat for me,and especially when it was the new Turtles movie!As a kid this movie was great,it had funny moments,martial art action and catchy music. (we didn't knew who Vanilla Ice was at the moment so don't blame us.)I can still remember when i was leaving the movie theater together singing with my childhood friend Go ninja Go!When you look at it today it's still a great movie to watch,for me it's a nice childhood memory and if i ever get kids i surely let them see the movie on DVD... "},{"Title":"Ninja Turtles for a Younger Demographic","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Ninja Turtles return! And this time, they're more family friendly. Gone is the moody atmosphere of the original Ninja Turtles film. It's been replaced with goofy slapstick and twice as many one-liners. In this installment, the Shredder has returned and, rather than returning to his master plans of using ninjas as pick-pockets, he has upped the ante. Shredder has learned from one of his Foot soldiers that a company called TGRI is in the process of disposing of chemical waste that has extreme mutagenic properties; he acquires the chemical ooze and uses it to create Tokka and Razhar, two powerful mutants who will assist him in his revenge against the Turtles. It's nice to see the Shredder has set higher goals this time around.One would think that, with Shredder's plans becoming more diabolical, the movie would would be as good or better than the original. Not so. Well, that's not entirely true. When I was a kid, this was my favorite of the Ninja Turtle film trilogy but, since growing up, I realized that was only the case because the sequel is aimed more towards the younger crowd. I could've done without Tokka and Rahzar, two mutants that look like they could've been a serious threat, acting like ignorant toddlers. Would it have been so bad for them to be a viable, evil threat to the team? Of course it would. Then the film couldn't have gotten some cheap laughs from two monstrous creatures crying out MAMA at the first sight of a very uncomfortable Shredder. Having been a fan of the cartoon as a child, I would've much preferred bringing in Rocksteady and Bebop, but apparently that was nixed by the comic's creators who didn't care for the idea.After rewatching it years later, I noticed one MAJOR change from the first film the Turtles rarely, if ever, utilized their weapons!! The closest Michaelangelo came to using nunchakus was a pair of sausage links in the initial mall fight. If I'm not mistaken, Donatello was the ONLY member to use his signature weapon, the bo staff. Where's the fun in that? It seems the film took a Jackie-Chan approach of ditching the weapons in favor of hand-to-hand martial arts and the use items in the environment as tools (i.e. the sausage links). Come on! I wanted to see Raphael wiping out some Foot soldiers with his sai! Plus, I bet the Turtles would've held up a little better against Shredder's babies if they'd actually used their weapons...The humor was amped up in this film. There isn't a minute that goes by that one of the Turtles isn't spouting off a one-liner. That's not such a bad thing, but it definitely took this film more in a comedic direction (rather than action). Despite this film's catering to a younger audience, it's still enjoyable to all ages and I still enjoy watching this movie, even to this day. Part of me wishes they'd kept the moodiness of the original, but this is still a fun addition to the Ninja Turtle franchise. "},{"Title":"Too cute to be a TMNT movie.","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the original movie seeing that they were true to the roots of bringing the turtles to life where they weren't too serious or goofy for the matter.Just like all good movies or blockbuster hits, a sequel was followed in a much friendly way than the original.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The secret of the ooze takes place a year after the events in the first movie where the turtles were declared heroes by April O'Neil and the city when Shredder was killed as more crime is up while Leonardo, Michaelangelo, Donatello and Raphael are back with more adventure, a new sidekick and more villains.In the first sequel, the turtles discover that Shredder maybe back from the dead and find out that the chemicals that created them are stolen along with a professor. Along the way, the turtles befriend a new kid by the name of Keno (Ernie Reyes Jr.) in which like April, he gets freaked out when he sees that there are walking talking turtles in the city until seeing how good they are, along with the fact they save his life in one scene. There are also new monsters created by the same substance as our four hero characters; a horrible rip-off of Rocksteady and Bebop, Tokka (a snapping turtle) and Rahzar (a wolf) are Shredder's pets to destroy both the city and the turtles! TMNT II The Secret of the Ooze isn't bad, but it's not good either. It's too cute to be a TMNT movie along with the fact that there were many changes in the film from a new actress playing April O'Neil. Paige Turco plays the new April while Judith Hoag stepped out due to the fact that her character wasn't really developed. In terms of the voices from the turtles, I didn't like the actor who did Donatello where it made him seem to much of a geek compared to the smart and laid back voice of Corey Feldman, who didn't make the voice because on his arrest of drug possession.Trust me, stick to the first movie. "}{"Title":"The Turtles are back not has good as before but still pretty strong","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The sequel to the 1990 film. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze picks off fast at immediate fight scene involving all the turtles and it worked out pretty well witch got your attention right at start.The plot of this movie is where a year after the turtles think they have defeated the shredder then begin there journey searching for there origin the secret ooze as they do this the shredder returns and stops the turtles and taking there ooze witch was the last copy of the ooze they got from a weird scientist the film quickly gets you into the story and interested as the film sorta re invents two fan favorite villains but with two different species and different names though it remained good but i would before they type in the cartoon this film delivers not as great as the first but still the turtles give a great return with overall a interesting story,fine action fights for its time ecspecialy with guys in costumes as well as in special effects and the character development was off at time there should have been more story behind splinter but he doesn't have a big role as he did in the first. so lets overall this.story 8/10 scenes 8/10 fight scenes 7/10 character development 7/10 Special effects 7/10 Brilance 7/10 Overall 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderfully cheesy movie","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" TMNT2 is a magnificent example of crappy animatronics that won't detract from the entertainment. I was a big fan of the movie growing up (kids 6-12 will still probably find it funny), and I laugh remembering all the goofy stunts, the silly one liners, and the thought of turtles dancing on stage with Vanilla Ice. Anybody else remember Ninja Rap? OK, I digress. This is a charming movie that can still hold its own against the new Pixar and other CG films of today. It may not be stylishly retro yet, but it's certainly well on it's way!. I don't remember the first movie, and I don't think I ever saw the third one, but this one will remain a staple of my childhood. Traditional pre-fight donut, anyone? "},{"Title":"What America Needed","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me set the scene for you. It's March of 1991. Exxon has just agreed to pay $1 billion to clean up the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Rodney King is beaten by Los Angeles police officers. The Gulf War nears its end. These are serious times, and the people need a serious movie. Instead, they get Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze. Thanks, Hollywood.Wait a minute. Maybe Turtles 2 is exactly what America needed, a movie that required no thought, no emotional attachment and gave you a few quick laughs. In the first movie, the four turtles have a serious cathartic experience. They fear Splinter is dead, and have a vision of him, where he tells them he loves them all. In the second film, there's none of that mushy, gooey, completely enjoyable stuff. The filmmakers care little about things like catharsis and character motivation. The one thing that could be considered important in that sense just comes across as pointless, and is wrapped up with a single line. Leonardo, I am your father. Okay, I'm paraphrasing, but you get the idea.Anyway, catharsis and character just get in the way of quick jokes and rap numbers. Yes, I am being sarcastic, but the point still stands. What's important to this movie is the Good Time Factor. 'Are you having a good time,' and almost more importantly, 'are the characters having a good time?' For that second question, all signs point to yes. Donatello, Michaelangelo, Leonard and Raphael are clearly enjoying themselves, as far as four grown men in giant rubber turtle costumes can enjoy themselves. They play football with pizza, dance to rap songs written on the fly specifically for and about them, and fight using cold cuts.So, you may ask, why do I like this movie despite all of this? But actually, I like Turtles 2 because all of this. It's a chance to not give a damn about anything, and have a slight chuckle at the exploits of four annoying turtles. On my scale of Nintendo games (1 being Deadly Towers and 10 being Super Mario Brothers 3), this rates a Toobin', because it's mostly gibberish and totally unnecessary but still offers a good time every once in a while. "},{"Title":"Absolute smash-hit!","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE is the second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film in the overall TMNT film franchise.It is the sequel to TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES (1990),and it is really good and amazing to see this film.The film is commonly abbrieviated as TMNT II and the film is distributed by New Line Cinema and internationally distributed by 20th Century Fox.The film follows the adventures of the four Turtles Michaelangelo, Donatello, Leonardo and Raphael and their master, Splinter.Roughly resuming from the original film, the villain, Shredder, returning to New York City to get take back command of the Foot Clan and work towards getting revenge and work towards getting revenge on the Turtles.When he learns the secret behind the Turtles' mutation, he becomes more dangerous than ever.The film sheds some light on the origins of Splinter and the Turtles, as well as introduces two new villains Tokka and Rahzar.Unlike the original and first film, this one rarely showed the use of Turtles' weapons. They instead fight bare-fisted for much of the film as part of an attempt to tone down some of the violence of the previous movie.The film was March 22, 1991, and received mixed to negative critical reception from critics who felt it departed from the much darker tone of the original 1990 film and was more light-hearted.The story is very coherent and just fantastic, unlike some people says that it is not as good as the first film's story.The action sequences are just amazing and fantastic, especially the action sequence at the end when the Turtles are inside the dance club and that is where Vanilla Ice sings The Ninja Rap.Nothing is bad about the music and the music in this film is just fantastic and yes, it is composed by John Du Prez and it is just spectacular and just fantastic.The turtles look as good as they did with the other previous film and it is just so amazing. Speaking of Turtles, the voice actors are all good this time.Kevin Clash, Michael McConnohie and Robbie Rist returns in their roles as Splinter, Tatsu and Michelangelo. Corey Feldman played Donatello in the previous film and was replaced by Adam Carl.The other actor who got replaced for Raphael, was Josh Pais, and he was replaced by Laurie Faso. Brian Tochi plays Leonardo and he does a great job again as well.Frank Welker plays the roles of both Tokka and Rahzar and he does a great job with both of them and his performance is so great.Another actor who got replaced was Judith Hoag, who previously played April O'Neill in the first film and Paige Turco took her place and she is amazing in the part. Ernie Reyes, Jr. plays the role of Keno and he is fantastic in his part and just amazingly.Overall, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE is amazingly well-done and it is just fantastic and good and much better than the first film.This film is an absolute smash-hit, 10/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel to the first one","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This sequel is pretty good after the first one and I can't believe that Shredder actually survived after being crushed in that garbage truck in the first one. Also he does have two minions which he made with that ooze that created the turtles. Of course they weren't Rocksteady and Bebop but a big mutant tortoise and a mutant lion. One of their weaknesses were donuts. lol. Also there's the rap from this movie played by Vanilla Ice. Go ninja go ninja go. Go ninja go ninja go. That's Ninja Turtle Rap by the way. You can see Vanilla Ice performing it in this club that the ninja turtles were fighting the Shredder in. Then after the turtles fight shredder in the club Shredder drinks the last vile of ooze which he created and becomes Super Shredder. It also makes him look like he's on steroids. When the turtles fight the Super Shredder underneath the docks in New York harbor Super Shredder gets crushed by the docks due to his violent nature after drinking the ooze. After that at the end the Ninja Turtles have a new home in an old subway tunnel after their old home was destroyed in the first one. Pretty good sequel here and all I have left now to watch is the 3rd one. "},{"Title":"Better than getting rabies? Is that an accomplishment?","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Human life is about suffering. People will talk all kinds of sh*t about hopes and dreams and meaning and all that sh*t is great, don't get me wrong, but what lasts with you whether in certainty or doubt, is suffering. Even at your happiest highest point of your life,even then there is suffering. I was gonna make a joke about suffering that was gonna tie into a truncated review of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 The Secret Of The Ooze, but now it seems pointless. Yes, seeing this movie causes suffering, like how I was talking earlier several sentences ago, but also people suffered to make it y'know 'cause this movie is awful garbage and you know there was a bunch of cocaine and weird sex stuff on set, so that's even more of the good stuff. Suffering. Doubt. Ruin. "},{"Title":"The 2nd one is better then the 1st","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" People love to pick on sequels. Nobody watches a pilot of TV show and say it is the best TV episode ever made. Then says all the other episodes to the same show are awful. There are sometime sequels that are just awful. But that is not most the time. And this movie like most sequels is better then the first one. The cartoon from the 80's and 90's it better. The reboot from 2014 is also better in spite of the way people pix on Micheal Bay. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. All the Teenage mutant ninja turtles are must sees. This movie has a lot action. 6 is underrating this great movie. "},{"Title":"Better then you think.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know a vast majority of people find that sequels don't live up to the originals. Rarely do I come across a sequel that's better then the first, and this movie is no different. Though it's not better then Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles(1990), it is still a very well made sequel in my own personal opinion. They keep the same formula of the comedy and action. Some good and not so good one liners from everyone including Master Splinter. This movie definitely continues the story very well. You really feel like you're watching a continues story with the first one. It does what you want from a sequel. Adds just a little bit more to the story, while keeping the old one at heart. "},{"Title":"Turtles Are Back","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle II The Secret Of The Ooze is the next Instalment of Turtles Movie franchise of the early 90's. Once again the characters,Heroes & Villains are superb from the portrayal of the Shredder through to the behaviour of the Turtles.While this Title is not as epic as the previous Turtles Title it still has the fighting scenes and great character chemistry throughout the film. As for Tokka and Rahzar, some might be sceptical of this plot line and perhaps would rather another Turtles Villain like Baxter Stockman or Krang or even The Ratking. Personally Leatherhead would have been great as a mutant in the sequel. Given however that the Turtles themselves were so realistic and the Foot Clan as seen in Turtles I were so effective as an enemy than trying to recreate a entirely new origin story for a villain would have weakened the plot.Turtles II is very much a movie for kids. It carries on in the same spirit as the first film. It is fun, not as dark as the first and yet despite that the scenes with the Shredder's mutants particularly Tokka are eerie. Seeing his arm protruding out of his cage was very effective at this. So was the scene where the scientists come across the giant Dandelion. You knew something was wrong and a sense of unease was in the air that the Shredder would learn of this and use the mutagen as a weapon against the Turtles. The way the movie was made just created an atmosphere that today's movies do not have. "},{"Title":"Ninja, ninja, baby.....","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The titular quartet find out where the Ooze, the substance which made them mutate, came from. But Shredder learns about it too, and uses it to enhance himself. So the turtles have to prove again who's the better fighter.....Another rushed sequel to a firm favourite of my childhood, and while this is nowhere near as much fun as the first movie, its still watchable for all its cheesiness and a wonderful cameo.He first thing you realise is how ,ugh more childish it is compared to the first movie. He risk was dark and gloomy to an extent. Here its all sunshine on Sesame Street and the turtles fight without weapons, and all have fun at Aprils house.Shredder is back, and he's bought along an embarrassed David Warner with him too,mot create some strange looking muppets.Its predictable, cheap, with poor performances, and predictability of the highest order, but I want old enough to get into T2 back in 1991, so I had to settle for this, so for all its flaws, it brings back a little nostalgia for me.Plus its Vanilla Ices greatest role... "}{"Title":"Fellow chucker","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Two things that can really make a movie go foul are Rob van Winkle and Ernie Reyes jr. And while i can enjoy the career of Vanilla ice, i somehow can't accept Ernie. He whines with every line, he has this squeaky voice that seems to penetrate glass. The costumes got weird in this, it's like every time your watching the turtles talking on screen the eyes are rolling and the lips are moving like a zig zag, they look drunk! The action sequences fell a bit short in this one too, didn't look as ripping violent as the first one. Corey Feldman said no to the sequel, then strangely returned for the third. When this came out most video stores would only get a few copy's, which meant you were stuck on a waiting list for a couple weeks just to see it. The store i went to only had TWO COPYS! And the waiting list was already jacked up. Vanilla Ice makes an unforgettable appearance at the end when one of his shows gets and impromptu visit from all kinds of mysterious creatures. This one is interesting, but it really lacked technical aspects of the first and third. "},{"Title":"The Second Slice Is Still Worth It.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After the big box office success with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in 1990, The people at New Line Cinema thought it would be a good idea to start producing more films with the title characters and in 1991 we got Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret Of The Ooze.The film is about the same 4 turtles Leonardo, Donatello, Michelangelo and Raphael which as I mentioned before is my favorite turtle find out that the ooze that mutated them and their rat master Splinter is all gone and has been used by Shredder, who seems to have survived being crushed by a trash compactor to create a mutant wolf and snapping turtle named Tokka and Rahzar, Whom every one Calls Beebop and Rocksteady even though they were a rhino and a warthog.This in my opinion is one of those sequels that can live up to the first film. It does have flaws though like they should have put Beebop and Rocksteady in there like they were going to, and the scene with Vanilla Ice is goofy but still fun. Ninja Rap is a cool song. But the animotronics are still awesome, the story is good, the humor is good and the film still manages a dark tone. Definitely see this one.Rated PG For Language And Violence.1hr 28min/88min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Teasing us with its own potential","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a movie I enjoyed immensely as a kid. When I was 8 years old, the Ninja Turtles were just about coolest thing you could imagine. This was a time when the crime rate was continuing a decade-long rise and authority figures were adopting rap music to get their messages across in a poorly-executed attempt to trick kids into thinking their were cool. Filthy urban landscapes were part of the national conscience and the Ninja Turtles were a prime example of that. There were reptiles (and a rat) who had been mutated by spilled toxic waste and live in the sewers. These are not the superheroes of the Golden Age. This dank and gritty-as-hell atmosphere made the first Turtles movie seem unique and, in retrospect, ahead of its time. It was based on a comic book and a children's cartoon but made an effort to be serious and and as realistic as possible (save for the reptilian aspects of the heroes.) The heroes' van is a rickety piece of crap with no specialized gadgetry, Shredder has almost no infrastructure to speak of, and The Foot are mere humans, recruited urban teenagers looking to make themselves feel like men. The second movie, released less than two years later, shows some serious degradation. The turtles are even less coherent than before (they seemed to have exhibited significantly more character development and distinction in the cartoon series). Early in the movie, Splinter warns that the outside world will never accept the turtles, and so they must never become a part of it. This promises some serious future introspection, as the mutated characters will perhaps search for some meaning in their own origins. One of the turtles expresses disappointment in discovering that his origins were a mistake, depressed that his life has no purpose, perhaps an allegory for the human desire for existential meaning in a godless universe. But it is never really addressed again. At the end of the movie a newspaper reads something about Ninja Rap Invented. See, the turtles found themselves fighting the bad guys in a night club where Vanilla Ice happens to be performing, and one improvisation leads to another. . . The nearest I can figure is the turtles discovered their purpose in life is to dance to Vanilla Ice. They certainly seem happy enough in the next movie. I could go on about how the dialog often makes no sense, how the token female is underused, basically a maid here, and how the seemingly compelling villains are wasted (Shredder believably comes back for this but is given almost no character development and an over-sized helmet) and the confused action sequences (a speaker that works like a canon) but ultimately this is a kids' movie, and with no firearms (they would have rendered several plot points meaningless) it is good at being that. "},{"Title":"More lighthearted, but less fun","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is a less thought-out and well-shot film than its predecessor. It also has many more flaws, and amplifies the flaws in the previous entry instead of fixing them. Despite this though, it delivers an entertaining ride that you should enjoy if you liked the first.From the beginning it's easy to see the differences in this film. The movie starts will a nice montage of people eating pizza that will really make you hungry for the Turtles' favorite food. The turtles are soon discovered by a new character, Keno. This guy's characterization isn't strong, but he's still interesting enough for us to like him. So, it turns out The Shredder is still alive and the turtles have to stop him again.One drawback for me is the fact that the brothers barely get to use their weapons. I mean, come on, in the first action sequence Michaelangelo actually uses sausage links to fight! The film often uses things like this to please the people who complained about too much violence in the first place. The sacrifice is that these scenes are very out of character, I mean, the turtles are specifically trained to use their weapons, it's just disappointing that they don't. Another result of the parents complaining about the violence is the entire tone is a lot more lighthearted than the first's. This is just a shame, but at the same time, is one of the things I like about the film. This is a children's comedy, and that's where it works. It's obvious that many of the things that I think are ridiculous in it are going to be found entertaining by kids. So, I'll forgive it for some of the more cheesy lines.The film's cinematography is adequate. The sewer looks more like a set this time, and Shredder's lair is not as cool as his old one. The lighting is OK, sometimes things seem too well lit for where they take place. The acting is decent, the turtles voices are almost as good as they were in the first, but the lack of Cory Feldman sucks. And the new April O'Neil is nowhere near as captivating of a character, mostly because of the performance. The dialog is decent, especially for the type of film it is. Some of the lines went too over-the-top for my tastes, but they weren't as bad as they could of been.Just like the first, the puppetry is top-notch. I have some complaints about it, like the fact they made no attempt to hide the line where the mask meets the costume, and that Mikey's head is shaped odd, and too small. However the puppetry in this is heaps better than in the third movie. It's disappointing they didn't try harder though, as the budget was twice as big this time around.Everything else ranges from forgettable to decent. The film is pretty well-made, but a lot of it is lackluster. I find myself entertained by the movie though, because the characters are mostly kept intact and there is some great moments...I won't mention the Vanilla Ice song.6/10 "},{"Title":"Great, But Not As Good As The First!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 takes place just after the first movie. Although the movie has great fighting scenes like the first movie, they toned down the violence and taken away the dark theme that the first movie had.In Turtles 2 the turtles discover that Shredder is still alive and he steals the last container of ooze, which made the turtles the way they are. The story line is very simple but it you can tell that its focused more on young kids than adults. The Turtles in this film still look real and still very funny in some scenes. This entry in the Turtles series is still good movie. Its well paced, the action is great and the comedy is very funny. The final scene of the film is also very cool. The Turtles take on Super Shredder!!! A cameo from rapper Vanilla Ice at the end in the disco is what killed his singing career, its a shocker! That's why the film loses stars for! Also in this movie the Turtles take on Tokka and Rahzar! A mutant dog and snapping turtle made by the evil Shredder using the ooze. But overall its still great! but not a classic like the first. "},{"Title":"Best movie of the 1990's!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I still remember TMNT when I was 9 years old in '91 when it aired. I loved the show very much that I used to watch everyday on Saturday mornings that I remember that I sat on floor near the TV at my old house where I grew up when it was on. My most childhood favorite ninja turtle character is Michaelangelo that he always eats pizza and say COWBUNGA, DUDE!. I remember as a kid, I always learned how to do karate like them that they did because I copy like Michaelangelo do that and eat pizza. I loved TMNT so very much because it brings me for my childhood memories back because of watching TMNT! I still miss that show very much. TMNT is my most favorite childhood movie of the 1990's! "},{"Title":"Fun, cartoon-like sequel (spoilers)","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After the surprise success that was Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles The Movie, it was almost inevitable that a sequel would follow and in 1991, said sequel appeared on the the scene. Following complaints by parents about the darkness and kung-fu violence in the first film, both elements have been toned down here. There is also, perhaps as a product of this, less seriousness than there was in the earlier film. In fact, Ooze has more the feel of a cartoon than a movie, but it succeeds upon that level.Following the destruction of their sewer lair in the last film, the Turtles and their rat master Splinter (Kevin Clash) have moved in with their reporter friend April O'Neil (now played by Paige Turco). Their old enemies the Foot Clan have not quite been beaten yet, and led by their leader Shredder (Francois Chau, voiced by David McCharen), who survived his four-storey fall into a garbage truck, they are hungry for revenge...The central plot gimmick this time is the recovery of the ooze, the mutated slime that transformed the turtles from ordinary reptiles into high-kicking heroes. Unfortunately, Shredder gets a hold of it too and uses it to create his mutants Tokka (Kurt Bryant) and Rahzar (Mark Ginther), who go on a comical destructive rampage.High-kicking antics are aplenty here, and the film features some great action scenes. Their more comic emphasis works well within the lighthearted tone of the film. But the standout has to be a warehouse scrap between the Turtles and the Foot Clan that spills into nightclub. Wherein, the Turtles continue pounding on their enemies to the beat of the performing rapper (Vanilla Ice, no less). The soundtrack of the film isn't too bad either, featuring music from Ya Kid K, Cathy Dennis and Spunkadelic, as well as, of course, Vanilla Ice.The Turtles remain a likable central quartet of heroes, and their teen personalities and odd surfer-slang remain as appealing as ever. Paige Turco makes for a considerably better looking and more animated April O'Neil, and Ernie Reyes Jr. is entertaining enough as the Turtles new ally, an a**e-kicking pizza delivery boy. Shredder remains a fiercely intimidating adversary, and British actor David Warner has a good role as the scientist who created the ooze. The only disappointments are Tokka and Rahzar, who don't have very much to do asides from growl and knock things over, and the end prove more of a distraction than an amusement.An enjoyable sequel, that paved way for the similarly cartoon-like but equally entertaining third outing.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't come anywhere near the first...","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you watch the film as first, and compare it to the cartoon, it's not a bad movie.  If you watch it, without knowing anything about the tutles, then it's quite intriguing, but a little much like a WB or Fox television show. If you compare this film to the first, it doesn't even come close.  There are some funny jokes every once and a while, but the script just isn't there, and the seriousness of the story is long lost.  This film comes no where near the first one. "},{"Title":"Lame! Corny! Cheesy! Entertainment!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this movie is utterly tasteless; it's basically a popcorn flick for kids. However, it is just too much fun to pass up, really, a guilty pleasure. This sequel is far less dramatic than the first and goes straight for the pseudo-violence and humorous angle. In this movie, the Turtles are informed that the ooze that transformed them is still being made and that Shredder somehow managed to survive being crushed to death in the first flick and is after the last remaining canister of ooze so he can make his own super-mutants and destroy those turtles! That's pretty much the plot. A pre-suicidal, pre-rap/metal Vanilla Ice stops by, as does the butler from 'Titanic.' Obviously directed at kids, but people like me who grew up on the Turtles will love it. I still watch it every now and then, and it still entertains. "},{"Title":"What the hell is Vanilla Ice doing in this movie?","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was good, but not good good, thanks to vanilla ice. he ruined everything. this movie was going okay thanx to the ninja turtles and Ernie reyes jr, untill the end, thats where it begins to get ugly.can we get a popular artists back in the 90's that can star in this movie, some non white rappers, or better yet, no rap at all; how about just rock.  the movie  9/10   vanilla ice0/10 "}{"Title":"Poor coments","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie absolutely rocked. it had everything in it. i really enjoyed this movie. whoever says that this was a bad movie does not know what they are talking about. this movie was spectecular. it had comedy, action, and heartwharming effects. "},{"Title":"Reptile Vigilantism as a metaphor for justice to youth of the 1980s","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How could any child not love the scenes in which the turtles use Yo-Yos in a toy store to ward off foot soldiers?  What child of the 80s would not applaud an energetic and motivational performance by Vanilla Ice himself? Who can criticize the turtles for living in the sewer with Master Splinter, only to fight for justice when the sunlight retreats?  If this doesn't evoke pathos for someone who has worn size 5 LA Gear or British Knights I don't know what does?  Can anything be more full of suspense than a hard fought game of Super Mario Brothers 3 (tm)?  How can you turn a 10 year-old's members only jacket into a rigid straightjacket?  How many theme songs that you learned at 10 can you recite verbatim?  What characters can use words like tubular, rad, and cowabunga and still sound intelligent?  How many other giant cheese graters will give you nightmares?  How many films can transcend Taekwondo to Nintendo (tm)?  Who did you want to be when you put on the Power Glove (tm) for the first time?  What kind of clothes other than TMNT underoos would make you happy in Christmas '89?  What kind of a backpack did you wear into the first day of Fourth grade?  What were your reasons for making through a tough day of school?  Who inspired you to pick up sticks, thinking they were Donatello's BO?  Who was it you emulated and aspired to be in life?This film did not have the best plot, acting, or cinematography.  It wasn't supposed to be a perfect film, but to the children of the 80s (myself included) it was a state of mind.  TMNT was life, the rest was just details. "},{"Title":"The heroes in a half-shell are back","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This continues pretty much from where the first film left off, afterour four friends thought they had finished off Shredder and put anend to The Foot.  This has angered The Foot's acting leader Tatsu,but Shredder has mysteriously survived.  Problems arise whensome strange mutations have affected some of the local wildlife,and it turns out that the same ooze that made the Turtles what theywere now was responsible.  Trouble is, The Foot manage to seizeit before they do, and use it for their own twisted needs.  It is up toour four shelled heroes, reporter April O'Neill (now played by PaigeTurco), new friend Keno and Splinter to foil The Foot's plans.This has an altogether lighter tone, and somehow it does not quitework.  Even the dark settings are not AS dark as in the first film,and the supposedly funnier humour sometimes becomes  tiresome and does not always hit the mark.  The rest is prettymuch what you would expect -- pizza, comical fights and morepizza!Still probably worth a look; just don't expect too much... "},{"Title":"more kid-oriented than the first, but still enjoyable","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's easy to see why Secret of the Ooze was more popular among the TMNT fans under 12. There's more fights, yummier looking pizza and more lighting. Heck, I used to like this one better than the original myself. The scene when Rafael screams after discovering Splinter is missing in the original still scares me today, but I'm easily scared. But Ooze won't depress you as much, and kids love, absolutely love, the fight scenes. I used to act them out with my brother and friends I, then 7, was Leonardo; my best friend, then 7, was Rafael; his brother, then 9, was Donatello; and my brother, then 4, was Michaelangello. No wonder his first word was COWABUNGA. "},{"Title":"Despite what some think, decently written and nicely directed","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  By the way, I am going to be rambling on a little so I may end up addressing major plot points without thinking. I am giving FAIR WARNING.Some people may dismiss this as your usual hokey kids' movie (and that is partly correct, due to the none-too-subtle nature of some of the humor (not all, though)and the use of horribly dated cool words which must not have seemed good even back then except to the devoted kids who loved the turtles (like I used to)).  However, the script by Todd whomever nicely goes back-and-forth between seriousness and humor (sort-of like Buffy), even though like mentioned above it can be a little overdone occasionally. The direction is also above what you might expect. Specifically, there's a part where April says Have you guys found another place to live yet?(or something to that effect) and the camera moves along with her before turning onto Donnatello, but we still see April as he makes his little comment on subterranean housing. I dare you to try to find another way to film that exchange of dialogue with different camera movements that would make it work in the same sense that it works now, which even manages to evoke slightly the way that old movies (by Howard Hawks, for example) worked. Then, there's the part where Shredder is reaching out of the garbage pile and it looks like he is reaching at the city. It may be a teensy bit cheesy, but how else could you make the gesture seem as serious? So, go see the movie if you can, but don't reschedule your life around it, merely pull it out on a rainy day (or a boring spring break, like my case). "},{"Title":"better than first one","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was in first grade when this movie came out. I love this movie . It as action pack, funny, cool ninja, in other words this movie is Awsome. Well for a first grader it was awsome, but for an adult its stupid. I still like this movie. I like it better than the first one. I dont know why I just do. 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"This movie has some great effects","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great creature effects by the creature shop, as well as awesome new armor for Shredder. Unfortunately, slapstick comedy and lighter tone detract from subjectmatter. Vanilla Ice also needs to go. "},{"Title":"Small Pizza, Not Spicy, But Crispy on The Sides !","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Every age got its beloved oddity. I mean who would've thought that the talking apes will be in vogue while the1970s with 4 sequels for (Plant of The Apes), and 2 TV shows as well ?! It's madness, apparently frequent, and sure got its revealing reasons. But whatever, still it isn't something I would be MAD about, whether we're talking about the1970s apes or the 1990s turtles ! I meet the same confusion with the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (WAW. What a name !). I've never understood their popularity. There was an age where all of my family runs, and I mean RUNS, to catch the cartoon show on the national TV in the late 1990s. I was so erratic among them, asking what's attractive in mutant ninja turtles and huge ugly rat ???? So I forced myself to set and watch this movie, maybe to find any answer. The formula is so obvious. Good guys (teens; after what Star Wars and E.T. had done to the American cinema in the 1980s). Cartoonish bad guys. A mentor. A sidekick. Marital arts. And goofy Sci-Fi. However all of that in just bizarre format which I admire its wild imagination, but not its outcome, since I'm not a fan.Nonetheless this movie is fun. I found nothing to call bad, or even a time to be indignant towards anything. Its little shape didn't manage to low its goods. It doesn't allege anything further than what it already has, being as the highest good result this budget could achieve.It's not serious. But smart. The pizza, the disco, and the rap kind of exposed the deal, putting it in its right position, winking to us to catch its simple yet hot time. I loved the last line I made another funny since it can fit this movie itself as a sequel/another fun ride.I have to confess. There were moments that pushed me to laugh; especially the Casablanca spoof. And I'm in love with (Paige Turco). She's one definition of gorgeousness, being so watchable from all the angles and through all the reactions.Although I still can't, to date, see the certain something in its factors which was being adored, but it managed to be as light as pizza, not spicy (no sex or violence), and crispy with teen hilarity all the way. I just hated the tin jagged hat of Mr. (Shredder). It was damn silly! Finally, why not  Go Ninja, Go Ninja, Go. There is no harm with one pizza sometimes! "},{"Title":"Not as charming as the first.","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to say this installment was just plain disappointing. It lost nearly all the charm of the original. There are still a few desirable elements, but I won't spoil the few good things about this film by listing them here.This second installment picks up where the first left off, which is one of the nice things I said I wouldn't alliterate. Another is that, including a nice ObiWan/Luke Skywalker scene, this movie does reach for something better, and while I wish I could report more uplifting news, this movie ALMOST completely fails to deliver.It rates a sad 6.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Adrenaline pumping comedy that'll have you laughing even harder from start to finish","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whoa! If you ask me, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE is an adrenaline pumping comedy that'll have you laughing even harder from start to finish. I really loved the song that Vanilla Ice performed at one point in the movie. I think the name of it was Go, Ninja, Go. If I can get it on CD, I'm going to buy it. Also, the martial arts and special effects were very well done. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this adrenaline pumping sci-fi comedy that'll have you laughing even harder from start to finish from start to anyone who hasn't seen it. When you see this movie, prepare for lots of laughs and a good time. "}{"Title":"A good sequel of the Green Team","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After seeing the first one I wanted to see what will happen next.I bought this movie and started watching it. This second TMNT movie is pretty good. Has humor, action, and more Animatronic costumes than the previous one. Follows from the previous one, a little less violent but it's still good to see every now and then.What special about it this was Deicated to Jim Henson. He died during the production of the movie I think. But we'll always remember and thank him for what he's created for movies and TV shows.Not everyone's favorite sequel, but I like it allot. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better then the first","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first was great, but this one was much more like the cartoon, then the comics. The comics were much darker and the cartoon was more fun. I like them both and would love to see another one, but the second is the best in my mind. The third was by far the worst of the three. The second one gets a 10, I don't think they could do a better job. It even had a better song by a now has-been rapper Vanilla Ice vs. MC Hammer. Ninja Rap vs. Turtle Power. Vanilla Ice's Ninja Rap is the winner one again. The story may have been better for the first but overall the second is my favorite. Now I am just trying to get my ten lines in for the minimum needs.Rico "},{"Title":"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret to how Vanilla Ice never had a career!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has it's moments and believe me there is a lot of great ones. But unfortunately Vanilla Ice, a poor script, a scientist who isn't Baxter kill the movie. In addition there is a new April who's better looking then the first but her performance is no where near the perfection of the original. (2(**)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"The lowest of the TMNT movies.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people will disagree with me on this one; I'm darn sure of it. In my opinion, this TMNT movie was the lowest.  This was the movie (and the only movie) to adopt the nicknames (Raph, Donny, etc.) which (I think) were idiotic.  Donatello didn't even ACT like he was supposed to and Raphael actually mouthed off towards Splinter, which the first movie established that he would never do that.  It does have its high points, though Paige Turco makes a better April than Judith Hoag, Rayzar and Tokka make pretty good baddies, and this movie happens to be the most hilarious of the three. Otherwise, however, this is the worst TMNT movie. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The turtles are back, and they have to face Shredder again, even though they thought he was dead.  This time Shredder gets his hands on some of the Ooze (called Mutagen in the cartoon) that transformed the turtles into what they are.  He uses it to create two of his own mutants.  When I heard of this plot point when I first saw it I thought we'd finally get Bebop and Rocksteady from the cartoon, but instead we get Tokka and Rahzar, two creatures even stupider than Bebop and Rocksteady were.This movie doesn't live up to the original movie, almost not even the cartoon.  The cartoon's turtle origin plot is changed almost completely for this, and I didn't like them messing with their origins.  Then they stuck Vanilla Ice in there!  Bad, bad move.  Then they pulled the biggest Ninja Turtle no-no out there, they KILLED Shredder!  I don't know why they did that, and I don't want to explain how mad I was when they did.  They can't kill the turtles' ultimate nemesis, but they did.  Well, at least this wasn't as bad as the third... "},{"Title":"amazingly corny","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Truth be told, I thought that this movie was absolutely the coolest thing around when it came out. I was 10 years old.Seeing it now, I'm amazed that a movie can be this corny. Just about every line is a really lame joke.I'd say that the worst/most hilariously bad part of the movie is when Vanilla Ice makes his appearance. The turtles somehow end up battling monsters in a nightclub where he is performing, and he suddenly begins the Ninja Rap.Dreadful.I guess that the martial arts sequences were passable, considering that the poor guys had to wear those enormous suits, or they were puppets, or whatever.I only watched this because it was a fond childhood memory. If that is not the case for you, and you are currently over the age of 12, this movie is not for you. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end for the Turtles","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The mind starts to boggle when I read all the comments that claim this sequel was better than the original. All the signs of an obvious cash-in are included here. Fox studios were, like most of the Hollywood majors, still bitter that they had missed the virtual shower of dollars that the first feature film entailed. So, when Golden Harvest announced there would be a second feature, Fox could not help but buy a share in the production, just to ensure they would reap some of the benefits. Unfortunately, what they also brought to the table were the typical vices of big media. They set out to make a family-friendly, sanitised version of the Turtles' world. Showing that they did not even bother to see the first film, they believed this would result in a better film. They were wrong.With an estimated budget of twenty-five million dollars, the inherent name recognition in the Turtles brand became a big factor in Fox's marketing. They saw to it that every media outlet around the world was aware that a new Turtles film was coming out, and the children of the time made certain that their parental units would take them to see it. You can see how specific this marketing was in some of the dialogue, especially during some of the almost-fight scenes. While the gross for this film, at seventy-five million dollars, sounds impressive, the original was estimated to have cost a mere thirteen-point-five million, and wound up making just a little over ten times that amount in the USA alone. Once again, family-oriented marketing tries to claim success, but is bowled down by fact.So far, we have a family-friendly atmosphere, childish dialogue, and fight scenes that mislead the primary audience as to the true consequences of violence. A fourth strike comes in the form of a cameo from Vanilla Ice. Just as real musicians like Black Sabbath had their craft sullied by the likes of Poison or Warrant during the 1980s, the blaxploitation rappers of the 1990s had to contend with the likes of Vanilla Ice. From the second the Turtles wind up in the nightclub, the film is so badly dated that it never gets a chance to recover. You can just picture in another twenty years, when a child stumbles across this by accident, they will turn to their now-forty-something parents and ask if white people were really this idiotic in the late twentieth century.Nonetheless, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II can at least be said to have been profitable. In fact, it was, by Hollywood standards, massively profitable, which is more than what can be said for the abysmal third effort. How much of that wound up in Fox's pocket is a point of curiosity, but it is a lot less than the virtual bonanza of the original. I guess the saying should be modified to read that wealth creation used to be a function of innovation. In contrast to the original film, where it was soundly proved that puppets and comic book material could be used to depict something other than the bright pastel tone that corporations like Disney continue to bombard us with. If anything, the fields of animation and family entertainment have gone backwards since the early 1980s.Some things that went wrong in the original, such as the miscasting of April O'Neil, were rectified in this sequel. Paige Turco brings back the youthful exuberance of April, as opposed to the snotty, arrogant whining that Judith Hoag weighted the character down with. Sadly, the real star of the original, Elias Koteas, is nowhere to be seen. He was obviously busy with the much more challenging (and ultimately rewarding) role of the wheelchair-bound brother in Almost An Angel. It is such a pity that Almost An Angel did not achieve better financial success, proving once again that wealth and good storytelling are incompatible within the Hollywood business model.Unlike the so-bad-it's-spectacular third installment, I am giving Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II a two out of ten. In trying so hard to please everyone, it winds up not only pleasing very few (at least not once they outgrow the Disney-like marketing), but it winds up being not bad enough to be good, and too bad to be good. Stuck firmly in no-man's-land, in other words. "},{"Title":"More TMNT fun!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is just as fun as the original movie. It uses the same formula as before good guys against a real bad guy. They even bring back to life the same bad guy, Shredder, to be the villain again. But hey, who cares? The turtles are fun to watch. I guess you could say there's good chemistry between the four guys in the turtle suits. I liked how the plot in this movie further explained the origin of the turtles. This is a funny movie with some good turtle action. "},{"Title":"Great fun, but nothing beats the original.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 is a pretty good movie, funny, and very effective, but it's not as good as the original.  The original was better and more dark.  This one has some good fights (choreographed by Pat Johnson of the Karate Kid fade) and plenty of silly humor for the kids, but it's not as directed to a general audience as this one.  By the way, look for a professional wrestler as Super Shredder. "},{"Title":"Practice Harder!","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Believe it or not, for the first two thirds of this movie, I was on board&#x85;because it felt like it was only geared towards the 4-6 year olds. It was completely harmless and definitely entertaining for that demographic. But, unfortunately, Vanilla Ice showed up in the climax and lowered the age group to 2-3 year olds. Still, overall, with the thought that this completely PG-rated film wasn't meant for adults, it's safe fun. Basically, mutant ninja turtles that power my endless craving for pizza fight a blah evil that's bent on wiping out good for no real reason. Other than their soul- searching, there's nothing more to the plot than that and some funny fight scenes meant only for toddlers to enjoy.I was a fan of the original in 1990 and so, I saw this one a year later. While I didn't mind it back then, it wasn't enough for me to ever continue with the series&#x85;which is why I never saw part III, the TMNT cartoon movie or the Michael Bay reboot. It also didn't help, I was late in my teens when this premiered and I was getting away from childish things/icons. That all said, one could do a lot worse than to subject kids today to this fun little kiddie action movie.* * *Final thoughts Even though I didn't hate this movie back in 1991, it never interested me enough to ever revisit it &#x96; even though it contained one of my favorite lines in any movie, from Splinter Practice harder. I only just now watched this because it was the subject of the great How Did This Get Made? podcast. Totally recommend that to everyone. They're the best and I cannot wait to hear their take on this now that I finally, after 24 years, watched this a second time. "}{"Title":"So Much for the Art of Invisibility","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Turtle-Mania peaked in the early nineties, with the cartoon soaring in the ratings, the toys flying off the shelves, and the Turtles' faces slapped on every sort of merchandise imaginable. The first film fed off that excitement, being so successful that it was, for a time, the highest grossing independent film ever. A sequel had to happen. And fast. Nearly a year after the original, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze ninja-chopped into theaters.The film is a direct sequel, picking up days after the first. The Ninja Teens are still high on their victory over Shredder, despite Splinter's insistence that they focus on their studies. Shredder isn't dead though, somehow surviving a seven-story drop into a garbage truck. With a more messed-up face, Shredder pulls together the Foot in order to exact revenge on the Turtles. That revenge takes the form of the ooze that birthed the Turtles. The bad guys steal the last of the ooze in order to create two mutants, the brutish but child-like Tokka and Rahzar. The same ooze leads the TMNT to understand their past.Something I admire about the original film is how deftly it balanced the goofiness of the popular cartoon with the grittiness of the comics. Secret of the Ooze has no interest in balance. In the first film, the Turtles smash a light before attacking, avoiding detection. In the opening of this film, the team step in full view of a human, dispatching their enemies with slapstick comedy. So much for the Art of Invisibility. In that first scene, Mikey fights with a yoyo and sausage links. Donnie pretends to be an inflatable clown, whacking a guy with a foam bat. That silliness infects the entire production. While attempting to grab the mutagen away from the Foot Clan, the Turtles enact a game of football, surfing on office chairs. Previously, the Foot was a serious threat. This time, they're a joke, not a one putting up a fight. Tokka and Rahzar aren't much of a threat either. Their childish minds make them easy to outsmart. The worst thing they do is knock down telephone poles and flip a car. Even that scene is undermined by wise-cracking old people.Secret of the Ooze was rushed into production. That shows in its ramshackle plot. There are elements that work. The mutagen's origin, an accidental mixture of chemicals, is satisfying. David Warner's Professor Perry is a decent addition. He advances the plot while having a personality. However, the plot mostly seems thrown together. The Turtles searching for a new home is decent but stumbling upon the abandoned train station is awfully convenient. The movie introduces a new character, karate pizza boy Keno. Keno, played by an overly earnest Ernie Reyes Jr., is annoying. He disappears for long stretches. He exists to help Raph infiltrate the Foot, which promptly gets the Turtle captured. The heroes escape that trap easily before willingly walking back into Shredder's lair. Combat between the Ninja Teens and Tokka and Rahzar is never delivered. Every time it looks like the fight is about to click, the movie is sidelined by goofy comedy.The biggest indignity faces the Turtles in the last act. The Foot's junkyard base is apparently located next to a dance club. The fight tumbles into the club where Vanilla Ice, signifier of nineties schlock, is performing. The patrons don't flee from the fighting terrapins. Instead, the funky white boy improvises a rap, the club playing along. Tokka and Rahzar are easily defeated, the Professor pulling a plot resolution out of nowhere. Despite the movie around him being a goofball comedy, Shredder remained a serious villain. He grabs a dancer and threatens to slash her throat. The Turtles' response? Michelangelo performs a sweet keytar solo, causing a speaker to explode, launching the villain into the equally improbable dock outside. The film wraps up on the potentially cool idea of Shredder drinking the last of the ooze, transforming into Super-Shredder. (Even if his armor mutating makes zero sense.) However, the neatness of that idea is undermined by the Turtles refusing to fight and the villain ending his own life by needlessly collapsing the dock.The film is a mess of campiness and squandered potential. Yet the movie still gets a few things right. The characterizations of the Turtles remain strong. A concept that reoccurs throughout every version of the franchise is Leo and Raph butting heads. Here, the head-strong Raphael wants to pursue the Foot Clan while Leonardo is more preoccupied with finding a new home. That rashness gets him in trouble, again, and after rescuing him, the brothers are reunited. Donatello was mostly Mikey's comedic foil in the first film. Here, he gets a juicy character arc of not accepting the casualness of their origin. He is also more fully established as the one who does machine, as his techno know-how comes in handy a few times. I even prefer Adam Carl's thoughtful vocal performance over Corey Feldman's. I also like Paige Turco as April more then Judith Hoag. Turco seems more comfortable in the part. The creature effects are even better then last time too. The Turtles' faces reach a new level of expressiveness. Tokka and Rahzar are memorably cartoonish in their designs as well.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is a lesser film than the first. The sloppy screenplay and an abundance of kid-friendly silliness sinks it. However, I can't hate the movie. Any film that gifts the world of pop culture with a bit of ridiculous cheese like the Ninja Rap can't be all bad. However, I have a lot less nostalgic affection for this one. Instead of playing off the original's good example, it's more-or-less the silly kid's flick we expected the first one to be. "},{"Title":"Hey didn't we see these guys on WrestleMania?","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Awful sequel that deals with the 'ooze' that created the Turtles. Shredder's back and wants to use the ooze to create more mutants. This is the one with Super Shredder, folks. The Turtles are so annoying this time around I was ready to give up fifteen minutes in. Watered-down violence, childish dialogue, and cheap sets don't help. This movie gave the world the Vanilla Ice Ninja Rap song. That alone is reason to hate it. Not to sound like a film snob but you have to be a six year-old, or the mental equivalent, to enjoy this dreck. What the hell was David Warner doing in this? Did he need money that badly? Avoid at all costs unless you're REALLY into Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. "},{"Title":"Heroes in a half-assed shell","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Even more excruciating than the first movie and reaching a nadir with a cameo by Vanilla Ice, this sequel squanders its improved production values and impressive Turtle costumes on a screenplay so banal it defies belief. Spouting such inane one-liners as 'Ninja cowboy!' and 'Major spin cycle!', the Turtles make their way through a series of plot holes with such irritating hyperactivity I was praying for Splinter to dose them up with Ritalin. Shredder returns in a didn't-he-die? scam rivalled only by Durant's comeback in 'Darkman II' and drags poor old David Warner into the mess as a scientist forced to create evil mutants, while his army of Keystone Cops ninjas provide an excuse for a series of fight scenes in which half the punches and kicks fail to connect. A rush job hurried into cinemas before the craze died down, this is an exhaustingly vacuous experience. "},{"Title":"Not all bad but insultingly dumbed down when compared to the dark first film!","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This sequel was rushed out in less than a year after the massive hit that was the first film.The producers of the original obviously did not expect the gigantic success enjoyed by what was essentially a pretty low budget attempt at a comic book movie but when it happened the $ signs began to appear in the studio execs eyes and that is never good and is shown by this film being a far inferior product than it's predecessor.Where this film goes tremendously wrong is that it falls into the traps that the first movie worked so, so hard to avoid. It allowed itself to be dumbed down to appeal to a younger audience and in effect cheapen the whole affair into an insultingly silly adventure.The reason why the first film was so popular is that it did not treat it's target audience (ages 7-15) as idiots and presented them with a very mature and dark tale which pushed the boundaries of comfort and in that stirred the imagination.The sequel is loaded with silly lines, non-threatening plot lines and cartoon style fight sound effects. The Addition of Shedders henchmen Tokka & Rahzar (An obvious stand in for Bebop and Rocksteady) are a greatly missed opportunity. Instead of being formidable and scary they are dumb, puppet like and unrealistic and provide only cringeworthy comic relief rather than pose any real threat to the turtles who are not quite as good in this outing thanks to some of the original cast not returning and April O' Neil being re-cast.Script wise this has nothing on the first film, which to be fair was never going to win any awards anyway, but the fine balance of humour and emotion has given way to a cop out of goofy humour and crass one lines. The insultingly stereotypical 'mad scientist' lab sets with smoking test tubes and bowls only solidify how utterly stupid the producers think that children are.It's not all doom and gloom though as the film does have some rather good points. The budget is double for this film and some of the sets do indeed look pretty good, although part of the originals charm was it's grainy grubbiness which has been lost for a much more polished look.Special mention and one of the big surprises of this film is the fights. They are very, very well choreographed indeed with some properly shot martial arts style flashy moves. Usually American fight scenes are too slow or shot far to close up to be able to see anything but kudos to the makers for some really quality choreography. Some complain that the Turtles do not use their weapons at all in this film which is a little silly yes but I prefer the hand to hand combat anyway so it didn't particularly bother me.Maybe one day studios will realise that to make a successful, popular film that will both do well and last the years you can't treat your audience, no matter what age, as fools! "},{"Title":"...gave the audience more of what it craved for...","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...gave the audience more of what it craved for though in more light hearted and humorous atmosphere. The first film had been a great success and brought a lot of money to the studio and to the producers so they were in a hurry to milk more from the money tit and make the most of the Turtle-mania sweeping over the western world &#x96; a year after the first film they already had another one ready to be released.The film follows the adventures of the ninja turtles and TV-reporter April O'Neill (Paige Turco) shortly after the events of the first film. The gang accidentally comes across with people and organizations responsible of the turtles and the rat's mutation to their today's form and learn more about the mysterious ooze behind it all. The Shredder (James Saito) gets back from the junk jard in one piece and also goes after the ooze to use it to gain world dominance... or something. Anyway, the story's just an excuse for a lot of fight scenes, cheesy one-liners and a musical performance from Vanilla Ice. Yeah, THAT Vanilla Ice.The story, the action and the jokes are all more suited for kids this time around &#x96; no much brooding or sad moments in here. The film feels (along with the script) very rushed and sort of cheesy &#x96; the little magic the first film had is all gone. The cheap-looking suits and make-up of the creatures (the two new characters) isn't really a plus either, especially the lighting of the sets make the effects look bad and there's really no competition with the first film which actually did a reasonably good job with the characters.Very rushed, precalculated &#x96; exists or existed only to make more money. The art of cinema is far from this and the entertainment side isn't well represented here either. So, it's kind of a lose lose situation. 1/4 "},{"Title":"More fun than the first one!","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If there were going to be a sequel to the first TMNT movie, I would watch it. And I'm glad I did! TMNT 2 The Secret of the Ooze goes in more detail of the turtles history than the first, well almost. At least, the Shredder came back, only more heated up for vengeance against The Turtles. And The Turtles have a ally of their own; Keno(Ernie Reyes, Jr.). To me he was very comedic in this movie compared to everything else he did. It was funny when he freaked out over seeing these giant turtles doing martial arts, and he faints when he sees Splinter. I mean, What a wimp! And those mutant rejects Tokka and Rahzar makes Bebop and Rockasteady look like circus freaks. The real fun in the movie was when The Turtles went into the club and did that Ninja Rap with Vanilla Ice. That what made this movie fun. And also that Super Shredder(7'Kevin Nash, DIESEL, BIG SEXY, OZ, ETC.) He was the top villain bidding. This movie was a lot more fun than the first, and it got a lot of dancing that would make Splinter go out more, if he could. GO NINJA GO NINJA GO! Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Even Better Than The First!","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ***SPOILERS WARNING***The Turtles, living in April O Neil's apartment, begin their search for a new residence, their last one having been discovered by the Foot Clan. Though they eventually find it in an abandoned subway station beneath the sewers, Raphael becomes insistent in taking the fight to the Foot, and stalks off. After the Turtles watch Professor Jordan Perry of TGRI (Techno Global Research Institute) discusses the dumping of chemical wastes on the news.Splinter reveals more details about their origin, for it was TGRI Mutagen that mutated them from ordinary pet shop turtles to their present state. The Turtles then break into the TGRI building, where their attempt to track the last container of ooze falls short when Tatsu, Shredder's lieutenant, shows up with the Foot and gets away with it. Keno, a pizza deliver boy befriended by the Turtles, is sent by Raphael to infiltrate the Foot Clan.As Raphael helps him gain entrance, he discovers that Oroku Saki, the Shredder, is alive and well. Shredder captures Professor Perry and has him use the last remaining container of ooze to mutate a wolf and a snapping turtle into two mutants. Tokka and Rahzar, as Shredder names them, are set loose in downtown Manhattan. Shredder then threatens to loose them in Central Park unless the Turtles meet him in a duel. The Turtles meet him and his two mutations as per the Shredder's instructions. Tricking Tokka and Rahzar into swallowing retro-Mutagen ice cubes that would theoretically demutate them, they are then forced to confront the Foot in a battle that takes them inside a nearby club on the docks. Successfully demutating Tokka and Rahzar, Shredder's attempt to take a hostage in the club is thwarted by Keno, who blasts him out of the club with the club's speakers. The Turtles head outside, where they search for the Shredder. They find him, but the Shredder has been horribly mutated into a 13-foot tall behemoth. Before they can even fight, however, this SuperShredder brings the pier he dragged the Turtles into on top of himself just as the Turtles escape.This one in my opinion is the best in the series. Excellent action, still a little childish but who cares. Everyone needs a guilty pleasure. And clearly this is one guilty pleasure. I remember loving these flicks as a kid, except the third. And I still enjoy them and the video games etc.***/***** "},{"Title":" It's super Shredder!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Mark Caso is marvelous as Leonardo in this intelligent adventure film. The following cast is perfect. The costumes are casual. One of the good flicks in the genre, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 Secret Of The Ooze will fight the viewer until they surrender. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Origin of the Ninja Turtles!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        The Turtles are back! They come to the aide of a young pizza boy, Keno (played by Ernie Reyes Jr. who does his own martial arts stunts). Keno was jumped by a bunch of masked thugs in a department store. The turtles showed up and battled them with everything from toysto cole-cuts.          April O'Neil lives in a new apartment and the turtles are living with her, due to their old home was trashed in the lastadventure. Splinter is there too. The turtles took some pizzas from Keno's bag. They paid of course. The turtles and Splinter believe the Shredder is gone for good.         But in the garbage dump, a hand arises from a pile of garbage. The remaining Foot Soldiers have gathered at the junk yard and Shredder soon shows up. His face more scarred than before. He sharpens his helmet and before they rebuild the Foot, he wants one thing...REVENGE!         A company, TGRI, that deals with radio active chemicals are collecting remaining canisters of ooze in the area. But some were believed to have been lost 15 years ago. The operation is headed by Professor Jordan Perry.         April did a news report on this and all but Raphael were impressed. Splinter then shows the turtles the broken canister of ooze from when he found the turtles. It said TGRI on it. So the turtles go to the lab to check it out, but the Foot went there first, kidnapped the professor, and stole the very last cannister of ooze.         Keno is soon reintroduced to the turtles when he misdelivers a pizza to April. Splinter tells him their tale and they introduce themselves, and according to Michaelangelo, All the good ones end in 'O'.          The turtles soon head into the sewer, looking for a new place to live. Raphael leaves them. Michaelangelo falls into a hole.Leonardo and Donatello follow and they discover an abandoned subway station. It was the perfect place to live!          Meanwhile back at Shredder's hideout, he has grabbed two fierce animals and plan to mutate them with the ooze. They do. They were a wolf and a snapping turtle. They were babies and claimed Shredder to be their mother. Their names are Tokka and Rahzar, they were also very tough. The turtles found that out the hard way when they came to rescue Raphael who was captured by the Foot. They rescue Professor Perry who tells them all about the mutagen and that kind of stuff.Donatello was disappointed because he thought they'd find out they werespecial.         That night, Shredder let's Tokka and Rahzar play in the streets and they cause lot's of damage. It's soon time for a showdown at a construction site. The turtles and the professor create an unti-mutagen. Only thing Tokka and Rahzar have to eat it. Michaelangelo get's an idea. They hide the cubes in donuts, or as Leonardo announces the ancient ritual of the pre-fight donut.        They soon engage in battle and fly right into a Vanilla Ice concert. They stomp on the Foot, and give Tokka and Rahzar a taste of their own medicine. Soon Shredder shows up with the last vile of ooze. They blow him into the river. He emerges transformed into a Super Shredder! He ends up destroying himself and is gone for good. They return back and Splinter is displeased because a Ninja is supposed to work in the shadows, and the turtles were dancing on stage with Vanilla Ice.         This movie just wasn't as good as the first one. It didn't have all the traits the original bared. See it if you're a Ninja Turtle fan, see it "},{"Title":"Can't believe I have liked this movie before!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the Turtles back when this film was released, but when I recently watched it again, I realized how awfully tasteless and commercial this movie is! Just take a look at the role list, do you even recognize ONE of the names? With a soundtrack featuring Vanilla Ice as well, I can't give this movie more than a 2 today. "}{"Title":"Michael Pressman's legendary classic masterpiece","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In 1990, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles arrived with a bang on every cinema big screen to give joys to every film buff around the world. It was perfect, nobody thought that another movie was able to create such emotions on ourselves. Michael Pressman did the impossible, he directed this masterpiece with brilliance and excellence. Thanks to Tom Zoerner, here is the plot. The turtles find out where the Ooze, the substance which made them mutate, came from. Unfortunately Shredder learns about it too, and uses it to enhance himself. So the turtles have to prove again who's the better ninja fighter.Just as good as the first chapter of this epic saga, The Secret of the Ooze also gave birth to the only real great rap song ever, the Ninja Rap! Go Ninja go Ninja Go!TMNT lives forever!  "},{"Title":"Another good showing by the Turtles","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The second movie is no where near as good as the first, but is still enjoyable. This movie was more aimed at children and takes away the edge of the first film. But the writing was still decent. There was more slapstick here but that really just added to the fun. The second movie provides solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"not as serious as the first movie,but still just as good","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie is not as serious as the first one,but still just as good. more action scenes than the original,but i > like this one,and the first one about the same. they should've stopped after this movie. but they were running outta ideas,so they had to make a corny movie about the turtles going back in time to japan. all in all the secret of the ooze is just as good as the first one. i give teenage mutant ninja turtles II *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Better than the original?...YES!!!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I bought TMNT2 a long long long time ago, and when I saw it again some months back, it surely brought back some fond memories. To say the least, the Turtles always seem to liven things and bring the kid out in me, which is a GOOD thing! I found this movie to be the best throughout the series, particularly for its tendency to move constantly from the dark side to the humorous side, which is why I love the Turtles so! Original laughs, great animatronic stuff and pure fun!!! This is one sHELL of a movie! If you're a true Turtles-fan (as far as the superb cartoon-series and the great videogames go), you will LOVE TMNT2! ohhh is that the same Kevin Nash, the guy from wrestling???Oomph!-meter (from 5) **** "},{"Title":"Only for kids","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was 8, this movie seemed great.  I haven't seen it since then but in hindsight, it seems stupid.  Probably better than the first, but I still don't like it anymore and it's so much like the first it's practically a remake. "},{"Title":"Little kids will love this, anyone else won't be able to stand it!","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was a film that was meant for kids, but had enough to keep adults mildly entertained. Unfortunately this film was dumbed down a notch and is almost unwatchable for anyone over 10. All the dialog is very forced and corny, and the action scenes are really poorly done. The plot for this turtles outing is the Shredder is back and has discovered what made the turtles into mutants...a green ooze. He tries to create super-villains to beat the turtles. Meanwhile the turtles find out about the ooze, eat pizza and make friends with an annoying pizza man named Keno. The only real positives on the film are the costumes for the turtles and their master Splinter the rat. Their mouths move very well and they look eerily like living creatures. Other than that, everything else, including the action is like something out of a bad sit-com. However, as said before, kids will love it, and this is who it's aimed for.My rating * 1/2 out of ****. 84 mins. PG for violence. "},{"Title":"Even worse than the first one.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is even worse than the first one, and for many reasons. This one has Shredder mysteriously alive after his fall. He finds the stuff that mutates creatures so he makes a couple of mutant monsters to fight the turtles. He also looks cooler than the first one as well. Unfortunately, though this one is aimed more for the youngsters so it is even harder to sit through than the first one. Spoiler***Then there is the ending. If you thought the fight between Shredder and the turtles was anticlimactic in the first one you haven't seen anything yet. In this one he takes the ooze and becomes super Shredder. Do the turtles fight him in this form? No, he is under a pier and he just knocks some posts down so the pier falls on him and he dies. Yes, the Super Shredder apparently can't survive something a normal person would have a chance surviving yet he can fall 20 stories and land in a garbage truck and be crushed and survive. This movie is just terrible "},{"Title":"Childish fun but lacks real laughs or action and manages to be a step down from the first film","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having defeated The Shredder in battle, the turtles have lost the anonymity of their sewer home and are now hiding out in April O'Neal's apartment. When they see a news story about some radioactive waste, they suspect something is up and investigate but too late, as Shredder and the Foot Clan have already captured the scientist and the last sample. With the mutating power of the ooze Shredder creates a couple of freaks that can battle the turtles on an equal Footing and defeat them. Naturally, the turtles have to try and stop him.From the very start it is obvious that this is going to be even more childish than the first film, however it still manages to be silly fun despite being all a bit daft and basic. The plot is a very simple frame for a series of fights and comedy mugging and, by the time a fight bursts into a club with Vanilla Ice playing it, I had given up on the idea of this having a story for me to get into. However this is of no surprise to anyone and is hardly a fair criticism; instead it is important for the action and comedy to work. The action is OK but not as good as last time; here it is consistently more childish and only has one or two straight moves that are impressive the rest are jokey and will not do much for viewers looking for the ninja side of the film. The comedy is also more childish and relies a lot more on you liking the surfing banter of the turtles and basic slapstick. In both cases I felt the absence of Casey Jones &#150; a reliable producer of comedy and action in the first film but missing here.The turtle costumes look better than before because they allow for more expression but it is clear that Shredder's mutants have been made more icky than scary for the purposes of not putting off the kiddie audience. The fact that only two of the turtles return is not a problem since they all do the same Noo Yark accents and surfer humour; nothing special but it fits the style of the film well enough. Chau isn't enough of a menacing presence while Turco just looks pretty and then has nothing to do for the majority. It isn't really an actor's film and none of the cast make or break the film.Overall this is a childish film that will please undemanding fans but not win over new viewers that easily. The whole film panders to the children in the audience and is also very set in the period, making it date badly. Guilty fun if you are in the mood though, but just don't expect anything more than that. "},{"Title":"Second Verse, Same As the First","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II is a film that benefited from the enormous success of its predecessor.  Because of this the budget grew and this leads to greater special effects and better looking cinematography.  However, no money was spent on the three key factors of film-making (direction, screenplay, characterization of the actors).  The lack of substance makes this film a disappointing sequel which is basically the first re-played with a new situation.  Only fans of the cartoon and comic book will get anything out of this dud.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"If you had trouble taking the first one seriously...","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Entirely abandoning the little grittiness and atmosphere the first one did have, this embraces the approved-for-kids tone fully. Personality and threat, and thus engagement and excitement, are abandoned in favor of jokes intended for youthful offspring, and not even all being good ones, properly set up ones, or remotely original ones, at that. Family films might have less of a bad name if they genuinely tried to offer something, instead of just throw the lowest common denominator at the audience, hoping that they're either of the age where they find it funny without applying any criticism, or the parents of such, paying for the theater ticket regardless of quality. It is possible to create truly good ones, and ones that are still appreciated by the viewer. The real The NeverEnding Story(of '84, I do not acknowledge the others) is a marvelous example. Wouldn't the children want proper adventure? Perhaps even be challenged, at least a little? Would fairy tales have the appeal they did if there were no consequences to people's actions in them? The plot is far-fetched and squeals sequel(it would scream it if it could, but the puns have gagged it). The pacing is uneven. The ending is unsatisfying. The acting is overdone, possibly intentionally. A new main character is introduced, allowing for more of the intolerable shock at seeing something unbelievable reaction shots, in case you didn't get enough of that in the one that precedes this, or the countless other movies that have such. The martial arts do have some nice choreography. The effects vary. The DVD holds a wide-screen and full-screen version of this, a theatrical trailer, as well as a reasonable mini-game, called Pick That Flick, where you, from a single frame, have to pinpoint which of the ten titles it is. I recommend this to fans of the Turtles, particularly younger ones, or those who of a mindset that fits with that group, it being at whom this was aimed. 6/10 "}{"Title":"I learned that from a rat. Childish sequel.","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze sees the four mutated ninja turtles, Leonardo (Mark Caso), Michaelangelo (Michelan Sisti), Donatello (Leif Tilden) & Raphael (Kenn Scott) along with their spiritual master the over-sized rat Splinter looking for a new home as they are currently staying at TV news reporter April O'Neil's (Paige Turco) New York apartment. As if by an amazing coincidence April is currently running a story about a scientist named Jordan Perry (David Warner) & his company TGRI, a name Splinter recognises as it's written on the container of green ooze which originally transformed the turtles to their current state. Splinter decides that having canisters of this stuff about is too dangerous & sets the four turtle's a mission to dispose of the ooze completely, simple eh? Well no because the evil Shredder (Francois Chau) & his clan of foot soldiers are back & he wants the ooze for himself so he can create mutated monsters of his own to fight & destroy the turtles...This American Hong Kong co-production was directed by Michael Pressman who also has a cameo in the film as the news manager, I personally thought it was all rather childish & lacklustre. The script by Todd W. Langen was based on the character's created by Kevin Eastman & Peter Laird & is obviously targeting a young audience which means many will not enjoy it overall but may find one or two amusing scenes or a few decent fights. Persoanally I just think the film is far too juvenile & childish, I thought the whole Teenage Turtle thing was aimed at the teen market but Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze feels like something Disney would churn out with a some embarrassing slapstick moments that anyone under 8 years of age will just find plain daft. I'd have liked a much darker edge, sure keep the general tone light & stick the odd amusing moment in there but don't turn the whole thing into a silly comedy, oh sorry that plea was too late by 15 years. It moves along at a fair pace, it never takes itself too seriously but it's pretty bare bones stuff, the turtles themselves have no real individual personality's, the bad guys are very underused as all they want to do is destroy the turtle's & absolutely nothing else plus it's all rather predictable.Director Pressman must take a fair amount of the blame here, the fights are lacklustre & dull, there's no edge to them & as I write this I can't remember one specific fight during the entire film & I saw it last night. The special effects on the turtles are good but the two new monsters created by Shredder are absolutely terrible, they wouldn't look out of place on Sesame Street along with Big Bird! The violence is tame, in fact this is one of those films where the violence has no consequence so if someone gets hit they just get right back up again which isn't the way it is in real life, not a good example for kids whom this is squarely aimed at...I was absolutely amazed to learn that Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze apparently had a budget of $25,000,000, where did all the money go? Apart from the turtle suits the special effects are poor, there's no big name actors in it, there are no big action scenes like car chases or explosions & it doesn't look like a particularly big budget film. The sets are pretty good though, I'll give it that. The acting was poor, the rubber turtle faces display more emotion than any of the actors in the film.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze is a pretty silly film, the kids might like it but anyone over the age of 10 is going to have a hard time liking the overall viewing experience. I suppose it'll pass the time if your bored but there are far better martial arts films out there, there are better kids films out there & just plain better films out there. Followed the original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990) & was subsequently followed by Teenage Mutant Ninja Mutant Turtles III (1993) & Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles The Next Mutation (1997) with the completely CGI animated film Teenage Mutant Mutant Ninja Turtles (2007) coming out soon. "},{"Title":"Decent Sequel","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II (1991)** 1/2 (out of 4)Sequel to the smash hit has the four ninja turtles having to battle Shredder once again after he comes up with the secret goo that caused their mutation. To help his odds, Shredder creates his own mutants to go after the turtles. There's no question that this film suffers from being rushed into production. It's clear that the producers were wanted to cash in on the huge success of the first film and while this does hamper the film at times, overall this is a pretty good follow-up. I think there are a few big problems with the film with one being the lack of clever jokes. Yes, there are a couple fun ones here but unlike the first film there's really nothing too clever to where you really laugh at what's going on. Many of the jokes this time are aimed at younger kids whereas the first one had many aimed more at adults. With that said, one hilarious moment happens when the turtles are trying to get their evil mutants to eat some donuts, which have a special chemical in them. Another weak bit is Paige Turco as April O'Neil as she simply can't match Judith Hoag from the first film. Again, with that said, David Warner does a good job as the scientist. The turtle costumes are again very good and come across life like and the martial arts scenes are highly energized and fun. And of course there's the Vanilla Ice sequence. "},{"Title":"DISCLAIMER! The following review is based completely on the nostalgia of a certain fanboy of the series...","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is going to be a very wordy and strange review. Hang on.I saw The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 Secret of the Ooze when I was, oh, say, eight years old, and I absolutely loved it. A lot more than the first one. And now as a somewhat older individual I am afraid to return to the film. I fear I won't enjoy it as much as I originally did - because Lord knows I barely liked Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles at all the second/third/fourth time(s) around.It's extremely poor filmmaking at its best (or worst), and fails to deliver any type of greatness such as Batman or Spider-Man did to their long-awaiting fans. In fact, there wasn't time for the fans of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles to wait--they slopped up a film as soon as they could after the toys sold like Pokemon cards did three years ago come Christmas.The first film was a complete merchandising scam to cash-in on the kid-friendly franchise; this one even more so, seeing it took them only but a year to cough up another technically poor film.The plot? Ha! Well, I guess it does have one The Pizza-Chomping Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles discover a secret ooze that transformed them into what they are (hence the oh-so-clever title of the film). I don't recall there being much of a plot other than that - they just have to protect or find the ooze, I really can't remember. If this were a more important film I'd take the time to look up and find the plot outline but let's be honest Who cares?People who liked the first will love this one. On a level of filmmaking it stands as one of the worst ever--inept directing, amateurish acting, and horrible scriptwriting--but in terms of cheesiness (perhaps literally) and affection it rates strongly. I just got off giving the first Turtles movie a 2.5/5 because I revisited it not too long ago and found it unbearably pathetic and boring, while yet at the same time strangely intriguing; it evokes nostalgia of childhood. I still remember owning all the little toy turtles--men show off cars and boys show off dolls. They're both toys, so to speak.But I still find the first film a tad bit too boring and cheesy. I was scrolling through the IMDb entry for The Secret of the Ooze earlier today. It has an average user rating of 4.4 out of 10 stars. With all my heart I can honestly say it deserves it, if not less. But I went through the message boards and came across posts by people 18 years old and over who say that they used to play with the toys in their bathtubs and absolutely loved the series as kids, and even still do simply for the nostalgia and not really the technical achievement. Any film that has Vanilla Ice come on stage towards the end and start singing a song about the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (which results in 80s/early 90s-style dancing including head-spinning) is destined to have some sort of fond familiarity years from now. It's an embarrassment for all the kids who loved watching it ten years ago; when they show it to their kids years from now it will be like when your parents used to show you photos and videos of their era which embarrassed you more than them--it's kind of scary to think that someday you will show this to your kids, and you'll be so senile by then the embarrassment you experienced looking back at it in your twenties will have completely vanquished.And so it brought back memories for me, too, and I realized that grading this film ten years ago as a film critic I would have given it what it deserves--a 0-star rating--but now, ten years after its release, I recognize it as a nostalgia-trigger; it is the element connected to the nostalgia; it channels it and unleashes the memories. To rate this film based solely upon its technical achievements, merits and accomplishments as a film would be tragic. The Secret of the Ooze is lucky--if this film didn't give old memories back to me I'd slap it with a 0 faster than you can scream Incoming 0! And while I freely admit that ten years ago it was created merely to gleam money from children, nowadays those very children who were ripped off realize they were and still love the series for what it is and what it does for them--restoring old memories. This movie is all about memories and nostalgia. If humans had no feelings this would never have made it to DVD.I have no idea how to go about rating this film. I liked it as a kid, sure, but now? I reflect upon it with a sense of being cheated by the film studios--and I don't like that. But then I remembered that I never particularly liked the original very much when I was younger, and I did like this one when I was younger, so perhaps I still would enjoy it for what it is A celebration of mediocrity, greedy business executives and big green turtles!Cowabunga, dudes!(I hesitate 5/5 stars on a scale of nostalgia. 0/5 on a scale of technical achievement.) "}]