[{"Title":"Unconventional story of the past, present, and future of afamily","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daughters of The Dust was produced by Geechee Girls and American Playhouse Company.  The movie main focus is on the Peazant women. Nana Peazant is played by Cora Lee Day, and Eula, her granddaughter, is played by Alva Rogers who is pregnant and has been raped by a landowner. Nana's granddaughter, Yellow Mary, is played by Barbara-O who is returning, with her friend Trula, from the mainland and her life as a prostitute and wet nurse. Haggar, who has married into the family, is played by Kaycee Moore and wants nothing to do with the old traditions.  Similarly, the Christian Viola, played by Cheryl Lynn Bruce, is returning from her life on the mainland.Daughters of the Dust is a film written and directed by Julie Dash. It tells the story of a family of African-Americans who have lived for many years on a Southern offshore island, and of how they come together one day in 1902 to celebrate their ancestors before some of them leave for the North. The film is narrated by an unborn child, and ancestors already dead also seem to be as present as the living.Julie Dash underwent many hardships in bringing the story to the silver screen.  She had severe budget constraints, filmed in mosquito and insect infested areas, was delayed by Hurricane Hugo, sidetracked by sudden and violent sandstorms, and was forced to decide to either have a child or make the movie.  In the end, she choose to give birth and nurture the story Daugthers of the Dust and the result is an unconventional masterpiece.Initially, the response by white male critics was not favorable and they accused Dash of not adequately explaining the Gullah people, their culture, and their religious traditions.  While attacking Dash, these critics failed to acknowledge many positive aspects of the film.  The reasons behind this, according to Bell Hooks, is that we've never been taught, most of us, in any history class that black people had different languages, had different religious practices, etc.  So, to some extent, the film represents that challenge to a critic of any race to review something they are not familiar with.Because of these reviews and the fact that movie tells the story of African American women in an unconventional manner, it would seem to have slim commercial prospects. However, through word of mouth and some positive reviews it was able to generate a cult following.  To date, the film has grossed 1.6 million from a budget of only 800,000.The Newark Black Film Festival has chosen Daughters as the Film of The Century while the British Film Institute's Sight and Sound Magazine chose the soundtrack as one of the best in the past 25 years. It also received the Best Cinematography award at the Sundance Film Festival in 1991.I believe the film hits the viewer on various levels.  By placing the story in the early 1900's, Dash is able to show us a turbulent time for African-Americans and address many issues such as migration, lynching, and the changing African-American culture.  Dash also shows and teaches us about Ibo culture and it's importance in the lives of those inhabiting the Sea Coast Islands, not just the African-Americans sharing the Gullah culture, but also the Native Americans, Muslims, and Christians.  "},{"Title":"Rupturing cinematic codes","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daughters of the Dust is film that slits the eyes of spectators who have been fed only linear and simplistic narrative/plot dev'ts through hollywoodism and can't possibly fathom any other way of being/thinking. It is truly an excruciating film to watch for those who have not dreamt and lived the double consciousness of modernity, for those who do NOT want to recall and remember the fact of american quilombos, maroon societies, slave revolters and runaways who succesfully established another way of life, not based on european dominance. This story is about the struggles of maintaining that community in 1902, a turning point in the life of this one maroon society. Dash breaks with cinematic codes in her experimental reconstruction of historical memory...a forgotten episode in African american history, a forgotten place, re-calling back to life ancestors that had survived and thrived The Gullahs, Peazant family, persisting, unerasable, as the unborn child running through our memory, coming out of our past, forging a new and alternative future a future that rejects the limitations of western epistemology. The summoning of these images to screen from the unwritten (african) past provides its own logic and development which Dash successfully visualizes in a polyphonic tradition, many voices, multiple perspectives. She does not allow a simplistic and individualistic rendering of this history...NO!she allows the struggle of divergent african perspectives, Christian, Muslim, Africanist, Native American to emerge in the same frame, to address that age old question To exist or not to exist, to bear witness or to forget. In order for this history to exist and bear witness, Julie Dash does not allow any conventional reductionary scheme of narrativity, her temporal references are not linear. Her story is told through palimpestic time, the past present and future, overlapping and disjunctive rupturing our understanding of history/memory and identity. The conflict that drives the film's narrative is not individual ego/conventional good vs bad drama/or boy gets girl(Hollywoodism); the conflict is how will the communal memory of these African survivors be salvaged from the ravaging of modernism's erasure..We see the family eat their last supper as the rite of passage to a life on the other side, a side that the ancestors fought to diverge from...The film is testimony to the african ancestors and to the spirit of resistance of slave revolters. Many people have offered criticism of dash's feminism. Feminism is a problematic concept to apply to this film, no it is not feminist, it is afro-centric, matri-focal, and woman, as bearer of culture and memory as mother to the community, becomes the embodiment of that struggle. (of course it is not feminist it doesn't speak about abortion law, equal pay, etc etc..this kind of feminism is eurocentric and simplistic..) Thank you Julie Dash, i am not african american but the tears poured down my face as i, too, recalled that life left behind, another time another place. A place where people, muslims/christians/indigenous or any other can actually co-exist peacefully side by side, respectful of each other's differences. The character who chose to leave her so called civilized mother at the last minute, to take off with her Native American lover..is one of the most powerful onscreen testimony of love between indigenous peoples that has ever been made.      "},{"Title":"A Feast For the Eyes, Ears, And Heart, March 26, 2001","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Feast For the Eyes, Ears, And Heart, March 26, 2001 Reviewer Angela Jefferson (see more about me) from Memphis, Tn USA In the opening of her film, Daughters of the Dust, Julie Dash alerts the viewer that this is no ordinary African American story. Conversely, this is an American history lesson with African origins. A small informative note at the start of the film puts the entire movie in context. Without this explanatory foreword, many viewers would probably find the film hard to understand. Though the movie tells the story of the Peazant family's migration from the sea islands of the South, the story also gives a panoramic view of the Gullah culture at-large. Because the islands are isolated from the mainland states, the Gullah retain a distinct African ethnicity and culture. Ironically, the Peazants want to rid themselves of the old ways and heritage, thus beginning an exodus from the islands to the mainland. Taking place in 1902, just fifty years after the end of slavery, Daughter of the Dust explores the Peazant's struggle for survival and escape from poverty. The movie opens on the eve of the family's great migration to the mainland. A family celebration and farewell-of-sorts take place on the beach. The Peazants even hire a photographer to document this momentous occasion. As the movie progresses, the complexity of the family's departure from the island emerges. Difference and changing values mire the pending migration with conflict and strife. As the family prepares to leave, in search of a new life and better future, the film reveals the richness of the Gullah heritage. Narrations of the unborn child of Eli and Eula Peazant offer glimpses into problems the family has faced since their existence on the island. As explained by matriarch Nana Peazant, the Gullah are like two people in one body. Though most Peazants were born in the Americas, their African heritage is forever evident. The internal conflicts of this duality haunt the family as they become ensnarled in battle, only to war against themselves. Through old African customs and rituals, such as glass bottle trees, salt water baths, and herb potions, Nana wants to ensure that the family stays together. Moreover, Nana, the last of the old, has chosen to stay on the island. She celebrates everything that makes her who she is the ugly and the good. She knows slavery and she knows freedom. Her life revolves around the continuation and strengthening of the Peazant family. Her rituals are often unappreciated and looked upon with scorn by other family members. Some family members are unwilling to grasp Nana's teachings and wisdom. They want to escape the island, to run away from the Gullah way of life. However, they cannot run from themselves. Just as Nana proclaims, they will always live a double life, no matter where they go. The trip to the mainland certainly cannot rid their indigo stained hands of its blue-blackish tint. Nor can the northern journey erase the memories of whom or what they are leaving. Unbeknownst to the younger Peazants, the duality, the recollections and remembrances, and the old way and traditions are gifts from their ancestors. Sadly, few are able to accept these gifts or comprehend their importance. Through authentic Gullah dialect, vivid imagery and colorful characters, Dash reveals the uniqueness of the Gullah people. A cousin, Yellow Mary, returns from Cuba to the island, facing the scorn of her people because she is a ruint 'oman. Haggar, a bitter woman who wants nothing to do with the old Gullah ways, does not realize that she cannot rid herself of whom she is. For example, she despises the old Africans, yet retains their ways in her speech and use of African colloquialisms. Another cousin, Viola is full of Christian religious fervor and against the heathen practices and nature-worshiping traditions of her people. Eula, who gives a heart- wrenching soliloquy at the end of the movie, bears the burden of pregnancy and rape by a white man. Eli, Eula's husband, represents the strength and future of the Peazant clan. Besides being adept at character development, Julie Dash effectively educates the viewer about African-American history. Tales of flying Africans, water-walking Ibo, Islamic religion, and slave trading are skillfully woven in small snatches throughout the film. We also see connections between African-Americans and Native Americans. The lessons learned from this film are too numerous. One must see the film more than once to appreciate all the information presented. Daughters of the Dust awakens all the senses. The beautiful cinematography transports viewers to a surreal place and time, creating a visual paradise. Each scene makes its introduction with mesmerizing African music, which aptly fits each setting. As the Gullah women prepare food for the feast, one cannot help but imagine the taste and smell of gumbo, shrimp, and crab. This movie also arouses the heart. One can easily identify and empathize with the characters' passion and sincerity. Often, the characters relay sentiments and convictions so convincingly, that it is hard to believe that the players were acting. Understanding complete passages is often difficult because of the beautiful and authentic tonality of the language. Nonetheless, the use of standard English could not have conveyed Dash's message as successfully. We should appreciate this film for its originality and courage. Stories such as these are hardly ever told. Most films neglect the eclectic nature of the African American community, usually focusing on only aspects that are familiar to the masses. Here, Julie Dash reaches beyond the boundaries that are set for African-American films. Equally as important is her ability and willingness to validate the African-American experience. She eloquently and subtly deals with difficult subjects such as slavery, self-hatred, feminism, color prejudices, and rape. Dash does not throw one viewpoint in your face. Conversely, Dash gives the viewer a front row seat into the lives of a remarkable people. We are then left to draw conclusions for ourselves. One feels liberated, proud, and honored to be allowed a window into their lives. The movie is a celebration of the African-American diaspora. The images, language, and music of Daughters of the Dust will linger in the minds of its fortunate viewers forever.  "},{"Title":"Brief history of Julie Dash and film setting","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julie Dash grew up in Long Island, New York and graduated from CCNY right after high school with a degree in film production. Dash moved to L.A. only to be rejected by UCLA's film department, but later accepted as a student of the American Film Institute through a fellowship. Grants then started rolling in and Dash was able to begin writing and shooting films which revolved around true historical portrayals and images of African woman such as depicted in Daughters of the Dust. This film was written, directed and then released by Julie Dash in 1991. The historical context of this film stretches from the time of the slave trade up to the summer of 1902, when the Peazant family left an island off the coast of South Carolina and headed north for the mainland. I would consider this film to be within the genre of modern melodrama because of the overly emotional acting styles, complex plot, long monologues and excellent musical score which seems to parallel the moods in each scene perfectly. I also found the mis en scene, as far as the setting, costume, figure movement and expression and cinematography to be very well done. This is an intense film definitely worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Haunting and elegant","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the finest black films of the last twenty years. Julie Dash has created an evocative portrait of African American life that still holds an African past in the cradle of everyday life. The film is also a brilliant depiction of gender relations in black communities. Daughters of the Dust presents a vital, spiritual, and haunting portrait of black women, their agency and their connection to a nurturing ancestral past. Very few films about black people seriously explore the deep spiritual connections between Old and New World, and fewer still look so carefully at a particular community. The Gullah people of the Sea Islands are a group that remains largely unknown in both mainstream and black culture. As group that has clearly adapted to life in a new place, they still demonstrate powerful connections to an African past. In their adaptation and connection, they show the strength and resilience of black communities and cultures. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the movie.","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. Its been a few years since I've seen it and I saw it twice. As a matter of fact, I'll rent it again or buy it if I can. No plot (I don't get the other poster comments). The movie was about a family and every day life as I saw it. I enjoyed it because it was pleasant, no guns, no thugs (lol), just a simple movie about a family and a group of people I knew nothing about. I still want to visit that area in South Carolina one day. I also enjoyed the movie because the actors are not well known actors in my eyes. I get tired of seeing the same actors in movies. I will do some research on the Gullah (sp) people. "},{"Title":"Film Review","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daughters of the Dust directed by Julie Dash is a cultural perspective look into the lives of an African American family left on an island years after being torn from their heritage of Africa for slavery only to have revolted and be left to themselves, stranded on the island off the coast of the Southern eastern coast and the family who live off the island with others who long to find their heritage.  The film's story line is developed in the one day where the family is getting ready to head to a new world on the main land.  The internal conflict of the family between relatives who no longer live on the island who have become part of the culture of America post civil war and the family left on the island that live by the old heritage and customs.  The family on the island struggle between their history and culture to the change of the times and the need for conformity. This film centers on the generations of the family from the young children who are filled with life then to the adults who are torn between their decisions to leave to finally the center character, the elder grandmother of the family Nana.  Nana's ways and beliefs that have been accepted by the family their entire lives are now the only thing holding the family back from their future off the island.  The film focuses largely on the women of the family, displaying the differences of ones who that have lived on the island and then those whom have lived off it.  The lines divided between the two are evidently shown throughout the film.  The women who lived off the island no longer take to heart their heritage that Nana lives by.  They find it to be uncivilized and against the teaching of the bible.  There is the scene in which the family after much struggle and torment accept Nana's decision to stay and her heritage.  The scene is of the entire family gathered around the grandmother in which she has a lock of her hair and others placed on a bible asking everyone to believe in the old ways and take her with her by kissing the hair and bible.  Finally, the scene acts as importance because one of the outside family members whom diligently preaches and believes in Christianity gives in to Nana's request.Daughters of the Dust cannot be explained without stating the mise en cinema.  From the clothing to the shots of the landscape of the island all resemble the time and place of the film.  Not only the background and clothes, but also the character themselves turn this limited distributed film into a believable representation of what people of this time would act and be.  The storyline background of the slavery uprising actually having taken place on the island gives it enormous creditability.  The shots of the island start the creditability of the film with shots of the women interacting with the water of the ocean and the rivers, the shots of the forest and trees, and finally the most significant may be when the women are preparing the dinner showing how their food is prepared with live seafood and spices gathered from the island.  The mise en cinema is creditable because of the clothes as well; from Nana who has only a dress is indigo, which was the main produce to harvest by the slaves on the island to the white Victorian dress of the women from the main land.Dash's Daughters of the Dust cannot be denied as a cultural perspective that's originality has touched on the transition to the new culture of African Americans and they past that many have forgotten after the postwar civil war era.  Its cultural insight may have been directed to a certain selected target audience, but its look into the heritage of the people cannot be viewed as anything but a respectable insight of the times. "},{"Title":"One of the most important African American films of the last 20 years","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  	Daughters of the Dust isn't an easy work, but it's a very fine accomplishment, and one of the most important African American films of the last 20 years. 	Julie Dash has chosen to share with her audience a chapter of black history that is still new to most white Americans, the internal issues that came with Black Americans as they made their way North in the years between 1900 and 1920.  The separation from the soil, the divorce from those remnants of West African culture that survived through the holocaust of slavery.  The psychic tearing of the transition from rural to urban culture.  The skin game that Yellow Mary and other fair skinned Black people had to play in order to survive in White America.  If the film is boring to many, let it be plainly said that it is boring for many because the film maker courageously chose to examine a piece of history that most White Americans- and many Black ones- no longer care much about.	 	If you want to be entertained, this isn't a film you'll enjoy.  Daughters of the Dust offers instead an opportunity to probe deep, to look close at the dreamy quality of an internal life, and a balanced relationship with the earth, that most of our peoples in the United States have chosen to leave behind them for exactly the wrong reasons.  Let those who have difficulty thinking about these things stick to action films.  Daughters of the Dust is about something more akin to the sense of wonder that's being rapidly stamped out of many of us in the name of mom, apple pie, and the gross national product. It is worth not one, but many viewings.  Julie Dash has created a masterpiece of American cinema.	 "},{"Title":"It took three days to get through this movie","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me start out by saying I'm a black man. I might not have any business trying to figure out what Ms. Dash is trying to say. I do know what does and doesn't work for me. I need subtitles. I don't need obfuscation which I felt was the basic strategy employed here. There may be a point in confusing the audience to a certain point but eventually we'll need some things cleared up. This is what I got from the filmThe slave trade continued awhile longer on these islands. I wasn't sure if slavery continued longer here than anywhere else(longer than in Galveston, TX). Forced incestuous mating and breeding took place here as well. The internal struggle to enter a new phase of life in a new place was affecting the entire family. The basic action in the film is the attempt to have a final family get-together without too much conflict and altercation. There are no white people in the film. There are a few Muslims and one Native American that is a key figure in the story. As pure visual experience the film had some wonderful, fleeting moments. Tommy Redmond Hicks is in it. Why did the light skinned girl run away near the end? The actress doing the child voice over was awful.It doesn't work. "},{"Title":"SPOILER**********BE AWARE SPOILER","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER BE AWARE OF A SPOILERThe film `Daughters of the Dust' is a film that gives us the audience a feeling of what happened to African Americans after slavery and before the modernization of the times.  This film was set in 1902 and is set on an island with a group of African Americans who are all in some form or another part of the same family.  The fascinating thing about this film is that there are multiple generations of people that live on this island.  In this film the dilemma is that the family is getting ready to leave the island to go to the main continental United States.  The problem is that many family members feel differently about this journey to the new world.  However, they were not the first ones to decide to leave.  One of their relatives Yellow Mary, and another went and left this island and returned to help the others to leave.  This story takes so many different turns, and has so many stories in it.  There is Yellow Mary's transformation from wanting to be on the move all the time; to deciding that she wishes to stay on the island she left in the long ago at the end of the film.  There is the young girl who is in love with the Native American who helps them with the work.  In the end she to stays on the island and leaves her over powering mother to go to the new world with her other children. This part of the film was not very detailed, however I believe this is the best part.  Whenever the Native American was shown, it appeared that he was at one with nature, and understood more things than any of us will ever know.  In one scene he wrote a letter to the girl that he loved and that loved him.  While she was reading the letter it was showing him sitting in a tree, and the view kept getting wider and further away.  It made this man look very peaceful and caring.  It also gave him the image most people have when they think of Native Americans in nature, at one with it. Another major part of this film revolved around the eldest of the group. They all called her Nana and she was so old that she had been around when there was slavery just like a few other members of the group.  It was interesting how they showed the eldest people who were part of slavery had iodine permanently on their hands, to show that they worked on the plantations and dealt with what we all think of as slavery.  Anyway, she was resistant to the whole family leaving this island of theirs.  She wanted them all to stay and be a family, and to pass on the ways of the past to the future.  Unfortunately, in the end the all left except for her, the young girl, Yellow Mary, and another couple. Finally, there is the story that revolves around the couple who are about to have a baby.  The woman got pregnant by being raped, and the man did not know quite how to handle it.  In the beginning the man was so happy to be going to the main land, and in the end they decided to stay there with the others. Throughout the film there was a narrator and the narrator was the unborn child, and she was discussing the story of what happened and led up to her mother and father staying on the island.  The end was very powerful because it the make it very clear that it was very important for Nana to have the children born on this island, and she at least got to see the baby before she died.  It was very powerful to have this narration throughout the film. Overall, I really did not enjoy this film but that is ok.  It is just not the type of film I am use to watching.  The drama films especially about family problems are my least favorite types of films, but I can see how some people would like it a lot.  "}{"Title":"Beautiful to look at, Poorly Done","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides being visually gorgeous to look at, I am having trouble finding positive things to say about Julie Dash's Daughters of the Dust.  My biggest problem with understanding Daughters of the Dust was the continuity. Obviously there was no change of costume, there was only the one meal, and no one ever seemed to have slept, so this would make me think that it all takes place in one day.  However, because of the poor continuity in editing, when the film was over I really found myself guessing what was going on. It must have been difficult shooting where they did, St. Helena Island, and with a smaller budget, but the frequent change of sunlight really threw me off.  I'm not just talking about the storm scenes, but towards the end of the film it seems like they had trouble with clouds moving in and out. It also seemed like some of the last shots were edited together without paying much attention to the lighting changes. Also, along with continuity editing, characters disappeared and reappeared extremely infrequently.  For example, the American Indian that was seeing Iona just took off towards the beginning of the film, and we don't see him again until the last few minutes of the film.  He was obviously not a main character of the film, but are we really supposed to feel something when Iona runs off with someone we have little/no feeling for?  It wasn't just this side story that we were given little insight into, but all characters. Instead of letting us deep inside of fewer characters and their lives, we were exposed to several characters, and we were given very little insight into who they were.  This kept the film very shallow and somewhat meaningless for me.  I couldn't find any sort of central plot.  There were several little sub plots, that didn't go very far, and all ended with the splitting of the family into those who stayed on the island and those who went to the mainland.  And then we're cut off.  All we know is they never see each other again. So, we're given little to no plot, no deep or meaningful insight into the characters, and a rather abrupt and unsatisfying ending.  I'd argue that Daughters of the Dust is a poetic film before ever calling it a narrative. The film had a poetic feel to it, with the beautiful scenery, the language used, and especially the music.  That (horrible) harp music that was constantly repeated over and over again could be interpreted as poetic. However, the African tribal music that was used was also very poetic sounding, exotic and rhythmically speaking. "},{"Title":"Skip it.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A number of critics have lauded Daughters of the Dust (1991, hereafter DotD) for its rich composition, strong feminist themes and lyrical nature. It is hard to deny the powerful visuals of this film.  The island the Peazant family inhabits is bright and colorful, with beautiful knarled old trees, the actors wear lush, vibrant clothing and the film stock itself is crisp and virtually flawless.  The rest of the film disappoints, however. DotD is not feminist, definitely not lyrical, and is hampered throughout by overly pushy music. `Pushy' is not a particularly descriptive musical term, so we'll deal with it first.  It does not deal with whether one likes the music in DotD, which is a subject depending mostly on whether one enjoys bad late eighties synthesizer music or not.  No, this refers to the fact that the music, good or bad, is pushy.  If the camera is panning over the trees, there is grandiose music, if there is happy scene, there is happy music, a sad scene, sad music, and so on.  But it's all too loud.  The music isn't in the background, enhancing the beautiful treeline or the actor's performances, it's right up front.  It leaves no question, it screams out `This is sad! Understand?!'  It tries to force a reaction, rather than helping that reaction develop.  Until the music world gives the non-musically talented better tools than the whole Do-Re-Mi spiel to describe music. Unlike the music, the feminist aspects of DotD shouldn't force themselves on the view, because they of course don't exist.  Yes, the Peazant family seems to defer to Nana Peazant, the elderly matriarch, which would seem to indicate a strong, dominant female.  But the scale of DotD is too small for this.  Yes, they defer to her for the one day the film takes place in, but what about yesterday?  What about the times when the whole family is not together?  It is very facetious to make her an example of feminism.  As for the other women, they couldn't be more subservient.  Yes, they seem to be running things, and they are the most vocal members of the family.  But while they slave away making a meal, what are the men doing?  Sitting on their butts on the beach making sand castles.  Oh yes, very feminist. And as for the young girl who wants to stay on the island and be with her friend/lover, she is only able to escape because this man shows up on a horse and `rescues' her.  The only way that scene could be more feminist would be if the young man knocked over her mother and then kicked her. As for lyrical, the pacing in the movie prevents any such thing.  Between the somewhat elliptical narrative structure, people having long conversations and staring meaningfully off into the distance, and people having long conversations and then running around in slow motion, DotD is just plain slooooow.  A movie needs to have rhythm to be lyrical, but DotD is simply so on and off that each new scene destroys the rhythm of the previous scene.  It's like the triangle player hitting his triangle every four minutes while the rest of the orchestra starts and stops randomly. No one in their right mind would call that lyrical. It is a shame that a film with such rich mis-en-scene is so let down by all the other aspects.  When analyzed objectively, Daughters of the Dust is not particularly feminist, with such slow pacing as to destroy any attempt at lyricism, and bombards the audience continually with its pushy, overly-aggressive soundtrack.  Perhaps the professional critics were being too subjective, allowing their personal desires to color their viewing of the film.  I know if I was a feminist critic, I would have a hard time declaring a film which the director said was feminist not feminist at all. As for my rating, I have devised an non-biased objective rating system, based on one to four stars, that I will give and then explained in objective detail.  On a scale of one to four stars, this movie sucks.  "},{"Title":"How Stella Got Her Groove Back for art houses","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daughters of the Dust is considered to be an artistic masterpiece.  It's supposed to be the ideal feminist movie.  After watching it, I am not sure why.  I came into this movie with an open mind, even though all of my classmates had expressed distaste for the movie, but a lot of the things they talked about didn't bother me.  For instance the significance of the bottle tree, and smashing it, the only really confusing part of the film for me was the fight.  It wasn't clear to me if it was serious or not.  The way I see it, there are two main problems in the movie.  The first is the script.  It is rambling, and incoherent.  There is no plot structure.  It just meanders around a large ensemble of characters, never really giving you a chance to know anyone well, with the possible exception of Nana.  Not only does the screenplay ramble, but it is extremely preachy.  This is a movie, not a sermon.  If you want to get your point across, do it subtly, don't shove it down our throats repeatedly.  The worst part of the script is the end.  Everything just falls apart.  People scream wildly in acting reminiscent of the over exaggerating silent era.  The final speech on the beach, good lord; I couldn't understand the actress, but what I could understand was terrible.  Way to work in that title in the script.  Talk about a lame cliché!  This film is reminiscent of an extremely over indulgent film students work that magically got funding for saying the magic words 'African' and 'Feminist' that managed to get into the purses of wealthy backers.  The bottom line is, it doesn't matter how culturally or politically valid a movie may be, it can still be a terrible movie, and this is indeed a bore.However I want to take some time here to talk about the argument that this movie is bad because it is afro-centric.  That because of its many obscure references to thing that the vast majority of white (and probably a large percentage of black) viewers don't understand.  This does not condemn the movie in my opinion.  Don't get me wrong, the movie is still bad, but not for these reasons.  I think part of the reason the afro-centrism of this movie is targeted is because it's a bad movie overall and people blame this for it.  But really, it would be a bad movie with or without the afro-centric elements.  There are parts in every movie that people won't understand.  A lot of times they are more subtle than in this movie.  I think it is wrong to damn a movie for it's obscure references.  Even if you don't have any background on this, the movie gives you enough and gets its points across well enough that you don't need one; you can understand the movie and its references.  This is a double edged sword however.  It may not damn the movie, but it doesn't canonize it either.  I've read lots of reviews focusing on how important the movie is because it focuses on an almost forgotten part of African heritage or because of it's feminist views. I found this piece of culture and history extremely interesting, it reminded me of Last of the Mohicans.  But no matter how interesting a subject matter, it can still be turned to crap, and Julie Dash has really ruined a good subject matter here.Just a thought as I reflect on the movie, but maybe the biggest problem is that there is just too much?  Too many characters, too many plot points, etc etc etc.  It might have worked in another medium that wasn't constrained to this length.  It's just too rushed and compact and every which way but loose the way it is.  Never settling on anything.Before I end this, I want to make my case for this movie.  The case of how it is nothing but an art house version of How Stella Got Her Groove Back. Both film have their main characters as strong black mothers or grandmothers.  Both films focus on black family dynamics.  Both films focus on the differences between northern life in America and southern life on the islands.  Both films focus on black culture and the many different facets of it.  Both films have the exact same scene of a woman running on a beach. Both films are about maintaining a black (or African) identity in a white European world.  Both films have dance scenes with large groups of blacks dancing to African/African-American music.  Both films have a black relative abandoning her black relatives to be with a white (or Native American) man. Both films have almost entirely black casts.  I could probably come up with more, but I think I made my point.  To sum it up, I proclaim How Stella Got Her Groove Back to be `a film of visionary power, an unprecedented achievement in terms of world cinema and African aesthetics'.  I also think that How Stella Got Her Groove Back is a much more feminist leaning film. The only focus on feminism I saw in Daughters of the Dust was the final breakdown speech on the beach where all of the sudden the men are completely ignored and it's all about the daughters.  If you ever teach a class like this again, I would suggest screening these two films back to back as a lesson of how to understand hype and pretentious critics. "},{"Title":"A Swing for Change","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Turning the Page for African-American FilmsThe mid nineteen eighties and early nineties were chock-full of films displaying discriminating evidence against the African-American community. Films such as Boyz in the Hood, Menace to Society, and Friday demonstrated a stereotypical theme of gangbanging hoodlums that settled into the minds of the nation.  If films representing the African-American man weren't incriminating enough, the alternative option was misrepresentation through the music industry.  Milli Vanilli, once proven unauthentic, made an embarrassing impression that is still humored on late night television. MC Hammer, LL Cool J and other music artists help to upturn the music industry with their ability to direct trends for urban culture.  Artists fresh new styles were a simple antidote for one industry.  However, the film industry was still rendered and in search of its hero.  The hero finally came in Julie Dash's Daughter's of the Dust in 1991.  A deeper search than black baggy pants had to come along for an impact to be felt.  The deeper search led Julie Dash into African-American history and a peasant family from a subculture known as Gullah.  Dash's poetic portrayal relieved the nation's minds of problems in the black community by celebrating its past. While the film was still very dramatic, it was able to capture the audience with its breathtaking scenes.  Most famous of which was the picnic scene that the family found itself in a debate of traditional and modern ways.This film had its twist and turns but made a lasting impression with its individuality from other films.  The characters all had climatic problems, but were portrayed as free and independent from the hardships that are faced by poor urban society today.  This made for a break in the downward trend of a current representation of the black community.  Jokingly, this film should be more highly regarded than even MC Hammer's legendary baggy pants. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film for Anthropologists","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Daughters in the Dust is one of those rare movies that truly makes you wonder long and hard about the possibilities of the film form. The film as pure narrative leaves much to be desired; yet it's is not concerned about telling the intricate and sentimental goings-on of one or two human beings; a single tale told in one moment in time. No, the film's scope is much wider and anthropological in scale, thus requires more than just a passing judgment on its entertainment value.The film concerns itself with the Peazant family; proud members of Gullah creoles who originated from slaves traded along the remote islets of South Carolina and Georgia. Even before the Civil War generations of the Gullah people lived quietly as rice farmers on these islands and thanks in large part to regional isolation they were able to rebuild and retain much of the linguistic, cultural and religious heritage that had been wiped out by the slave trade. By 1901, the Peazants are mulling over the idea of relocating to the mainland.The film has the narrative distinction of being told from the perspective of an unnamed and unborn member of the Peazants played by Kay-Lynn Warren. At only four, the young Warren peeks through the hole of her family's history only appearing twice herself as a sprite. We meet her pregnant mother Eula (Rogers), her aunts Haagar (Moore), Viola (Bruce) and Yellow Mary (Barbara-O) as well as Nana (Day) the matriarch of the family. Nana is old enough to remember the scourge of slavery and as a result is resonant to move to the mainland. Meanwhile Haagar is the strongest advocate for the move saying If Nana wants to live and die on this island, then God bless her old soul. Two members of the clan have already moved away; Viola who moved to Philadelphia to become a ardent Christian; and Yellow Mary, who according to Viola is a wasted woman.Despite showcasing a family hungry for change and progress, the film gives proper reverence to the traditions of the Gullah people. The most respected people on the island are the elders who consist of Nana and Bilal Muhammad (Abdurrahman) the resident mullah. The spiritual ceremonies of the family relies on a mixture of Christianity, Islam and African animism that gives everything natural around them a lyrical quality. Yet underneath the pleasant depictions of sun-soaked beaches and marshy lowlands the internal conflict behind the eyes of the Peazants can't help but surface during communal gatherings. We are two people in one body, says Nana as she defies the rest of the family who hope to travel north with their hopes and dreams.If there is one glaring problem with Daughters of the Dust it's its expectations of the viewer. During production director Julie Dash wanted to keep the authenticity of the people intact and thus had actors speak only in the Gullah dialect and didn't consider subtitles. A minority of audience members may find this tact a mesmerizing exercise in linguistics. A feeling not unlike hearing the warm familiar sounds of your parents speaking while you were a toddler. From a purely anthropological perspective this was the best narrative choice one could hope for, allowing those with patience further rewards with repeated viewings. Unfortunately if you're not one of patience or a strong interest in anthropology or etymology you might find yourself distracted and looking for other stimuli.There are many ways to read a movie of this nature. Most movies start and end with a graspable narrative, quick and easy explanations to plot details and an clear resolution. Daughters of the Dust doesn't let you off the hook with easy solutions. It instead asks serious questions. Questions that highlight the consequences of modernity's encroachment on tradition, cultural identity, cross-generational turmoil and diaspora. Furthermore the movie gives willing audiences a sense of belonging among the Gullah people; a warmth you seldom feel on the screen. It also does so in a very spirited and exquisite way featuring some of the most lyrical visual storytelling $800,000 can buy. "},{"Title":"Educational","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As one of the extras who had the opportunity to be apart of this production, i found it to be very educational and it was truly a learning experience for me. This was the first movie I ever appeared in so I was truly on cloud nine as I was doing everything the directors were asking me to do. During the filming of this movie I was already apart of a group called The Hallelujah Singers whose purpose was (and still is) to seek to preserve through music the Gullah heritage, rooted in West African traditions and language, brought by the slaves to the Sea Islands of South Carolina and Georgia. this movie gave me more insight into what it was the group was doing. Again, just being apart of this movie was great and very educational for me. "},{"Title":"short and to the point","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of the other comments have described what I loved about the film. It's one of my all-time favorites. I may have had an advantage - having just returned from a year in Jamaica when I first saw the film - the language was understandable to me without the subtitles most of the time. I have to say - I don't understand the folks that didn't get it. This film spoke to something deep inside me...something that perhaps all women share, whatever their background or color. Yes, it deepens ones understanding of a particular time and of a particular culture...but for me it goes way beyond that. I can only say, if you haven't seen it, rent it - decide for yourself. You'll thank me ). "},{"Title":"Daughters of the Dust","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's tough to sort my feelings on Daughters of the Dust. The film is built around a compelling and often forgotten segment of black history that maintains social resonance beyond its time and place; director Julie Dash deserves credit for capturing the emotion and pain of cultural transformation, and there are lovely images throughout. But Daughters of the Dust makes very little effort to engage the audience it's difficult to maintain a sense of each character's individual goals, and the film often sacrifices narrative momentum for visual poetry. Unfortunately, I'm left with a film that interests me more in theory than in practice. -TK 9/30/10 "},{"Title":"Thick but interesting","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This would be the second non-abstract movie I've seen without a plot. The other one was Morvern Callar, and I must say this one beats that one out by a long shot because this one actually had symbolism and intended meaning. The loose plot-like structure is about a bunch of African-Americans in 1902 who had lived in isolation on an island for years and were getting ready to go back to Africa, only now they had to deal with issues of the African diaspora and displacement and what it means to their identity.Very rich visuals are about one of the only things that can really keep your attention going in this film, but if you sit down and force yourself to pay attention you can get a lot out of the dialog as well. It just requires an extra amount of effort to pay off, but once you expend that effort you might just get something out of it.A little more difficult is the fact that at least four different distinct languages are spoken in this film, with only one moment done with subtitles. The languages I caught besides English were German, French, and Arabic (?) but there may very well have been much more (I think there was a little Spanish and some Latin as well).I can't really speak much about the technical qualities of the film other than the fact that the symbolism and imagery are amazing and the script is tedious. It's really hard to focus on more than that, unfortunately.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film for a film class at UF.  We have seen some slow and some fast-paced films.  This is by far the slowest we have seen and is the most boring piece of cinema I have ever seen.Now, it's not ALL bad.  The movie has some cultural significance and was obviously researched before filming.  The shot selection was very good, colors vibrant, and you could feel the actors' emotions.But the story... was slow.  There's a load of characters and I couldn't figure out who was related to who and what all had happened with the pregnant woman.  The movie was like the opening title-card sequence to Black Hawk Down stretched out to 2 hours in length.  There's parts with loads of music and no dialogue and vice versa.  The movie seemed to reach an ending 5 times before it finally did.  The writer-director clearly had no clue as to what pacing was.The story was basically about some African-Americans at the turn of the century who boat down to their family on the shores of some island that is separated on one side by a river and the ocean on the other.  They want a better life and are split about whether the island or the mainland is the better spot for it.  It takes them two agonizing (to us) hours to decide.Long very long story short half the class walked out in the first hour. And I was jealous of those who did when I reached the end of the film. 2/10 "}{"Title":"Don't Believe the Hype","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll start by saying that I usually like non-linear movies, and that I'm interested in African-American history and the Gullah people. That said, this movie was one of the all-time worst I have ever seen. There's no plot, no character development, and no way to determine what the relationships between most of the characters are. It's as if you were dropped from the sky into the midst of this somewhat unsympathetic bunch of women (the men are ciphers, no personalities at all, merely an afterthought), and during the time you are there they don't speak to you and reveal nothing about themselves. The Gullah dialect is almost impossible to understand, and there are no subtitles. Yeah, the cinematography is nice, but save yourself a couple bucks and watch a PBS show. It's obvious that the ONLY reason many people are so entranced by this film is that it was the first independent film by an African-American woman. "},{"Title":"","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daughters of the Dust, directed by Julie Dash, is a film about the Gullah people set in the South Carolina Sea Islands around the turn of the century. It centers mostly around the Peazant family women.  The family plans to migrate from the Island up to the industrialized North.  The eldest of the clan, Nana, insists on staying behind because she fears losing the traditions and customs of the Gullah people.  The movie is visually pleasing, but rather hard to follow at times.  As characters are introduced to the film, we are never informed as to who exactly they are and what their relation to the group is.  Even at the movies end I was confused as to why certain people stayed on the island and others left to migrate.  However, the movie was not necessarily intended to tell much of story, rather to portray the feelings and emotions of the Gullah clan.  It expresses the importance of traditions and memories of family. "},{"Title":"dusty, dirty","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daughters of the DustJulie Dashes film Daughters of the Dust attempts to show the struggles of African Americans who's ancestors had been brought to a west Indian island. The scenery is beautiful as one could imagine having been filmed on a tropical paradise.  The shots of the beach and ocean as well as further inland are amazing.  Dash draws attention to this by on at least two occasions placing people in the trees for their dialogue scenes, the Cherokee and yellow Mary each have scenes in which they are sitting in trees.  Also the colors that are used in some scenes, such as the blue tinting of the ocean when the little girl is running across the beach, enhance the image.   In one very nice shot the camera is flying over what looks like a big sand bar that is protruding from the edge of the island. So successful is Dash at showing the beauty of the island that through out most of the film I found myself wishing that I was on it.  However that might have something to do with her failure to construct an interesting story to go along with the eye-catching island landscape. The story is told through the recollection of a young girl who isn't born yet, she's telling the past as it was told to her.  This along with the written heading at the beginning of the film initially give the film a documentary type feel.  However the plot of the film move from there to become a one sided look at this family's existence on the island.  One sided not in the sense that we don't get any male role models and in fact no males role is well defined.  In her painstaking attempt at showing each of the females' roles on the island Dash forgets that the men probably had some part to play in the way of life of the family.  For instance the cameraman in the movie is not even close to being anything other than a distraction. Is he the boyfriend of the Christian woman or just her cameraman?  If he is just the cameraman why does he seem to have more than that as his driving force and if he is her boyfriend why does she introduce him as the cameraman?  This may seem trivial but in a movie where the roles of men are unclear, it would be nice to have at least one man who isn't just an onlooker.  The same can be said about the main island man.  He seems to be at the mercy of his wife as well as the old mystic lady.  Both of which seem to only confuse and agitate him.  Even after the cameraman asks about the man who had been brought by the slave ship as a boy, the Christian lady says that he's crazy and implies that he isn't worth talking to.  When the cameraman does talk to him he seems far from crazy but still we don't get to hear his story, at least not convincingly.  The closest thing to any male authority is when the husband of the woman who was raped gets into a weird fight like thing with a mysterious man who has no role in the move other than that one confrontation. No society either on an island or on a mountain can survive without all of it's members playing an important role.  In this movie the men had no role.It is worth saying that if in fact the film is ment to take place over the period of only one day the filmmaker could get around having to show the roles of the men in her focus on the women's duties that day.  If that is the case and this was to be just one day, then in that aspect she also failed as that was not evident to me.  "},{"Title":"completely blown-away by Daughters of The Dust.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This completely brilliant film was the first Julie Dash film I have seen, and if the rest of her work is as brilliant, she is going on my list of all-time favorite directors. While listening to the Gullah language is a bit tricky at first, this is one of those rare films which rewards re-watching with further insights, and new perspectives. It is rare for me to still enjoy a film I've studied in detail after having to pull it to pieces, but Daughters of The Dust is not only still enjoyable, it is breathtaking in the sheer detail present in every shot, the layered symbolism which seems to only uncover more layers as you peel each back. I thought I had become sick of all American film, that all that was left was either formulaic, or pretentious art-house, but this film proves that all wrong. Watch it. More than once! The opening image, of dust blowing out of work-worn hands is an essay in visual poetry in itself! "},{"Title":"What is going on?","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am taken with stories of the undeveloped and developing peoples and would have liked to learn of the Gullah culture. I did my best to follow this mishmash for 45 minutes. It seems to have several dialects that would be impossible to close caption and completely unintelligible as it is. Only a rare person would get anything from it.It appears to start with a black preacher and his wife appearing on the scene where a black woman hidden behind a fluffy white object is approaching accompanied by an attractive light-skinned woman. As the lighting changes, some of the characters appear to shift from Caucasian to Negroid. I have no idea of what happened while I attempted to watch with my wife who has very good hearing and diction and could make no sense of it either.I didn't attempt to watch the last half. "},{"Title":"A movie for feminist film theory.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film Daughters of the Dust is argued to be a stand out film in the genre of feminist film theory. The film is to show a break from the traditional male and female roles in a society; to break away from the traditional narrative to represent the present, past, and future as one to show woman as a strong active influential being. Yet, it did not accomplish this task.The film's narrative has a circle feel bring elements of the past, present and future together as one unit in the form of the child with the indigo ribbon. Images of the enslaved people of the islands are counter set by images of the modern dressed family awaiting the boat to go to America's main land. The family is to be mainly formed on this island after slaves were brought there to work in the indigo market, it is to be formed around this one woman. She takes on the lead role of the family, the matriarch in this instance instead of the patriarch. This attempt to change from the patriarch fails for the matriarch takes on the same role with the same strong masculine tendencies. The feminist ideals and theories are also lost as the woman of the family cook and tend to the work of packing for the journey while the men are relaxing and talking the day away. Yet, as the woman of the family do work they argue and talk. These woman in turn are to represent the different woman of society; the audience sees the daughter, the mother, the wife, the modern social woman, the elderly, the religious, the rebellious and the quite individuals that make up all social structures.Having the present, past and future working together as one creates too much confusion in the eye of the audience. At different instances the ideas are hard to connect to the ideals of the film theory and follow the themes of the narrative for it jumps around too often. Not introducing all the characters is another flaw of the film. The audience is lost as to how they fit into this family, how they are important to the plot of the new daughter changing the lives of the family members in the mainland, and how they affect the feminist film theory.  In the end, not all the questions or problems that the film poses are answered and not all the loose ends are tied up. The style chosen to show a strong feminist woman was made in a too particular way. It was made for only a small subset of society where not all persons could identify with the characters and care for the meaning of the migration to the mainland. Instead the film creates a feeling of detachment, where the audience becomes uninterested. The ideals and theories for such a film are strong in context and in thought but fail to come across in the execution of the project. The true concept of the film is lost within the frame work of the circular plot and the feeling of randomness to some of the films content.  This film does in turn do a good job of showing the complexities of a family, mixing old traditions and new as they are passed to different generations, and addressing fears that come when entering into a new society or world that one does not truly understand or know.  "}]