[{"Title":"A very clever and sharp movie","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Being a Government teacher, I was curious about this film. As an Eddie Murphy vehicle, I was what somewhat curious to see if it would be an educational movie or just a comedic flick. Well, it was both. The story is funny and the plot is politically sharp. We see how the congressional committees work and how money influences our legislative process. Eddie Murphy has arrived as an actor that is still capable of making quality films. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This overlooked Eddie Murphy from 1992 gem is much better than most critics would have you believe. Murphy plays a charming con man who swindles his way into Congress through voter inattention -- they think he's the incumbent, who is actually deceased. What starts as a game to merely soak the job for all it's worth turns into an unlikely effort to make a real difference. Several scenes are laugh-out-loud, particularly early on. Though a shade overlong, the story is engaging enough to keep the viewer's attention, and it serves up some nice potshots at how bloated and self-serving government has become. One of Murphy's best 'non-family' entries. "},{"Title":"You may think that, I couldn't possibly comment...","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Normally, I dont like Eddie Murphy films. This is a definite exception. He is not as over the top as in a lot of his roles, and carries it off with charm and substance, a little like Will Smith does now.The plot (concerning a con man who decides theres more money to be made in politics) is for the most part hilarious, but seriously falls down into schmaltz once he starts developing a conscience. Also, it is not as scathing about the American political system as it could be, giving out the impression that apart from a few bad apples, the majority of politicians do have the publics best interests at heart.Anyone who enjoyed this should try and check out the English tv series Yes, Minister. It is written by the director of this film (Jonathan Lynn) and is really much more effective in dealing with the British political system. Another british series along these lines is House of Cards and its follow ups, which really pulls no punches at all. And stars Ian Richardson. What more could you possibly want? "},{"Title":"One of Eddie's least appreciated films....","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Though it laid a big fat egg at the box office, THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN is still one of Eddie Murphy's smartest and most entertaining films. Eddie plays a career con man who decides there is real money to be made in the political arena and using the name of his state's recently deceased incumbent, runs for Congress and is actually elected on the strength of his predecessor's name. Upon his arrival in Washington, he finds himself courted by many special lobbyists and finds him squaring off against one semi-crooked congressman (the late Lane Smith), whose personal agendas outweigh his duties to the people he represents and it is through his dealings with this guy and learning that politics is more than the big dodge he thought it was going to be, our hero learns to be a better person. This clever comedy takes the expected pot-shots at Washington, DC and politics in general, but also presents a fun good vs evil story surrounded by some elaborate trappings that make for a sophisticated comic romp. Murphy has rarely been better and he has surrounded himself with a superb supporting cast including Kevin McCarthy, Joe Don Baker, Charles S. Dutton, Sheryl Lee Ralph, Noble Willingham, and Grant Shaud. There is also a very funny cameo by James Garner as the congressman who Murphy succeeds. The movie is about 20 minutes too long, but for the most part, it is a very entertaining ride. It's not the kind of film hard-core Eddie-philes expect from him, but for those looking for something a little original and very funny...have your fill here. "},{"Title":"More story than fun -- but still lotsa fun","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There were so many spots that seemed to demand more Eddie. He only did a couple of impersonation schticks (during the campaign in the van scene, and the nerdy guy visiting the dead congressman's widow), and I wanted more! They were great.The story is good, too. A con artist decides to become a congressman and play the game, only to find out that the issues involved are not a game. He becomes a person who cares.Granted, it's a comedy, but it continues to remind us that, as long as humans run organizations, is ANY organization pure virtue and no vice? Religion? Law enforcement? Academia? Government? Corporate society? Sports? Is any system free of corruption?We all live in glass houses. And there are individuals out there trying at least to keep their windows clean. "},{"Title":"Wonderful satire!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a political wonk, I found this movie perfect! I think this is the best Eddie Murphy movie ever! Actually, I am disappointed it took me so long to see it (today, 12/28/02). I was amazed at the negative reviews. What is these people's problem? That the US government doesn't work like this? Or that Eddie's character could actually realize that screwing ordinary citizens is different from swindling corporations and rich people? "},{"Title":"One of Murphy's few above average movies","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'll start off by saying I don't particularly like Eddie Murphy.  I think he is not always in tune with what is funny, and the only movie that he was in that I truly enjoyed (I thought he was excellent in the Nutty Proffessor but I didn't like the movie really) was Beverly Hills Cop.  And this one. Here's whyEddie Murphy does not force his humor in this movie, like he tries in almost everything else I've seen him in.  For most of the movie, he seems himself. Not only that, you actually see a little drama from Eddie, which while not ranking up there with the likes of Hanks and Hackman, he certainly makes you believe he's got another side to him.The movie, while stretching credibility, attacks the System very well, both dramatically and humorously.  If one watches this movie expecting a mild satire instead of a barrel of laughs or a breathtaking plot, they will probably enjoy it, assuming they didn't hate Beverly Hills Cop. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Political Comedies Ever","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen Citizen Kane and wasn't half as impressed with it as I was with this film which I credit to producer and writer Marty Kaplan (who, as I understand, is a CPA).  The only thing this movie lacks is violence and nudity, not that it needs either.I've never seen a more thorough and realistic comedy about government and politics before or since this film.  Only Bulworth comes close, yet the solutions suggested in that film were just as liberal as the institution it parodied.  There are a few liberal connotations in The Distinguished Gentleman (particularly environmental), but they are immediately balanced and authenticated by the conditions presented in the story.This film isn't an absolute probe into political science, but it gives a more lucid perspective of politics than the media would ever care to attempt.  Eddie Murphy's performance is vintage, particularly his mimicking skills and his genuine comedic brilliance.  A moment that defines the film is when his character gives a victory speech which consists exclusively of several cliches coined by historic politicians ('Four score and seven years ago...'  'If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen...' 'We have nothing to fear but fear itself...' 'Ask not what your country can do for you...' and in conclusion 'Read my lips!').  The crowd response, as with actual politicians, is full of mindless cheers of concurrence.Political experts may find this film silly and full of inconsistencies. Yet, the fact is, most movies are silly compared to reality.  This film, however, does not insult the viewer and gives political novices a good idea of political mechanics while presenting a hilarious performance.  The fact presented in this film is that the most powerful people are the most corrupt, and corruption can only be defeated by more clever and deceptive corruption.This is not a film for Generation Xers who rate a film on its music soundtrack and how thoroughly the females cast in it prostitute themselves. If you appreciate the comedy of Eddie Murphy and have a critical appreciation for politics, you will enjoy this film.I'd give it a 9.5, but the IMDB won't allow decimals. "},{"Title":"A pretty obvious satire but enjoyable nonetheless and featuring a mostly on form Murphy","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Thomas Jefferson Johnson is a small time con artist who realises the money in politics when he overhears Congressman Jeff Johnson during one of his scams. When the Congressman dies between his secretary's legs in his office while poling the electorate Thomas sees his opportunity. Dropping his first name in the hope that name recognition will see him through, Thomas and his crew go to work and it is not long before they slide their way to Washington. Once in town he gets on the gravy train straight away &#150; joining his colleagues in Congress, he is soon up to his neck in contributions and fund raisers but is this really what it is all about?Although it starts out with plenty of big, easy targets the first half of the film is lively and quite funny. The broad satire is never that cutting or intelligent but it does the job for an Eddie Murphy comedy. Unfortunately, around the halfway mark the obvious plot suddenly has Thomas develop a heart and the film grinds to a halt. Happily it gets its senses back in the final section and is a return to the lively first part &#150; this is not to say that it is brilliant because it isn't, but it is amusing and pretty enjoyable apart from the narrative arch having a massive hole in the middle of it.The cast are mixed dependant on their material. Murphy himself is on good form. His con artist character suits his on screen personae and he works the dialogue really well &#150; he is all at sea when he has to convince the audience of the change in his character but he moves through that as quickly as he can. The supporting cast are all in his shadow on this but at least there are plenty of famous faces. Smith, Dutton, McBride, Baker, Ralph and McCarthy all add an ensemble feel to the film even if it is very much Murphy's vehicle. Lynn's direction is OK but he can't do much of real intelligence with the basic tools presented to him by the writers.Overall this is not the sharpest of satires but the big simple targets are still enjoyably hit. The middle section is poor but Murphy ensures that the majority of it will be good enough to please his fans even if it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Trying to Distinguish the old Eddie from the new.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Eddie Murphy hit it big on Saturday Night Live,he became the hottest featured player on there since John Belushi. Along with that came his (then) shocking and hilarious comedy albums. He Like Steve Martin in the '70s,became a stand-up comedian,treated like a rock star.Then came great films like 48 Hours,Trading Places & Beverly Hills Cop #1 & Pt.2 and Coming To America. Mis-steps like Best Defense (which he's barely in) and Golden Child. Mostly though,it was his (clean version here) smart-aleck/street smart persona that made him. It's also what broke him,at least for awhile.Harlem Nights was a disaster,Another 48 Hourscould have been made on a Xerox machine. People had begun to tire of him. In 1992 it seemed he had rebounded with Boomerang but then came this.The Distinguished gentleman takes Murphy,once again back to the street smart,con artist he'd played before. The smart aleck humor seemed tired for a man (then) 30 years old. It was a somewhat nice touch that his character sees the realities involved in the office he's won based on (someone else's) name recognition. Seeing a little girl whose hair has fallen out due to electrical tower radiation makes him see the light.Most comedies have a pretty funny ending but the writers couldn't even give us that. In the last moment,I was like,That's it?Four stars is a generous rating here but I feel that Murphy was at least trying to say good-bye to his 80s super-star and hello to maturity,which he finally found. After Beverly Hills Cop 3,he never looked back again. (END) "}{"Title":"Jeff Johnson the name you can trust","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Distinguished Gentleman is one of those movies that was a little too smart for its audience. Because of this, it came and went in theaters. I think its one of Eddie Murphy's better movies.The story Eddie Murphy plays Thomas Jefferson Johnson, a small-time crook that runs for Congress and wins. He ran with intentions of getting rich and left with intentions of helping the little people that get ran over by those corporate fat cats in the oval office. This being after he meets up a cancer-stricken girl that is a victim of the power lines over her school.Eddie Murphy is great as the slick con man and he looks like he wants to be in this movie not like these later flicks where he phones in his performance. Lane Smith is perfect as the corrupted chairman Dick Dodge and so is Joe Don Baker as Olaf Anderson. Victoria Rowell(who plays Celia Kirby) and Charles S. Dutton(who plays Elijah Hawkins) turn in some good performances too. I like how this movie targets the don't-give-a-damn mentality of all of these politicians in the White House. It was good in its satire even when the humor misses(rarely). The Distinguished Gentleman is underrated but is definitely recommended to the crowd that can see past their nose. "},{"Title":"A Smash!!!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy is a great actor and he proves it in this movie. In it, Con man Murphy decides he can make more money as a United States Congressman than a hood. Victoria Rowell as Murphy's lawyer-activist love interest, Lane Smith as his double-dealing political mentor, and Joe Don Baker as the power magnate who tries to put both men in his pocket, bat great cleanup. All of this movie, coming from a pure political buff like myself, is great. For all you Alan Keyes fans out there, watch this movie for Charles S. Dutton's great performance as Eliah Hawkins, a preachy minister-Maryland congressman who I think is like Keyes in every way. "},{"Title":"Amusing Comedy","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another film from the Director of My Cousin Vinnie. It has some very funny scenes in it, and it's worth a view. The acting was very good. Lane Smith does a good job of being a corrupt politician, as does Joe Don Baker as being the CEO of a Power company. It's not always believable, but it's good natured fun. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's best performances.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy plays a con turned congressman. He goes to Washington and cons he way into congress. This movie has a lot of political humor that holds true about the Capital and politics today. Murphy fits this role to a T and one his best acting performances. Well worth to trouble to see.  "},{"Title":"Truly, a different side of Eddie","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I agree with some of the comments made here, and disagree with others. For those of us who were looking for the usual Eddie Murphy, you will not find him here. While watching this movie on T.V., I went to IMDb to find out more. I saw that COMEDY was not one of the genres listed for this movie. At first, I thought that nobody had added it yet, that is until I saw the whole movie. I believe it may have been an attempt for Eddie Murphy to explore a serious character-role for a change. I think he did a great job!! Although he was not cracking us up with jokes and impersonations (but he did do a few on the phone to get important information), he was still entertaining to watch. Also, the political side of the story may not have been true-to-life, but it does give the laymen (and laywomen) an idea of some of the games the big-wigs play in the United States of Americow. "},{"Title":"Please let's give this guy a big hand!!!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Once in awhile Eddie Murphy will come out with a great film that puts his comedy into perspective and instead of just being silly he might actually try to say something. While this movie was not as successful as some of his other movies it is still pretty funny.  In this movie he is a con artist who uses the same name as a dead congressman to get elected as a member of a very small party.While it may be a little predictable the movie does have some interesting about how politicians operate and how bad the system can be. Murphy does an excellent job but as is often true of Murphy films many in the supporting cast are excellent as well.  Lane Smith and Joe Don Baker.Special mention should be given to Charles S. Dutton who plays a very socially conscious representative who is extremely honest. His character name is Elijah Hawkins, from Maryland.  I am not sure but I believe he is based on an actual Maryland congressman named Elijah Cummings, but I do not know for sure.In this movie James Garner has a small part and watch for a hilarious two minute long appearance by Della Reese.  The script is only OK but Murphy really is the glue that holds it together.  He is a great one-man band.  One of the best parts of the movie is the finale where of course (spoiler) the bad guys are exposed for the crooks they are.  This is not Murphy's best role but he does all right here.  I do recommend this movie, any Eddie Murphy fan should enjoy this, or anyone looking for a good laugh.     "},{"Title":"The Distinguished Eddie","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To really appreciate this film, you have to consider that it was released in 1992 when the Democrats controlled the House and the Senate and graft and corruption were the rules of Congress. The film centers around Murphy as a con man who gets himself elected to Congress and his attempts to put as much money in his pocket as possible.In order to maximize his influence with lobbyists, Murphy gets himself appointed to the most powerful committee in Congress, which in real-life is the Ways & Means Committee and when this film was made, was run by Dan Rostenkowski, but in the film is run by the equally corrupt Dick Dodge.In 1994, Rostenkowski was indicted on corruption charges and stepped down as Ways and Means chairman; he lost his House seat in the Congressional elections later that year. He pleaded guilty to mail fraud in 1996, and was fined and served (1996&#150;97) a 17-month sentence. One of the great things about this film is how it parallels the real-life Congress and how sleazy things were run under the Democrats when they controlled it. This film is a must for anyone interested in politics and for anyone that would like to see Murphy play a different role than his usual fare. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this movie is very funny and Eddie Murphy is just awesome as usual. I especially liked the first three quarters of the movie - the truth is that given the good cast and essential plot the Director and the writers could have given it a different twist towards the end and THEN it would have been a winner. Pity. But again, the actors and the actresses are the best. "},{"Title":"should be required viewing of every American","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i found myself laughing nervously at this movie.  not that it isn't absolutely hilarious (it is). it's just that the movie hits too  close to the concerns i feel when i view the comedy that goes on every day in washington!if it weren't for the blatantly funny lines and over-the-top portrayal by murphy, i think this could be classified as a black comedy.  to me, it's almost as scary as seven days in may. instead of a military takeover of the government, it's been taken over by people who have the money to buy congressional votes!  the scary part is that it's already happened!i think that the distinguished gentleman should be required viewing of every american that is of voting age! maybe it would mobilize us to become more vocal when it comes to capturing back our representatives' attention! "},{"Title":"A Fun Little Movie","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I quite enjoyed The Distinguished Gentleman. In my opinion, it's one of Eddie Murphy's better efforts. If you are just familiar with his latest endeavors, that may not be saying much. But if you are familiar with such classics as Beverly Hills Cop, Trading Places, and 48 Hours you know that it is high praise indeed. If you are a fan of early Murphy, I recommend you see this underrated little gem. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Did i see the same movie as everyone else????","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hmmm...I must be in the silent minority on this one.  I thought this movie was absolutely atrocious.  The plot was flimsy, the film moved WAY to fast at the beginning, and the big conspiracy was about power lines causing cancer...It was sad that was the best they could come up with. If you want to see truly great acting by Eddie Murphy, rent Bowfinger, Coming to America, or Trading Places.  If you want to see a jumbled mess, watch this movie instead. "},{"Title":"A moderately successful political satire","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy and political satire. They don't seem to go there. In reality, though, it is Murphy that saves this film. The actual political satire is fairly worn in all forms of entertainment, big business and lobbyists control the government, while some brave insiders fight to preserve the integrity of the institution. This, in a way, is the weakest part of the film. It's not hard hitting enough to provide any real insights but hard enough to sometimes distract from the humour. It doesn't break any new ground but Murphy is charming and funny in his role. He has some good one-liners. The redemption story at the end is, of course, hacked on and expected. How easy it was to expose their corruption, though, only seeks t undermine the previous points about its systematic nature. For all this, it's worth watching for Eddie Murphy's performance. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy goes to Washington","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is cool. It is about a conman who decides that a lot of money can be made in politics and so he decides to become a politician. Fortunately he has a similar name to a congressman that just died and so using his name he rides the coat-tails of the late congressman and gets himself elected. Thus he goes into Congress with the belief that he is conning the nation only to discover that Congress is actually full of conmen. The scene in which he arrives in Washington, and is then praised by his peers for getting elected on somebody elses' name goes to show how this con is not treated with suspicion, but with praise.It is an interesting movie because it attacks politics and politicians.Thomas Jefferson Johnson (Eddie Murphy) is a conman and believes that he is in control of everything. He is a very intelligent man and is able to squeeze his way into everything. He gets into Congress and then manages to promote himself into the Power and Energy Committee, the one with the most money.This movie makes politicians out to be people with no real ambitions other than to make money. They have no real goals or passions but lean towards those who throw the most money at them. Capital is the god in politics, not ethics, and those who try to push ethics end up in sticky situations. Eli, a politician preacher, stands for ethics and ends up on the wrong end of a sex scandal. Dick Dodgers, who is the bad guy in the movie, cares only for money and prestige. He says to the public that he will look into powerlines causing cancer and turns on his promise after because the electricity bosses are throwing lots of money at him.Jefferson learns slowly that ethics in politics does not exist, nor does free will. He is under the wing of Dick Dodgers to the point where people know that he does whatever Dick Dodgers tells him to. He believes that he has a freewill but in reality he does not. He is what is called Dick Dodgers boy, he has no freewill were politics is concerned. He is to sit down and shutup.The Distinguished Gentleman is a very funny movie, and interweaved with the comedy are scathing attacks at politicians. I enjoyed it the second time, having a greater idea as to where politics, and American History, is concerned. Though I cannot necessarily say that it is an original film (no film is really), but reminds me of an on 1930's movie, Mr Smith Goes to Washington, however there are a number of subtle differences. Namely Mr Smith is naive and innocent, and was elected as a part of a scam, which Mr Johnson is the scam. However, both come to realise what Congress is really all about, and the film finishes with them standing up for their beliefs, and through clever use of the rules, manage to shut the conspiracy down (if only for a short time). "},{"Title":"Best comedy about politics...Murphys most underrated movie","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the most accurate movies about how absurd politics really are. Really well made and perfectly casted. It took me a Few times to really appreciate how clever this movie is. Very believable. Wouldn't doubt if it was loosely based on a true story. U get a lil bit of everything in this movie. Not funny so much Eddie being Eddie,but the situations and satire. It's not the typical set up Eddie jokes  movie. Way more sophisticated than other stuff he's done. It's more Subtle. Perfect satire. I would hope this movie is referenced when thinking about our political system and how it really runs on a day to day basis behind the scenes "},{"Title":"A Distinguished Gentleman","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Distinguished Gentleman is about a con man Thomas Jefferson Johnson (Eddie Murphy) who realizes that the best con that he could pull is not as a small time operator in Florida, but as a Congressman in Washington D.C. making shady backroom deals with corporate lobbyists. All he has to do is vote a certain way on certain pieces of legislation and then get rewarded down the road with donations from corporations and other interest groups (including the gun lobby).The three-fifths of A Distinguished Gentleman is great. There are many clever scenes in this film that expose Congress and corporations as rotten to the core and I personally think that it is sad that more films, like this one, are not made about the rottenness of Congress and Corporate America; and that the Hollywood establishment is reluctant to admit that, in today's America, we really have government by the corporations and not government by the people. But what also makes the first three-fifths so good is the use of humor as for indicting not only the political system, but also in a subtle way American society. I am referring, for instance, to that scene where an automatic weapons manufacturer explains that his autonomic guns should be sold because they are needed for hunting. Next you see Johnson, Chairman Dodge (Lane Smith in a marvellously wicked performance) and the manufacturer in a hilarious scene firing their automatic guns at ducks (when regular rifles would suffice). Wonderful. Another wonderful scene involves Terry Corrigan (Kevin McCarthy) explaining to Johnson that But then this film goes downhill, albeit slowly. I was entertain until the end, but I felt that the last two-fifths were not at good as the stellar three-fifths. Why? The first reason is the corny love story between Johnson and Celia Kirby (Victoria Rowell) which I thought distracted from the already clever story line. The other thing I object to was the decision of the producers to go for a happy ending, which creates the impression that all is write in the world as far as Congress and corporations are concern. The reality is that Congress is just as rotten now as it was in 1992 (when the film was made). The culprits were never held accountable. Meaningful, transformative changes continue to be held back. Reasoned bi-partisanship to resolve the country's outstanding problems, which include the environment, the deficit, the loss of middle class jobs and others, is non-existent. "},{"Title":"It Could Have Won an Oscar. And a Razzie Too !","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This script is so smart. It's like (Mr. Smith Goes to Washington) yet after changing the lead character from unsophisticated honest to sophisticated dishonest. And the aim is foxy; as when a hustler goes to the Congress he would be a very slight one. It got the journey that makes that little conman has a redemption out of beating the bigger conmen. I loved countless details and scenes. The clueless yet enthusiastic speech of read my lips, I know nothing about poultry, but I know people. So if you people come to me and say something about poultry&#x85;I'm going to listen, plus the scene of what law you voted for?! were certainly the best when it comes to define the true and bitter sarcasm of this script. (Eddie Murphy) was nice. I loved him while talking white, or imitating Martin Luther King. And it was a good choice for his 11th movie. Clearly with (The Distinguished Gentleman) the man wanted to make comedy with something serious in the mix this time. But as a whole it wasn't a distinguished movie itself. It was somewhat like a worthy of Oscar material with a worthy of Razzie direction! The direction didn't give the matters its appropriate shadows. The artistic factors are none. All the scenes were made similarly. For instance there were, in most cases, no different uses for the lighting so all the scenes looked the same. The sets didn't embody the stateliness of the Congress, not even outwardly. The music didn't play any role, it wasn't funny, or serious; simply weak. Sometimes I felt that I was watching a bad TV episode done on a too limited budget too. Sure with another director that might have been one memorable political satire. The casting of the powerful guys wasn't powerful. They looked less menacing than what they are supposed to be. Over and above the script weakened itself by its very ending; actually after clever climax it inclined to be farcical for the sake of being happy. Simply the lead went and exposed a scheme that will push him into jail, while we see him, right after it, free, so honored, and thinking of running for presidency ??!! Well, they wanted it just a comedy after all. However it wasn't that highly attractive. And as a serious movie it didn't achieve much with the very promising material that it has. Mediocre result both ways. Or disappointing if you longed for more. Wanna hear something good; this is way WAY better than Murphy's other movie from the same year, the supposed romantic comedy, (Boomerang)! "},{"Title":"Basic 80's Eddie that takes a small wrong turn, then rights itself mostly","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is passable 80's Eddie Murphy winding its way into the 90's. The premise is o.k. mostly works. Of course there has to be the inevitable I didn't care at first but now I do moments. You can't have a movie about our superiors in DC without the requisite message that Good must thwart Evil. In this case it is a little waif bald from her radiation treatment as a result of cancer from dastardly power lines. Yeah, that issue still resonates.The first half of the movie is prime Eddie and punctures the fatuousness of Pols in general. Then it takes a left turn and pretty much spews out basic Hollywood rhetoric - Big Business Bad, Big Government Good. It almost spoils the movie entirely. But it pulls up a little and ends humorously enough.Murphy has put out worse, so by comparison, this deserves a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good start, average middle, cheesy ending","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy is a man capable of high energy humor, and is efficient with his broad smile, mimics and impersonations. And this movie gives him some great moments especially in the beginning.Eddie Murphy starts as a Florida con 'artist' accompanied by some accomplices blackmailing people who use his private fake phone-sex service. While racketing a congressman, he finds out that running for Congress will earn him more money than he does now. His asset to get elected is his name which he shares with a just-deceased congressman called Jeff Johnson. His way to the top of course hardly meets any difficulty but, after all, this is a comedy so we don't mind as long as it's entertaining.But then things go wrong, Johnson meets a Pro Bono lobbyist, falls in love with her pretty fast but their relationship doesn't add anything to the movie and is not developed and chemistry between both actors is obviously missing.First, Johnson enjoys his journey at the Congress but he soon realizes he can't keep a straight face and simultaneously take part to the different frauds and corruption present.This is where the movie takes a turn for the serious and forgets it started out as a comedy. It's now trying to make a point. Johnson accepts to help a town where children are submitted to the negative effects of power high lines causing a great deal of them to suffer from cancer. Johnson develops a plan to force Congress to do something and expose publicly the aforementioned frauds and corruption. All this is done in an unexplainable cheesy way.Shame, as the movie contained some good ideas for a comedy but director Jonathan Lynn seems to have been distracted and forgot that his original intention was to make a good comedy with Eddie Murphy having a good time at Congress. "},{"Title":"It would be a sin...","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was the title that put me off seeing this, but what a surprise - OK all politicians aren't like this (are they?) but the tongue-in-cheek delivery from Murphy was nicely placed and it could have been so over-the-top... right up until the last scene before the final credits rolled..If you like genuine comedy, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Begins Like A Sharp Political Satire As Good As An Ealing Comedy...","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  then falls apart half way through. A charming con artist goes to Congress - this part is hysterical, reminds me of I'm Alright, Jack. Then has change of heart and decides to do good. Comedies stay funny, when protagonist stays stupid and learns nothing. "}{"Title":"The worst film ever?????","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was just having a discussion with my work colleague about what may have been the worst film either of us has ever seen. He plumped for The Naked Lunch (?)and I went for this turkey. The most amusing part of my whole viewing experience was when a man in his mid 30's, young family in tow, began to walk out of the cinema and then, once he reached the aisle, turned to face the screen and shouted B*ll@#ks!!! at the top of his voice before calmly turning round and walking out. This expressed what most of the audience, myself included, were thinking at that time. Well done, that man....Can't help but agree with an earlier post -I am SHOCKED to see so many people give positive reviews to this inane drivel and felt I needed to redress the balance somewhat. What is the world coming to, eh??? "},{"Title":"I liked it. I don't remember it. But I remember I liked it.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What is the difference between a small time con-man and a politician? Trick question. They're the same! (Unless you want to argue that the politician isn't small time I guess.) Anyway hilarious rib-ticklers aside&#x85; When local hustler Jeff Johnson capitalizes on a naming similarity and vaults into the US Senate, he immediately sets about reaching towards all the well manicured hands holding out money and favours.Seeing a handsome and well spoken black man gives party high-ups ideas, they latch onto Johnson and give him simple instructions Shut up and smile big.This works well initially when Johnson amazingly is fast tracked through to positions others in parliament wait years for, but then things change for Johnson&#x85; As the DVD cover might say Johnson comes into contact with a well meaning and determined young woman named Celia, who catches both his eye and his heart. Celia introduces Johnson to some of the more 'real-life' situations that are all too often ignored by politicians seduced by big business and big budgets.Will Johnson himself learn to grow a heart when all around him are heartless, or will he simply become another greedy unfeeling politician? This was the early 90s and was obviously a project lying in a studio drawer waiting for a big star to sign on and green light it. If it were Stallone they would have played off the 'big dumb guy with muscles' angle, Bruce Willis would have smirked his way through proceedings and a bunch of peripheral actors would have seen it vanish from shelves and cinemas within weeks.But they got Ed near the height of his powers, as well as his smile and laugh Murphy gets to unleash his array of voices and characters to provide a few decent chuckles, and it must be said that the supporting cast are all pretty reasonable in a paint by numbers affair.I liked it. I don't remember it. But I remember I liked it.Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. The Distinguished Gentleman is hardly necessary and is as light as a supermodel, but it is a likable flick with a laugh or two and a half-hearted political lampoon that breezes over severe corruption and how empty campaign promises are. "},{"Title":"Ho hum Eddie with great cast","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy's almost constant goofy, toothsome grin and face-making is a bit much to bear. Fortunately, he is surrounded by an able troup lead by the show-stealing Lane Smith. Murphy goons his way through this film more of a caracature than a character of a conman elected to congress. Victoria Rowell, his love interest, while pretty, lacks the wiles to have caused Eddie's metamorphisis. A good story line and supporting cast make for an enjoyable movie, in spite of Murphy's muggings and lack luster romantic partner. "},{"Title":"Wry and whimsical modernizing of Mr. Smith Goes To Washington","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This one is unexpectedly terrific and clever.Next to 48 hours, this is Eddie Murphy's best performance ever.  Eddie Murphy is a small-time con man who uses congressman James Garner's sudden death to propel himself into the biggest con game of all -- Washington politics.  As he learns along the way, his character grows, but so does his conscience.Eddie Murphy handles the entire transformation remarkably well.  Lane Smith, Kevin McCarty, Grant Shaud, and Sheryl Lee Ralph are all terrific in supporting roles.  There is no profanity in this one, just a marvelous updating of a holiday classic.   "},{"Title":"One of Eddy Murphy's better ones","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The concept is great. However, I suppose I can't help forgetting about real political satire like the BBC series Yes Minister and Yes, Prime Minister.And there is where this movie falls short, namely in the writing. Eddy Murphy is supposed to be a con artist, but at several points in the movie his character is simply to naive to be believable.This movie could have used some sharp political satirist writing on it, to highlight absurdity and stupidity of what happens when government comes down to the level of large administrative bodies which always have their own momentum and agendas.The problem with this and other American political satire movies is that the writers don't trust the audience to get it. People may not know the minutiae of environmental legislation, but they get the situational humor of conflicting interests, and that's where A Distinguished Gentleman simply isn't written sharply enough.Alex "},{"Title":"And I'm the first to comment on this movie because...?","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  That really kind of baffles me, to see a movie like this uncommented upon with under 200 votes.  It's a FUNNY movie, and I know a lot of people saw it when cable started playing it like mad.  That's the bad thing about cable channels though, they do as I said, they play it like MAD.  It's a real shame when they play it so much that the mass tires of it and eventually just forgets about it.  And now this forgotten, underrated gem is starting to come back, well a little at least. Good!  Eddie Murphy deserves it, he is beyond funny. Of course that's just my opinion, I could be wrong.  "},{"Title":"More Stereotypes & Liberal B.S. - Does It Ever End? (Nope)","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here is yet another in a long, long line of Hollywood films in which all the black people are smarter than the stupid white folks, and all the politicians are corrupt. Wow, Liberal Hollywood has something original. Yes, to them two wrongs always make a right so let's show what good people we are by reversing the racism. Let's also get one of the hotter black stars of the era to play the hero, too, and have him show all those corrupt politicians how it should be done, even though that good guy. played by Eddie Murphy, is a crook, too. That's another familiar Hollywood theme since the '60s make the hero morally unsound but someone to root for. Throw in some ludicrous conspiracy theories like power lines causing cancer, and you have another Looney Left delight.There are so many bad messages in here, it would make your head swim. It's also too profane, but that's no surprise with Murphy in the lead role and a total unknown - who has remained such in the last 15 years, Victoria Powell - as the female lead.This is a poor man's Trading Places, another movie in which a nobody, here a slimeball con man, can turn into a somebody, a man elected to congress. Except in Massachusetts or some other elitist state, I'm sure that could never happen!One positive thing about this film Murphy is actually low-key and much less abrasive than his normal characters. That was nice to see-and hear! He's a talented actor and doesn't always need to scream and shout to get laughs. The film gets a few stars for that alone, even though most people prefer the wise-ass Murphy. "},{"Title":"The Professor Scene...","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Eddie was dressed as a professor to visit the grieving widow, the conversation flowed to obtaining the campaign items and Mrs Johnson did let him have it! Interesting to note, Mrs Johnson admired the Professor's physical fitness. It suggested something to the tone... My husband never gave me any, since he was doing the secretary, now its MY turn! If you replay the scene where Eddie Murphy approaches Mrs Johnson of obtaining the campaign items, the flow later suggests she like to hit on a black man. Notice Eddie's squirmyness as Mrs Johnson's interest peaks. ;) I could be wrong, but Mrs Johnson likes variety in her men. ) "},{"Title":"Shame...","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ...that the movies premise about power lines being linked to cancer turned out to be wrong. I enjoyed the movie when I first saw it but the end just grates on me now, as the bad guys are actually right and the good guys are the ones who want to spend millions of dollars fixing a non-existent problem. Oh, well. The opening part of the film is still funny, and matches up pretty good with how I expect politics to be like in real life.Still funny, just a shame that history has changed the moral of the story to - don't trust the well meaning caring people, the crooked politicians have it right.  "},{"Title":"Deserves better","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let's talk about Eddie Murphy's career, shall we?  First off, the 80s movies - Beverly Hills Cop (which I've never seen), 48 Hours (which is OK), Trading Places (which is overrated).  Then a batch of movies I really like (although Boomerang is just pointless).  Then The Nutty Professor, and it all goes wrong.  But this is a great comedy, lots of fun, until it gets political, when it only just stays shy of mawkish to deliver a big finish.  But the central premise - of some buffoon con-artist scamming his way to power - is more relevant today than it was then.  "}{"Title":"You know this movie is a disappointment when...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Victoria Rowell plays the love interest! Victoria Rowell? Victoria Rowell? Victoria Rowell?!? A soap opera actress? Drucilla from the Young And The Restless?!? No wonder this movie was a big disappointment.I was hoping that this would of been a return to glory for Eddie Murphy, doing pure comedy after the comedy-drama of Boomerang, but this one is too serious and preachy. The set-up sounds great Murphy plays Jeff Johnson, a hustler who decides to lie his way to Congress by claiming to be the elected Congressman from some backwoods part of America who elected a dead man to the post. He uses this post to hopefully earn a decent living and sham his way to more. Instead, he discovers that some government officials are even more corrupt than he is and he must use his power to make things right for the little guy.While a movie like this could have been good, Eddie is placed in a vacuum. He can't play the type of guy we all liked in earlier films; instead he's forced to play a kinder, gentler, clichéd type, even from the start. No wisecracks, no flamboyant personality, no life. His no-name associates seem to have more life than he has. He doesn't even do his laugh. We also get to see a classic Hollywood sex scene featuring James Garner (people having sex while fully dressed, seen in so many films). The acting, other than Kevin McCarthy's corrupt Congressman, is flat, and you wonder who decided to allow an untalented soap opera diva in this film. Bottom line You can see why it took Murphy a little longer to turn his career around with the acceptance of this role. While Beverly Hills Cop 3 wasn't a box office hit, it was much better than this effort. One of the biggest letdowns ever. "},{"Title":"Not very good at all","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am SHOCKED to see all the positive comments on this movie! I am a major Murphy fan and I can tell you it is contrived and, at best, silly. See other comments if you want to find out about the plot.The movie has that fast-paced early 90's feel where the plot develops way too fast with too many minor characters running around. You've seen this movie so many times before - only a series of exactly timed and inconceivable coincidences would make it all work - and (hold onto your seats...) it does! Nothing is developed and reactions to the coincidences are silly. All exaggeration aside, it has as bad dialog and acting as I have ever seen by major actors. Especially bad is Joe Don Baker. It is almost worth renting just to see him deliver his exceedingly poorly written lines - poor guy. Honestly, this movie is not funny and not entertaining on any level.While not as bad as Best Defense (is any movie?), there is a reason 1992 saw it come and go in just three weeks.If you like Murphy, get Trading Places (excellent), 48 Hours or Another 48 Hours. If you like Joe Don Baker, get Charlie Varrick (amazing movie). "},{"Title":"good vs evil","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" every white person is evil and every black person is good. Thomas Jefferson Johnson Chairman Dodge, please! Would you tell him that it's Mr. Joshua Benjamin from the NAACP on the line! Actually Mame, you could be a great deal of help, I have a few minor questions.Thomas Jefferson Johnson Chairman Dodge, please! Would you tell him that it's Mr. Joshua Benjamin from the NAACP on the line! Actually Mame, you could be a great deal of help, I have a few minor questions. I would like to know how many members of the Chairman's committee are African American I would like to know how many members of the Chairman's committee are African AmericanThomas Jefferson Johnson Chairman Dodge, please! Would you tell him that it's Mr. Joshua Benjamin from the NAACP on the line! Actually Mame, you could be a great deal of help, I have a few minor questions. I would like to know how many members of the Chairman's committee are African American "},{"Title":"A Black President","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess this film was probably a political statement in its concept that there should be a black president in the White House. It was made after the Gulf War and around the time that Colin Powell became high profile as one of the generals taking command in the 1990 crisis. Apart from the fact that the film tried to explore the idea of having a black president, there wasn't much substance there in terms of storyline. It had James Garner riding a secretary at the beginning of the film (which all red blooded blokes would want to do), and then dies of a heart attack. If Eddie Murphy had taken his place and stepped in to ride the blonde secretary, then maybe the balance would have been redressed in an artistic way. The film also showed an aging Diane Black from Alfred Hitchcock's 'Marnie' whose hair was no longer dark. Apart from this, there was nothing original about the film. "},{"Title":"Yea, It's Bad","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I too cannot believe all the positive reviews for this movie.  My theory is it's so bad most people didn't even bother commenting on it.  It's just so poorly constructed, from the weak & predictable humor to the sloppy editing that plagues every other scene (someone will be standing there holding something, then it will disappear at a different angle, then the camera angle switches again and they'll be missing an arm or something.  Seems like even the editor couldn't even stand to concentrate on it).Yes, Washington is this corrupt.  In some ways the cartoonish depiction is well-done, but the mostly it's just a device for lame jokes.  Eddie Murphy had lost all his youthful charm by this time this came out, and he's simply pretentious.  This whole thing is so cheeeessssyyyy.  Feels like an uncensored TV movie.Not recommended. "}]