[{"Title":"Consuming Passions","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"69 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Roman Polanski again explores the depths of the human psyche in Bitter Moon, a magnificent epic tale of obsessive lust and the oh-so-familiar winding course of a passionate romance gone sour.Bitter Moon centers around a familiar Polanski theme, that we are capable of being both torturer and victim, and usually both simultaneously.  For anyone who doubts the validity of much of the past century of French intellectual thought, from the likes of Andre Gide, Foucault, and others, see this movie.  For anyone who has been in a painful twisted relationship, see this movie.  You will understand it.  Some of it might be hard to stomach but that is the nature of truly great filmmaking.A beautifully crafted movie, almost lyrical at times, Bitter moon is set in contemporary Paris but is told in a series of long complex flashbacks superbly narrated by Oscar (a terrific Peter Coyote) to Nigel (Hugh Grant as the usual British prat), both passengers on a  cruise ship to India.  Nigel and his wife Fiona, played by Kirsten Scott-Thomas, are on a holiday to enliven a stable but stale marriage.  The couples become embroiled through the lurid tale of Oscar and Mimi's (Emmanuelle Seigner) love affair.  Emmanuelle, Polanski's real-life wife, is superb and her incredible performance takes her from sumptuous beauty to complete wreck, a performance that deserves far more praise than was received.  The lack of attention to her performance in this movie is no doubt due to the notoriety in the puritanical American press of her husband.As a whole, Bitter Moon may not be Polanski's best film but some periods of the movie represent his very best work.  Throughout, limits are pushed to the brink of tastelessness but Polanski masterfully pulls back just in time.  The direction is complex and highly sophisticated and the movie arouses a range of emotions from dread to empathy to disgust to hilarity.  The story line is far too complicated to synopsize appropriately in this review.  Bitter moon is a great film, one of this reviewer's top 10 for the 1990s.  Another must see!  A word of caution, however, Bitter Moon is not a good date movie. "},{"Title":"Bitter Moon. A forgotten masterpiece","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"82 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Every man should watch this film, it is a Polanski masterpiece. The parts are wonderfully played and the script is menacingly accurate. Why it didn't get greater exposure at the time or since baffles me, particularly as two of the principle characters have since become famous , Hugh Grant and Kristan Scott Thomas.Most men will empathise with the morality or lack of in this confused relationship between an older man obsessed with his sexual object in the form of the stunning French actress, and her adoration for him. The haunting reality is that for so many the lack of depth in a relationship is frightening once the sexual desire diminishes. An awesome film 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A VERY tragic story about broken love...","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"67 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" WOW...This is without doubt one of the most HUMAN films I have ever seen.A totally gripping and tragic tale of Fools falling in Love... Only to fall out of it again... TRAGICALLY...I'm a man, who is NOT afraid to admit that he cried at the end of this film... It was THAT moving... And I'm guessing that if you are one that feels... Or has felt... REAL emotion in your life... Then you'll be moved by this movie too... Perhaps to tears.The performances are excellent... Perfectly portraying the complexities, contradictions and 'perversions'... If one can call it that... Of the Human heart and spirit.I seriously felt ashamed to be a man!!! And for once, a movie has made me really think what it must have been like to be a woman who is hopelessly in love with a total bast**d!!! I've never seen so many broken, sad and confused characters in one film before... And the interplay between them is moving and captivating...Be warned however... This is a serious movie about love, lust and obsession. It is VERY dark on the emotional level, and has NO happy endings... A bit like REAL life perhaps...? So, if you are not yet emotionally mature and have not yet had your heart broken... Or have yet to break any hearts yourself (which is where I'm coming from... Yes, I AM ashamed!!!)... Then I don't think this film is for you...This film is SO far removed from your usual Hollywood bulls**t, in that it depicts REAL Human emotions on a non superficial level... So stay well clear if you're just looking for a movie to chill out to...You won't chill out to this one... It sucks you in, bleeds you dry and shatters that age old myth that 'Love Conquers All'...'Cos take it from me... As this film shows... Love is FAR from perfect...It's NOT a great movie... But given its very moving emotional content and realism on the portrayal of Human Beings...I give it 9 / 10. "},{"Title":"eerie life, arcane love","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"54 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  when i first saw this movie in 1992 i found it shocking by its erotic scenes and burn-out love story. i noticed it was a good movie, but that was the end of the story.now i bought it in dvd and saw it for the 2nd time. it's a masterpiece.everything blends perfectly in this film 1990's paris, the colours of the film (etalonage), the excellent vangelis's music score, the evolution of a love story, the roles played by the 2 couples...emmanuelle seigner is great playing the role of a nymph and a sorcerer, peter coyote is magnificent playing the part of a regular guy who gets insane, hugh grant becomes a perfect boring middle-class british bourgeois and kristin scott thomas her discreet wife looking for action.one of the best amour-fou stories, along with louis malle's damage. as rui wrote before, a must see. "},{"Title":"Polanski doing what he does best","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bitter Moon once again sees the master of the macabre, Roman Polanski, doing what he does best. With echoes of his earlier film 'Knife in the Water', Bitter Moon is a story of lust, revenge, betrayal, dependency and most of all; love, wrapped tightly around a coil of taboos and sexual perversions. While not as good as some of Polanski's other works, Bitter Moon still stands out as a highlight of his filmography and is certainly a lot better than many people have reputed it to be. The film follows two very different couples on a cruise ship; An English couple, Nigel and Fiona and an American cripple, Oscar, who is married to the French seductress Mimi. After meeting Mimi in the ship's bar, Nigel becomes entranced by her and later meets her husband and proceeds to learn his and wife's story...and it's not exactly pretty. With this movie, Polanski has obliterated the barriers of decency, and sometimes even makes you, the viewer, uncomfortable due to the goings on. And that's the mark of someone that knows how to handle his audience! The acting in the movie really is first rate and there isn't a weak link there, especially not within the four leads. I'm no fan of Hugh Grant, in fact I hate the man, but he's exactly the right casting choice for this movie and it's almost a shame that he went on to make lots of rubbish movies after it. The two women, played by Kristin Scott Thomas and Emmanuelle Seigner are well done in terms of the characters and the acting, but it is Peter Coyote who steals the show as the abominable Oscar. His character in this film is the sort that actors can really get their teeth into, and Coyote bites down hard in this movie. Polanski's direction is excellent as usual and the gritty style mixed with the great director's edgy camera-work help to create a claustrophobic environment that allows Polanski to perfectly portray his characters' mindset. The themes on display are impressive, and in spite of the fact that it oversteps the mark on several occasions, Polanski's film always feels real and the lesson in the love that the film teaches is duly noted. Bitter Moon is a film that will get under your skin and stay there and not only that but there's enough happening to ensure that this is always a fun watch. Recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Compelling, delightful film!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film is utterly compelling - it will have you glued to the screen. It's about 2 hours and 15 minutes long, yet it never loses its grip. Although there are a few funny moments, you can never be sure whether they were intentional or not. The pacing is slow but wonderfully methodical. But what really makes this picture delightful is the level of the acting  of the male stars. While the female leads are a bit stiff (the film's major flaw), the cynical Coyote and, especially, the charmingly shy Grant (his performance here is underrated) provide two different ways for the viewer to enter the story and their interplay is offbeat and endlessly entertaining. This is methodical, first-rate filmmaking by Polanski. "},{"Title":"An Unconventional Story, About Relationship, Moral, Hypocrisy, Behavior, Love and Hate, In Another Masterpiece of Roman Polanski","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"40 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The British Nigel (Hugh Grant) and his wife Fiona (Kristin Scott Thomas) are celebrating the seventh anniversary of their marriage in a cruise to Istanbul and Bombay. While in the trip, the American cripple and frustrated writer Oscar (Peter Coyote) gets close to Nigel, and invites him to listen to his unconventional love and hate story with his French wife Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigner). Oscar tells how he met Mimi in Paris and all their relationship, including details of their sexual life, along the past years. Meanwhile, Nigel feels a great attraction for the sexy and gorgeous Mimi, in a story with tragic consequences.'Bitter Moon' has been released in Brazil on DVD this week, and yesterday I watched it for the fifth or sixth time, since it is one of my favorites movies ever. This story, about relationship, moral, hypocrisy, behavior, love and hate, fascinates me and shakes my emotions. I really believe that 'Bitter Moon', Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner have been not nominated to the Oscar because of the problems of Roman Polanski with the American Justice. Emmanuelle Seigner has her best role and performance in his career playing Mimi, an adorable French woman, very much in love with Oscar, who poisons and destroys her. Their love increases, reaches the top and crosses all the boundaries of a sexual relationship, including those 'accepted by a moralist and hypocrite society' (represented by Nigel), questioning how long a love can last, making Oscar bored of Mimi. The problem is that their relationship was supported by sex only, without friendship and respect, basic parameters for a long-term everyday life of a married couple. Hugh Grant is perfect in the role of a typical British man and symbol of a hypocrite society. And Kristin Scott Thomas has a minor, but very important part in the plot, playing a sexually repressed woman due to the behavior of her husband, who released the chains of her repression. The wonderful music of Vangelis and a soundtrack of nice songs, which includes a Brazilian pop song, conclude this masterpiece. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) 'Lua de Fel' ('Bitter Moon') "},{"Title":"Deep and subject of analysis","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film extremely well done for several reasons I will nominate.It debates some moral issues, how far is it acceptable for a society still full of consevative people, such as the one performed by Hugh Grant, to acept a relationship such as that of the main characters? It is totally at the border of normality (meaning normality not necessarily what's good but what's common). The film also touches strongly the theme of hipocrisie (probably wrong spelled, this word.) once more in the character of Hugh Grant who, despite showing all the time disgut and repugnace for the story he is being told, is always secretly desiring and wanting something equivalent to happen to him (this hipocratic attitude may be the result of growing up in a world and a society where this kind of sexual liberties and practices are repressed and in here once more we are taken to atrong moral issues which take us to rethink the whole thing...).Apart from this questions this film makes me also think about the relationships between men and women... Is there an everlasting love? or at least an everlasting relationship?... Suddendly I recalled Schopenhauer who claimed that no man could be happy with only one woman... maybe this film is showing that he was right... the pace of the relationship between Mimi and the writer was so high that they just emptied all there possibilities very soon, but if we put that at the scale of a normal marriage, aren't all the possibilities also tried at the end of 10 20 or 30 years? Can a marriage last happy for both till death tears them apart ?...Besides this few topics of discussion (to which I could add some more if I just remembered them right now) I found this film very well directed with some beautiful scenes... also some strongs scenes that stay with us... Excelent performances for the three leading roles... Kristin Scott Thomas is also good in here but not so as in other films also because her somewhat small part in this one didn't allow her to show more than she did. This film proves once more Roman Polansky as one of the greatest directors of our times, since he shows he is totally in control of every detail of direction (I enjoyed the increase of the speed together with the increase of intensity of the relationship among the couple). Good dialogues but specially excelent speeches of the writer whenever he becomes the narrator which is often... Also an excelent note for the soundtrack by Vangelis and other well known songs which appear along. A must see. "},{"Title":"Entrancing, mesmeric and serpentine","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The film begins with the camera focused on the sea and the waves, and the music with the piano playing to good effect, then an increasingly enlarging zooming shot of a porthole. Then to the cruise liner where the four main characters are based. It is a story narrated and told by Oscar, played by Peter Coyote, who is wheelchair-bound, to Nigel, played by Hugh Grant, a man he meets on the cruise. Nigel is intrigued by an entwining and serpentine tale Oscar tells him, and so are we, and even though it starts to sound incredulous, he has to return to Oscar's quarters to hear more. The tale is so engrossing because it concerns Oscar's beautiful, sultry and seductive wife, Mimi, played mesmerisingly by Emmanuelle Seigner. Oscar is entranced at first with her and delves into all kinds of sexual games, then his passion for her begins to subside and he rejects her and leaves her alone on a plane. All the while Nigel's wife (Kristin Scott-Thomas) is becoming disillusioned with Nigel's fascination with Mimi and Oscar. I do not want to unveil anymore, just to implore you to watch this film and let it mesmerise you, like it did me. I felt as though I had to keep watching and somehow I did not want to leave and let go of it until the end. "},{"Title":"Adds to our understanding of sex as politics","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Extremely well made, extremely well acted, extremely intense and disturbing, and extremely conscious of areas of the sexual psyche that I'd never seen so honestly explored in a movie.  According to Polanski, it is not love and hate which are opposite, but love and indifference.  Obsessive sex gives way, at least between the two lovers of Bitter Moon, to a hatred as savage as cold-blooded murder or all-out war.These extremities of love and hate work themselves out in a game of power and manipulation, and it remains the only vehicle by which these two can merge with one another so as to lose both their independence and the rest of their inhibitions and illusions.  In the end, they become so bound up in their mutual need that the sex itself is no longer central.  They might as well be prisoners lashed forever to the same stake, learning actually to enjoy the various torments that the other is able to inflict.  Freud thought similarly that all sexual love was ultimately a form of masochism--identification with a partner whom one has caused to suffer.  These questions are essential as long as the blood continues to throb in us; and, whether or not we find Polanski's story credible (I do), any thinking person would recognize it as a serious attempt to define who we humans are, both as rutting mammals and as something more.      "}{"Title":"As black as they come... but rarely as brilliant-  and Coyote is devastatingly good!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Stiff British couple on an ocean-liner cruise run into, and is spellbound by an American-French man & wife with a highly unusual past... Director Polanski brilliantly brings us this unforgettable, jet-black and haunting story of love and desire, and the threat of pushing them to obsessive limits- you can almost hear the bells of doom ring as the setting of the ship shifts to beautiful Paris and Coyote's voice-over...Definitely controversial and unsettling, but it's one of those occasions that you just can't resist (like Grant's character does) following characters that aren't necessarily instantly likable. And therein, Peter Coyote excels in an absolutely devastating performance as the failed writer! Borderlines occasionally into sensationalistic kinkiness, but always recovers... not to mention by featuring one of the best (and saddest) endings I can think of.9 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"Heartwrenching filthy spectacular","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski really outdid himself in this original film about lust,perversions,love,dependencies,relationships and the evil of man. All shaped and formed in the city of love,Paris.You're flung to and from Paris on to a cruise on open dark waters.The shift and the graphic story send your sealegs a drift.Hugh Grant ,in his shy studdering act of a prude sexually frustrated Englishman drawn into temptation by the french vamp,is adorable compared to the other characters in the film.Curiosity killed the cat!This movie is at times very erotic and then it slides down to real perversity's.It captures you and doesn't leave you unmarked. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I had to join just to say it and mean it. I am touched by this film, whoever discussing to reduce it to simplicity is offensively strayed.The best part is played by Peter Coyote, his bitter and splendid role interpreted and narrated to perfection, along with Emmanuelle's exotic looks, he is the one who starts everything. An American man and a French girl, apparently ordinary.To watch it rightfully, one has to empathize the boundaries created between Mimi and Oscar and how after cooling off the first exciting stage of their relationship, they proceed on neglecting the daily life not minding what really is at their depths. Leaded by tenacious distresses, both, Oscar and Mimi torture themselves to infinity, while at the same time, they're building up something profound inside that even they do not realize.Concerning the main spectators, the British matrimony in the cruise, a poor minded couple of insipid looks personifying the conventional lifestyle of the majority, they expose the radical contrast against the intensiveness of the other affair, which in turn serves as psychological therapy for them. It's a grown film about human behaviors towards the most powerful global force search for love or personal satisfaction. The final blow that makes this film a masterpiece, is the (very important to mention)soundtrack extraordinarily attached to the picture by Vangelis. Without it, the transmission of sensations through the scenes would not have been so strong and powerful, which is substantially the highlight of the film.So... If only for its music, I recommend not to miss this rare and deep story that might make you meditate while or after wards, if you're that perceptive. "},{"Title":"Dry Pulp","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A memory film that is quite forgettable. Untalented American writer living the ultimate petty-bourgeois life in Paris, and who thinks he's Hemingway, falls in love at first sight with a young French woman while riding on a bus.He gives her his ticket and leaves the bus. He then looks all over for her--I thought writers write?-- and finally finds her waiting tables in a restaurant. He takes her to dinner. They fall in love. They make love. Then they begin to have kinky sex. Then she becomes a dominatrix and he becomes her willing slave. They dabble in fantasy/bestiality via a pig mask. The untalented writer begins to lose interest in her. Now he becomes a sadist and she becomes a martyred masochist. He tells her he's carrying his child. She aborts the pregnancy. He tells her lets go someplace far away. They get on a plane bound fro Martinique. He leaves the plane before it takes off and he abandons her. He then begins to live the life of a playboy--maybe if he had to work for a living he'd be a better writer--and makes up for lost time. He is hit by a car. Then he is visited in the hospital by his former whipping post, she knocks him out of bed and he becomes paralyzed from the waist down. Now she becomes his sadist/nurse/wife and he becomes a martry. I'd go on but I think I'm making my point.Prententious garbage. Not a comedy, not a drama, not black comedy, certainly not tragedy, not parody. Just an insult to any intelligent movie goer. And by by the end of the film, Peter Coyote began to resemble Wyle E. Coyote. "},{"Title":"Bitter Moon knocks off the world-known heavyweight XXX thriller champs in the first round","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The story unfolds in a rather pessimistic and suicidal manner (similar to the other Polansky flicks). By the end of it the four leading characters are tied up in a highly erratic, erotic, and deadly knot. Personally I had underestimated this film considering it to be some shallow soft porn, but now after watching it, I consider it to be an amazing psychological drama that digs deep into man and woman. The story, however tragic and frantic, looks and feels very realistic. It is shown in vivid colours how a man can frustrate his life and how a woman can fade away under the influence of her partner's cruelty. That's for the story. Just an external layer, to be more exact.As to the technical side of the production, I would say that the colour scheme of the movie, the shots of the ocean and the wandering ship, the representation of the New Year party (when the booze opens gates to all manner of deviations &#x96; with even a couple of karate/kung-fu moves, which you never expected to come), the choice of actors, and their play are all quite impressive. No major changes in any aspect of this film are needed (though it would have been a bit better without certain hot material in the middle of the film, while as you can clearly perceive, the UNSEEN sexual intercourse with the black male dancer IS the breaking point in the story, though not the only one, proving again that often it's what you don't see on screen disturbs the most). The Mimi character is as overwhelming, as only a woman can be.Once I watched Basic Instinct (many years ago) and kind of liked it. Then there was Lolita. Also found it not bad. Eyes Wide Shut was next - found it interesting too. Dogville was next and really enjoyed its exploitation hysteria. But Bitter Moon, touching upon similar topics, simply kicks those four off to non-existence being superior on all levels the story, the drama, the punch line, the actors' play, the camera-work and the decorations (maybe on a par with Eyes Wide Shut in this department), the music (the choice of melodies for the different sets just hits the mark - it is as good as the choice of the music for Rockstar's Vice City, if you know what I mean), etc. Actually remember watching quite a number of adult thrillers and to me this one is the winner in the category. Being adult with XXX material (meaning scenes of sex), it is not an erotic showcase. It is a showcase of the popular modern way of leading a joyful life of pleasures. It is a showcase of ignorant souls (ignorance is bliss) and malfunctioning bodies, A showcase of a dead end. To die young is glorious, Sleep with and impregnate as many girls as possible, Don't think about tomorrow - it's weakness, We live only once and should taste it all. Are these mottoes correct? The movie makes harsh statements without being didactic.If this film is a kind of warning for you &#x96; that's pretty helpful, if it's more of a mirror &#x96; that's pretty exasperating. But in both cases it's a knife thrown in your lake. There will be crease marks.It's also one of those rare films when, after watching, I am interested in the career of the leading actors. Their performance here is not just fine, it's freaking on the verge.Have not expected to give this movie a high mark, but cannot help it. It evokes deep emotions and from now on it is definitely my favourite adult thriller. A 9 out of 10. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"This is not a comedy, nor is it a porno flick (mild spoilers)","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  In disagreement with Howlin Wolf, I feel the need to point out that this is not supposed to be Rambone 47 or Porky's.  This is a dark, brooding film that serves as a study in dysfunctional relationships, with all of the warts and sores and scars carefully highlighted for maximum impact.  I don't want to spoil too much, but suffice it to say that this film is replete with irony so thick you can cut it with a knife.  It's not a happy movie; it's not a movie designed to make you feel good about relationships.  It's about bitterness, anguish, and the strange way that life has of catching up to you in ways you never expected.  People who would enjoy this movie to is fullest potential would be Polanski fans, women who have just left abusive relationships, and recently single men trying hard not to face their own role in the demise of their recent relationship.  It will make you look harder at yourself, and if you are in a relationship, it might make you try harder to be a good person within that relationship's confines.Revenge is indeed a dish best served cold....and bitter. "},{"Title":"Mimi represents the powerful obsession Man has in the quest for splendor on Earth/Oscar Let's it Go","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Much has been well described ad nauseum about the plot, music, background, character flaws, etc. of Bitter Moon. Besides all of these truths, there is something else that exists, namely the powerful feminine impact that Mimi portrayed to the extent that it seemed far too real to be left encased in the fantasy realm of movie art. Her character part as well as her actual beauty, dancing talent, and sexuality is the exponent of femininity, grace, and desirability. Men remain tortured by their obsession with everything that Mimi portrayed in the film. Not unlike Jean Seberg in Lilith, whose character mesmerized, beguiled, and commandeered most of those who ran across her path, Mimi had that quality which likewise reaches out beyond the movie itself to ensnare the hearts of all men. Not everyone gets it, but it is plain to see from galleries of fan mail to Emmanuelle Seigner, this one movie part seems to have entrenched her immortality into many men's souls. This gut-wrenching obsession with the magical combination of a certain actress coupled to a script and director brings forth restless insomnia for appreciative men as Seigner has done here. If Jean Seberg did not bring such an obsession, then consider Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman. Or try Kim Novack in Bell Book and Candle. These are a few of the magical concoctions of film art where the whole is much greater than the sum of its parts. Oscar's character even tries to elevate the beauty and desirability of the less stunning Fiona's character when he says, But I find your own brand of beauty more subtle.....as that inimitably British quality......a kind of reticence that hints of untapped potentiality. Even Shakespeare, much less Oscar, cannot compensate with words for those who appear limited in physical beauty and sensuousness, while Seigner's beauty portrays endless potential for being tapped, you might say. And Polanski's product leads to a powerful representation of man's instinct and obsession for beauty, sensuousness, and the ideal everyman's woman. We see that Oscar, when given this rare opportunity in the eyes of the average man, totally blows it and ruins a most ideal relationship. Unfortunately, knowing Polanski's historical tragedies, I would think that he is telling us that we are probably no better than Oscar when it comes to successfully nurturing the ideal relationship. ChazzN "},{"Title":"It would be convenient to consider the narrator and his wife to be a couple who simply took their sex games too far","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The ever underrated Polanski and one of his most underrated and overlooked films. Many have cited as possible reasons the director's difficulties with the US authorities but equally it must be said this is difficult territory. It would be convenient to consider the narrator and his wife to be a couple who simply took their sex games too far and then got their inevitable comeuppance. What we are forced to participate in here, however, is the very ebb and flow of love and lust between two people not afraid to let their passions take them to the edge and even over. The moral of this tale is not that men are evil bastards and women cruelly treated but that we all have those dominant and submissive elements within us that we can use for fun or for real. In the early stages Oscar revels in playing the humiliated one, later the tables turn and finally turn again. Everybody has been known to take a sexually orientated or humorously intended remark or game too far and can surely recognise the elements displayed here even if they are written rather larger than we are used to. A passionate, moving and insightful film. "},{"Title":"An unsung masterpiece","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Few critics took this film seriously when it was released, but it's now steadily beginning to garner attention. Today it ranks as one of Polanski's best. Bitter Moon is a powerful film about love, and to view it as a sort of a soft-core titillation exercise by Polanski is to miss the point. The up-front sexuality of the film is there, not to merely provoke a cheap arousal from the viewer, but to point out how empty and hollow the couple's relationship really is. Most men will empathise with the morality (or lack of) in this confused relationship between an older man obsessed with his sexual object, and her adoration for him. The haunting reality is that for so many, the lack of depth in a relationship is frightening once the sexual desire diminishes.9/10 - Filed with lush cinematography and romantic Parisian architecture, the film's only flaw is its Hugh Grant subplot. Everything else is electric, with a dark playfulness that only Polanski can deliver. Worth several viewings.Note Peter Coyote's room number, 5A, is the same as Tom Cruise's apartment from Eyes Wide Shut. Both films have similar themes. When Eyes Wide Shut was released, Polanski made The Ninth Gate, a film which features an Eyes Wide Shut styled ritual. Both films are similar in tone. "},{"Title":"Slave to Love","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Can a movie get any better than that? I don't think so. Polanski's masterpiece is a statement about how love has no limits and how people are guided by their sexual instincts even if they don't admit it. The film is absolutely perfectly cast and Peter Coyote deserved an oscar. A really beautifully twisted story with unforgettable performances.10. "}{"Title":"Dark, mesmerizing masterpiece!","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" First off, this film is one of the more unique I have ever watched. It does not fit into any specific genre as it combines romance, mystery, drama, comedy and yes, horror into a strange film you cannot turn off. I have watched it multiple times and with each viewing find something new I did not catch before. There is nothing I would change about this film. Don't let the reviews that tout this as soft-core porn or a movie about BDSM or twisted sex games gone wrong unduly influence you. The BDSM scenes are indeed integral to the story, as the story is about excess, extremes, and coping. Yes, there are some kinky sex scenes and descriptive narrations, but at its root it is a story about power (the power of love, infatuation, hate, obsession, cruelty, revenge) and how dangerous that power can be when employed by a selfish person and not tempered with compassion or empathy. How that power can be used to destroy a life, even if seemingly unintentional. Oscar is a selfish, older man obsessed with pursuing his sexual needs. He thinks he falls in love with a beautiful young woman (Mimi), only to grow bored with her after the infatuation stage is over. She is naïve, somewhat innocent (open to debate), and truly loves him. He is only interested in the wild, sensual sex and how far he can ratchet up the sensations.Ironically, it is the older Oscar who mistakes infatuation/sex for true love while the younger Mimi merely uses it as an expression of her love. For those with a basic understanding of SM relationships (Dom and sub), we see that Mimi first plays the role of the Dom within the bedroom, pleasing Oscar to his delight through various physical acts.When these roles are reversed, however, we find that Oscar is a terrible dominant &#x96; disregarding the nurturing aspect of D/s and taking it too far with emotional and psychological cruelty. Instead of using this role reversal to show love, he instead uses it in an attempt to drive her away from him as he becomes completely indifferent to her. Basically, he is a terrible, selfish person and ultimately abandons her so he can purse random sex with other women. At this point Mimi is poisoned (as Oscar's narrative references movie title). The once naïve and innocent Mimi re-enters his life after an accident, only now she is cold, hateful, lost, and seeking a type of revenge, perhaps to show she is worthy of his love after all (yeah, it is screwed up). Oscar has basically ruined her life (watch and you will see how in gruesome detail), depriving her of any future normal relationship due to his extremes For this reason, she becomes just as cruel (if not more so) than him &#x96; in a perverse effort to become like the man she loves. Even as she matures, she still only exists to others as he defined her from their relationship &#x96; that of a sexual object. Oscar stays the same creepy, narcissistic bastard to the bitter end; it is really only Mimi whose personality evolves at all &#x96; even if it is in the wrong direction. There is MUCH more to the movie than be summarized here, and for fear of spoilers I will not go into any detail. But is a film you cannot forget and will want to watch several times. It is dark, brooding and tragic, with complex psychological elements &#x96; definitely leaves an impression. Every guy needs to see this film, if for no other reason than to see the horrors that such selfishness can produce. Sure, not all every woman used and discarded will turn into Mimi, but this movie makes you examine yourself and realize that damage is still being done even if not to such an extreme. Unless you are just simply not paying attention, you cannot walk away the same person as the story does stick with you. Yes, it is ultimately a love story (Mimi's love story &#x96; not Oscar's), but one unlike any you have ever seen before. The movie is deep, thought-provoking, and gruesome. I think you have to be 35+ or emotionally mature to really appreciate or understand its dark beauty and savagery. "},{"Title":"Differences between sexes","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie, despite what many reviewers seem to think, is about the differences between men and women with respect to sex and love. Whether it is with Oscar and Mimi's intense, wild, no holds barred relationship, or with boring, bland Nigel and Fiona.Generally speaking, men can have sex with any amount of women, in any way or intensity. If she is up for it, chances are we will be too. Women on the other hand, require more of an emotional connection to the men they sleep with. The need to develop trust and comfort before completely letting go.Oscar is the ultimate poon hound and became instantly infatuated with Mimi. They start with a normal passionate relationship, but ultimately, the excitement wears off. This happens in any and every relationship. They hike up the intensity by getting into bondage, S&M, etc. All the while, Oscar is all to aware, they are heading for the their peak and once it hits the top, it is only down hill from there.The thing is, for the man in this case, it is only about the sexual passion. The woman is truly in love and the sex is the connection to her man. Even when the sexual excitement wears off, Mimi is still in love.So, enter the conflict. Oscar is done, wants out. Mimi can't handle it and doesn't understand why he could possibly not love her the way she loves him. He tries to be compassionate and break up but she refuses to be let go, ultimate agreeing to be his slave just to stay near him.This story is being told to a couple who have also been together for 7 years and are off to reignite their marriage. I believe that the same factors are in play with the stuffy British couple, Nigel and Fiona but only in a far more repressed manner. He's bored because he and his wife are doing the normal thing. No wild, kinky sex for them. But the emotion of love is there. If a couple is going to stay together forever, they simply have to get over the fact that physical passion is fleeting and if the bond of love is strong on both sides, they can make it work. Nigel isn't clear on this until the climactic ending.This commentary isn't so much on the details of the plot, but what I believe the movie is trying to get across. Read the other posts for more details, but to understand what the movie is saying, understand that sex is sex for men and sex is love for women. "},{"Title":"A lost gem!","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Not as much as underrated as much as forgotten, Bitter Moon is a stellar portrayal of a dysfunctional marital relations ans a story of the edge between love and madness which opens the question whether love can make all of us madmen. The movie contains powerhouse performances from all actors involved and the fact that whole plot is happening on a boat leaves a sense of claustrophobia and suffocating. However, the real story and background lie in the flashbacks of a leading actor, played by Peter Coyote whose intimate confession to a fellow passenger (played by Hugh Grant) about his marriage, pushes Hugh's character in a bizarre triangle between his own wife (played by Kristin Scott Thomas) and Peter's character's wife (played by Emmanuelle Seigner). Both married couples are faced with desire, self-destruction and deceit in this poignant drama, which does carry a recognisable trademark of its director, Roman Polanski. "},{"Title":"Cultures of too much and just right","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Almost everyone would talk about politics of sex, twisted passions, and state of fantasy, which this film is partially about. I think the final scene, when the little Indian girl came to wish those husband and wife a happy new year for her father, who stood at a distance, tells it all. Western way has become too greedy, overflowing, and dangerous to oneself. Oscar and Mimi had it all their way, perhaps all the tasteful and tasteless sex known to man, and they ended up losing everything over them. We don't know if the Indian gentleman's presence is to offer an oriental civilization as a cure to western capitalistic decay, but Polanski seems to offer that scene as an alternative of life. This is a man who mocks oriental civilization all his life, Polanski that is. Any Chinese personality in his films is portrayed as mysterious, mischievous, and a mockery. Maybe at this point in life, Polanski starts to see things through. This film is a phenomenon. It is made by someone who perhaps tasted all the tastes and smelled all the smells. Tragedies in real life of Polanski may have even added to his firm grasp of what human beings are really like. As a true artist, he is so masterful in exhibiting what he knows, and we all benefit from him. Please watch this film without asking too many questions at first. Live along and you'll be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Love Story?","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" For all those who think that this dark psychological drama from Roman Polanski is just kinky sex and full of S&M, it isn't - and simply isn't a film for you, or at least for what you want.There are a few reviews around where such people wanted those elements and when they didn't like the baggage and the 130 minutes running time, they gave it one star. This is an intelligent, 'thinking person' relationship drama that follows themes often visited by Polanski, not least his debut, the Polish language Knife In the Water. One couldn't help thinking there's a bit of Bertolucci's Last Tango In Paris and Kubrick's Eyes Wide Open in there too.However, despite all that is written, apart from the first few minutes, settling us into the characters and scenario, for the first hour or so, is actually a very lovely and often seductive and tender adult love story, set against the romance and beauty of Paris. With Peter Coyote's American writer, following and referring to other 'Americans in Paris' F Scott Fitzgerald and such, becoming the film's narrator and lead character, it really is the rose-tinted view of Parisian life and women that's fuelled popular culture and literature for decades.In this case, it's Polanski's actual wife (Emmanuelle Seigner) who plays the young and nubile dancer, Mimi, that takes on the older Oscar (Coyote). The seduction and (non-graphic) sex scenes are actually very sensual and erotic, enticing us into a world of bliss, allowing Polanski to share with us his own fantasies (perhaps) as well as putting this relationship on a high plateau, from which it ultimately disintegrates - this being the thrust of the movie.To give credence and body to all this, a now wheelchair-bound Oscar confides in reserved posh Brit Hugh Grant, in a sort of bitter wife-swap scenario, that's both warped and distasteful. They're all on a cruise to India, via Turkey and the in built confinement and boredom this provides is the prefect trap. Nigel Dobson (Grant) though, cannot keep away from these reminisces and his relationship with his own wife Fiona (Kristen Scott Thomas) is put under the microscope and the four slip into an unhealthy psychological mêlée.Throughout, Polanski is playful, devious, malicious and often in love with the idea of his wife playing the young temptress in all this. In my view - and circumstances - would say that this really needs the life experiences of those over forty in its audience for them to halfway appreciate human nature and all its dark sides, as well as its joys. Some say it is excellent, I think it far from being his best work but a whole lot better than many he's made.I bought my DVD from Cash Converters for 66.6p, recurring. "},{"Title":"Sweet, emotionally driven character study with a distinct, bitter kick.","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bitter Moon manages to tantalise and tease us without ever coming across as explicit nor exploitative. Its study of relationships, and one relationship in particular, manages to cover some pretty far-reaching ground and comes complete with a lot of different sorts of content; but the film always keeps its eye on how these instances, and the nature of the relationship, shape the persons engaging. If we are excited, we are to be excited at the film-making skills of a certain Roman Polanski and how he unfolds this narrative, and not at what these people go through in order to become the people we see on screen.In the broader sense of things, Bitter Moon is a really straight forward tale of two people meeting one other; getting to know one another and advancing things further and further to the point that they become sick of the sight of one other. But it is this premise stretched out to a time that most other directors would have a hard time keeping to in maintaining both audience interest and study. It is this premise that is actually used as a platform of greater things, something that allows a certain fascination in third parties initially unaware, but also gets across a certain sense of well-being. It feels as if Polanksi, through the characters of Nigel (Grant) and Fiona (Scott Thomas) whom have been happily married for so long, is trying to say that you should be thankful for what you've got and going bigger and better because your impulses demand you do, isn't always necessary.Power play seems to be a primary ingredient in Bitter Moon; in what is an interesting concoction of romance, tragedy, noir and some scenes of both sheer horror and terror. The film is narrated from the confines of a cruise ship in the Mediterranean, bound for Turkey, by an American paraplegic named Oscar (Coyote). Whatever beginnings of being in control of a situation or a person seems to stem from his conversations with Hugh Grant's Nigel. Over time, Nigel will become more and more intrigued by what it is Oscar has to say about a certain carefree dancer on the boat named Mimi (Seigner), who is linked to Oscar in more ways than is first apparent.But it isn't just this acquaintance as a relationship that Bitter Moon touches on, it breaks away from its primary strand of two people going through a love-fuelled grinder of friendship and fondness by providing us with enough material revolving around Nigel and Fiona's marriage which is threatened by the presence of Oscar and Mimi. It also looks at the notion of temptation, and a notion that one can become more and more intrigued about something as they spend time away from it, but hear, by way of word of mouth, as much as possible about said item. This is most apparent when Nigel spends more time with Oscar and hears of his deconstructing of Mimi as he delves into the past.Mimi and Oscar's relationship encompasses most things; from BDSM to urolagnia and right the on way through to the notion of knowing your once female lover, now full time carer, is in the room next door with another man; keeping you in a sort of cuckolded state of helplessness. But rather than demonise these interests, fetishes or notions; Bitter Moon gets across a state of wrong-doing, a sense that the repercussions of these activities when used despairingly can bring about ill-fated results, confusion and can form cracks within the relationship.If the audience are placed within the body of Nigel as this relatively clean-cut and seemingly perfectly innocent individual, then it is for the purpose of hearing Oscar's story unfold. About a quarter of the way through the piece, Mimi herself tells us, or Nigel, that Oscar is prone to making things up half the time anyway. Our minds are wary when we think back to an early chapter in their story when Oscar and Mimi bask in front of a glowing log fire whilst inhabiting an apartment in Paris, one that encompasses a perfect view of the Eiffel Tower as it stands there, not so far away in that you cannot see it, but not directly on it's front door step.That's not to say anything else Oscar says in untrue; in every sense of the term, we are sucked into his world; his world that he used to be the boss of; his world in which he was the writer, the creator and the would-be brains behind everything. His world, in which he would submit to the presence of Mimi purely to feed a curiosity and because he was able to, but would later find himself on the other foot when she submits to him; his world, in which ego driven positions of power were exploited and the phrase 'what goes around, comes around' didn't exist &#x96; not least, until now. The film is an interesting piece, an intimate character and scenario study unfolding within the intimate and closed in space of a boat and its cabins, just as the new year beckons and new chapters threaten to begin just as ominously as they threaten to end. "},{"Title":"Stunning. Why isn't this out on DVD?","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sexy, dark, funny and smart. One of the best and most underrated films of the 1990's.  Why isn't this film on DVD?  Sure it's not for everyone, sorry Ben Affleck isn't in this one ...    Polanski is a master, fearless, one of the all time great film directors.  This film shows why. There's my two cents. "},{"Title":"Evil, diabolic and passion - this film will affect you!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film is another fine example of the genius of Polanski. True, it leaves a bitter taste in your mouth long after you have seen it, but is it not what art is all about? Few will be unaffected by this film. It is an important film since it deals with important issues such as eg, the complicated relationship between a man and a woman obsessively in love, passionately clinging together in lust for each other. But how far can people go? The music by Vangelis coupled by the photo and the reflections of the sea as seen from the cabin window makes this film an addiction. Beware, it is a grabber! Coyote is diabolic! Ms Seigner can act. She is not just a pretty face not entirely hired because of her marriage with Polanski. It is not a film that makes us remember Hugh Grant and Kristin Scott Thomas, though. "},{"Title":"This is love taken to the extreme","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite movies, it is perfect for the romantic who has been disillusioned. This is what happens if love is taken to the extreme. It goes from perfect love to perfect hate, and you will always remember this movie. Watch it, it's definitely worth the time. "},{"Title":"Bleak, depressing film inflicts misery on audience","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" When I rented this film a few years ago, after seeing clips from it on a cable TV show about unusual sex in movies, I was expecting an intense and kinky adult love story. The fact that the tape was stopped half way through only suggested laziness on the part of the previous renter, who hadn't bothered to rewind it. It wasn't until I had gotten to about that point in the movie that I realized the previous viewer must have quit watching in dismay, and returned it without seeing the rest. Then I began to understand. SPOILERS AHEAD I felt a real point of cruelty had been reached when Oscar totally dismissed the Thanksgiving dinner that Mimi had gone to a lot of effort to make for him. You could see how hurt she was, and from that point, the movie became more and more difficult to watch. When she begged to be allowed to come back to him, and was a total wreck emotionally, I felt humiliated for her, it seemed so real. After that, things deteriorated so badly that it became almost impossible to watch. I might have felt there was a sort of karmic justice in seeing the arrogant, self-centered Oscar become totallydependent on the girlfriend he had virtually destroyed, except that she became just as despicable and cruel as he had been. How I ever managed to get to the end of this movie, I don't know, except that I must have been like the Hugh Grant character, who keeps coming back to hear more of Oscar's perverse stories, even though he claims to be shocked by them. Some viewers claim to find a touch of redemptive grace or hope at the very conclusion, but I don't find it worth the agony of sitting through an entire film of two people who supposedly love each other behaving in the most appallingly cruel ways imaginable. Why this movie was ever made, and how anyone could possibly find it of value are beyond me. I have never seen such a despairing,nihilistic vision of the utter hopelessness of male and female relationships. I cannot recommend this movie to anyone, in good conscience. The fact that it is well made and uncomfortably believable make it worse than if it were a cheesy, poorly made film. The pain and suffering in this film are worse than anything I've seen in Bunuel. Only for devoted fans of Roman Polanski. "}{"Title":"A Classic Polanski Film","Date":"19 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A flawed but classic adaptation of the novel, Lunes de Fiel, by Pascal Bruckner. Screenplay by Polanski and several others. The flaws are Peter Coyote's acting, which almost sinks the movie (sorry for the pun, as it takes place on an ocean voyage). He is just so wrong, as the star of this movie. He barely has any normal speaking inflection, and is not present, as an actor, as he is not acting here; not sure what he is doing, actually. I am surprised Polanski put up with him. No doubt there is more to that story. His performance is all the more obvious and sad, esp when playing against the very capable and professional Hugh Grant and Kristen Scott Thomas. I am sorry to say that Mrs. Polanski (Emmanuelle Seigner) does not come off well, either, at least in her very emotional scenes, although the lack of depth there does fit her young character. I have seen much better performances from her, to be fair. Great set dressing, makeup, and fashion (Scott Thomas' gown in the last act is brilliant; I want!), well suited for the period (late 70s). The music, composed and directed by Vangelis, is subtle but fitting, and the popular songs are well chosen for the period. This is a meaty psychological story about infatuation, love, sex, and obsession. And being careful what you pray for. Some quite nice dialogue and a return to the creative and gritty screen writing of earlier cinema (with very modern dialog, so watch before your kids). It is also a captivating film, spare, nothing wasted, wonderfully edited. It will grab you from start to finish (if you can stand Coyote), and the finish has a clever twist. Although the final scenes will be anticipated by some viewers. If you are a Polanski fan or just into film or film history, this is a must see and a fine example of film-making. "},{"Title":"Better read the book","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have just finished reading the book and because of that it is impossible to objectively judge the movie. While it does make some very good points as a standalone movie, I must say that the book is far more powerful and more cruel. Of course I can understand that in order to attract an audience the story had to be softened, otherwise some people risk being totally horrified and walking sick out of the theater (and no, I am not referring to the detailed sexual perversions, but to the ordeal the man puts his woman through when he wants to create living hell for her).Furthermore, that semi-happy ending with the 2 characters hugging each other ruined everything and has nothing to do with the original plot.Just so we're clear, I don't think this is a bad movie, on the contrary, it brings a whole new perspective on how thin the line between love, obsession and hatred really is. However, the book does a much better job. "},{"Title":"Well, it is different","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's very hard to separate the turbulent events in Roman Polanski's life from his movies; surely they have defined his work, especially as he has so much control over what he does. So what are we to make of Bitter Moon? When directing his real-life wife, Emmanuelle Seigner, Polanski placed himself in the position of Peter Coyote's character, who seems to take perverse pleasure in watching his wife having affairs with other men. One can only wonder what Roman was thinking as he directed Coyote to lick the milk spilling down Seigner's naked torso - even if it was just acting. Later in the movie, Seigner cavorts sans pants a couple of more times with Coyote. Maybe everyone involved could have used a session or two with Doctor Phil.The film starts on a cruise liner as a young married couple, Nigel and Fiona Dobson (Hugh Grant and Kristen Scott Thomas), become involved with wheelchair bound Oscar Benton (Peter Coyote) and his seductive wife Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigner). Benton has a goading nature and takes delight in telling Nigel details of his life with Mimi sparing no juicy detail, much of which is seen in flashback. He tells how he went from lust to obsession then to absolute disdain before becoming totally dependent on her when he landed in the wheelchair.When Nigel learns that Benton practically throws his wife at other men, he becomes entranced with her and is determined to be one of those men. However, near the end, Nigel and Fiona receive a jolt that reignites their marriage, or so it seems as the ship sails off into the sunset.It wasn't until halfway through the film, about the time Benton entered the disdain phase of his relationship with Mimi, that I think I finally got this movie - it's a comedy - a black one to be sure. The change of pace midstream, especially when Benton starts to bully Elsa, is pretty ridiculous, and Coyote's performance isn't all that convincing from that point on unless the whole thing is seen as a big joke played on the hapless Nigel &#x96; then it makes perfect sense.Although definitely over-the-top, Bitter Moon doesn't give you much time to think about the inconsistencies. It's not in the same league as Chinatown, The Ghost Writer or The Pianist, but just waiting to see how far Polanski will let his wife go is enough to keep you on the edge of your seat without worrying too much about the story. "},{"Title":"One hell of a intensified relationship, turned bitter","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bitter Moon is one of those really good movies from 1993, another I imagine was overlooked. It could of not have gotten the respect it deserves, but respectively it should. Starting with the great opening score by Vangelis, in no nonsense style, we're thrown into the story. A reserved British couple, none more fitting than High Grant and Kristin Scott Thomas, though the other three mains are better than Hugh, are on board a ship, en route to Istanbul. They became part of this guy's game, crippled and of course bitter playboy, Peter Coyote. Through much flashback running time, we see how he got this way, where, before his crippling fate, he struck up a romance with a dependant beauty (Polanksi favorite, Seigner), many years his junior. What begins is one steamy affair, which slowly begins to break away, where I thought Peter Coyote's character, was for most part, during the flashback, was an utter ar..hole, where finally the romance puts a strain on him. I'm actually glad he got what he deserved, where now Seigner, the best performer in this, became the victor. Becoming a painful though aroused ear to Coyote's wonderfully and boldly descripted, if slightly explicit recounts is Grant, who stays for the long duration over many days, in Coyote's cabin. You really don't see much of KST in it, but it's more Seigner and Coyote's movie. The movies not explicit as you would expect, where you'd fare better with Body Of Evidence, earlier around the traps that year. Seigner's erotic scene, stroking her boobs with spilt milk indeed is the highlight, which owes a bit to 'Last Tango' in Paris. What the movie has that I loved, is the way this love stories told, in detail, as to how we see more differences of opinion, the more we firther through the story, where it worsens later in the break up phase. Seigner's so emotionally dependant on Coyote, the point where she suffers rejection, truly tugs on your heartstrings, where this dependence starts to weigh Coyote down. As for the finale shock ending, I would say it ended this very dangerously dramatic tale off beautifully. Love him or hate him, Polanski knows how to make movies, this one, of his greatest feats. Fine drama, all the way down the line. A definite track down. "},{"Title":"Compulsively, depressingly fascinating.","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanksi's Bitter Moon is fascinating to watch but difficult to digest, leading one to wonder what exactly the great director is getting at with this twisted, tragic love story. It seems to me that, in the end, what Polanski wants to explore the most is love, which is expressed here mostly through physical means.The four main characters are mirror images of one another. The Brits are sophisticated, straightforward and seemingly comfortable just where they are in life and love. The American and French woman are by contrast unhinged, crazed, filled with the desire to do anything in order to achieve pure, unadulterated happiness and fulfillment. What Polanski does with these characters is astounding. Using two as the launching pad for what will happen to the others, he weaves a tale of love gone terribly sour, originating in purity and innocence but soon twisted into games of revenge, power struggles and the need for absolute freedom.The end result, it would seem, is Polanski attempting to show how weird and manipulated love can become, leading essentially to a perversion of the basic institutions of human society, namely marriage and family. Cinematically, this is one of Polanski's very best films with subtle, powerful direction, astonishingly believable performances by all four actors and a story that is less about sex than it is about what love can be and often becomes. "},{"Title":"an erotic yet  factual love story","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What a sensitive work by roman Polanski.I must say this is a movie for all couples engaged in a strong relationship and somehow neglects the fact called dying love.All through the movie we realized that actually there is nothing wrong with the lovely french women and the paradise lover man living on allowances in Paris but it is that they have reached heights of their relationship in no time and after that there nothing to do except to live with it in the process of degradation or move on.We see some of the most stunning performances by all actors in the movie and Hugh grant playing the sophisticated mask of modern times also does well!!!! "},{"Title":"The Creepy Side of Sex","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Film viewers may not consider Bitter Moon a great movie, but for me it's one of Roman Polanski's most enjoyable movies. It's a very eclectic movie, grabbing something from many genres at the same time - comedy, thriller, romance, drama - and molding them into a tightly-plotted, plausible story.Hugh Grant (in arguably the only serious role of his career) and Kristin Scott Thomas play a Nigel and Fiona, a British couple travelling aboard a cruise ship to India. They're a couple with difficulties and hope that the holiday will spice up their life a bit.But they have the unfortunate luck of meeting Oscar and Mimi, an awkward couple. The temptress Mimi flirts with Nigel, much to Fiona's disgust. And the wheelchair-bound Oscar sees in Nigel the perfect listener to his life story.Much of the movie's narrative involves Oscar, a failed American writer, telling Nigel how he met Mimi in Paris and how they became caught in a love-hate sexual relationship of escalating sexuality, perversion, and viciousness. It's a story that plumbs the depths of human depravity, man's ability to inflict pain on others; but at the same time it's about the thing that makes life worth living love.Oscar's narrative reveals the lives of two people completely exhausted by their lust until their desire turns to hatred and hatred to pleasure in hurting each other. When Oscar gets tired of Mimi, he tries to get rid of her, pregnant and without means. Her revenge, taking advantage of an accident that cripples him, is just as cruel. And in this game of cruelty it becomes obvious these two have no one else but each other. Love has never been more paradoxical.Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner dominate this movie. Coyote especially plays his ruthless character without any self-pity, without justifications, and yet still manages to instill a great deal of humanity in him.Visually speaking, Bitter Moon is not the masterwork that was Tess or Chinatown. It's a more conventional movie - technically speaking anyway; no mainstream movie would go near the subject matter of this movie - that tells an extraordinary story in very simple terms. I wouldn't call that bad, but Polanski can do better. But in terms of exposing the dark soul of man, it's vintage Polanski. "},{"Title":"a life time experience of romance in a movie !","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have never been fond of romance genre in my life but when i got this movie and started watching it i found it so touching that i ended up watching it over and over again and have goose bump over and over again. since this movie is based on a novel, the script is very powerful and the dialogs and monologues of peter coyote describing and talking to his beloved and the related scenes take you so far away that it's hard to pull yourself back together when the movie is over and they will leave you with some unforgettable and memorable phrases about love and romanticism. the actings especially by peter coyote and Emmanuelle seigner are awesome and magical(Hugh grant and Kristin Scott Thomas having no leading roles)and directing goes without saying and as expected is perfect. the scenes are so naturally and skillfully shot and played in a such a way that if you are bit of a lover or have ever been you will be so dazzled during watching it that if someone robs your entire house you wont notice "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Polanski and his house writer Brach bring you the story of a couple (Grant and Thomas) that are celebrating their anniversary on a cruise to Turkey. On the boat they meet a beautiful woman (Grant's character immediately falls for her) and her crippled husband Oscar. The husband (Coyote) offers Nigel the chance to sleep with his wife Mimi (Seigner)but first he must listen to his entire story regarding his relationship with Mimi. The biggest part of the movie is one big flash back were you get to see how Oscar (an unsuccessful writer) meets Mimi (a waitress/ dancer) one day in Paris. They immediately fall for each other and they develop a very passionate but perverse sexual relationship. When Oscar realizes after a while that their relationship has reached the point of no return he tries to break it up. Mimi is obsessed with Oscar and she doesn't want to leave him. Oscar endures her presence but he makes her life so miserable (humiliaton, beating,...)in the hope that she will leave him. When this doesn't work he tricks her into getting on a plain and sending her of to another destination. He continues his sweet bachelor life in Paris until one day he gets hit by a car. None of his one night stands come to visit him in the hospital and one day Mimi walks in. He immediately realizes that she is the only one that can help him and now she's in control... Polanski and Brach once again bring you an excellent thriller. "},{"Title":"top","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts off a bit odd but moves on with good speed showing two peoples different lives combining into a rather sordid twisted sexual fetish. But the film provides a sweet exit from lives troubles for a short while. But it is well worth watching. "}{"Title":"Loved the red dress","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bitter Moon is a good bad film. One of those movies where you cannot tell whether the acting and story are good or really bad. In a funny way this makes it all very watchable although there are several strikes against Roman Polanski for putting his wife Emanuelle Seigner through her paces in a variety of sex positions and humiliations. This comes from the Nick Roeg/Theresa Russell school of film making.Excellent is Seigner who is beautiful in a very Betty Blue French sort of way. Kristen Scott Thomas is also in it and she is of course attractive in an English sort of way which is not quite the same thing.If this review seems sex obsessed it's because the movie is but it's also very funny. Peter Coyote is great once he gets in a wheelchair. He should get an oscar for his Gauloise smoking alone. Hugh Grant on the other hand should be shot for his gibbering performance. "},{"Title":"Shocking to the utmost, masterfully directed.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that is structured to be sour and poignant from every angle, and a very clear example of how to play with your audience's emotions, which can only be delivered by a really skillful director.Although it starts very simple, the story starts grabbing you in a way that leaves you totally exposed and vulnerable, a sitting duck for just about any emotional shock, of which there are plenty.If you are planning to watch this one, be prepared, for it is not a conventional or even predictable drama. "},{"Title":"Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner rope Hugh Grant and  Kristin Scott Thomas into their sick marital orbit","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski wrote and directed this 134m picture, which is listed as neo-noir by various authors. I agree, it's neo-noir, which is just as hard to define as noir. The story is definitely dark and the photography is dark and shadowy, as in the style of many such neo-noirs.This one has some definite faults, as I see it. And since they bother me, it's not going to be a favorite of mine. Actually, I view the film as pretty much a flop; my evaluation departs a lot from the IMDb 7.1. I really didn't believe in any of the characters. The story is also slow. It's about sex relations of a married couple with a fair amount of perversion, decadence and excess to them. This is not visual, mind you. It's more or less told to us by the narration of one of the 4 main characters, Peter Coyote, accompanied by just enough visuals so that we understand. The other 3 characters are Coyote's wife, the lovely Emmanuelle Seigner, and a married couple played by Hugh Grant and Kristin Scott Thomas.Grant and Scott are 7 years married, no children and no spark left, so they go on an ocean voyage, hoping to rekindle the blaze (passion). Coyote is paralyzed from the waist down, but before this happening, he was a man about Paris, living on inherited money. He had a torrid love affair with Seigner that went into some games and perversions by the two of them. She declares great love for him. He doesn't want her any longer so he treats her badly, very badly, not physically but insults and humiliations. She stays with him, though. Finally he dumps her and tricks her into a flight by herself to Martinique. He then uses his freedom for 2 years to get as much ass and pussy as possible. He has an accident. He's hit by a car and in the hospital with a broken leg when Seigner reappears. She pulls him off the bed and paralyzes him. Now it's her turn to treat him badly because he's dependent on her. Why he doesn't kick her out and hire a nurse is never explained. She needs to hate him. Eventually they marry, and now they're on this cruise too. The whole story is told by Coyote to Grant in several flashbacks.Grant, you see, has fallen for Seigner, or so he says. Eventually, at a New Year's party, Scott gets into the act more fully. She already sees that Grant is attracted to Seigner, and she's ready to have an affair of her own.I will not reveal the ending. It pretty much is unpredictable.What to make of all this? Well, if you believe in these characters and what they are doing, you will probably think the movie is good or quite good. It does have some insights about marriage, passion and sexual relations. My problem is that I didn't believe that Grant's character was so naive. I didn't believe that he fell for Seigner. I didn't believe that Seigner really loved Coyote and would endure what she did. I didn't believe in Scott's character and how she reacted. I sometimes believed in Coyote's character and at other times not. At critical and serious instances, he seemed almost to be joking around with his part. I didn't believe in the depiction of Coyote's affair with Seigner. It seemed that the screenplay really didn't prepare the way for making the characters real enough. It seemed like Polanski was more or less moving them around like sticks. Sometimes I felt that Polanski had introduced material merely for its shock value. I didn't believe the ending sequences. Maybe Polanski wanted us to see these 4 people as superficial puppets, but frankly I don't think so. In the end, I couldn't get into the story and take it that seriously. The main reason was that I didn't feel that the acting projected the emotional states that we were being told these people were in. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended to watch","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is quite a long story. Usually very long stories are boring. This > 2hours drama has been watched at one breath. When I was watching it - i found a lot of echos about my broken marriage. Amazing, but every phrase, said by main characters, is not just a phrase. It's a thought and it's ALIVE. It makes one to think, analyze, empathize, hate and despise. It ignites deep emotions inside.I'd recommend to watch this movie, out of doubt. Especially to people that just start to look for relationship.About actor play... Every actor is at proper place. Maybe Fiona is not convincing enough, but it was not hampering to enjoy this... thorough, well thought-out movie! "},{"Title":"a hot and heavy tale of romance gone bad, by Roman Polanski","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'd have to wonder how much hotter the book that Bitter Moon is based on is. I'm not sure if I would ever read it, but it definitely wouldn't be boring. Neither is the movie; if anything, Polanski goes to such dark depths here that it's almost neglectful not to say that there's something old-fashioned stirring in the narrative. A British couple on their way via cruise to India run into a wheelchair bound would-be writer and his wife, who is a knock-out, and the husband hears from the now crippled man the story of his relationship. There's something wholesome that is ripped apart in the story here, and it's at its core a tale of passionate love and desire that becomes like a mind-game.Polanski's flashback narrative works well, and despite some corny bits early on in Oscar's (Peter Cotoye) tale of Mimi (Emmanuele Signer), this is contrasted with scenes that sizzle with great sexuality, the likes of which only so-much seen in 90s cinema. Then it transitions into the 'naughtier' chapter, then going into the section that's most captivating the 'can't-live-with-em-can't-live-without-em' logic of their relationship, and how it then relates to Hugh Grant's Nigel and his flawed marriage to Fiona (Thomas). Will he sleep with Mimi? This question would be the shallow one; Polanski's achievement here is expressing a savage bond that is like a slow-working poison, ready to affect anyone that grows closer to their very human tragedy. Sometimes seeing their past is disturbing, other times even darkly funny. But it's pure, unadulterated Polanski through and through.And special note should be given to Coyote here's a character actor everybody sees from time to time, be it ET or Sphere or Femme Fatale, and this time he's put to a test that any actor would love. He goes through every emotion, sometimes put on and sometimes very raw and wretched bit from his soul, and it's an imperfect but powerful tour-de-force. Everyone else, Grant, Seigner, Thomas, are put in roles that their fit well into (Grant especially as an up-tight yuppie sexually awakened/confused), but Polanski still uses them wisely from scene to scene. His wife, Seigner, is also sometimes a revelation in a role that should- and is- a possible one-note trap. There's complexity that she finds in her needy-cum-sociopathic mindset, and is sexy as all hell. It's overall and underrated work of minor genius, and may please those looking for a crazy tale of love and revenge. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable And Striking Oddity","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" When reflecting on Roman Polanski's exile in Paris through the seventies, eighties and nineties, prior to his redemptive Oscar with The Pianist, it should come as no surprise that his films of this period are minor and eccentric. However, even in this light Bitter Moon is still a striking oddity.Adapted from a novel by controversial French Neocon Pascal Bruckner, Bitter Moon concerns a stuffy, upper-crust English couple in their thirties, Nigel and Fiona, played by Hugh Grant and Kristin Scott Thomas, embarking on a cruise ship, their eventual destination India, in an attempt to rekindle the fires of their marriage. Early on in the cruise, they find a beautiful woman in hysteria, and try to help her. This act triggers off a strange fascination towards the beautiful, mysterious girl, Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigneur, Polanski's wife) on the part of Nigel, suffering from the seven year itch. Then he meets her invalid, wheelchair-bound American husband, Oscar. Nigel's fascination becomes a sordid infatuation, which is encouraged and facilitated by Oscar, whose only demand in return for engineering a love triangle is that Nigel meets him regularly in his cabin, so that he may recount his dangerous entanglement with Mimi, and how he ended up a crank in a wheelchair.The story of Oscar and Mimi's relationship is revealed in flashback, a reverie about the first flush of love in a chance meeting in Paris between the charming older Oscar and innocent young dancer Mimi, which turns sour and ends up a cruel, sadomasochistic power-game. The narrative keeps coming back to the present in the cabin, and shows the voyeuristic effect of Oscar's tale on Nigel, who, being so repressed, English and stuffy, struggles and fails to disentangle himself from the menacing, lurid situation he has found himself in.Much of this film is strewn with cliché, from its view of the English couple Nigel and Fiona, to the dissolution of the American writer in Paris (Oscar) and the corruption of innocent, passionate French girl Mimi. There is even a gauche Yank publisher Beverley, played by Stockard Channing and a turbaned 'Rajah', Singh, played with gusto by the neglected Indian actor Victor Banarjee.Still, Bitter Moon is oddly enjoyable, even at times fascinating, for its assured and humorous direction, for instance in juxtaposing ejecting toast with orgasm (after all this is Polanski) and Vangelis' beautiful, touching score. Peter Coyote is good as the gruff American, Emanuelle Seigner somehow brings pathos to the sketchy character of Mimi, Kristin Scott Thomas looks the part as an upper-class, repressed woman, and even Hugh Grant is watchable, as he is, for once, meant to be playing an affected Englishman.Also, if you feel (like me) that Polanski is spoofing in many places with his tongue-in-cheek, then much of the film, particularly its endgame, becomes downright hilarious. The resolution involves a shooting, a display of sapphism between Fiona and Mimi and a drunken punch-up by men in fancy dress at a New Year's party, made up mostly of old-timers in the ballroom of a cruise ship as it is rocked about by a forceful gale. "},{"Title":"Bitter but  also delicious","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm not quite sure why Bitter Moon is so poorly regarded. For me it's one of Polanski's best &#150; certainly not as good as Chinatown and Rosemary's Baby, but far better than The Pianist, Knife in the Water and The Tenant.Maybe it gets swept under the carpet because of the lurid sexual content. Or then again it could be the melodrama that puts people off. Or it could even be the fact that it features Hugh Grant. But for me all those things work wonderfully for the film &#150; the sex gives it an honesty (there's no pussyfooting about in this film), the melodrama shows the absurdity of relationships and Hugh Grant&#133; Well, Hugh Grant just makes the film funny, albeit not intentionally. (He's much funnier here in a 'straight' role than he ever was in the risible Four Weddings and a Funeral.) But even though I personally love the film, I guess it's quite easy to get the wrong end of the stick. After all, the film begins with a ridiculously stiff middle class English couple on a cruise liner (Hugh Grant and Kristin Scott Thomas). You can't help but wonder if it's a joke &#150; they seem to have wandered in from a Merchant/Ivory production. And then you have Oscar (Peter Coyote), a disabled gargoyle of man who proceeds to tell Nigel (Grant) the story of his doomed romance with Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigner). At the start it's all sweetness and light, with bad clichés thrown at you left, right and centre. And it's at this point that you either get Bitter Moon or you don't. If you take the film completely seriously you'll probably think it awful, but if you realise that Polanski, with the English couple (Grant wears a blazer and slacks for heaven's sake) and the sickeningly cute courtship, is having fun, then you just might have a grand old time yourself.Just to further illustrate how obvious it is that Polanksi's having a laugh, take the first flashback. We get a slow pan from the camera, a fade and then some hilariously unsubtle 'French' music begins playing. Polanski's tongue is rooted firmly in his cheek. And then in his narration Oscar spouts bad cliché after bad cliché. But rather than annoy, this works superbly for the character &#150; Oscar wants to be a writer; however it's painfully obvious why he's never been published. And then after that we get a scene where Oscar rubs Mimi's feet on a park bench and another where Oscar tells Mimi he loves her as they fly in circles on a fairground ride. This seems to be your standard Hollywood romance on steroids pumped full of saccharine.But just when you're getting nauseous, Polanski throws in a comic sex scene. Here, in the scene in question, we see Oscar and Mimi sitting at the breakfast table. At first they just look at one another, but then Mimi dribbles milk all over her breasts. And then after Oscar's licked it off, she administers a blow job. And to cap the scene off, the toast pops up out of the toaster as Oscar comes. Now how can anyone not enjoy a film with a scene like that in it? But although the breakfast scene is amusing, it also marks the point where the film begins to darken. With the initial thrill gone, Oscar and Mimi have to resort to sex toys and sex games to get their kicks. And although that works for a while, Oscar soon tires of Mimi &#150; she bores him.The scenes that deal with the breakdown of the relationship are probably the best. They capture the way relationships can imprison people and the way people can quickly tire of one another. And after Oscar's initial infatuation it's quietly shocking to witness how unfeeling he is towards Mimi &#150; he barely reacts when she gets on her knees and begs him not to leave her. He really doesn't care anymore.But just when you think this is bad, the film takes things even further. To try and get rid of Mimi, Oscar resolves to make her life a living hell. He treats her badly, embarrasses her at a party, and worst of all, abandons her just as they're about to go on holiday. But what makes it shocking is that it's actually kind of funny. I'm sure most people have had someone they want to get rid of but can't. Therefore it's actually kind of fun to live vicariously through Oscar. As he says himself, everyone has a cruel streak.And it's fun watching Nigel's reactions to these stories. He tries to pretend that he's listening out of politeness, but despite his protestations, he loves every moment. He's a consummate voyeur. And it was a twisted stroke of genius to have Grant play the part. He's a poor actor, but there's a lot of fun to be had in his reactions &#150; his response to Oscar's golden shower story had me howling. Oh, and Grant's dancing in the party scene at the end has to be seen to be believed.To say more about the plot would be to spoil all the wonderful twists and turns that follow (the ending is magnificent), but I really don't think there are many other films that quite as accurately capture the selfishness and cruelty that is inherent in many relationships (although, of course, the film takes it to an absolute extreme). And through Nigel, an absurd cliché of the repressed masses, we're asked to recoil and salivate along with him. As squeaky clean as we try and pretend to be, and as much as we yearn for love and romance, we're more intrigued by the strange and the perverse. "},{"Title":"Stop twittering, Nigel","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I saw this on television recently. I remember when I saw it first in the early nineties that it got bad reviews at the time. I think the critics just had it in for Polanski. 'Frantic' was dismissed as a poor man's Hitchcock, though I thought it was a pretty good stab at doing a Hitchcock, suspenseful enough.A devastating chronicle of the disintegration of a relationship. Though the role reversal development was done better in Bunuel's Tristana, I thought.I was struck at the time by Hugh Grant's hilarious portrayal of the twit of an Englishman. This was an act that soon palled over the decade, however. "},{"Title":"Interesting Format","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film was a little lame i found myself compelled to keep on watching. It is in my opinion an odd film. The cinematography was excellent despite the low budget and the dialogue was compelling until the end. The story had enough to keep you interested but as it was coming to the end the film lost its charm and the finnalie was the worst executed i have ever seem, a shame it had real potential. "},{"Title":"One of my personal favorites","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Roman Polanski is known for much better work (according to other fans) like the obvious classics Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown.But of all his work this is the most daring and interesting piece. It's a new kind of love story - if one can talk of love here - with a man and a woman (Coyote and Seigner) taking everything to the extreme in trying to save their relationship and life together. The big question here, that Polanski loves to toy with, is if it's real love - whatever that is - or just some kind of sick attraction that keeps them together. Real love is then tested when a third part, a husband and wife (Grant and Scott Thomas), gets involved.If you want some good old suspense, see this one. It will be worth it!  "}{"Title":"Perhaps not as good as everyone says it is, but good nonetheless","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Love can be a crazy thing.  It can make you do crazy things.  The characters that inhabit 'Bitter Moon' certainly are in the grip of it, in one way or another.There is the central pair to our drama Oscar and Mimi (played respectively by Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner), a pair of wandering souls who find love with each other.  Their love turns to unbridled passion, as their liaisons become more and more heated and bizarre.  They both feel they have found their soul mates, people in which they can explore their deepest and sometimes darkest sexual desires.But all this passion can be self destructive.  The two, having reached the point from which their where no other avenues to explore, start to drift apart.  Oscar turns to sarcasm and biting comments to belittle his love, hoping she will leave him.She eventually does, but returns soon after when he is involved a car accident that leaves him in hospital.  And, as an act of ultimat espit, Mimi makes it worse by making his simple broken leg into permanent paralysis.And it is from here she exacts her revenge, becoming Oscar's live-in keeper, feeding him, bathing him and taking care of him, while all along removing him bit by bit from his friends and life he so loves, and from his sanity.We learn of this story thru flashbacks, told to the willing audience of Nigel (Hugh Grant), while they are on a cruise.  Nigel is at first revulsed by the tale but then totally hooked, especially with the promise of having for his own Mimi at the end of the tale, all with the total acceptance of Oscar.Bitter Moon is at times a sumptuous tale, revealing the beautiful lives of Oscar and Mimi, but it pulls you back with a start as what looks like a simple love story gets turned on its head and the cracks start to form.The film works best when flashbacks are showing.  The scenes on the ship look very staged and lack the realism of the pictures of Oscar and Mimi's life.  I was particularly impressed with the beautiful way the scenes of Oscar looking for Mimi on the 96 buses was portrayed, easily the best part of the film.The film is perhaps at least half an hour too long for its own good, often wallowing in its own excesses more than it needs to.  The sex scenes are not gratitious as first feared, but fit in nicely with the overall theme.  If you want vouyerism, Bitter Moon is not the movie for you.The performances on the whole are consistent, with the exception of Peter Coyote as Oscar, who never seems entirely at home either as an able bodied man or cripple.  And if his narration during the flashbacks is an indication of the way he writes his unpublished novels, no wonder he has yet to see any in print!The ending is perhaps a little... unexpected and comes from waaayyy left field, but that is a minor quibble from a film that generally provides the entertainment it sets out to.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Those who have been through it for real will enjoy it the most!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What a film! I took on the indulgence to the max and watched it at least eight times - each time I was enthralled by the Polanski twisted mind machine at work. Utterly entertaining, with an EXCELLENT music track and over the top performances at the disco!The 'room' with the view of that famous phalic tower in Paris might be cheap, but it's a clever way of budgeting!It puts you in the mood along with the music.If you've ever been a 'slave to love' or passion, you'll love it. If you haven't ever reached the depths of passion and addiction you might still enjoy it as a voyeur - if you haven't been that close to a human you'll probably put it down to fantasy and wonder what it was all about.Although its long, and slow at the beginning, its worth waiting for, thats a promise. Hugh Grant plays the awkward, typical English guy and we see the story unfold through his eyes.If you get a friend to watch it with you for the first time, they'll probably be a little disappointed with the slow pace at the beginning, but it gets better - MUCH better.Some say this is Polanski's worst film! Rubbish. Its one of his very best - all you need is a little imagination, compassion and understanding of human nature to be thoroughly engrossed in this very exciting and sensual film.Although the end is wrapped up fairly quickly, the twist pays off. PLEASE PLEASE give it a try - if only for the soundtrack! You'll never listen to that track in the same way again! "},{"Title":"Different film but thoroughly absorbing","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Watch this film - It will surprise you but always keep you interested - Peter Coyote is excellent as Oscar. Worth watching ! "},{"Title":"I don't know you, Nigel, but somehow, you're the listener i've been looking for...","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" During a trip to India in a cruiser, a boring British couple -Nigel and Fiona- become friendly with a crippled writer (Oskar) and his sexy wife Mimi. This film is a twisted tale of obsessive love; how passion and sex can eventually destroy the lives of two people. It seems it would turn out to be a movie with a somber, downbeat tone, but not under Polanski's direction; he manages to inject lots of sarcasm and black humour into the film, especially in the character of Oskar (a magnificent performance by Peter Coyote). Nigel is in love with Mimi, so Oskar and her take advantage of this to make fun and manipulate him; the writer tells him the story of their bizarre love story, while Mimi deceives Nigel every time he tries to approach her. Fiona remains a passive character in this love triangle...until she drastically changes the course of events in the last scenes of the film. This tragicomedy is one of Polanski's masterpieces, along with The Pianist and Rosemary's Baby; although it seems it was misunderstood and not well received back in 1992. It also has a great soundtrack with tunes by The Communards, Lionel Richie and Bryan Ferry, which fit perfectly with the tone of the film. "},{"Title":"A veritable masterpiece....","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of Polanski's best films. All players give perhaps career-best performances; certainly Hugh Grant and Kristen Scott-Thomas have never been involved in anything of greater substance ('The English Patient' or no. And Peter Coyote is unsurpassed weltschmerz has never been portrayed more effectively or intelligently. It is a study of different forms of human love, contemplating the distinction between that of physical desire and attraction, against something more fundamental. Special mention should be made of the theme music which, in my opinion, is Vangelis at his best, working superlatively in the context of the sea voyage setting.Here is perhaps testament to the notion that the best film can attain something approaching exquisite art in capturing mere quotidian human experience, evoking something beyond. On paper this is a movie made about an obsessive love affair in early 90's Paris as recounted by one of the protagonists to an emotionally-confused englishman on an ocean voyage. But it seems so much more than the sum of its parts; it transcends and sublimates the premise of the storyline, the experiences of the characters. "},{"Title":"Bad Photography","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I keep trying to like this movie just because it has the name Polanski attached. I don't think the story is as stupid and hopeless as people make it out to be or that it's a pure commercial exercise. I think it's just the photography that lets it down. It looks like it was shoot for TV. It has no substance. John Cassavettes could get away with it, but then his movies over flow with emotion and power of acting, but Bitter Moon is not that kind of movie. The old rule states that you can never save a badly acted or scripted movie by just laying on a lot of beautiful photography, but with Bitter Moon that rule seems to be in reverse. "},{"Title":"Average thriller from a once great Director.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bitter Moon (contrary to what others have said) is not a great film, what makes it even worse is the fact that this is directed by the once great Roman Polanski, director of such classics as Rosemary's Baby, Chinatown and The Tenant. Polanski is so far behind the times with this film that he is still using hand-held camera to evoke a seasickness motion whenever the actors are (supposedly) onboard the ocean liner, (where as most film-makers would have hooked the set with hydraulics). Polanski believes whole heartedly that his film is saying something new about sexual possession and male and female power plays, but this film couldn't have been more out of touch if it had been made by the crew that put together American Pie (1999). The central premise of the film is interesting, with crippled, burnt-out American Peter Coyote relating the damaging relationship he had with Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigner) to stuck up Brit Nigel (Bumbling old Hugh Grant). Despite the writers (Polanski co-wrote) intentions to drive the plot and keep viewers intrigued, none of the characters are at all likeable. This gives us absolutely no one to identify with or even care about. Poor characterisation and Polanski's meagre budget aside (it looks like it was made for cable), the film isn't at all without its charms. Bitter Moon has some wonderful moments of black comedy, showing Roman is his most playful mood since Fearless Vampire Killers back in the 60's, giving a nice seedy edge to the sex scenes. However the ending of the film is yet another stumbling block, the greatest fun throughout is wondering how on earth Coyote's story is going to end, building high expectations, but then Polanski throws us an all to familiar pitch, ruining whatever tension was brewing. Weather the money just ran out, or the cast and crew got bored is unknown (that's what it looks like), it makes Bitter Moon an average little thriller from the man who was once king of the psychological thriller, you might want to spend some time with the film, but you won't leave with anything new. 5/10    "},{"Title":"A great film about extreme passion.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film shows exactly what don't like in Hollywood ;the real nature of sexual relationships ,that's the reason why a superb film like this never will won an Oscar.It shows the extreme passion that everybody can feel about somebody ;your life could be like one of the characters of the film , you only has to meet somebody really special , and ,If you think you never would do the things the characters of this film made ,you will instantly change your opinion , why?, because when you are  absolutely in love with somebody , you would anything for that person that make you feel so good...That is the human nature. Other great true this film shows is the sad side that everybody has ;when you know you can do what you want with somebody ,you do it...This means that you make suffer that person (that has fall in love with you), only for pleasure...that is how  the mankind is.  "},{"Title":"A Terrible movie from an amazing director...","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes, I just don't get it. How can such a brilliant director do one of the worst movie i've ever seen? Even more how can people who love Polanski love this? It looks like it's not even from him.Let me explain myselfThere is that oh so British couple cruising on a boat, where they met a guy in wheelchair and his young femme fatale wife, who turns Hugh Grant on. Her husband warn him about how cruel she is and how much he should stay away from her... by doing this telling his old overly romanticized love story with her, the perfect french girl, a mix between sexual maturity and naiveté.And of course it's by never-ending flashbacks in Paris where-every-flat- has-a-view-on-the-Eiffel-Tower with all the clichés that ever existed about Paris/french women. His love story turns into a porn-chic/BDSM relationship with so much details we can make an actual porn out of it. The most twisted it gets, the better it is. And the more predictable too.And of course it turns Hugh Grant on even more. And what about his wife? That's it, NOTHING about her character. Nothing more, in fact, about Grant's character either. And no real consistency in the main characters too.No psychology, no depth, no real scenario... FOR MORE THAN TWO HOURS. The photography is not even good! And it got so tacky and old with that Vangelis music, GOD!Maybe i would have been less strict if it wasn't from Polanski, but this guy made Chinatown, Repulsion, Tess, some of the best movies ever! Do yourself a favor and avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Most underrated, best played movie","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of the best made and acted ones ever. Unlike the advance commentary I think Emmanell Seigneur also gives an incredible play in this movie. Her presence is overall and you really can tell the progression she made through the movie. Alone the 3 minutes she is only sitting in the coach, while having a close up on her face is an extremely impressing scene. I cant understand why this movie of well known regisseur polanski is so unknown to the world. It is not even available on DVD in German. I can really identify with the characters. The romantic beginning makes me cry every time I watch it. Emmanuell is the best actor for the character of Mimi, because of her unclear beauty and her naive, while very erotic look. Never saw it? Go and get it! "}{"Title":"A perfect 10!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie to be incredible! I found the very adult relationship to be extremely intense. I was completely interested in the story that was being told on the film. It's very rare that you find a movie that truly touches the depths of human relationships, this was one of those movies.Incredible! I'll give it the perfect 10 rating. "},{"Title":"this, from the director of Chinatown..?","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A crippled writer (with dialogue to match) and his psycho-nympho wife share their explicit confessional biography with a frustrated shipmate aboard a Mediterranean cruise, bringing some sweat to his stiff English upper lip. Too bad the same can't be said for theater audiences. Roman Polanski, once a notable filmmaker but here just a tacky exhibitionist, combines moments of colorful decadence and tame degradation, and the result can be a laff riot if approached in the right spirit. Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigne (the director's off-screen wife and an unconvincing femme-fatale) offer embarrassing readings to an already clunky and pretentious script, the brainchild of three writers (Polanski included), whose idea of the ultimate sexual depravity is&#x85;lesbianism? Sample exchange of dialogue We're going to Istanbul, says twerpy tourist Hugh Grant to sexpot Seigne, How far are you going? Farther, she mumbles, &#x85;much farther&#x85; (cue the ominous Vangelis music score.) "},{"Title":"Weak in pretty much every way","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" If Polanski has made a worse film, I haven't yet seen it and don't want to. The story is dull and fairly common. It's about the tempestuous relationship between two lovers (Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner) who meet in Paris. At first things are beautiful between them, but over time the relationship deteriorates and becomes abusive. The story actually takes place quite a time after that, when Coyote, now paralyzed, is telling their story to Hugh Grant on a cruise ship. Grant is madly attracted to Seigner, which annoys his wife, Kristin Scott Thomas. I think the worst thing about the film is the casting. Peter Coyote is fine in supporting roles, but he's not a strong enough actor to carry this film. James Woods was originally cast, and he would have been a lot better (though I doubt he would have been able to make it a good movie). I absolutely despise Hugh Grant. Completely talentless, and utterly unable to carry dramatic roles like this one. Emmanuelle Seigner, Polanski's wife, is sultry but not much of an actress. Only Kristin Scott Thomas among the four is reliable, and she's given by far the least to do. Even Victor Bannerjee, whom you may remember as the lead in Lean's A Pasage to India, has more to do than her (and may just give the best performance in the film, with about five minutes of screen time). The film didn't offend me with its sheer terribleness or anything like that. It's just imminently forgettable. "},{"Title":"Polanski Naked","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Many have thought this to be a low point for Polanski. Many critics blamed it on the strange sexual fetishism that the film celebrated. I guess its just creepy, coming from Polanski. Perhaps it was to much to watch coming from a man with such a disgraceful past. But Bitter Moon is so good, at being so risqué. This is some pretty heavy erotica. The performance by Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner as the on-and-off, shagging couple is damn delicious. They just let it all hang out, and I mean that in the most literal sense. I loved seeing those two lusting over each other, then completely tearing each other apart in over-sexed rage. It's so over-the-top. A few things bring it down a bit. One, I have a problem with dogs involved in sexual acts.. I think this movie may have violated a code in the AHA. Also, Hugh Grant. Going into this, I had my hand hovering over the stop button, because of.. well, Hugh Grant. He's a terrible actor. It's that same shy but dashing British gentleman over and over. It kind of works here, since his role is so insignificant, but he can still get under your skin. The scenes on the boat also seem unnecessary next to the exquisite tale that Oscar spins. I think the movie would have been perfect, if it was just that sick love story, and nothing more. I really appreciated Polanski's effort. This is a little- known, but satisfying art-house film. "},{"Title":"A Look At Sex Beyond The Limits...","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski is one of my favorite directors. I Have seen many of his films The Fearless Vampire Killers (1967), Frantic (1988), Death and the Maiden (1994) and The Ninth Gate (1999).Every one of his films has a different style of direction. You are in for a different treat each time. This film deals with the topic of love at first sight, which then later deals with sexual exploration and eventually into perversion and degradation.The film is told in flashback narrative by Oscar Benton(Peter Coyote), an American living in Paris, who falls in love with a French woman called Mimi(Emmanuelle Seigner). Oscars tells this strange story of bondage, sadomasochism and voyeurism to Nigel Dobson(Hugh Grant) who is on a Cruise holiday with his wife Fiona(Kristen Scott Thomas).Nigel is gradually drawn into sexual intrigue by Oscar and he wants to secretly make love with Mimi at any given opportunity. He does not reveal this to his wife and to Oscar.I will not give away any more of the plot. You will have to see the film to find out what happens next.The casting, acting and cinematography is superb. The background music is adequate to the film. Roman Polanski is in full command of the film till the conclusion. This is an adults only film and I would not recommend it to persons under the age of 18.Similar themed films you will enjoy Jagged Edge 1985, Fatal Attraction 1987, Basic Instinct 1992, Sliver 1993. "},{"Title":"Magnificent masterpiece by Polanski","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What is the passion? What is the love? What is the sense of life? ...There are more questions which you can ask yourself after watching this brilliantly directed movie. And there are no single answers for them. Because you can't simply explain, describe and understand people's feelings and emotions. Polanski shows again how complex and complicated are human beings.Wonderfully performance of the whole cast, especially Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner, who play a couple, which deep love turned into crazy obsession. Best Polanski's screenplay of all-time. Bitter moon is a masterpiece, that has been unfairly forgotten. "},{"Title":"Love and death","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I wish i could say this was a great Hugh Grant Movie, but I would be lying. Sure he plays a great part here, and it is interesting that Kirsten Scott Thomas is along as his wife Fiona. Now I understand why she was in love with him in Four Weddings and a Funeral in which she also played Fiona -), but Polanski created a film for Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner (The Ninth Gate).Cyote is just about the most sleazy person you can imagine as he goes about using and abusing Seigner until she is reduced to nothing, She is willing to do anything to remain with him. Why? That is a good question and what I see as the whole point here. Why remain in a relationship where there was never any love in the first place and there is clearly no love now? Wht degrade yourself to do anything to stay together? The degradation continues when they meet Grant and Thomas on a cruise and Grant is panting to get a chance with Seigner. Who wouldn't. But there is a very funny twist at the end before tragedy strikes.Makes you really look at relationships in a new light. "},{"Title":"glimpses of female chauvinism","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" well roman Polanski has been somewhat successful in highlighting the very lecherousness of the prevalent male dominated society-how MIMIs husband had eyed upon the very fragile sylph underlined by MIMI itself.roman Polanski has been successful in painting this idea in front of the people that love is much more and above the idea of sexual fulfillment-he even characterizes the general first notion of male towards a beautiful sylph-As beautiful as Mimi in the movie.Nigels wifes role has been successfully portrayed by the Scottish actress-(whose role was small but pivotal-and Nigel the person not being able to satisfy her wife mentally. in this movie roman Polanski has completely lacerated the emotional aspect between two couples who had nothing in common but only the urge towards sexual desires-but the way he has cast Mimi in the first half of his film very much tells about th effeminacy he is trying to bring forth us "},{"Title":"Roman Polanski Pushes the Sexual Envelope","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" British couple Fiona and Nigel Dobson are sailing to Istanbul en route to India. They encounter a beautiful French woman...I find this film very difficult to judge or even to categorize. It is clearly a Roman Polanski film, as evidenced by the casting of Emmanuelle Seigner and the depraved sexual situations (a golden shower, lesbianism, and some strange pig mask). Having known Peter Coyote primarily from A Walk to Remember, it was quite a shock to hear him talk so dirty, drink milk from a woman's breast and engage in oral sex. Well played, Pete.Hugh Grant is the main character, despite the fact he has far less screen time than Coyote or Seigner. He appears in the wraparound section, with most of the film being a flashback. But the basic plot revolves around the idea of fidelity -- will Nigel (Grant) cheat on his wife with this foreign beauty? He has her husband's permission, but does he have the disloyal drive to follow through? (This gets more complex as the film progresses, but you really need not know more just yet.) While I have found Seigner attractive before, this film does not present her well in my opinion. Exotic, yes. Sexy, no. But the men in the film would disagree.There could be some discussion about what bitter moon means. The phrase is never uttered in the film or clearly explained. There is a scene that features a moon that might be called bitter (it tastes of poison to one person and sweet to another). Does this suggest that a bitter moon would be a situation where two people share very different outlooks or viewpoints? Perhaps. Or it could simply be the reverse of a honeymoon.If we were to list Polanski's films from best to worst, this would appear somewhere in the middle. Perhaps the lower middle. By no means does it achieve the level of his masterpieces, but it does not come up short like Cul-de-Sac (though that film has its merits, too). The film is great as a character study or as a discussion of love and relationships, but it drags enough at times that it cannot be called flawless. Grant fans will be disappointed, but Polanski fans ought to give it a fair shot. "},{"Title":"Bitter Moon is trashy, but I dare you to turn it off","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There is an easy way to tell if a movie that is breaking sexual taboos is working or not. Sex scenes that don't work make people laugh. Sex scenes that do work make people squirm. 'Bitter Moon' fits uncomfortably into the latter. While it looks like lurid trash melodrama. Roman Polanski juggles a tricky balance of bad taste, sexual intrigue and a good story. Somehow he pulls it off.'Bitter Moon' begins on a cruise ship with Nigel, a proper Englishman (Hugh Grant) who meets a gorgeous woman named Mimi (Emmanuelle Seigner) in a bar and is intoxicated by her. A short time later he meets her alcoholic husband Oscar (Peter Coyote) who is confined to a wheelchair.There Oscar begins to tell him the long story of how the two of them met. Spinning a tale from which Nigel is only held by the presence of Mimi, their story begins with a simple love story, how they met, and fell in lust with one another. Then, as all stories built on sex end up, they got bored, locked themselves away and began a bizarre, kinky S&M roleplay. The game got more and more serious until Oscar ended up in that wheelchair.Bitter Moon is overly sexual, trashy, kinky, freaky and uncomfortable. In anyone else hands that might be a bad thing but in the hands of Roman Polansky we expect a degree of quality control. He is, and always has been, the master of his instrument and his achievement here is the ability to create this kind of bizarro sex tragedy and never make it laughable.That works mainly because of the casting. Hugh Grant is wonderful as the kind of meek, mild fellow who probably thinks about sex but never acts on impulse. He's married to Fiona (Kristen Scott-Thomas) who offers little sexual energy and allows us to understand why Nigel is so intrigued by the couple.PeterCoyote has always been a mature, fearless actor with a slightly scary voice whose words in this films slither through his teeth with a kind of slippery anger. He informs Nigel that Everyone has a sadistic streak, and nothing brings it out better than the knowledge you've got someone at your mercy. The best performance in the film, however, belongs to (Emmauel Seigner) as Mimi. She gives the kind of lurid performance that could illicit bad laughs like Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct or Madonna in the godawful Body of Evidence. She is better than either by making her sexuality come from within and not wearing as a costume role. She's gorgeous and mysterious and plays a rube like Nigel like a pinball machine.'Bitter Moon' is a trashy film but a good one. Polanski is willing to go over the line with lurid melodrama and he doesn't lose his nerve. He is brave filmmaker. Even braver is Emmanuel Seigneir (Polanski's wife) who is required to do things in this film that many actresses wouldn't touch for fear of their reputation. She does them and never backs off. 'Bitter Moon', like 'Damage' is a movie for adults. Both films speak about sex in a mature fashion without compromise.*** (of four) "}{"Title":"Interesting but exaggerated","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Any film by Roman Polanski is going to offer a measure of appeal, but 'Bitter Moon' is definitely not this distinguished director's best effort. There's an interesting scenario a repressed, English couple are drawn into the bizarre sexual games of an American-French paring, while all four are trapped upon a Mediterranian cruise ship. But the promise of the premise is never quite delivered. Peter Coyote (the American) recounts stories of his past in a truly ghastly, but peculiarly fluid prose he never sounds like any real person telling a story. The story itself is more macabre than realistic, as it involves his serial mistreatment of an apparently unending queue of beautiful women who all find him irresistible. The film plays with the idea that his story is itself a fantasy, rather than the explanation he purports it to be; but doesn't go through with the idea. Instead, it ends with on strange lesbian note that rings false with the rest of plot. Another negative aspect of the film is the surprisingly intrusive pop soundtrack. In spite of these flaws, the film remains watchable, and the contrast between the two pairings is nicely drawn; Polanski also has a good eye for the innate hellishness of the supposed ultimate in luxury experiences represented by a cruise. Overall, it's an interesting experiment, but somewhat too contrived "},{"Title":"Until the bitter end","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to read some of the extreme negative critiques from you guys out there (what the h... is your religious problem?) when you like a movie so much. And I do love Bitter Moon from the very begin till the... yes, bitter end. Just because of that, I wanted to put down some counterweight here, so that people who haven't seen it yet, are not completely detered. It's my favorite Polanski. I already got the goose pimples when Vangelis' score accompanied the first scene and they never got away until the last words were said. This movie is so much about people and relationships, I can only strongly, very strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"       This film is directed by Roman Polanski (Which certainly means, that's a work of art). This film tells us a story which happened on the board of the ship during the cruise around the Mediterranean. British couple Nigel and Fiona meet american writer Oscar (who is disabled) and his wife. Pretty soon Oscar (Peter Coyote) starts telling Nigel (Hugh Grant) stories about his wife's and his' sexual relationship... The film has a very powerful ending - it's just couldn't be better. Perfect work of leading actors, supereb directing by R.Polanski and excellent music, cinematography by Tonino Delli Colli make this film an unforgettable tragic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A good (if old) idea badly done","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I like excess love stories, provided they are sincere and that they avoid platitudes.Alas, platitudes and stereotypes abound in this film; indeed, they are the very backbone of this film. It contains a few scenes of GREAT beauty, but, all in all, it is laden with almost incredibly old-fashioned pathos, based on equally old-fashioned premises and stereotypes. You can almost see and hear Polanski giggling behind the scenes, like a school boy prone to bouts of hysteria, picturing the shock of the audience (represented by Hugh Grant's cartoonishly prude - and by implication, hypocritical - character).Wake up, Mr. Polanski, and grow up. Reality quite often exceeds the most incredible of film plots. (And it would be no great feat to exceed this particular fantasy of yours.) My advice to a potential viewer if you like radical love stories, go and see Breaking the waves. "},{"Title":"Is this believable?","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Watch this film and then watch Last Tango in Paris -- which alsodeals with revealing human motivation beyond convention.  If youdo this, you may conclude, as I did, that Bitter Moon isn't reallypossible because the characters have no human depth ofemotion.  They are cardboard figures whom the director pushes toan extreme but who never come to life.  This humanity and life, inan authentic human relationship,  is what gives Last tango in Parisso much power, and is why the film gets to you and stays withyou.  Bitter Moon attempts to achieve this kind of greatness, with asimilar plot idea, but can't. "},{"Title":"Polanski after Frantic this film sets heights of cruelty","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bitter Moon (1992) Roman Polanski. Since Polanski has been in trouble & his new film released I have been trying to catch up on some of his films I had not seen. PLOT British couple Fiona & Nigel Dobson are sailing to Istanbul en route to India. They encounter a beautiful French woman, & that night Nigel meets her while dancing alone in the ship's bar. Later he meets her crippled American husband Oscar, who tells him their story. While living in Paris for several years trying to be a writer, he becomes obsessed with a woman he met by chance on a bus. He tracks her down & they start a steamy love affair. Soon Oscar finds himself enslaved body & soul by her love, & continues to tell Nigel the details of this (this woman is played by Polanskis wife Emmanuelle Seigne) relationship in various stages over a number of visits to Oscar's cabin. Here the film settles down into a series of long flashbacks detailing Coyote-Seigner's tempestuous love life. Coyote's scheme seems to be to lure Grant into Seigner's bed to perform the marital duties that he is unable to perform. This film reminds me of Damage or other French amor-fou movies. Film wants to be epic in scope but does not succeed. Details revealed to me were just presented in a tawdry or lurid way. Nothing in the plot really grabbed me & involved me. Fiona did interest me as I had just seen her new French movie with her (an English gal) speaking French. There are some interesting parts & scenes to this movie however I was just plain bored & not really engaged into the movie. There is a real horrible fascination as Polanski goes every which way with the material. But the only real bait is finding out how Coyote ended up in a wheelchair. It is downhill fast after that. In reality the film reminded me of Misery (Stephen King) The film plot & dialogues are all very cruel & cruelly presented. At times it seemed downright mean. I just got no enjoyment as there was no point to the cruelty as in Misery. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"50% Art, 50% Pornography","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There is an intelligent story somewhere in here, about an obsessive love-affair which turns into a hate-affair. It is told in retrospect, the raconteur being a sleazy failed writer in a wheelchair; he is married to a much younger Frenchwoman. We meet them on a cruise in the Mediterranean. She fascinates another passenger, a decent but stupid Englishman, who is then inveigled into listening - night after night - to the writers tale of love, hate, devotion and exploitation. He supposes that his reward for listening will be to have a passionate affair with the woman - with her husband's acquiescence, for he is paralyzed and unable to satisfy her. Instead, the guest becomes increasingly degraded by the squalid atmosphere, arousing the suspicions of his wife (also on board).The narrator tells his story with many flashbacks, and entirely too many sex-scenes, grotesquely overwrought. Such a tale of obsessive love is going to need to be explicit, but Polanski includes far more than is necessary to tell the story; it becomes obvious that much of his intent is just pornographic. (Contrast this with Bye-Bye Brasil - where the sex was just as explicit, but every scene was necessary to tell the story, which was intelligent and humane).The truth is that the narrator represents Polanski himself; the Frenchwoman is actually played by Polanski's own wife, Emmanuelle Seignier. We, the audience, are forced into the position of the stupid Englishman - listening, fascinated, against our better judgement - and emerging worse for the experience. In this it almost resembles The Rhyme of the Ancient Mariner (Coleridge).Bitter Moon is a masterful character study, but you had better be prepared to handle the depraved obsessions of its director-narrator. If you have any aesthetic sensitivity, you will want to take a shower afterwards. "},{"Title":"Ship of fools","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Oscar the wheel bound man on his way to Istambul is traveling with his much younger and gorgeous wife, Mimi. He is not a happy man. When he meets Nigel, he is trying to go back to his cabin, but needs help in doing so. Nigel is a young Englishman on his honeymoon with Fiona, his straitlaced bride. Mimi had caught Nigel's eye. Oscar invites Nigel to a drink in his room, where he begins to tell the story of his life with Mimi.Oscar meets Mimi on board a 96 bus in Paris. An inspector comes to check tickets; it becomes clear the young woman sitting near Oscar has not paid her fare. He hands her his own ticket so she is not caught, and Oscar is given a fine. In doing so, he misses the opportunity to be with this ravishing creature. When he finally catches up with her, she is working as a waitress in a bistro. Oscar does not know, but he is in for the ride of his life.Oscar, an American living in Paris, has written a few books no one has read. As he starts seeing Mimi, he discovers she is a sensual woman who matches his own libido. They begin a torrid affair. Mimi caters to Oscar every sexual desire, inventing erotic fantasies they play on each other. The sex is great, but when Mimi starts getting boring, Oscar decides he has had it. Wanting to get rid of her, Oscar books a flight to Martinique. Once on board, he executes a brilliant plan, one where Mimi had no clue about what is going to happen to her.The time goes by and Mimi shows up one day at Oscar's door. She has regain her confidence; clearly, she has become a sophisticated woman. Oscar, not wanting to rehash their past, rejects the idea of seeing her again. When he suffers an accident that lands him in a hospital with fractures, Mimi pays him a visit. This encounter will render Oscar a paraplegic, and her slave, because of the revenge she has planned for him.Now, years later, Oscar and Mimi are taking a trip in the ocean liner. Mimi clearly likes Nigel. Her interest is in part a way to humiliate the man that is now dependent on her. Oscar knows she is into having other men; their relation has changed forever. Nigel's attention to Mimi provokes Fiona's hate for the sexy woman. Oscar also has plans of his own. Everything comes to a head at the new year's party, when a defiant Fiona takes to the dance floor where Mimi has been dancing in a provocative way by herself. The two women, it becomes apparent want more than just a dance together. Oscar decides to put a stop to it all in a finale that no one could have predicted.Roman Polanski shows an interesting take on the novel by Pascal Bruckner's Lunes De Fiel, which he helped adapt for the screen with Jeff Gross, Gerard Brach and John Brownjohn. Not having seen it in its commercial release, we caught up with it recently on a cable channel. Mr. Polanski goes for the lurid aspect of the story, one in which is full of kinkiness in the early relationship between Mimi and Oscar. There are graphic details of sado-masochism in the bedroom scenes in Oscar's apartment. After a while, so much sex becomes a bit tedious, but that has its purpose in the way Mr. Polanski wanted to give the finished product. He is a man that is not shy showing passion.Peter Coyote is Oscar. One of the best things he has done in movies. His take on Oscar shows an obsessed man that gets a dose of his own medicine. Casting his own wife, Emanuelle Seigner as Mimi, is a bold move for Mr. Polanski. She was at the height of her youth and beauty, so her Mimi is quite a sight for sore eyes. The only thing that does not make sense is how can this gorgeous creature make herself ugly, it is a stretch of the imagination. Hugh Grant plays another one of his naive Englishmen, wanting to get involved with someone out of his league. The surprise in the film is Kristin Scott Thomas, a great actress that amazes in the last part of the film. Tonino Deli Colli photographed the film in dark tones that work well with the story. Vangelis musical score adds texture to the film. The film shows a perverse Roman Polanski playing with the viewer's imagination in this tale of obsession gone wrong. "},{"Title":"A crazed, cruel relationship under 140 minutes","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski's Bitter Moon is an outrageous, mesmerising 1992 film starring Hugh Grant, Kristin Scott Thomas, Emmanuelle Seigner (Mrs Polanski) and Peter Coyote. The story is a wicked tale of sexual obsession, temptation and betrayal. While in the same vain as Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut it's far from flawless. It is an odd movie that condenses a whole range of feelings into one crazed, cruel relationship in under 140 minutes.Nigel (Grant) and Fiona (Scott-Thomas) are a strait-laced, British couple bound for a second honeymoon. They meet a disabled American named Oscar (Coyote) and his, seductive wife, Mimi (Seigner). Through a series of flashbacks and voice-over narration Oscar tells Nigel the history of his unstable relationship and how he became wheelchair-bound.The high quality of the quirky performances, especially by Peter Coyote are excellent given the subject matter. Polanski's direction coupled with the cinematography and makeup makes the film a fascinating experience. The soundtrack by Vangelis is a perfect compliment to such a ambivalent, atmospheric movie.However, the eroticism of Bitter Moon is overdone with the purpose just to titillate and shock the audience. Based on the novel Lunes de Fiel by Pascal Bruckner it feels artsy with hints of neo-noir and while it runs at a snails pace it's captivating nevertheless. It succeeds not only as a modern Shakespearean tragic comedy but also as a but as a psychological study of the darker side of human nature.While it's not the most appealing or watchable film Polanski's directs it without compromise or apology it is a fascinating concept that covers obsession, love, dependence and hatred. The word lurid is the best way to describe Bitter Moon. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" While 'Bitter Moon' shows great promise for the first part of the film, it eventually runs out of steam.The story involves a polite English couple, Nigel & Fiona, on board a cruise ship, who encounter the crippled Oscar & his beautiful wife, Mimi. Oscar traps Nigel & recounts the perverse story of his relationship with Mimi. The stuffy Nigel is at first quite shocked, but gradually becomes obsessed both with the story & with Mimi herself.So it goes from there, & we are dragged into a tale of sexual obsession, sado-masochism & psychological torture. With Polanski & his regular collaborator Gerard Brach putting on the show, the film should have been an intense, deeply satisfying (if nasty) cinematic experience. It does build up to this, but never really goes anywhere & its climax falls completely flat.The main pleasure to be had from this film is Peter Coyote's cheerfully vicious performance as the sadistic, manipulative Oscar. The rest of the cast are adequate enough, but there's little for them to work with.While 'Bitter Moon' could be described as a a twisted update of 'Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf', one is left thinking Was that it?, instead of feeling the sense of catharsis it's clearly aiming for. "}{"Title":"Never quite manages to reach it's pedigree","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film has the ingredients of a masterpiece, a shattering portrait of desire and obsession from one the worlds most controversial directors. The two male leads are excellent with Coyote on scintillating form. The film is let down by Seigner who never really convinces as the object of obsession. She would certainly be the belle of her local tennis club but you doubt that her charms would enslave men in reality the way they do in the film.  "},{"Title":"Enrapture...","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bitter Moon is like a dream. Polanski is a legend because he never hides his feelings or desires. He always bares his soul (or at least shows what he's thinking) and we are better people for it. Nope, no illusions from this Pole. And you can take comfort in the fact that his sexual fantasies are just as kinky as yours were when you were a teenaged boy. See Bitter Moon and smile at all the perverse goings on. Mr. Coyote you are a lucky man....  "},{"Title":"Hypnotic Masterpiece","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There are films that start off boring but you keep watching because you think something interesting will happen, but nothing does happen.  This is not one of those films.This is a film that starts out interesting, gets more and more interesting as it goes along, and then ends with a twist.  Not sweet but definitely savory.We, the audience, are represented by the Hugh Grant character.  The story is fed to us in pieces.  We are repulsed but fascinated at the same time.  This is an interesting literary device, like Shakespeare's use of a play within a play.  It's well suited to this particular story.Please do not compare this film to Blue Velvet, and please do not put this film on the list of Polanski's failures.  It may be true that this is one of those films that people either love or hate.  Clearly, quite a few appreciate this movie.  One of my most favorite films.  A-list. "},{"Title":"Creating monsters","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film is not a pleasure at all, but insightful, I think, regarding the mind of a user. Peter Coyote plays him well. He thinks of women as pets; not quite things, not quite people. What he does to Mimi is inhuman though she manages to get sweet revenge. Yes, I enjoyed watching him humiliated after what he did to her. This is what really happens when we create monsters; not the cuteness of Pygmalian nor the nobility of Frankenstein. We create monsters and they destroy us. Good thinkers movie. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure?","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I have to admit, it was oddly compelling. But it's a  bit too long, a bit too contrived.Do you want to know you're being seduced or do you just want to be seduced? (by a movie or anything/one for that matter)I can't help but think Roman discovered the story in a pink and purple volume on the other side of the bed while his nubile wife du jour was out clubbing with boys her own age. Read it out of loneliness, made the film out of loneliness...and not the normal, excruciatingly pervasive loneliness we all suffer, but that specific brand of man-loneliness, the mommy-didn't-breast-feed-me-so-I-want-be-punished loneliness most healthy women find more pathetic than any other kind of masculine damage.It was entertaining. I don't know. It kept trying to shock me, though...and I am not Hugh Grant. I couldn't feel for the man. I was too conscious of how I was supposed to be empathizing with him to ever truly be able to do so with abandon.A guilty pleasure, "},{"Title":"Ship of fools","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Oscar the wheel bound man on his way to Istambul is traveling with his much younger and gorgeous wife, Mimi. He is not a happy man. When he meets Nigel, he is trying to go back to his cabin, but needs help in doing so. Nigel is a young Englishman on his honeymoon with Fiona, his straitlaced bride. Mimi had caught Nigel's eye. Oscar invites Nigel to a drink in his room, where he begins to tell the story of his life with Mimi.Oscar meets Mimi on board a 96 bus in Paris. An inspector comes to check tickets; it becomes clear the young woman sitting near Oscar has not paid her fare. He hands her his own ticket so she is not caught, and Oscar is given a fine. In doing so, he misses the opportunity to be with this ravishing creature. When he finally catches up with her, she is working as a waitress in a bistro. Oscar does not know, but he is in for the ride of his life.Oscar, an American living in Paris, has written a few books no one has read. As he starts seeing Mimi, he discovers she is a sensual woman who matches his own libido. They begin a torrid affair. Mimi caters to Oscar every sexual desire, inventing erotic fantasies they play on each other. The sex is great, but when Mimi starts getting boring, Oscar decides he has had it. Wanting to get rid of her, Oscar books a flight to Martinique. Once on board, he executes a brilliant plan, one where Mimi had no clue about what is going to happen to her.The time goes by and Mimi shows up one day at Oscar's door. She has regain her confidence; clearly, she has become a sophisticated woman. Oscar, not wanting to rehash their past, rejects the idea of seeing her again. When he suffers an accident that lands him in a hospital with fractures, Mimi pays him a visit. This encounter will render Oscar a paraplegic, and her slave, because of the revenge she has planned for him.Now, years later, Oscar and Mimi are taking a trip in the ocean liner. Mimi clearly likes Nigel. Her interest is in part a way to humiliate the man that is now dependent on her. Oscar knows she is into having other men; their relation has changed forever. Nigel's attention to Mimi provokes Fiona's hate for the sexy woman. Oscar also has plans of his own. Everything comes to a head at the new year's party, when a defiant Fiona takes to the dance floor where Mimi has been dancing in a provocative way by herself. The two women, it becomes apparent want more than just a dance together. Oscar decides to put a stop to it all in a finale that no one could have predicted.Roman Polanski shows an interesting take on the novel by Pascal Bruckner's Lunes De Fiel, which he helped adapt for the screen with Jeff Gross, Gerard Brach and John Brownjohn. Not having seen it in its commercial release, we caught up with it recently on a cable channel. Mr. Polanski goes for the lurid aspect of the story, one in which is full of kinkiness in the early relationship between Mimi and Oscar. There are graphic details of sado-masochism in the bedroom scenes in Oscar's apartment. After a while, so much sex becomes a bit tedious, but that has its purpose in the way Mr. Polanski wanted to give the finished product. He is a man that is not shy showing passion.Peter Coyote is Oscar. One of the best things he has done in movies. His take on Oscar shows an obsessed man that gets a dose of his own medicine. Casting his own wife, Emanuelle Seigner as Mimi, is a bold move for Mr. Polanski. She was at the height of her youth and beauty, so her Mimi is quite a sight for sore eyes. The only thing that does not make sense is how can this gorgeous creature make herself ugly, it is a stretch of the imagination. Hugh Grant plays another one of his naive Englishmen, wanting to get involved with someone out of his league. The surprise in the film is Kristin Scott Thomas, a great actress that amazes in the last part of the film. Tonino Deli Colli photographed the film in dark tones that work well with the story. Vangelis musical score adds texture to the film. The film shows a perverse Roman Polanski playing with the viewer's imagination in this tale of obsession gone wrong. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  i saw this movie on tv one night and as soon as i saw hugh grants name i almost turned it off how ever i stayed and watched it and it turned out to be one of the funniest movies i have ever seen, i wont give anything away but i will say if you like black humour get this out. "},{"Title":"there are better ways to waste your time","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe someone posted about this film being excessive as it is about excess; this movie is simply awful, over-rated and badly directed. Last tango in Paris is excessive, Cronenberg is excessive, even some other Polanski movies are excessive and thought-provoking and -yes!- exciting; but this one has no storyline, no character development, no excitement and terrible acting you can surely find better ways to waste your time. "},{"Title":"VERY TWISTED LOVE STORY!!!!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie although usually I am only a horror and slasher movie fan. I like Polanski films for the most part and his wife Emmanuelle Seigner is hot, hot, hot!!Lots of nudity in this flick and lots of dark comedy as well. Very clever twists and the movie takes place on a cruise ship. The movie is very long clocking in at 139 minutes but all the storyline makes it go by quicker than you would think. I don't want to give away SPOILERS in this one so I'll let you watch it for yourself. Peter Coyote gives a great performance and like I mentioned Ms. Seigner has it going on in all the right areas!!Wow what a body. Slasher reviewer gives this one 3 thumbs out of the full 5, so check it out if you like movies like Very Bad Things and The Last Supper!!!  "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I know this was intended to be a drama, but for the most part I couldn't stop laughing.  Oscar and Mimi's love/hate affair is twisted, absurd and extremely entertaining, especially after Oscar has to depend on her for care.  Peter Coyote is deliciously callous.  I couldn't really take Emmanuelle Seigner seriously.  Hugh Grant is slightly spineless and a bit of a cad at times -- his stammering charm isn't exactly serving him well here. Kristin Scott Thomas is perfect as usual, but somewhat underused until the last 10 minutes of the film which is worth sitting through the other 129 minutes if only for the shock value.  Interesting twist to the end -- has to be seen to be believed, but both actresses carry it off amazingly well. "}{"Title":"Bitter indeed","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Nigel and Fiona are an English couple on a cruise to India trying to put some spark back in (or maybe just in) their marriage of seven years. They encounter Oscar and Mimi and get more sparks than perhaps they were bargaining for.*Big spoilers ahead* This movie is not at all bad if you like stories that deal with infidelity, sadomasochism, chilling scenes involving a straight razor, graphic sex, lesbianism, murder, suicide, people getting run over by cars, unremitting cruelty, black leather, sexual obsession, and people vomiting.There is a lot of talent behind this movie - quality actors (with the possible exception of Emmanuelle Seigner) with Polanski in the director's seat. My reaction is that this talent did not live up to its potential due primarily to an outrageous screenplay. "},{"Title":"Ah... Too complicated for moi!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie. I watched it years ago and I might have been too young for it, but still- I was mostly bored.The love/hate relationship was interesting, but weird. I dunno. Not my cup of tea. For a very specific taste, I guess. "},{"Title":"lune de fiel","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It is a bit old-fashioned, too 80's strangely, but however, the movie is GREAT! IT is so true. Having just decided to break up with my boyfriend of three years, because I think we felt the way Oscar (Peter Coyote) felt bored with his past passion, Emmanuelle Seigner, beautiful and as voluptuous as Isabella Rossellini in Blue Velvet (the movie reminded me that David Lynch is a big Polanski's fan, for many reasons, included this line You will never have me that we could hear in Lost Highway...) it made me reflect on this hot subject when love dies, don't force things. Emmanuelle Seigner forces them with harassing her ex-lover in a way that Misery's nurse could have done in Stephen King's movie... "},{"Title":"No Wonder This Self-indulgent,Lolita-esquire,never made Money","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" OK, this woman is sexy; why not?She's young,skinny,pretty,and a good dancer.That's about the size of it.This self-indulgent,transparently Polanski-couple duo,are a farce compared to Lolita,or something a lot better written.Yes,BETTER WRITTEN.I suspected,at once,Hey,this guy always wanted to write,but the movie is soft-core porno.It's MELODRAMA,like Lifetime Channel for women,only it's lifetime channel for MEN.The only people this would appeal to,are men.Women would get bored,as I did,and say,there are no real people in this movie,but the English couple.If that.There are nothing but vaginas,penises,and that's about it.And,other sexual openings.There are no real relationships,or real people,just sex.This movie was not popular,because it is a ludicrous melodrama imagined by an older man,of what the ideal nymphette,totally sexual,and nothing else,would be,in Paris,with plenty of money.It's a man's sexual melodrama,,escapist porno written by Polanski to amuse his jaded senses.That's it!!Only good part,the Indian with the little girl,who says,children are the best therapy.Only smart thing in the whole movie.It was the only HUMAN thing.Everything else was complete fantasy,by a hack middle-aged writer,longing for the ultimate young,girl,sex goddess who adored him.The problem is,this man is so threatened by women his own age,he avoids them,and goes for a young,almost girl,innocent,who looks up to him,cause she knows no one else.They have nothing else in common,but sex.They love each other?Not according to his behavior in the rest of the movie,how it all came out.Neither one of them LOVED each other;how did they prove it,finally?They proved the opposite.The English couple probably loved each other,even if they did not have a fantastic,wild,sexual oydessy.Got news for you,that lasts maybe a year,or 6 months,and then total-sex gets stale.Even with Marilyn Monroe!!Ask her ex-husbands.Yes,no wonder the critics disliked this,and audiences stayed away in droves.It's not even REAL in any way,it's playboy bunnies Ahoy!!And,the narration is out of some rabid porno-novel,which gets very tired.Fast.Sorry,if I want to get off,I know what to see,or read,or listen to,that will do it better than this;I was hoping for a real,well written,meaningful movie,in some way,and I just got the Playboy video-melodrama of the month.Not much more.I'm very disappointed in Polanski.Shoulda known better,he married Sharon Tate,eh?? He finally decided to get real writing done,years later,and wrote The Pianist,(did he write it?Someone did a really good job.Maybe he only directed,produced it.I think it was close to his own experience,during WW2,maybe.)But the book publisher,played by Stockard Channing,was rightParis was over 50 yrs. ago,it's OUT,OUT,OUT!She was right,it's become a cliché.Too bad,once it was pretty nice.If you like France,(which still is very nice,)try other parts of it;there are many,besides the obvious Paris.Just like the USA is not just New York City.I'm sorry,this movie is rife with clichés,and hackneyed melodrama,and I got tired,yawned,went to sleep,had to rewind,and could barely even get thru it.I quit.At first,I saw the English actors,and said,OH,two of my favorites!Must be good!but they could not save it.I'm not just putting it down,cause it's macho-playboy bunny country,some of it(what's wrong with this dress?Is my butt too big?)was funny.But very little of it.Repeated attempts by two people to endlessly have sex,get turned on,and shut the whole world out,gets boring.THEY got bored with it!!Plus,you could not call the way the two behaved,the main two,to be love.It was passion and sex,which is not to be confused with love.Ask any long term,successful relationship-bound couple,and they'll tell you what love is made of.Not just sex,not just passion.OK,even a stable married couple needs to ramp it up,get fresh,get excited again,sometimes.SURE!! YOU HAVE TO!!Add excitement,romance,change,and pleasure.You need it.But substitute Lolita and her dadfor a real relationship?No way.And,no real movie.sorry,Polanski finally made The Pianist,a real movie.Watch that,more real passion per square yard. ) "},{"Title":"More sexual journeying with Hugh Grant","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The earlier successes in Hugh Grant's career were also Englishman-abroad types. I suspect this was less to do with him marketing his fringe, flustering and foibles but more because he actually understands the oxymoron of the deprecating ill ease of an Englishman masks a strong complex of resolve and intelligence. This is what we find in Maurice and subsequently remains of the day - and possibly why he finds the cad easier than the hero.In Polanski's Bitter Moon, he endures the Sadeian-perorations of a sexually liberated American and the warped relationship that misfortune has visited upon him and his young muse d'amour. In tow is Kristin Scott Thomas, the most elegant of Hugh Grant's foils in this sort of situation.The quartet grapple ably with Polanski's erotic investigation which unfortunately curdles into something rather more prosaic. However, the grand, weather-contingent claustrophobia of the ship is a good stage on which to play out this film. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Why did I waste my time?","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If this movie had the actors or atmosphere of Blue Velvet, it would have been great.  The acting was unbelievable, the atmosphere was like Love Boat and I could've cared less about all of the actors.  Polanski's wife was annoying rather than seductive, and how could you break a leg getting hit by a truck and become a paraplegic falling out of bed?  Even worse, he seems unphased by losing his ability to walk.  Their punk rock phase was laughable.  Shall I go on?  It certainly is no Chinatown! "},{"Title":"Not just 'bitter', but rancid...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" (THERE MAY BE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW, BUT QUITE HONESTLY I CAN'T SEE HOW THEY WOULD MAKE MUCH DIFFERENCE... )I must admit that I watched this film in its entirety for far more primal reasons than cinematic completism. Whilst channel surfing one day I came across the rather alluring sight of Ms. Seiger dousing her breasts in milk. Tuning in at a later date hoping for more of the same titillating material, I found that, placed in context, the scene was more unintentionally hilarious than intentionally erotic. This differing interpretation to how the film was intended persisted for awhile, until the staggering rankness of the production managed to wring even the smallest drop of hilarity out of it also.Some would say after learning the above fact that I am nothing but a voyeur and deserve every bit of punishment I got from watching the whole of this trash. I of course would disagree, borrowing heavily from the film's subject matter in my defense and claiming that the only way you could possibly enjoy this is if you were a masochist. It really is a facile exploration of obsession that instead becomes a curio rather like a freak-show you would see at a circus. Kristen Scott Thomas is normally a fine actress and must have been intimidated outrageously to get her to appear in such tosh. Hugh Grant? Well, he's been in Lair of the White Worm, so... The characters really are just hideous caricatures, and it isn't long before the film becomes offensive from a moral standpoint as well as an artistic one. The transformation in personality of the wheelchair-bound character (Peter Coyote) after he becomes disabled is hideously overdone and seems like it was just injected into the storyline in an attempt to provide more resonance. I can tell you it failed, because as a disabled man myself I was repulsed...Still, enough of dissecting why the film sucked quite so badly with any weighty arguments. If you are a film fan - whether disabled or not - you should find this offensive because it is shambolic in every way. It just adds to the resentment, too, to know that that the guy who directed this also directed Chinatown. How exactly is that possible? "},{"Title":"More evidence Polanski is overrated.","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bitter Moon is yet another example that Polanski has made more lemons than lemonade. Telling of a married couple on an ocean voyage who happen upon another couple which invigles them into ridiculous behavior by spinning an equally ridiculous yarn, this tiring soap opera quality flick will wear you out with its monotonous 2.2 hour run. A shabby film which opens with a curious situation, the carrot, which keeps you watching though a seemingly endless  succession of flashbacks narrated with horribly sophomoric prose, Bitter Moon proves many things...such as Seigner can't dance and Polanski still hasn't mastered the art of keeping his characters in character. As ashamed as I am to say it, the best thing in the flick from my perspective is all the Seigner skin. At least -it- isn't blatant fraud. (C) "},{"Title":"Polanski","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" To L Flowers et AL Since Eyes Wide Shut did not fail, your conclusion means Bitter Moon did not succeed. Both are incorrect. This is the generation of comparing the wrong things. Polanski vs. Polanski gives a slight hope for enlightenment; and slight at that. Compare Polanski to your neighbor, your boss, your wife, and you will have my attention.If you like Polanski films, watch Polanski films, if you like your neighbor, talk to your neighbor, everything else will naturally take care of itself.### "},{"Title":"Boring Trash","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There's an old folk belief or superstition about the seventh year of a marriage being critical in the life of that marriage. Somebody even wrote a play about this--The Seven Year Itch--a comedy that had some success on the stage and later in the movies. Bitter Moon is about a couple successfully completing seven years in their marriage and celebrating with an ocean cruise to be followed with a plane trip to India. We get a couple of shots of their cruise ship, obviously a fake little toy bouncing around in a tank. The movie is fake too and so stunningly dull, despite all the attempts by Roman Polanski to mold his quartet of uninteresting lead actors into the cinematic equivalent of that well-known group in Rigoletto. However, in Bitter Moon there is no such feeling of ensemble performing. Peter Coyote, who tells Hugh Grant at excruciating length the story of his relationship with his wife/mistress played by Emanuelle Seigner gives ample evidence of why he is an unsuccessful author. Grant is trite and totally unconvincing as the unwilling listener who is gradually drawn away from thinking about the joys of his seven-year marriage and into the orbit of the Coyote and Seigner characters and their kinky sexual relationship. These guys are so dysfunctional. The women they are hooked up with are the same, as they graphically show us in the film's climax. My favorites were the gentleman from India and his little girl, but they were only in a couple of scenes. "}{"Title":"pedophile and twisted","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is the first Roman Polanski movie that I see and I found it not only horrible, but quite twisted. In the first part the woman acts as a child all the time, she barely speaks English, she talks as a child, she seems innocent and naive, wears very short schoolgirl skirts and acts as a young and scared kid, fascinated by the older man who shows her the world.The second hour of the film gets completely lunatic. If that's art poor us. remind me never to watch a film by Polasnki againThe actors are good, but as whole it's a waste of time, unless you are interested in pornography "},{"Title":"Man Brags About Sex Life","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This story is about an English couple , Nigel and Fiona Dobson on a cruise ship where they meet a crippled American called Oscar who tells them of his relationship with the love of his life a young French woman called Mimi Is there anything less compelling than someone discussing their sex life ? I know a lot of people detest having to look at their friends holiday picture snaps but having to listen to other peoples sex lives really take the biscuit and who thought this would have been a good idea for a movie ? I guess since the director is Polanski many people watched this for voyeuristic reasons to see if it explains Polanski's psyche but it's a fairly dire uninvolving movie with unsympathetic characters , I mean we've got Mimi who is what the Brits would call  A bit of a slapper  going out with someone old enough to be her father . Did I mention Roman Polanski is the director ? And after losing Mimi Oscar decides to seduce women he meets at the supermarket . Did I mention the characters are unsympathetic ? Oh and Oscar gets back with Mimi after he's been crippled and she embarks on an affair with a dancer . Did I mention she's a bit of a slapper ? The ending is rather depressing and as the credits roll you feel that the movie has been a waste of time "},{"Title":"roman polanski what were you thinking","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Without a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen. Hemingway without the quality, Henry Miller without the love, and mud wrestling without the humanity. It appears that the automated quality control for IMDb commands, in no uncertain terms, that the standard review for a movie be at least ten lines long a standard that is upheld in this movie, namely, that quality be replaced, not with quantity but with a barrage of flashbacks, unflattering miniskirts, and poorly-drawn metaphors.I wanted to make this review three sentences, but the 13 year old boy who must have undoubtedly slaved away at the script deserves at least 3 sentences, a semi-colon, and an elipses worth of criticism to steer his hormonal imbalance toward something more deserving of human attention... like the stray cat who wandered by just now looking like she wanted a good petting. "}]