[{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"77 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The less you know about this film, the better. I won't tell you anything except what a well-written and well-acted movie this is. from the first 15 minutes, which is mainly dialogue between two actors, you are completely drawn in to the film, which has almost dream-like qualities.If you were planning to see it just because of the twist and to see what everyone was talking about, then see it. If you were planning to see it for the amazing script, acting and direction - see it. And if you were planning on not seeing it - see it "},{"Title":"One of the most shocking and original movies of 1992. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"67 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE CRYING GAME / (1992) ***1/2 (out of four)	 By Blake French	I admire Neil Jordan for contributing his vastly original ideas to theater screens, as do I admire the Academy Awards, who appropriately rewarded The Crying Game with the best original screenplay Oscar in 1992. The film also earned nominations for best picture, director, leading and supporting actors, and editing. Jordan's style of filmmaking feels consistent over the years. The Crying Game offers the usual flavor of Jordan, but also incorporates unexpected, ninety degree twists that change the pace of his story altogether.	The Crying Game begins in Northern Ireland, where the IRA takes prisoner a British soldier named Jody (Forest Whitaker). Among the team of committed terrorists is the quiet Fergus (Stephen Rea), and the seductive Jude (Miranda Richardson), who guard Jody in an isolated forest shelter. As Fergus continually watches Jody, the two become begin to like one another. Jody knows that his tragic fate nears, therefore, shows Fergus a photograph of his romantic interest, who lives back in London. He asks Fergus to look her up sometime if he ever gets the chance. 	The movie takes a ridged, unexpected turn, and the next time we see Fergus, he is living as a construction worker in London under a new name. He finds the soldier's girlfriend working at a beauty salon. Her name is Dil (Jaye Davidson). Fergus gets a haircut, and follows her to a nearby bar, then the next thing we know the two are deeply in love. But Dil has a secret-and so does Fergus. What would Dil think if she knew her new lover was responsible for her late boyfriend's death? 	Stephen Rae is the best thing in the movie, interlocking the several separate plots with a concrete narrative. The film takes his point of view, and does so consistently. This is essential, since we learn information as he does-a classic yet extraordinarily effective method of keeping an audience involved. Here, Jordan celebrates a clean story, but reveals information about certain characters that change the entire direction of the story, while keeping the important material in play. That is not easy.	The Crying Game is not for everyone-it's a hard, perverse movie with enough content to warrant several R ratings. The sexual content is unexpected and distorted, but stunningly original. Three minutes do not pass before a character casually utters the notorious four-letter word. Even the violence is aggressive and graphic. The Crying Game takes no prisoners, so hold on tight and come prepared for the ride. 	I think the film could have investigated the relationship between Dil and Jody with more detail. We learn how Jody feels about Dil, but Dil resists sharing her feelings about Jody. Is this done for a purpose? I think so. Neil Jordan is not the kind of director who would leave out massive plot nuggets like this, especially in a movie as deliberate and complex as The Crying Game. However, Dil feels a little shallow in this area. With a little more emotion and dimension, she could have been even more intriguing. Jaye Davidson does a great job with the character, however, which probably explains why this element of the story has not received many other complaints.	The Crying Game was certainly one of the most original movies to hit theaters in 1992, and deserved many of its award nominations and wins. Neil Jordan bravely takes us through controversial material, while at the same time, keeps us focused on the main points of the movie. He keeps the audience in his grasp the whole way through-something all directors should strive to accomplish.   	    "},{"Title":"Unconditional love transcends all boundaries, real or imagined.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"70 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From a philosophical viewpoint, this movie illustrates unconditional love, which is not that prevalent in our present world.  We could all learn some things from this movie, if we chose to do so.I regret that I am only ten (10) years behind in seeing and understanding this work.The entire cast and crew were excellent in their work and the writer deserves tremendous credit for such insight and understanding of the degree of heart and soul which can and does exist in some people.I would recommend it to anyone who is attempting to understand humanity and some of the trials and tribulations it puts itself through.It is classified as a teaching movie specializing in unconditional love, or fiction with a definite positive purpose.  Beautiful work. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"53 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Crying Game was a sensation when it was first released back in 1992, and looking back on it after all these years it still manages to be an intelligently written and well acted thriller of gender-bending proportions. It famously features one of the most startling plot twists ever conceived for film (which has since become well known; if you're fortunate enough not to know what it is, I will give you the pleasure of discovering it for yourself.). At the time of its release the plot twist in question was the main subject of discussion regarding The Crying Game; in retrospect, it is seen not just to be a gimmick, but also an ingenious narrative device--it fits organically with the rest of the plot, both before the revelation and after. Finally, The Crying Game is actually a film that deals with the universal theme of one's need to find acceptance and love in this world (This fact adds new dimensions to its theme song). And because it deals with such a universal theme, this film, like all great films, stands the test of time.  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of the Unexpected","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"52 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason I watched The Crying Game was because I had heard it was pretty good and it is from the same director as The Interview with the Vampire. Plus it was on TV. The film really surprised me. It was wonderfully made and had a great twist. The performances were real and profound. The writing was some of the best in years. And the direction was outstanding. And the costume design, art direction, makeup, and score were all amazing. The song The Crying Game also caught me as particularly wonderful. The Crying Game is a classic in every way. It makes a lasting impression and should be viewed many times. It is a true classic. "},{"Title":"The Moving Film","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is a really deep & touching movie. Dil sings (& moves her hands about like a classical Indian dancer rather distractingly) I know all about the crying game we know that she knows. It drips out of her voice, it rolls down her cheek, it stares out of her eyes. She knows she has lost her best chance in life - the only man to love her was killed in Ireland. Yet when she meets Stephen Rea the man who, unknown to her, was responsible for her lover's (Forest Whitaker) death in Ireland, hope again rises in her. She will hold on to Rea for her life for in him she sees a 'gentleman' very like Whitaker. But Rea is not the only one with a secret. Dil has one too & that gives the movie the tension, irony & ultimately the tragedy which sets it apart from any IRA/ star-crossed lovers/ hostage drama that I have seen. When Dil tells Rea that she knows he is lying but all the same she likes to hear him say that he loves her it moves everyone in the audience.The performances (Adrian Dunbar as the ruthless leader, Miranda Richardson as the cold, teasing assassin & Jim Broadbent as the bartender, not to mention Rea, Dil & Whitaker) are brilliant, the atmosphere is electric & the score is haunting. The only points that rankle are Whitaker's dream-sequence appearances looking like a model in a detergent ad & Dil's suddenly-acquired shooting skills which brings the movie to its horrific climax.A brilliant movie with layers & layers of depth, & comparable to Jordan's earlier 'Mona Lisa'. That is saying a lot because Mona Lisa walks into my Top 50 movies without even knocking! "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the '90s","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first part of The Crying Game is based on a great short story by Frank O'Connor, Guests of the Nation. The balance of this provocative, brilliantly made film takes you on a journey fueled by guilt, romance, terrorist intrigue, and a plot twist that ranks as one of the most startling in all cinema. The acting, by Forest Whitaker, Stephen Rea, Jaye Davidson, and others, is all first-rate; the cinematography and score are stellar; and Neil Jordan directs with vigor and empathy.How can anyone give this movie less than a 10? I can't. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Hidden Emotions by Neil Jordan","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" N.B. Spoilers within. It's hard to do justice to this modern masterpiece. Let me get this out of the way The Twist. The whole issue is a real shame to me; viewers should just stick to the complexities of the story and characters, and not &#151; as the marketers selling the film would soon glom onto &#151; a twist. To think that this would go on to nearly define for the world Neil Jordan's incredible movie! (Along with this, the I-could-see-it-coming-a-mile-away attitude...give me a break and just suspend some disbelief.) It doesn't matter now the poignancy and importance of what Fergus (Stephen Rea) and Dil (Jaye Davidson) experience in this film have given it staying power. But let's start at the beginning, in Northern Ireland and the IRA, and the kidnapping of British officer Jody (the very solid Forest Whitaker). Here Fergus shows his true colors as a man, befriending Jody &#151; his hated enemy &#151; and proving himself something of a human beyond the sworn duties of his terrorist associations. This first 35 minutes of the film will indelibly imprint on everything that happens thereafter. Fergus's bonding with Jody cannot be helped &#151; because of who the two men are &#151; even as it complicates the emotions between them. The essential story narrated by Jody of the scorpion and the frog serves as background metaphor for the rest of the story I can't help it&#133;it's in my nature. Jody's revealing to Fergus of his distant lover Dil (why did he do it? To pre-avenge the terrorist acts happening to him? Out of pure love and sharing?) lights a fuse for the rest of the film, too. IRA activist and lover of Fergus, Jude (Miranda Richardson) proves herself tough in these opening sequences, but is nothing like the Valkyrie she will emerge as in Act III. Jody is unfortunately dispatched early from the picture, but the damage is done his work on Fergus's psyche has been cemented.Fergus departs the IRA holdout, now in smithereens, and heads to London, where he becomes Jimmy. He looks up Dil, heavy with the knowledge of how complicit he was in Jody's fate. This, too, takes a constant place in the storyline and must always be kept in mind. (Stephen Rea wears his burdens in the way he talks, walks, breathes he and Davidson are incredible.) Dil seems to be able to take care of herself just fine (dumping the the dufus Dave, for example), but once she meets Jimmy she falls in love. The feelings are mutual. At the club where Dil performs, bartender Col (a smooth and perfectly knowing Jim Broadbent) mediates the tentative relations between grieving Dil and searching Jimmy/Fergus. So, the decisive moment the big reveal. Dil says honestly, I thought you knew. And later (with the film's many touches of grim humor) Even while you were throwing up, I could tell you cared. Fergus has another dream about Jody afterward now Jody is not pitching (i.e. sharing) a cricket ball, but strolling away with a smirk and a genuine sense of revenge. But Fergus needn't worry one of the great themes in this movie is the way he can't help but stick with Dil, no matter who she has turned out to be. It's all about Fergus's (and Dil's) huge capacity for love, which has become far more universal.All comes together breathlessly in the final Act. Jude & co. show up in London and re-recruit Fergus to the cause, an important assassination. Now Jude is ruthless and jealously knows of Dil and Fergus. It's incredibly touching when Fergus shears and disguises Dil to save her life he has put her in harm's way. (One leitmotif in this movie is the music that accompanies the intimate moments between Fergus and Dil &#151; a little sugary but very effective.) When Fergus FINALLY reveals to Dil his relationship with Jody, she is too drugged to fully grasp. But soon she will get it, in spades. The collision between love stories and terrorist plot is unforgettable. Jude is unprepared for the emotional force wielded by the liberated Dil, whose feelings for Jody come to the fore as she has learned of how Jude seduced Jody to his capture in Ireland. Now that Dil's secret is out (in the real world), the viewer must be fair to the film and *always* keep him/herself in Fergus and Dil's heads. Their points of view are crucial to taking this film on its own grounds. This is one of the most powerful and intelligent films I've ever seen; a thriller combined with multi-layered love stories. Jordan et. al. have created an utterly absorbing and memorable tale. "},{"Title":"The Most Talked About Film of 1992","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"33 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Crying Game is one of those films that you see and you talk about for days after you first see it.  A genuine shocker at the time of its release, the film was huge in 1992 and earned a Best Picture nomination from the Academy.  The film is a complicated puzzle which involves an IRA volunteer (Stephen Rea in his Oscar-nominated role) who is assigned to guard a British soldier (Forest Whitaker).  An unlikely friendship develops and when Whitaker is killed, Rea goes to find his girlfriend who is not at all that she seems.  There is no point in giving away her secret to those who have not yet seen this film.  However, the twists and turns of The Crying Game are what make the film work.  The movie is flawed in several areas, but overall it is a noble work that ranks real high on the list of other great films of the 1990s.  4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Forever fighting....","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie. While the scene achieved great notoriety and some think that's all the movie is about, it's really about so much more. The desperation of the Irish to achieve freedom from England is very much on display here. Like other ancient feuds around the globe, the passion on both sides is evident in their willingness to do just about anything to advance their cause(s). It's also a powerful, if strange, story of human love. Complicated, deeply felt, real love. The kind that would make you sacrifice virtually everything to prevent the one you love from suffering pain. Excellent acting makes this a worthwhile investment of time. A film to remember and cherish. "}{"Title":"Well done film","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not the average, run of the mill suspense film. It is well acted, with a solid script and very human side to the plot. Jaye Davidson launched a nice career with this surprise. In the end, Crying Game does not take the easy way out and cheat the audience. Neil Jordan made some excellent artistic choices. I am genuinely sorry I missed this film in the theatres and I am pleased I rectified this oversight. "},{"Title":"one of the best films i have ever seen","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw this film in 2001 and it was indeed a wonderful experience for me because it is such a film that reminds us that how complicated and sensitive our relationship with each other. the main attraction of this film is obviously jaye devidson asDil who played this complicated role beautifully.it is one of the best films i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I can't help it.  It's in my nature!","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I was a teenager The Crying Game managed to surprise and touch. I watched it again last night and the magic is still there. Neil Jordan just have the touch.A soldier, Jody (Forest Whitaker) is kidnapped by the terrorist group of IRA. He forms a surprising friendship with one of his kidnappers, Fergus (brilliant Stephen Rea) who has a killer smile but has also a heart. Jody adjures Fergus to go and find his loved one if something would happen to him...Neil Jordan has written an amazing script which makes you laugh and cry. The story is very well structured. It is a story of love as an universal thing. This is the philosophy that is very dear to me. Jordan masquerades brilliantly human reflections through well-written characters like Fergus and Dil (Jaye Davidson). Dil's character gets to say the best punch-lines in addition of Fergus. The metaphor of the scorpion and the frog reflects human nature greatly.The acting is fantastic. Stephen Rea is always very charming in his subtle way. Forest Whitaker was then just starting but his performance as Jody is touching. Jaye Davidson was a very good finding to play Dil. Miranda Richardson is ice-cold and cool as Jude. Jim Broadbent is funny as the bartender Col.What a great movie! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Could have been great but copped out","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Considering the monumental reputation this film had, it is surprisingly average, a very slow moving plot and with rather clunky and, at times, amateurish direction.Even with its faults, this could have been a serious film, perhaps a masterpiece, if it had taken the easy route on several occasions. The earliest and most important of these cop outs is the shooting of Jody (Forest Whitaker). After its long (perhaps over long) opening sequence in which Jody is abducted, we feel we are at the start of a movie about moral choices and how, in this case the hero, Fergus, may have to do something he finds morally repugnant for the greater good. Alas, in a scene which completely deflated me, this choice is removed from him, Whittaker instead being run over by a British armoured car. Leaving aside the practical aspect (armoured cars are noisy things, not likely to creep up on you unnoticed), this completely destroys the powerful underlying tension of the film. Had Fergus shot Jody (or at least thought he had), then following his last request, had sought out the girl only to fall in love with her, the film would have asked serious questions about the nature of good and evil. Instead the hero becomes basically an errand boy.I do wonder if this strange decision was caused by a need to placate the American audience and thus sanitise the IRA to a degree? Certainly some of the next scenes in London seem to represent a cosy tourist view of the city with chirpy barman Jim Broadbent happily giving out cocktails to customers on their second visit (never known a barman to do that) and a clichéd white chav version of Essex man complete with shell suit. This stands out since the film is so careful (rightly) not to create stereotype Irish, black or LGBT characters. But this courtesy is not extended to white English males.The story meanders for a long time (with many rather pointless shots of a Jody bowling) both before and after the not so shocking reveal which I personally did not find that interesting. The story starts to flag just as Fergus's old IRA buddies show up. This lumbers to the final climax which again is rather amateurishly filmed.If you want to see a great and beautifully shot film about the IRA and love, ODD MAN OUT by Carol Reed is a far finer work. "},{"Title":"A product of a professional","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film (I have seen it twice) is a real piece of first class handy-craft. The supposed (and advertised as offensive to some) turn in the middle of it, might disturb some viewers and has nothing to do with the action. The calm and slow way of telling that's significant for the film, makes it perfect for Michael Rea as the sensitive reluctant IRA-volunteer. The musical theme (like the title) is simply Bull's Eye. "},{"Title":"So much more than the secret","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly fantastic movie. Neil Jordan's apparent tale of an IRA terrorist who becomes involved in the life of one of his captives explores so much beyond the plot &#150; issues of identity, belief, and yes, even love. The performances are brilliant from every cast member, especially so for Miranda Richardson, Stephen Rea, and the incomparable Jaye Davidson. Even if you know the secret, you'll still probably be captivated by this film. A triumph for Jordan one of the best movies of the 1990s. "},{"Title":"amazing film","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favourite films of all time. There is so much hatred in the world today that makes you loose faith in things, but this is a film that gives you faith in humanity. Fergus is such a genuinely kind person, this tale of platonic love is incredibly moving. I love how even when he finds out about Dil, that he still loves her in a platonic way and goes to jail for her. It is a moving and thrilling film, and you will be enthralled by the characters. Jaye Davidson is absolutely amazing there, as is the rest of the cast. This is a film for the very open minded and any one with any preconceptions will not appreciate the film fully, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Unusual, intriguing film...","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Highly unusual drama concerning an English soldier (Forest Whitaker) who is kidnapped by an underground Irish Army, eventually befriending his captor (Stephen Rea), which leads to a complicated series of personal entanglements involving the soldier's lover (the mysterious Jaye Davidson). Exceptionally well-made picture from canny director Neil Jordan, who also penned the screenplay and won an Oscar. Too bad the third act is so convoluted, and the final scene so banal, that a slight dissatisfaction clouds the overall result. Nevertheless, a daring and provocative piece with excellent performances. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"This is a stylish and enthralling movie","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is gloriously cast and directed to create a stunning environment of tension and mystery between the characters which is hardly dispelled even by the shocking plot twist, though some may refuse to look further. The cast is superb, and the intensity of involvement and emotion in the story is mesmerising.  "},{"Title":"Twisted Love","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crying Game still causes a stir after it was first released in 1992. The film offers an interesting take on a love story, with the usual case of betrayal, desire and violence. However, the film's interesting twist is what kept people watching the film back in 92, and still affects moviegoers today.Jody (Forest Whitaker)is a British soldier that is kidnapped at the start of the film, lured by the seductive charms of Jude (Miranda Richardson). A group of IRA terrorists kidnap him in order for the British to release one of their own. Fergus (Stephen Rea), one of the group members, befriends Jody. During one of their discussions, Jody shows a picture of his girl Dil (Jaye Davidson), who intrigues Fergus.Things soon go bad when the kidnapping turns incredibly ugly and Fergus flees to London. With a new identity and a job where the boss constantly chews him out, Fergus (Now known as Jimmy)seeks out Dil, whose a hairdresser. Drawn to Dil like a moth to a flame, Fergus finds out a bit more than he expected. And even then, he can't break his relationship with Dil.With the re-emergence of Jude (Now brunette and dressed to kill), Fergus is forced into a suicide mission, which draws Dil into the mix. This also leads into a nasty situation when Dil finds out the connection between Jimmy and Jude.Even though the secret has been let out of the bag many years ago, I'm not going to spoil it for the few remaining people that don't know it. But the film, directed and written by Neil Jordan (Who won an Oscar for writing it),still gives you an emotional story. You do feel a bit like Fergus you really do care about what will happen. "}{"Title":"makes you believe in love again","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I saw 'The Crying Game' just after a relationship of mine had fallen apart. I totaly dived into the story - it really got me from the first moment on... Without wanting to give away the secret of the movie - I think the director dealt with the problematic subject in a very good way. the open ending may disappoint some of the romantic-freaks, but it's only relistic. I didn't miss anything like a 'big' kiss or a 'real' love-scene for that would only have been unrealistic.Or would anyone really expect him to accept his (potential) homosexuality at once?!   "},{"Title":"When a Man Loves a Woman, She would Stand by Her Man","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This wonderful movie is even better on the repeat viewing after the secret was out because you'd pay more attention to the smallest details and enjoy the brilliant storytelling and acting by everyone. Besides Rea, Whitaker, and Miranda Richardson, I'd like to mention Jim Broadbent as a sympathetic bartender Col. For me, though, the absolutely stunning, one of the very best debuts in the movie history was Jaye Davidson who had no movie experience. You know, there are not many characters that I keep thinking about after the movie is over - where did they come from, how their life would turn after the final credits, how would this cruel world treat them, would they be happy? And I want them to be happy. Dil (Davidson) is one of them - what a marvelous creature, how vulnerable yet dignified she is, what a combination of dry remote coolness and quiet tenderness. No wonder, Fergus (Rea) (as Whitaker's Jody before him) fell under her spell even after he found out that nothing is what it seems. Great movie - makes you think, makes you feel, makes you talk about it, makes you want to see it again.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching The Crying Game and, I must say, it is worth all the hype. It has a great deal of twists and surprises, and yet manages to maintain its plausibility throughout. Notwithstanding the excellent action and suspense, it is a story of love and of human nature, that is masterfully shown here as infinitely multifaceted. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Intensely Brilliant","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the first time I saw this movie, I was absolutely captivated by it. This film propels the watcher into an almost dreamlike state.  The cinematography helps to create this state.  The performances (especially those of Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson) are excellent.  Neil Jordan's genius Screenplay (he also directed) is probably the strongest point.  This is a movie that I doubt anyone can watch just once....And I would consider one of the best movies of the 1990s... "},{"Title":"To understand Northern Ireland, start here","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To understand how a person could end up killing for an ideal (or not) in the modern world, see this movie.  Its the best take on the IRA ever done in film.  And, hello!, its all about identity.  The movie works on many levels, yet never looses its way.  The casting is spot on, and the description of Northern Ireland and the passions, stupidities, confusions and human connections that run altogether to spawn a modern terrorist struggle ring true even in the most unexpected scenes. "},{"Title":"A remarkable study of loyalty, identity and betrayal","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nearly a decade after its release, Neil Jordan's The Crying Game continues to stand out in the top ranks of intelligent, literate and provocative psychological thrillers. At heart it is a remarkable study of loyalty, identity and betrayal. A textured exploration of the nature of allegiance and friendship, the film is anchored by fine central performances from Jaye Davidson, Forrest Whitaker and Stephen Rea. Indeed, the American actor Whitaker's utterly convincing portrayal of a modern urban Briton is ample proof of his impressive range. It is perhaps Whitaker's finest performance. The triangular relationship explores the principal theme on many levels, and the fine supporting performances from Jim Broadbent and Miranda Richardson add to the richness of Jordan's film. "},{"Title":"Miranda Richardson's best!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Miranda Richardson was stunning as the vicious female terorrist, Jude,  who tricks Stephen Rea with her beauty. Besides Miranda, the film was great. It left me awestruck! I had no idea Dil was a ??? I almost puked! The cast was great and so was the dark settings. Whitaker does great with his accent and the Scorpion and the Frog story! Rea was convincing as the troubled terorrist who hides out in London after Whitaker is killed. Jaye Davidson does a great job for a debut film.But that Miranda Richardson was downright sexy! At first I got bored with the film but I stuck through it and so should you! You won't be disappointed!  NOTE This film is not for general audiences. You must be prepared for anything when you see this! 10/10 "},{"Title":"It's all about the subtle details in The Crying Game (1992)","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer-director Neil Jordan's The Crying Game caused a huge sensation in 1992 before and after the time of its release that year. I myself have a strange history with this movie. I had a very strong idea about this film's big plot twist long before I actually sat down and watched it; a documentary on slasher movies also clued me in to the little detail that this film had hiding within its complex story structures. I have to say that upon having completely watched The Crying Game in its entirety, the big twist is still pretty shocking - even if it is to be expected. The film begins as an intense political thriller IRA terrorist Fergus (Stephen Rea) is part of a plot to kidnap a black British soldier named Jody (Forest Whitaker, sporting his best British accent ever) in exchange for the freedom of several IRA members being held captive by the British military. The two strike up an unexpected, albeit tragic friendship Jody knows that Fergus is no killer at heart, but instead extracts a promise from Fergus that in the event of his inevitable execution, he go to London to track down and protect his exotic lover Dil (Jaye Davidson). As expected, the two strike up a casual friendship that eventually blossoms into a tentative romantic relationship. And soon, even after the Big Twist, elements from Fergus's past as an IRA terrorist come back to haunt him. The Crying Game is a film that often explores the complexities of human nature (both the sordid histories of both Fergus and Dil come to the forefront for them both to deal with), against a backdrop of complex political intrigue, nationality, sexuality, race, and gender. These details, in addition to the subtle body language and nuances of the performers, make The Crying Game a complex and highly involving psychological thriller. It's a boldly acted, written, and directed little film with big-time ambitions. The Crying Game was undoubtedly one of the best films of 1992 and for plenty of good reason.10/10 "},{"Title":"Compelling Despite Fractured Narrative","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE CRYING GAME is a film of three parts. In the first a British soldier is captured by IRA terrorists, one of whom befriends him. In the second part the friendly IRA terrorist flees to London where he falls in love with the British soldiers lover. In the third part the IRA track down the terrorist and order him to kill a British judge.At heart the film is a love story between the IRA terrorist and the British soldier's lover. It gets around the shifting settings by having the British soldier and IRA terrorist talk about the lover in the first third, even though she isn't present. Then the love story can develop in the second part before being tested in the third part.Despite the strange and wandering nature of the film it remains strangely compelling throughout, supported by believable performances in all the major roles. The major 'reveal' is probably less shocking than it once was. Unfortunately I knew it beforehand, which robbed it of much of its impact. A well made film, this is certainly a rather different sort of film compared to most of the films that deal with The Troubles. Most of the film feels like a large TV production and often verges on the rubbish yet somehow (I can't explain it), it retains the viewers interest. "},{"Title":"Interesting but underwhelming","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just finished watching the crying game on Film4's films for life, and must say I was underwhelmed...I can see how when it was released it would have been highly controversial and like practically nothing that came before it. And for this reason it was probably deserving of the awards it won. The acting is admirable, as is the directing etc but truthfully I just didn't enjoy it. I was only three years old when it was released and have seen many films which I'm sure had the way paved for them by crying game before watching the original, but compared to later movies with similar content or controversy it is just lacking something.The truth is I just didn't enjoy watching it, I found my mind wandering, which is never a good thing when watching a film. The twist that was so shocking in 1992, but today's standard is rather predictable (I won't go into further detail for spoiler purposes) what happens after that was where the beauty of the writing comes to fruition, it was too late for me by then. Bottom line, if you are a movie buff you should see this movie to appreciate the quality or writing and acting, but if you want to enjoy a film you can probably give this a miss. "}{"Title":"Known for that one scene, Everything else has been forgotten","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Known more for it's twist than anything, The crying game at best is a average drama . The film never went anywhere. First half was at least intriguing but after the Twist it began to feel cheap.With Forest's awful accent, it can take anyone many minutes to realise he English. The overall acting was fine and the conversations between the hostage and the capturer were engaging. All fairness , the first half of the film was enjoyable but after the twist it began to be daft. Thought i was watching another overblown story from the writers for Eastenders I find it hard why the crying game is ranked up there with the greatest British films of all time. After listening to the cockney lady call out  Jimmy for the hundredth time i began to loose my patience. The twist was unexpected but it did nothing for the overall film "},{"Title":"The Labyrinth Of The Human Heart","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few films have so consistently defeated expectations, both on and off the screen, as Neil Jordan's 1992 THE CRYING GAME, a dark and darkly humorous tale of terrorism, guilt, revenge, and the vagaries of the human heart. Producers disliked the script, which they considered both noncommercial and impossible to cast. Filmed on a shoestring budget, it was expected to go nowhere fast--and then became the most talked-about film of its year, alternately fascinating and outraging audiences and critics around the world, nominated for and winning numerous awards, and going on to become one of the top grossing films of its year.The film is extremely difficult to discuss because to do so undermines its power for a first-time viewer. In a general sense, it concerns IRA terrorist Fergus (Stephen Rea), who is involved in the kidnapping of English solider Jody (Forrest Whittaker.) Soon Fergus finds himself pursued by the English as well as the IRA, which feels he has betrayed them; he hides himself in the crowds of London, where he is attracted to Jody's girl--the elegant Dill (Jaye Davidson.) But the more Fergus tries to avoid danger, the more it swells around him, threatening to engulf both Dill and himself.I first saw THE CRYING GAME in its theatrical release and came to the film knowing absolutely nothing about it. It was a remarkable experience because each time I became convinced I knew what the film was about I was wrong the story, the characters, the dialogue, the cinematography took an unexpected turn and proceeded down a completely unanticipated path. Although I was impressed, I wondered if the film would be as effective on a second or third viewing--but although the movie is filled with a host of twists, it is not superficial; it does indeed hold up to repeated viewings, for each time one sees it one becomes aware of additional nuances that one missed before.So what, ultimately, is THE CRYING GAME about? It is an extremely difficult film to define, but in the end I think it is about the nature of love. We cannot predict who we will love, who will love us, or what the outcome of that love will be--but even though we may struggle for it or against it, love drives us with a powerful force into situations and conclusions that we may not have anticipated in our wildest dreams. THE CRYING GAME is the labyrinth of the human heart in all its glories and follies and disconcerting effects.The collector's edition of the film comes with numerous bonuses ranging from an alternate ending to a documentary on Ireland's troubles to various making of features. All are worth watching; most interesting, however, is director-writer Neil Jordan's commentary, which covers many aspects of both the film and his career in general. Strongly recommended.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Who knows the secrets of the human heart?","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The challenge facing any reviewer of The Crying Game is to review it without revealing too much information about the film's ever-changing story. The best way to see this film is with as little information as possible going in. With that in mind, the film's story begins with an I.R.A. kidnapping of a British soldier and eventually focuses on one of the I.R.A. volunteer's journey to London to follow-up on a lead given to him.Stephen Rea gives a skilled performance as Fergus, the I.R.A. volunteer of principal interest. He manages to elicit sympathy and effectively convey the awkwardness of his position at all times. Forest Whitaker is likewise excellent as Jody, the British soldier who manages to remain touchingly high-spirited while suffering captivity. Miranda Richardson is memorable as the sassy and dangerous Jude. Jaye Davidson handles the demanding role of Dil very well.This film has a great story which is full of new developments and surprises that keep it interesting. There is one major plot twist in the story in particular which has become famous. Unfortunately I was able to deduce this twist based on information read prior to seeing the film, but it still proved very interesting and ultimately I wasn't hindered from enjoying the film. There are a number of discomforting moments in the story and an impressive amount of tension, which is built with the aid of the film's excellent score. The Crying Game remains engaging from start to finish due to superb performances and a well-developed story. "},{"Title":"pure love!","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The ultimate movie about love! If it hits you, you don't care or ask how it happened, it just did! Wonderful direction, superb casting, great story about friendship, stupidity of the war&terrorism, love and above all a human nature. And the nature is something one shouldn't try to suppress or pretend it's not the way it is. Just pay attention to the music which underlines opening credits and the one that comes with end credits and you'll get the whole picture. Jordan does his finest job with this one and he is one of the greatest directors. You simply can not resist the beauty of this movie. A must-see for all romantics out there! "},{"Title":"A very fine drama and love story set amid England and the IRA.","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie first on VHS, probably around 1994 or so. I didn't recall thinking it was particularly good, but it was my first exposure to actor Forest Whitaker. After seeing him recently in Last King of Scotland I decided to revisit this movie to see him again in this earlier role. The movie is much better than I remembered it, probably because I have become a better, more attentive movie watcher.Forest Whitaker is Jody, a British soldier who is lured away from a carnival by a pretty woman who was part of an IRA band to kidnap Jody. They would use him as leverage to get one of their own released. Stephen Rea as IRA militant Fergus is assigned to guard Jody, but all does not turn out as planned. Miranda Richardson is Jude, the IRA hottie that lures Jody to the capture.A really good movie, and the DVD has a number of interesting extras.It is not easy to include a summary without revealing the big surprise at exactly 104 into the movie. CAUTION - READ NO FURTHER IF YOU HAVE NOT YET SEEN THE MOVIE.Fergus is asked to shoot Jody but, having gotten to know him as a person cannot do it. However, as Jody is running away, he crosses onto a road and is hit and killed by a vehicle, while Briish helicopter is shooting up the IRA hideout. Fergus escapes and takes a new name, 'Jimmy', and a new job, hoping to never be discovered. He looks up Jody's girlfriend, 'Dil', and takes a liking to her. It is mutual. However, Jaye Davidson in a supporting actor Oscar nomination as Dil, turns out to be a man, a young cross-dresser. At first repulsed, Fergus has taken a liking to Dil and can't walk away.MORE SPOILERS. Meanwhile, not all IRA were killed that day, and Jude shows up, telling Fergus he has to make a hit on a Briish judge in London, or they will go after Dil. Things don't work out, Jude comes looking for Fergus, but Dil takes the handgun and kills Jude off. But Fergus takes the blame, gets sent to prison, where as the movie ends we see Dil visiting, they counting down the days, only 2,500 some days left! Jim Broadbent has a good role as the bartender Col. "},{"Title":"guys! this is 100% in rottentomatoes.com!","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The twist did not matter to me. I knew that Dill was male because I knew that the actor playing him was nominated for best supporting actor. What mattered to me is the creation of the film. It was well written. It was well directed. Wow! I never thought Neil Jordan is a very good director. And of course the musical score! It was very familiar. It has been overused by many other films and soap operas. I know now that that familiar score came from this movie. And the acting of the cast is just superb! Here is Forest Whitaker in an unrewarded earlier film. (He really deserved his long overdue Oscar!) My favorite scene was the shooting scene near the end of the film. It resembled the shooting scene in Scorsese's classic, Taxi Driver (1976). It was realistic and strongly acted. Come on guys! This is rated 100% in rottentomatoes.com. This superb film deserves to be in the IMDb top 250.I recommend this to people who desire for deep, thought-provoking films. "},{"Title":"Crying Game- Good Noir Cinema (1992)","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crying Game is one of those films that you see and would like even more in retrospect. The film was huge in 1992 and earned a Best Picture nomination from the Academy, with director It is a complicated puzzle that involves an IRA (Provisional Irish Republican Army) volunteer Fergus(Stephen Rea) befriending with Dil (Jaye Davidson) girlfriend of an English soldier Jody(Forest Whitaker) whom he had kidnapped. The twists and turns of The Crying Game are what make the film work. The movie although has flaws in several areas, but overall ranks real high on the list of other great films of the 1990s. Director Neil Jordan creates a modern-day noir, and the film scores on both the levels of plot and character evident with the fact that he won Academy Award for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen along with 5 other nominations for his movie.MY RATING 8/10 "},{"Title":"One Story Two Many","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This well known Film and its equally well known and at the time unexpected, explicit, and shocking scene, tries to be a dual Drama. It has a split personality. It has both humanistic and political concerns. The double story combines uneasily and probably would have been better concentrating on the trans-looking and trans-spirited nature and the uncomfortable, but warm, relationship of the two very sensitive characters that are at the heart of this gallant effort.The opening scenes are the least affecting and the intertwining of both soldiers back-story commitment is uneasy, if not forced into the narrative. The best parts are some creative dialog and the lovers interplay. The result is a not so great film with an attraction of aspects that do move things along, but with uneven results. It is the compelling and quite different coupling that works the best and the other part seems to belong in another Film with another agenda. To geminate the two story lines appears to be the biggest failing and in the end it is very good by a half. "},{"Title":"A Great Story About Love, Tolerance and Sacrifice","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crying Game is one of my favorite movies. Unlike most people I saw the movie knowing the twist. This perhaps allowed me to focus on other aspects, like the concise writing, the subtle performances, the camera work, the layers of themes. Over the years the popularity of this movie has dwindled as people have called it a gimmicky movie sustained on a twist. I think people must be insane not to see the beautiful love story, which is the real center of the movie. The twist only really matters for 30 minutes. The rest is all about characterization, feelings, ideas. Some movies, like The Sixth Sense and Memento, are all about the twist, they lead up to it and lose any interest afterwards. The Crying Game is a movie that could work well without it because it's all about the characters.Jody (wonderfully played by Forrest Whitaker), a British soldier in Ireland, is seduced by an IRA agent, Jude, and soon kidnapped by other agents, including the friendly Fergus (Stephen Rea in his best performance ever). A bond develops between hostage and keeper and as the execution day approaches, Jody makes Fergus promise to find his girl, Dil, and buy her a drink. Once Jody dies, the fugitive Fergus decides to honor this last wish and escapes to London.There he meets and falls in love with Dil. And what seems like a simple love story becomes a meditation about identity, gender, love, sacrifice and tolerance. Quite a lot for a gimmicky movie.Tolerance is the heart of the movie. Prejudice is explored in several forms along the movie, some obviously, like the IRA conflict which is all about religious prejudice, to Jody's being victim of racism, to Fergus as an Irish immigrant abused by his boss who loves the word 'Paddy', to the conversation about cricket being a poor man's sport in Antigua, Jody's birthplace, and a rich man's sport in England, down to the relationship between Fergus and Dil.The Crying Game is an endearing movie which deserves more attention and certainly must be appreciated for its intrinsic qualities and not for a cool twist Jordan came up with 17 years ago. I think so long as people enjoy a good story about love and friendship, this movie will never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"She's My Type!","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I knew nothing about this movie except that it was well regarded and starred Forest Whitaker. But I avoided renting it because of the title, which sounded sappy. But, once it was on I was enrapt with this tale of kidnapping and male bonding (of a nature). The scene in which captor Steven Rea allows bound prisoner Whitaker to urinate is hilarious. But it is really a dark movie, and quickly reverts to the gloomy premise that this captor will soon have to execute this prisoner.Of course, prisoner asks his new friend to call upon his girl after his death and let her know that his last thoughts were of her. At this point I'm starting to see a bit of Monster's Ball (a good thing). Somewhat deceptively predictably, Rea sees the girl, Dil, and falls for her. He is not sure how he will handle his secret, and then, BOOM!, we are let in upon HER secret! From here on in the movie is a love affair as well as a thriller. And a darn good example of both. For those reviewers here who said they saw everything coming, I say, Puleeeze! Spare me your smug and groundless boasts.Everyone in this picture was great Whitaker convinces as a black British soldier (!), Rea underplays just right, Richardson is both sexy and menacing, all the bit players are perfect. But Jaye Davidson as Dil is just astounding. By the time this movie was two thirds through, I wanted Dil! This director is excellent. This film is better than excellent. It is a must-see; a clinic in acting, suspense, romance, sexuality, and even political violence on screen. See it. "}{"Title":"queer-looking fellow","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" My friend told me that this movie actually about a male spy who disguise as a woman call Dil and goes to IRA territory. Then he approaches one of the members which is Fergus to wheedle him for some information. And that guy Fergus gradually falls for him and finds out who he really is when he tries to make love to him. So the spy tries to kill Fergus. My friend told again that this movie was a racy story, obscene and I was not supposed to watch it. So I decided not.Then I saw Stargate. And I was awe-struck by the appearance of the actor who plays the Amon God Ra. Turn different angle, he looks like a girl. Turn other angle, he looks like a boy. Who's that? That's the guy who plays Dil! my friend said. So I watch it. And it is awesome! Turn different angle, he looks like a female. Turn other angle, he looks like a drag. Turn different angle, he looks like a female. Turn other angle, he looks like a drag. Even when he shows his male attributes, his face looks like a female. That's odd. Congratulation to those who could see he is a drag from the start. Because the person I know who watched the movie with me confessed she was confused. Through the shocking scenes and everything, especially when she saw the sweet, exotic face of the actor at the end of the movie. She was still confused. Albeit this crying-jag, queer-looking fellow, the story is a real corker. Marvelous acts. Fabulous soundtrack. Quite tremendous success in movie making. It's worth watching. It's not just a movie. It's a masterpiece of art. "},{"Title":"The Story Within the Story","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a rare feat when a story -- literal or visual -- can start out in one way, make you get involved in the initial theatrics that become the story's set-up, and suddenly, without warning, sweep the rug right off from under your feet and punch you dead in the stomach, leaving you with the wind knocked straight out of you. PSYCHO was one of those rare beasts that stand alone in its pedestal. The story of a woman who is in an illicit affair and wants out of her dead-end life, impulsively takes some money, and morphs into the songbird whose song gets cut in mid-tune as the story then turns into something completely black and sinister is the stuff of movie history. That you still cared for the perpetrator was amazing... but Hitchcock had a flawless story, one that needed only one major scare and one major twist to hook you in and then lead you into a nightmare.Neil Jordan must not have known the repercussions that his movie THE CRYING GAME would present -- and this was in a good way. He had thought on the title The Soldier's Wife for the film, but Kubrick advised him against it because it would spell it out too much and could hurt the movie's success. Because a lot of its success depended on if the audience would accept the plot twist that occurs roughly midway, thus a new title, one that would say as little as possible about the movie, had to be chosen. Thus how a British pop song which figures prominently within the movie and introduces the wild card was born. And because so much was made about the twist, was exactly the main reason that people flocked in droves to see it. I was living in Dominican Republic when this movie came out and I was one of the first ones to see it there... and I have to say I was floored.What this movie caused (in me, and everyone I knew, film critics and film buffs alike) was the feeling I expressed earlier that of having the wind knocked right out of me. A movie that started out one way -- with the kidnapping of a British soldier played by Forrest Whittaker -- turning into something completely different, and not only because of the aforementioned twist but the gender reversals that takes place for two of the supporting characters. THE CRYING GAME is a lot more than what it seems to be from a superficial point of view; it's a game of political power that morphs into a game of sexual power and ends in an all-out battle of supremacy between the sexes. It's as if all of the elements that were introduced so carefully, like a house of cards, were blown away, leaving an afterimage that was there in subtle form.Stephen Rea's relationship to the three major players is crucial for anything to take place in THE CRYING GAME. From the get-go there is a hesitancy within his approach to the Miranda Richardson, who sports the masculine name Jude. She is all about action, pausing if at all to think later. She uses her own sexuality to bring down a man, and it catches up with her later in the most unusual way. But she also, we learn later, seems to want more from Rea's Fergus -- the terrorist blah-de-blah is only (to me) a setup for her more sexual machinations. A man trapped inside the body of a woman, she is really going after what she can't have, and Fergus is her complete opposite. Ergo, her complement. She may not know it, but something impels her not to leave him alone.Rea and Whittaker's friendship is a doomed affair, but one that allows him to jump a narrow chasm and embrace something even more exotic. It's not a problem that Whittaker's character already is above the action -- his active part in the story is essentially over the moment he becomes a prisoner; all he has left is to tell a story to whomever may listen. That Fergus does is like winning the lotto... but Fergus is a kind man and also beyond the terrestrial nature of the action. Now, that their interaction leads to Jaye Davidson who has a score to settle later on once the truth comes out of Whittaker's character's death is labyrinthine, but dependent on Rea's character's own evolution. Davidson, as the neutrally named Dil, is a woman who has her own story to tell as well, and a man's heart to open.A dazzling film, it's a staple of what to do with an intelligent script, and using a twist (or two) for the better of a story, and not revolving a story around a twist. It's thematically closer to VERTIGO in which a man falls into a complex love triangle and is unable to turn himself away from it, but goes one step farther by making that woman a true revelation. "},{"Title":"How Could Anyone Think This is Good?","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has received a great deal of critical acclaim, but I'm not sure why. The Crying Game has incredibly poor pacing, with characters being given little back story, confusing, abrupt cuts between scenes, and important plot points being thrown in with little introduction. Character motivations are unrealistic, as when Jody explains that he was not actually attracted to Jude, and as also evident in Dil's odd relationship with Dave. The movie's score is sappy and the approach to visual composition is mediocre. I think the reason this movie has received acclaim is because it made a daring move in including the IRA and transsexuality in the plot, but that doesn't excuse the poor structuring of the film. The plot itself could be good if combined with a more thoughtful approach to editing and visual/audio atmosphere, and with a better script and acting. Even Forest Whittaker couldn't pull out a good performance out of this disaster. "},{"Title":"Wonderful,","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched The Crying Game for the first time during a summer film class. Even after sitting in a lousy classroom for 3 hours (lecture +film+lecture) I was buzzing when class ended. The performances are uniformly excellent, and the writing as well. Any film that can swirl a mix of sexual and political commentary into such a satisfying and unpretentious experience gets high marks in my books. See it! "},{"Title":"A Brazilian opinion","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't speak very well english, but i just like to leave my sincere wonder to Mr. Neil Jordan, for this and his others films like The end of the Affair, examples of sensitivity and touching works.  "},{"Title":"Subtle love story","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    It starts out as a thriller, when Fergus (Stephen Rea) is part of a group that kidnaps Jody (Forest Whitaker).  After Jody dies, in an unfortunate accident, Fergus runs from Ireland to London, where he hooks up with Dil (Jay Davidson), Jody's lover.  It may be the 'secret' that everyone heard about at the beginning, but its so much more than that.  The acting is uniformly first rate, and the directing is amazing.  The ease in which Neil Jordan lures us into contemporary London is fascinating and flawless.  The script is first rate. "},{"Title":"A watershed film!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You can use this film to screen potential friends and lovers. (Anyone who was repelled by it would not be someone who would hold any interest for me.) The theme is the power of love to transcend and blow away even the most entrenched societal norms. This has got to be considered one of the best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"One of the best of nineties","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's 1999 and when we start looking back at the films of the 90's this will undoubtedly stand out. One of the few thrillers that really keep you guessing because the plot turns based on the actions of a bunch of highly unpredictable characters. It can be a violent movie, but in The Crying Game the violence means something. The characters really seem to have lives to lose. Neil Jordan wrote and directed a very deep, moody tale but he's also not afraid to examine the comic possibilities of the twists in the story. It's one of the most darkly funny movies of the decade, too. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though it was not the first awarded film which deals with transsexual people I must say it was the best of the films which I know (the second best was Outrageous with Craig Russell) For those who were not common with the subject Transsexuality. Transsexual means that people believe that they were born with the false gender. The character of Dil was such a man who believed that he is a woman and Jaye Davidson played this part with such intensity that is was a pity that he didn't win the Oscar. "},{"Title":"Pity Whomever Tries to Re-make this One","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that comes along and achieves something outrageous, heartwarming, and unique.The cast is above compare and the storyline has nothing to do with what the movie is actually about. If you are a lover of movies or just feel like seeing something different rent this one.It is a must see for anyone and I cannot believe it is not on the top 250 list.It's that good! "}{"Title":"Utterly Original","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By the time I actually got to see this film, I already knew about the plot twist.  But that didn't make this film any less enjoyable.  With a fantastic script by Neil Jordan and a great cast, with Miranda Richardson a standout as a heartless IRA terrorist, this is one of the best films of modern times.  A must for the thinking man! "},{"Title":"Jaye Davidson was awesome.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Crying Game is a really great film. Stephen Rea and Miranda Richardson are very good as well. Along with Forrest Whitaker was great w/ his English accent. The tale of the Frog and the Scorpion I have related to my life many a time. See it.The movie everybody's talking about, but nobody's giving away it's secret.  "},{"Title":"A bizarre Love Story....","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stephen Rea gives a performance of a lifetime in this strange movie about love and friendship.Forest Whitaker was the reason I wanted to see this movie.He is a great actor and is very under-rated.I also was curious about the infamous weird twist on the movie.I only wish that the friendship between Fergus and Jody would have lasted more than 20 minutes cuz they were great together and it was interesting to see enemies get along so good.Jaye Davidson did a good job as Dil.If your into odd love movies and twists that make you go Whaaaat? then I recommend this film. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Stand by your man- or woman- or whatever","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Crying Game, what can you say?  Unless you lived under a rock all your life I'm sure you know all about this movie.  But if you don't, do yourself a favor and get your ass to the video store.  It's easily described as an early 90s period picture about the IRA, friendship, sexuality, love, and just about everything else.  This movie has one of the best twists ever.  And the Oscar-nominated Jaye Davidson (who hasn't done anything since) is perfectly cast for his/her glamour and sex-appeal and for the obvious reason that got everyone talking.  Neil Jordan is truly a great film-maker, and I would love for Davidson to start working again.  A compelling and adventurous movie.  Plus it makes a Boy George song bearable.  "},{"Title":"It's Not Just The Twist That'll Hook You","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan's masterpiece is one of the most fascinating thrillers I've ever seen, which effortlessly combines a strong love story, deep characterisation, a rich plot, and what might be one of the most bizarre love relationships in the history of cinema, between Fergus (Stephen Rea) and Dil (Jaye Davidson)POSSIBLE SPOILERSFergus is an IRA soldier who's beginning to doubt whether he's got what it takes to fight in the war against the British; the weird friendship that blossoms between him and Jody, a kidnapped British soldier (brilliantly played by Forrest Whitaker) casts even more doubts, and when Jody dies Fergus decides to visit Jody's girlfriend, Dil, for whom he falls in love... and this is where the story achieves brilliance.What follows next is a complex drama about identity, gender issues and sexuality, emphasized by the recurring theme in the movie of images as means to hide reality, deception, and human nature as an inherent condition that can't be changed. Despite Fergus' attempts to 'reform' Dil, she's what she is and doesn't know how else to live.One of my favourite scenes would be when Dil is singing 'The Crying Game' at 'The Metro' put, and Fergus walks in. Still nothing beats Dil's outburst of rage towards the end when she finds out Fergus is partially responsible for Jody's death, and then we're given to see just how complex and weird Dil really is in her love (obsession?) for Jody.Truly a movie not to be missed, a perfect 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film.  Too bad it's now looked at as a joke.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ****POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD*******I remember when The Crying Game came out it became a big sleeper hit and everyone was raving about it.  Then everyone got hold of the story's twist in which the main character discovers this alleged woman is a man, and it was parodied on several TV shows and a scene from Ace Ventura.  OK, so some of the jokes were funny, but now all people think of when they look back to this movie is Hey, that's the movie where that guy finds out that chick is a man!  It's actually much more multi-faceted, and I finally got the chance to watch the movie in its entirety in one of my media classes.The characters are beautifully developed.  There are so many movies out there with thinly developed characters, but this movie is rich with character development.  And you get a sense of each of their motivations. Though the story is intriguing, the characters don't end up doing things that are strictly plot-driven.It's never established that Stephen Rea's character is a homosexual, nor does it need to, because I still believed in his love for Dil, whether he/she was a man or woman.  The film blurs the line between gender and race. Rea's character expresses his love for Dil in subtle ways.  Because of finding out about Dil's secret, he doesn't even want to make eye contact with him.  Yet whenever someone makes some sort of degrading statement towards him, he gets angry and resorts to violence.Rea's performance alone makes this worth watching.  It is one of the best performances I've ever seen!  He communicates every emotion so perfectly with his face.  I was constantly able to detect the conflicted feelings that were going on inside his head simply from his face.  It's so subtle, yet so effective.  Jaye Davidson also does a great job.  Oscar-winner Jim Broadbent has a small, amusing role as the bartender/mediator.  And Forrest Whitaker also gives a powerful performance in the first 20 minutes of the film.  A couple people criticized his British accent, but I didn't notice a single glitch.  Then again, I'm not British and I can't be the judge.  Whether the accent was good or bad, he still immersed himself fully into character and gave a tour-de-force like always.  Whitaker's an underrated, versatile actor and doesn't always receive the credit he deserves.The cinematography is excellent, concentrating a lot on Rea's reactions. The score perfectly intensifies every somber moment, and though it's fairly old by now I like Boy George's rendition of The Crying Game.If you haven't seen the movie, I highly recommend it, as long as you can view it maturely and not waiting for the scene to come up.My score  9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"An absolute knockout!!!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great movie even if there wasn't that surprise twist. That may even have ruined the movie for some. For those sensitive viewers, just ask a friend to fast forward certain graphic scenes for you, and then you can still enjoy the movie. It's a most touching story of love, loyalty and respect transcending all barriers of race, religion and sexual orientation.The remarkable message here is that all human beings, whoever they are, wherever they come from or whatever their lifestyles, are all equally human. They love, hate, laugh, cry, feel and hurt just like everybody else. So folks, people of the world, love thy neighbors, man! Their hair may be green, their skins may be purple, but their hearts are no different from everybody else's.One of the best movies in a long time. A must see for all except the weak-stomached. All things considered, an absolute 10/10.  "},{"Title":"A gripping romantic tale with tests your expectations","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Neil Jordan's The Crying Game is certainly no ordinary love story, it is far from it. This gripping drama boasts some of powerhouse performances by a surprising cast and awe- spectacular writing that fuels it into one of the most inspiring and captivating romance flick that greatly defies expectations from the opening moments to the shocking twist that defines the final act. This film stars Forest Whitaker as Jody, a British soldier who develops a romance with a cute blondie named Jude (played by Miranda Richardson) at a state fair, only to set up for a trap that results in him kidnapped by a group of Irish terrorists lead by Maguire (played by Adrian Dunbar). Taking him hostage, the terrorists hold him captive in their house deep in the woods while Ferguson (played by Stephen Rea), one of the members of the group forms an unexpected bond with Jody, much to the terrorist's dismay. When the hostage situation goes suddenly awry, Fergus flees to London where he finds Jody's lover Dil (played by Jaye Davidson). Adopting the name Jimmy, Fergus develops a relationship with Dil who he hides his affiliation with the Irish terrorist group from. When Fergus discovers Dil is not exactly who he believe she was, he finds himself in a potentially dangerous situation. As I mentioned, this is a type of film that requires viewers to take to their expectations and push them aside. And this does quite a diligent job at putting viewers' expectations to the test. From the opening scene, the film blesses viewers with a dark, but gripping story and it moves at a very steady pace. The pacing can be frustrating to some viewers who demand for a frenetic-driven story, but as it builds up to its shocking twist and the intense aftermath that follows it grows more and more cohesive to where the slow pacing succeeds to make sense. And much of this is thanks to Neil Jordan's enchanting screenplay. Perhaps the screenplay is not the only element that drives the film but also the performances by the cast. Forest Whitaker is quite engaging in what is arguably the best role he's demonstrated in his career. The bond between his character and Fergus played by Stephen Rea is strongly effective and enough to grip audiences' attention. Stephen Rea delivers a gripping performance as well, but the biggest appeal comes from Jaye Davidson who strives one of the most powerful (and criminally underrated) performances I have seen in a long time. Davidson nails the role with astounding conviction, and blesses the film with a performance that is too powerful to ignore. The Crying Game is a very powerful and unpredictable film that deserves the attention of many, and an intense thriller that delivers more than what moviegoers may bargain for. The screenplay, performances , and the overall direction by Neil Jordan earn solid praise, and make an awe inspiring film that stands above many films of its decade. "},{"Title":"Forest Whittaker's Accent??","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A British soldier is kidnapped by IRA terrorists. He befriends one of his captors, who is drawn into the soldier's world.The then-fledgling film company Miramax decided to promote the film in the United States where it became a sleeper hit, earning over $60 million at the box office. A memorable advertising campaign generated intense public curiosity by asking audiences not to reveal the film's secret to their friends. Jordan also believed the film's success was a result of the film's British/Irish political issues being either lesser-known or completely unknown to American audiences, who thus flocked to the film for what Jordan called the sexual politics. Alright, so I knew the secret for years before seeing this film. In fact, that is all I knew and thought it would come later in the picture. I was pleasantly surprised that this film has so much more -- history, political intrigue, thrills, and some crime elements. I have no idea what is up with Whittaker's voice -- he sounds dubbed. "},{"Title":"A really good movie.","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" An IRA volunteer falls in love with the girlfriend of a dead British soldier.Starring Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson.Written and directed by Neil Jordan.I really liked this one. It's a great story, full of unexpected twists and surprises and it has two outstanding performances by Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson. I also love the soundtrack. I'm guessing this was quite a controversial and groundbreaking movie at the time.My only niggle was the cinematography and the location filming. The first part of the film could have been filmed anywhere, And the street scenes looked like they were stolen from Eastenders! And the scenes set on the building site were similarly uninspiring and very studio looking.But overall I really enjoyed this. Lots of tension and a few giggles along the way. A good movie.8/10 "}{"Title":"It's alright","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah well, so I stumbled across this movie while looking for movies with unexpected twists in the end. So I watched it. But there was nothing unexpected here. The Crime genre and the poster lead me to believe this would be some sort of a film noir, but it is mostly a romance/drama really. The film got off to a great start with Jody & Fergus and I thought the pace will get quicker and the intrigue deeper, but it didn't. It was very slow and long-ish, but the performances were brilliant and the film manages to engage you despite the pace. It's worth a watch definitely, but be warned that it is a romantic drama than a crime drama with romance thrown in. Do you get my drift? "},{"Title":"Life-changing film that will give you a whole new perspective","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 1992, The Crying Game was considered to be one of the most controversial films of its time, and it featured one of the most well-kept secret plot twists in movie history. This film was criticized in both the UK, where it was filmed, and in America, but for entirely different reasons. Within the UK, The Crying Game was not well- received because of the underlying political issues, particularly the sympathetic portrayal of an IRA agent. In the U.S., the film was criticized mainly for what director Neil Jordan referred to as sexual politics. These specific elements, however, were precisely what drew audiences to the film. Neil Jordan's outstanding film deals with important themes of race, nationality, gender, and sexuality in a way that has opened my mind to a whole new approach to filmmaking. I have a tremendous appreciation for the way this film pushed boundaries, not for the sake of shock value but because it was absolutely essential for telling this story. It is my belief that artists should to be able to freely express themselves in their work, however contentious it may be. Controversial topics like those in The Crying Game should be embraced and celebrated rather than shied away from. "},{"Title":"The True Shocking Moment","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dil is revealed to be a man. Fergus reflexively punches her for it. That's the true statement about human nature. Fergus then owning up to his past and taking blame for Dil's rage is the true sign that your nature is not so easily defined nor predicted by the beliefs or prejudices of another. What people are so tempted to sensationalize turn out to be the strongest statements this movie makes about humanity.It's a shame this film gained so much notoriety for a reveal that is superficially insignificant when the deeper meaning gets missed. No modern film has presented such an explicit rebuke of taking life at face value. As opposed to dogma and stereotype, this film stands up for the importance of character and how much it hurts a man to try and force him to deny his sense of self. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable, But a Solid Story","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is somewhat strange in the sense that it feels like a political thriller for one portion of the film, but then throws you into a romantic story immediately after this (and aspects of the political thriller come back later). The first story is terrific in that it shows us an interesting bond between a soldier held hostage and the man who is assigned to watch him at gunpoint. It seems like a very tense story at first, but a good amount of humor emerges from the interactions between the two men to keep some of the tension at bay.I have to keep myself limited in my comments because what causes the first part to end and the second part to begin is a spoiler in itself. I don't feel at liberty to say much about the second part, but I will give it a try. The main points you need to know about the second part are that a romantic relationship develops and that a third party threatens the couple formed in this section of the film. Also, the midpoint of the film reveals a twist which made me uncomfortable for the rest of the film's duration, but did not necessarily cause it to be a bad film in my eyes.The film is well-executed and makes you think about important topics and issues which I will not get into here since it would spoil the movie. You simply need to watch the film in order to experience it; there are too many ways to spoil the movie if I get too in depth in my criticism. So I will leave you with the fact that the movie is well-executed, but the story is not the most enticing and I felt uncomfortable for a large portion of the movie. If you're willing to give a mysterious film which I'd say is a 7/10 a chance, go for it. If not, that's fine too.3.0/4.0 "},{"Title":"Crying Game","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't know about this movie well when I saw this movie. But I think it is better to watch this movie without knowing story much. If you don't know this movie, I recommend you to just watch this movie. I couldn't imagine what would happen next, and it is exciting. Actors and actresses in this movie are very good. I think Dil is really beautiful. The way Dil speaks, stands, sings, drinks, I think she is really sexy. The story is good, of course. I also like music. The story of a scorpion and a frog is interesting. People cannot fight against their nature as well as the scorpion in the story. This is a painful but a little happy movie. "},{"Title":"great movie despite what I expected","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I expected this movie to be rubbish. I'd never seen it before, I'd only heard it referenced in popular culture, in movies, TV-shows, etc, where they made fun of it.So I expected it to be horrible. But it was not. It was great. It had everything. It had action, shooting, suspense, violence, comedy. Romance. The unexpected.If this movie wasn't the way it was, it'd be far higher rated. It's simply a very good movie, with very good and accomplished actors in it, and a very good storyline.I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"Spine . . . tingled!","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrorists in the movies are cold, detached and almost rigid in their desire to get the job done. 'The Crying Game' gives us something new. His name is Fergus (Stephen Rea) and he works for the IRA. but has not seemed to have lost sight of the fact that he is a human being first.As the film opens, he and two of his operatives have taken a British Soldier named Jody (Forrest Whittaker) hostage, in return they want the release of several members of the IRA who are being held prisoner by the British. In a house in the middle of nowhere, the three stash their hostage with a bag over his head.Long into the night Fergus and Jody begin to talk and eventually gain a bit of a friendship. Jody gives Fergus a picture of his girlfriend and asks him to look her up if he doesn't live to see her himself. This is where a lesser film would fall along predictable lines and tell some formula story of deception on the part of the soldier. It does that but not in ways you might expect.The movie takes a twist after the soldier's death as Fergus goes to London to look up the girlfriend. He changes his name to Jimmy and gets a job working construction. He meets the girlfriend in a bar and is immediately attracted to her.He wants to remain close but not too close because he carries with him the knowledge that he is responsible for her boyfriend's death. Their relationship is full of deceptions and twists and turns that we are not ready for. Neil Jordan sees these two wounded people and lets their personalities govern their actions.Then the movie takes again to yet another level as his IRA cronies come looking for Jimmy/Fergus and the movie becomes an exciting action movie. I was lucky enough to have seen 'The Crying Game' without knowing anything about it. In a movie this surprising, the less you know, the more you enjoy. This movie is like a breath of fresh air.Most movies start on one track and stay there but 'The Crying Game' takes so many U-Turns that we wonder where it will go next. This is a difficult film to review because there are so many surprising things in it. So, I'll keep quiet. "},{"Title":"Nealy 20 years old and still great","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is coming up 20 years old. I have never felt the urge to see it until I got into some other Jordan films, also I will admit the subject matter did not appeal to me as due to the various parodies I had a certain pre judgement about it. I'll give anything a chance though and in this case I was rewarded. The first half hour or forty minutes is low key. Forrest Whittaker (with quite a good English accent) is taken hostage by the IRA and strikes up an unlikely friendship with one of his captors Fergus (Stephen Rea). During their many conversations Whittaker speaks about the woman he loves and asks for Fergus to look her up and tell her that he loved her if he doesn't make it. Once Whittaker dies the British attack the captors base and Fergus gets away, moves to London under a new identity. This is when he meets Dil a hairdresser/club singer and Whittakers girlfriend. The movie changes tone and becomes a kind of love story. The reason Fergus becomes attracted to Dil is in her differences to Miranda Richardsons character, who Fergus may have been getting involved with in the IRA. Richardson's character is singular, driven, cold and bitter, whereas Dil is a lost soul, softly spoken, needs protecting and is (at first) gentle. As a man, these qualities are what Fergus was seeking or is attracted to in a woman. This is where the heart of the story is. Despite the fact once he falls for Dil he finds out Dil is a man, he carries on the relationship to an extend, as he has struck such a connection to Dil as a fragile person he wants to take care of. However Fergus past is never far behind him and as the relationship with Dil settles down the IRA are back and want him to carry out a job against his wishes, with Dil being the target if he doesn't complete it. The Crying Game has come as a complete surprise to me, I was not particularly shocked or horrified by the content of this film as some may be. I guess I've seen enough cinema now and modern movies are more shocking than in the early 90s. However it is not the 'twist' that makes The Crying Game what it is, its the characters and especially the subtle relationship between Fergus and Dil, the direction which is brilliant and the writing. Stephen Rea is perfect as Fergus, he manages to juggle being able to make a member of the IRA sympathetic, as well as showing all the confusion and doubt of getting involved with who he thinks is a woman. Another big asset to the film is Jaye Davidson as Dil. I read somewhere Jaye thought it was the character and not his performance that got the Oscar nomination. I disagree with him, with the wrong actor this character would not have worked. Dil had to be attractive, subtle and have a mess of emotions and Jaye really brought it to the table and for someone who had never acted before he was amazing. Really good film if you have an open mind and like a good story check it out. "},{"Title":"Delicate Symbolism","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crying Game is an impressive example of the use of twist, even after the cinema audience has experienced later movies like The Usual Suspects (1995), The Game (1997) and Fight Club (1999). After all the starting point of the story is a small-scale deception of romance set up for Jody by a small group of IRA members including Fergus, who ends up in a more original delusion and has to face its consequences just like Jody did. The two distinctive parts of the movie (in terms of location, setting, theme and even hairstyles) are very well combined with each other, both of them having the gentle nature of Fergus as their common denominators. With the exception of him, the members and actions of IRA are not sympathetic to the audience at all. One reason of it can be that watching the movie one doesn't get any idea about the specific motivations of the individual IRA members for what they do. Also the reason why a nice guy like Fergus ended up in a terrorist organization or is (at least at the beginning) convinced of the use of violence is not clear. His personal history and relations to people other than Dil and Jude (family, friends etc., we only witness to his quarrel at work during his whole presence in London) is another mystery. However this much anonymity (literally, since Fergus is Jimmy in the second part) thoroughly reflects loneliness and need for love in all the cases Jody in custody, Fergus in exile, Dil in sexual exclusion. The deeper nature of the relationship between Jody and Dil had to remain secret in the first part but after Dil's secret was revealed it is only Fergus who tells about his own relation with Jody, when the reality is twisted again but this time only for Dil. Considering Fergus' second vision of Jody as he runs with his cynical laughter and Dil's discovery of Jude's part in her soldiers kidnapping, I don't know who takes revenge from whom. But I especially liked Dil's grandiose killing finale, ironically mostly motivated by the jealousy against her victim's seductive breasts, which were the advantage of her sexual competitor against both men in comparison to herself. Like the romance of Dil and Fergus, the kind of Stockholm syndrome between Fergus and Jody has also its unusual oddities related with sexuality. It is not the bed scene when Fergus had to encounter a penis in an uncomfortable way for the first time in the movie, if you remember his help to Jody peeing, which was in turn Jody's second peeing scene, the first being together with Jude just right before being kidnapped when he had explicitly indicated how good he felt. As it can be seen, the movie is full with circular links, ironies and deceptions; connecting difficult and controversial but very different themes like the IRA and trans-sexuality in one story with a gentle and romantic tone. "},{"Title":"The Crying Game","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1991-92, Irish director Neil Jordan filmed a masterpiece - it was called The Crying Game. The Crying Game starts off as a tragic IRA story, but then evolves into something else and, before the 112 minutes are over, the plot changes again. Unlike the typical Hollywood film where you can predict how a story line will develop, it is impossible to figure out what is going to happen next in The Crying Game - and that is one of the great things about this movie. The other brilliant thing about this film are the characters, especially Fergus (Stephen Rea) and Dil (Jaye Davidson), who evolve and develop over the course of this film. Neil Jordan could have made a film with static characters like James Cameron did with True Lies or Stephen Spielberg did with The Indiana Jones series. But Jordan chose not do that. Instead he wanted to make a movie about people faced with difficult and quite unexpected personal crises and show how they evolve, or fail to evolve, to cope with these challenges. I have not ventured too deeply into the plot, because The Crying Game is not the kind of film that can be properly explained in a review. The Crying Game has to be seen more than once for it to be properly understood and the understanding of this film cannot be conveyed in a review, but rather can only result from a person experiencing it for himself or herself. Rather than me telling you (the readers) what to think about The Crying Game, the best thing is to see the movie and decide for yourselves what this film is all about and how you feel about it. "}{"Title":"Crying is not a game","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film must be a representation of director's dilemma, tortured process of trying to resolve the internal ambivalence and ambiguity of straggle of the Good vs. Evil, Musculine vs. Feminine.That masterpiece is about the paradox of life where whatever you touch immediately turns into it's opposite the beautiful seductive woman in the beginning of the film happened to be the only woman in the film and yet she is the most harsh cruel and violent one. The gorilla like big burly man happened to be a gentle lover of a person, who happened to be not what they seem. He, at first being a captured prisoner, in his demise - 'imprisons' his captive Fergus for life leading him into factual captivity and imprisonment. The actions of the individuals, who commit the deeds which lead to the outcome, which could be characterized as intertwined opposites.Good - thought and emotion provoking - film. "},{"Title":"Came for the spoiler-Blown away by the acting and story telling","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" That was the sweetest movie about terrorists, love, friendship, back stabbing, helpful bartenders and sexual deviants I've seen. Okay, maybe one of the sweetest movies in general. I was first drawn to the film because of its twist but was engrossed from the beginning by the truly moving story of friendship and caring that can take place in the most trying of conditions. That I ended up sympathizing with the protagonists surprised even me. They have so many layers that seem to mesh together so well and even their different tastes didn't get in the way of their friendship.There are a couple of surprises in the movie, not just one twist making this a complex and compelling story to watch more than once. "},{"Title":"Is That a Flashlight in Your Pocket?....","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crying Game was quite a sensation back in 1992, and all anybody could talk about in connection with the movie was its big twist.I knew about the twist in advance of seeing the film, so I was able to concentrate on the rest of the story, and it's quite a good one. Neil Jordan crafted a slick little IRA thriller with a dusting of modern-day noir, and the film scores on both the levels of plot and character.Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson received Oscar nominations for their performances (whatever happened to either of them?), while Forest Whitaker and Miranda Richardson (who had quite a prolific year in 1992) deliver solid turns as well.Grade A- "},{"Title":"The Crying Game","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A British soldier Jody (Forest Whitaker) is kidnapped and held hostage by IRA. Fergus (Stephen Rhea) is one of the terrorist, who are guarding him and during the three days he develops a soft spot towards the hostage and after Jody asks him to deliver a message for his girlfriend Dil (Jaye Davidson), Fergus reluctantly leaves to do so, after the thing blows a part.Be it real love, or just a hard case of sense of duty, Fergus locates Dil and after it is apparent, that his IRA mates want him to do an assassination job, or the girl gets it, he has to do something to protect her.The Crying Game, a movie that is known for its surprise twist, which might even be offensive to some, toys around with emotions and their triggers. It has a lot of humor in it, and while being rather dramatic in some places, it manages to ask some questions like why do we fall for people we fall and why do some people make us do things we normally wouldn't.In all, The Crying Game is well acted and written film, that flows forwards withe ease. Well recommended. "},{"Title":"Welcome change with unreal twist","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow! A welcome change is writer-director Neil Jordan's The Crying Game. This very original drama deals with one man's dilemma as he must chose between his emotions and his allegiance to his country.Stephen Rea is very competent as I.R.A. activist 'Fergis', the man who faces the afore mentioned dilemma. In support of him are Forest Whitaker and Jaye Davidson, both brilliant in their respective roles as Jody and Dil.While the cast are great, it is the very funny, dramatic and occasionally moving script that really delivers great entertainment. Some audiences may be disturbed, but most will thoroughly enjoy the fantastic twist which will really floor you! Unreal!Sunday, May 2, 1993 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"I can't give this a rating---it's one of a kind, though","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh dear, what to say about this film? It's certainly one-of-a-kind, no doubt. You'll never see anything remotely like this again, and if you do then it will be naught but a poor ripoff. It's the story of a man named Jody, who is tricked and kidnapped by the Irish Army and held there for three days as a hostage. He will be killed on the third day if the English government does not release a captive of their own. He is watched over by a timid, quiet young man named Fergus, who he asks to visit his lady friend, Dil, after he dies, to tell her 'that he was thinking of her.' After Fergus slips up and Jody dies, Fergus obeys Jody's last wish and goes to see Dil. The two become closer, but both of them are holding secrets...This movie was obviously very well made. Very touching, even with the little 'surprise twist' thrown in halfway through it. The performances by Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson were amazing, and Jody (Forest Whitaker) was a great character too, very believable. The film is a groundbreaking one emotionally, probably better then the most polished and mainstream normal romance films. The emotional depth is stunning, despite the...nature...of it.You have to watch this film with an open mind. Because if you don't, you'll be very offended and most likely dislike it. It's a very strange film and not for the weak-hearted. Filled with cursing and heavy sexuality, it's not one for fans of timid romance-dramas. This one's original. Some very violent scenes too, like when Jude is murdered. A very deserved death.Now onto my problems with the film. OK, so the twist in it makes it very original and dramatic. Yeah. But what about the other side of the plot? The assassination plot of the Irish army. Who is the old man? Why do they want to kill him? They never revealed this; focusing far too much on the drama between Fergus and Dil and not enough on the militaristic side of the plot. They did not even fully flesh THAT out. What about the relationship between Dil and Jody? It was very foggy and unclear for the duration of the film. The movie tried too hard to be innovative, and it succeeded. But there were several factors that brought the movie down, and it truly could've been better then it was.Overall though, this is a great movie and truly one you have to see at least once in your lifetime. I'm not going to proclaim that it's a masterpiece, or the best movie ever made, but it's unique, and I promise that you'll never see anything like this again. Approach it with an open mind and with patience to let it sink in, and you'll love it. I can't even give it a rating. I myself still don't know exactly what I should give it, so I'm leaving it blank.Check it out, by any means possible. "},{"Title":"Prominently atmospheric, incisively humorous...","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Irish screenwriter, producer and director Neil Jordan's seventh feature film which he wrote, premiered at the 49th Venice Film Festival in 1992, was screened at the 17th Toronto International Film Festival in 1992, was shot on location in England and Ireland and is a UK-Japan co- production which was produced by producer Stephen Woolley. It tells the story about an Irish Volunteer in the IRA named Fergus Clegg who whilst staying with a small group of other IRA terrorists in Belfast, Northern Ireland kidnaps an English soldier named Jody whom a woman named Jude has lured into a trap. Whilst guarding the soldier who believes that it is only a matter of time before he will be killed, Fergus becomes acquainted with him an learns about his girlfriend named Dil who works at a hair salon in the capital city of England, but as Fergus begins to appreciate Jody's company and regard him as his friend he is assigned to assassinate him by his superior named Peter. Distinctly and precisely directed by Irish filmmaker Neil Jordan, this finely paced fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the two main characters' viewpoints, draws an intriguing and multifaceted portrayal of an Irishman who travels to London, England to honor a friend's last wish and to get away from his associations with the Irish Republican Army. While notable for it's variegated and naturalistic milieu depictions, sterling cinematography by English cinematographer Ian Wilson, production design by production designer Jim Clay and use of colors and light, this character-driven and narrative-driven story about deception, attraction and overcoming one's preconceptions where a hairdresser and singer whom has just left her boyfriend one day gets a new customer who introduces himself as a Scottish native and later shows up at the bar where she sings, depicts two interrelated and charming studies of character and contains a great score by English composer Anne Dudley. This somewhat political, conversational and eloquently romantic psychological thriller from the early 1990s which is set in Belfast, Northern Ireland and London, England during the Troubles in Northern Ireland in the late 20th century and where a man presents himself with another name than his own to a stranger he only knows from a picture, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, subtle continuity, endearing and colorful characters, brilliant dialog, merging of themes and genres, timely use of music and remarkable acting performances by Irish actor Stephen Rea, American actor Jaye Davidson in his debut feature film role, English actress Miranda Richardson and American actor, producer and director Forest Whitaker. A prominently atmospheric, incisively humorous and memorable love-story which gained, among numerous other awards, the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film at the 46th BAFTA Awards in 1993. "},{"Title":"I wish more scripts were written like this.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Continuing my quest to see all the Oscar screenplay nominees and currently knocking down the winners, I move onto The Crying Game, a film I've been intending to see for a few years now even though I knew its twist. It has a fantastic script. Very real characters and a sharp wit gives it a great edge. It's quite small scale with two distinct halves, both a slow burn to big payoffs. Forget the context and content, this is how scripts should be written. Although Stephen Rea is great, I did find myself having problems with Forest Whitaker and Jaye Davidson in their awkward and forced line deliveries to the point where I thought there was something wrong with the sound. They may have taken me out of the moment sometimes during the long stretches of emotional brooding, but it's the film's thrilling moments that makes the film such a treat. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very twisted early 90's Irish thriller","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie come out when I was 8. But I only saw it last week but still powerful to this day. Themes of trans phobia, Irish revolution on the English, kidnapping and Fergus/Jimmy caught between morals and Honor. The scorpion and the frog would fit the title well. Jaye Davidson was in only one other known movie Stargate as Ra the space villain which started the Staragate TV Shows. Shame he isn't acting today. The song-title of the movie the Crying game is a catchy song. Weird how Fergus kidnaps the boyfriend of transgendered girlfriend and becomes her new boyfriend. Of course Jody the bad chick in the film adds zest. I recommend Breakfast in Pluto for a similar Irish LGBT film. Rated R FOR Sexuality scenes, language and violence. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Crying Game' is A Masterpiece in filmmaking! A Hard-Hitting, Engrossing Film, that also offers marvelous Direction, top-class Cinematography & flawless Performances! 'The Crying Game' Synopsis A British soldier is kidnapped by IRA terrorists. He befriends one of his captors, who is drawn into the soldier's world.'The Crying Game' explores themes of race, gender, nationality, and sexuality against the backdrop of the Irish Troubles. Neil Jordan's Oscar-Winning Screenplay is Hard-Hitting & Engrossing. Its so brave, that it doesn't let you move from your seat. Its raises questions on humanity & seeks for answers. Its amongst The Most Amazing Screenplays Ever Written! Neil Jordan's Direction, on the other-hand, is marvelous. He has executed the film with flourish. Ian Wilson's Cinematography is top-class. Each & Every Frame has Clarity! Editing is good. Art Design is appropriate. Make-Up is fabulously done.Performance-Wise Stephen Rea is astonishing. He plays a guilt-driven man with utter brilliance. Jaye Davidson embodies the part & delivers in high regard. The Sequences Between Rea & Davidson are magnificent. Forest Whitaker is extra-ordinary. Miranda Richardson is haunting, while Adrian Dunbar is convincing. Jim Broadbent is charming. On the whole, 'The Crying Game' is not to be missed! "}{"Title":"I just couldn't get myself to like this movie","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Crying game has critical acclaim but I still found it hard to rate it above 5; to me it is something that is not for everybody.The acting delivered by the trio of Forest Whitaker, Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson is the only thing this movie runs on, a triumphant entry into a world of perfect acting is what this movie delivers from the first scene. The movie's plot is also strong enough to keep you watching if you are that interested. The surprise that Fergus got when he found out that his new love is not exactly what he think she is, is the eye opener in the movie.Getting 6 Academy Award nominations and wining one for Best Original Screenplay, The Crying Game was released in 1992 to a favorable review holding a 100% approval rating from critics in Rotten Tomatoes. This psychological thriller drama was written and directed by filmmaker Neil Jordan (who is also a novelist on the side) who was behind the 1994 movie Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles and the 2007 movie The Brave One with Jodie Foster. Interview with the Vampire also had Stephen Rea as one of the cast with Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt.The movie went into production with the name The Soldier's Wife but the late Stanley Kubrick a good friend of Neil advised him against it, saying with a name like that people will expect a war film. The name of the movie is actually a song Dil (Jaye Davidson) sang at the club where she met Fergus (Stephen Rea). The Crying Game is a song by Boy George.The movies strong point is the plot, it thickens as the movie goes on; the plot has an IRA soldier named Fergus (Stephen Rea) and his unit, including a woman named Jude (Miranda Richardson) who was the bait to help kidnap Jody (Forest Whitaker).The IRA kidnapped Jody so as to use him as a bargain chip as they demand the release of other jailed IRA members, threatening to execute Jody if their demands are not met.While Fergus guards Jody, they develop a bond during which, Jody tells Fergus the story about the Scorpion and the Frog, which teaches the lesson that something's are natural to some people regardless of the circumstances in which they find themselves.Jody gets killed and Fergus has to keep a promise that he made to him to help take care of Dil.I won't want to rob you of the few thrills I got from the movie, but at least I can say it is not as grand as they all say, but I will let you be the judge of that.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Clever narrative arc, clunky direction","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everybody who knows anything about Neil Jordan's film 'The Crying Game' knows about it's surprise ending. In fact, the twist comes well in advance of the end, but it's not the only surprising thing about this movie. Whereas some films lay out a premise and then never deviate from it, 'The Crying Game' moves repeatedly in unexpected (but not irrational) directions; if, at one quarter distance one attempted to guess what sort of film it would amount to, you'd probably call wrong; and again, at half-way, you'd make a different but still imperfect guess. It may be a thriller, but the overall narrative construction defies cliché.Unfortuantly, Jordan proves quite a clunky director. The movie seems low-key without feeling particularly intimate, lacking a certain intensity that the plot would appear to demand. And the performances were also moderate Miranda Richardson over-acts, while Forrest Whittaker, unconvincing as an Englishman, becomes even less believable when we see him playing cricket. Jaye Davidson, who plays the character in greatest emotional turmoil, never varies the tone of her voice; while being cool is part of her act, to me the character felt increasingly lifeless as the story continued. Stephen Rea, admittedly, was good in the lead role, but his understated character needs more life around him, and he can't save the movie on his own. It's still worth watching, and even you think you know what's coming, the way it's revealed will still take you by surprise. But Jordan's earlier film 'Mona Lisa' had a bit more spark. "},{"Title":"A controversial film depicting British and Irish society in the early 90s.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I suggest to anyone wanting to see this film that they read what it is about before watching it.The film started off as outstanding, with Forrest Whitaker portraying a black Brit with an all most accurate British accent. His abduction by the IRA to me is the highlight of the film as you see the pain that he is having to go through in the overall circumstances. The electricity between Rea and Whitaker is incredible as you see Rea gradually showing remorse over the whole situation and how he has to battle his feelings for the sake of the IRA, being pressured by his allies. The climatic scene where is lead to be shot, only to escape and be hit by an army vehicle where the IRA members undergo attack by gunfire was amazing.The film then goes off on a tangent with Rea in scummy London, to fulfil a promise he made to Whitaker's character, of declaring the situation to the girl he left behind. Rea, trying to do so, starts to feel feelings for this girl as always in films. Leading to a build up of a romance between the two, until Rea finally finds out she is actually as he, the most shocking part of the film. Rea, like anyone would, is disgusted over the circumstances, but continues to show feelings towards the he/she.From then on the film goes downhill with a complicated relationship forming between the two. Only to find that Rea's IRA companions have tracked him down and so he is drawn between the two situations.The film draws to a close by the IRA attacking a member of British government and Rea making his love clear to the he/she. Only for Rea to end up in prison after the he/she gunning down an IRA member.Overall I particularly enjoyed the beginning, but showed little interest in the controversial relationship. Whitaker and Richardson stole the show with great acting and undertaking all most perfect English and Irish accents. "},{"Title":"The games are fun... except if you play this","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" To see The crying game is a great experience. Because you discovers secrets that we should remain silent. As well as Roger Ebert said about this title See this film. Then shut up about it . Of that it is The Crying Game, a history on the human nature. If we keep in mind the above-mentioned, then it would be breaking a rule, because he/she should not talk about it. The Crying Game talks about a man that belongs to the IRA group and he kidnaps a British soldier. Next to other partners they contain it. Fergus, the man of which speak, creates a friendly relationship with the one kidnapped. Beginning a game at the same time in which will be discovered secrets, deaths will be given this way and of course, there will be tears. The movie, approaching topics like the terrorism until the acceptance. Is more than all that Fergus lives, as it plays that game that the life imposed him. Because after all, that it is the game of the life. In the case of Fergus, a merciless game of blood and tears, and this way to discover his nature, and to discover the nature of the others.There is another point that to touch and it is that of the appearance of the characters, being more specific, in a character. Jude is that type of Femme Fatale friend of Fergus. Then me chord of Pulp Fiction of Quentin Tarantino, and sight in my mind to Uma Thurman smoking a cigarette in their mat with a gun and some comics. Making a parallel one with the two characters, the identity of Jude is discovered as the catching woman that Neil Jordan creates and then Quentin Tarantino adapts. And we see how the beautiful Miranda Richardson represents that character.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any "},{"Title":"I knew how it ended and I was still shocked!","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's so funny because I know the exact plot of The Crying game, not just from I love the 90's, other viewers, or as this was named the number one most shocking movie of all time in Entertainment Weekly, I was thinking when I rented this movie how I wouldn't be shocked due to the fact that I knew what was going to happen, do you know what happened during the love scene? I actually gasped and laughed! Poor Stephen Rea, this movie was so great in the fact of how an Irishman's world could be totally turned over when the greatest circumstances come along.James has kidnapped along with his gang, a soldier, Jody. He and Jody become friends somewhat before tragically Jody is killed, but Jody asked him if he could see his true love, Dil, to let her know that she was the last thing he thought of. James meets Dil and falls in love with her to find out an interesting little Thing about her, she doesn't know yet that he knew her Jody and it could literally destroy each other once they find out each other's secrets.The Crying Game still to this day is one of the most shocking movies of all time and not to mention, just over all, a great film. The acting and story were just incredible and so unique. I really enjoyed The Crying Game, I think honestly anyone else can too, don't judge too harshly, look at the true art of the film and the story, it really is incredible. I miss the real shock movies, the one's that for some reason still contain the same emotions decades later, you know?9/10 "},{"Title":"Cry for me, Ireland.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to tell whether they're portraying the IRA negatively or positively, but once the twist comes, you're sure to have your mind blown. The plot of course concerns an IRA agent (Stephen Rea) getting involved with the hubby (Jaye Davidson) of an English soldier (Forest Whitaker) whom he kidnapped. When I first heard what the plot was - including the twist - I actually assumed that The Crying Game was a comedy, sort of a modern-day Some Like It Hot. But trust me, what this movie portrays is no laughing matter at all.Anyway, it's not like anything that you've ever seen before. And it certainly affirms Neil Jordan as a unique director. Also starring Miranda Richardson and Jim Broadbent. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful if rough-hewn","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film comes with a certain burden of expectation as a much admired essay on the troubles in Northern Ireland; and as having a famously unexpected twist.In fact the Irish Republican cause provides more context than content. The meat of the film swings around a series of relationships &#150; between men, between lovers. Despite some slightly studied acting across the board (only Miranda Richardson seems completely fluent in her fairly stylised role) the characters are well-drawn. The script seems adapted from a stage play, which is perhaps another way of my trying to excuse clunky acting, although I found a lot of the dialogue really quite absorbing.Stephen Rea is as good a reason for seeing this film. The pacing of its late 80s production or cameos from Jim Broadbent or Ralph Brown are others. Ultimately it's a competent and well-paced movie despite showing its age (1992? More like 1987). 6/10 "},{"Title":"If It Wasn't For That Twist It Would Have Been Totally Obscure","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A British soldier called Jody is kidnapped by the IRA and held hostage . Given the task of guarding him Fergus listens to Jody discuss his life . Showing Fergus a photograph of his girlfriend Dil and Fergus starts a strange obsession for Dil In 1992 this came and went in the blink of an eye at the British box office . Hardly surprising because the British box office appetite for Brit movies was still three or four years away . A British film in those days was basically a TV play with slightly better production values and this one is little different . When it was released in the rest of the world it became the film to see especially in America . Cynical Brits who hadn't seen the film would sneer that showing the IRA is a good light might have everything to do with it but then critics and marketing started making reference to the film's twist so much that when the film started picking up nominations at the big awards ceremonies people would jokingly ask if Jaye Davidson would be Oscar nominated as best supporting actor or best supporting actress This of course lets the cat out of the bag for everyone who hadn't seen the film . THE CRYING GAME exists mainly to set up this plot twist . If it was a conventional love story it would have headed straight to video and obscurity . Great suspension of disbelief is needed and the disbelief is a bit too difficult to suspend . Dil might look very feminine on celluloid but I can tell you in real life ladyboy wannabes are not so convincing . I remember one time in Pokhara in Nepal the town opened its gates to a ladyboy convention and I guarantee you not even Stevie Wonder would be fooled . There's a mannerism and a metaphysical aura to a transsexual impersonating a woman that fails to convince and knowing this you'd have severe doubts that Fergus would be taken in . The screenplay itself is very contrived with Jody having to become conveniently deaf which seals his fate and Fergus having to bump in to old friends That said I did find myself not exactly enjoying the film after first seeing it after a gap of nearly twenty years but respecting it more . This is certainly almost down to the hype surrounding the film on its release in America where the critics gave the impression this was the greatest film ever made . It's not but is a well acted well made drama . Forest Whittaker makes a mess of his accent which while rarely slipping in to American doesn't sound like a London accent . Stephen Rea manages to make his character likable even though he playing the long clichéd role of a  good  IRA man . Miranda Richardson who seemed to appear in every British film from the period does well enough enough to exorcise memories of her singularly awful performances as Queen Ezlibath in BLACKADDER 2 but the film quite rightly belongs to Jaye Davidson as Dil after appearing in this also gave an equally good performance in STARGATE then promptly disappeared as quickly arrived In summary THE CRYING GAME is a film that probably suffered from its own hype after becoming a sleeper hit in the States . It's never as deep as it tries try to be fusing issues of sexuality and identity . It's a love story with a difference but apart from the shock plot twist it's a film that would have appeared on channel 4 one Thursday night without causing a ripple "},{"Title":"Gunplay and complicated sexuality do mix after all","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a long time I avoided seeing this film because it involved the IRA and is a Brit production. Glad I went ahead and saw it because this in one more fine movie. The picture is broken up into two segments; one dealing with a hostage taking and the last concerned one of the terrorist's affair with the victim's girlfriend. He felt compelled to meet her after the incident and was drawn into her world of perverted sexuality which revolved around a bizarre nightclub she worked in. As the film progresses the viewer is likewise enticed into their kinky world and is handed quite a surprise along the way leading to some smokey scenes between the two lead characters. I really went for the title song, it fit right inside these folks sad existence.  "},{"Title":"Ten Years I Saw One Of The Unique Movies It's Hard To Forget","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw The Crying Game with a girlfriend and we both went to a nearby bar and discussed the movie.It's a unique film and I don't like to overuse the word unique but the cast of characters are so different yet each one clicks well.The IRA volunteer(Stephen Rea),he's sent to guard a British soldier(Forest Whitaker)and a coss-dresser( I believe).Yes, The Crying Game is one those films that takes you by surprise.And if you haven't seen itsee it! "}{"Title":"Distorted view of IRA","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The real secret of this film portraying the struggles of the Irish Republican Army, is its reactionary picture of gender and national conflict -- despite pithy metaphors on the meaning of life and human nature. By this theory, there are two kinds of people, oppressors and complicit dupes of oppressors, and both the IRA and the British army are hierarchies that have both kinds. The movie makes betraying the IRA the only humane decision for the hero. It is simply not in Fergus's nature to kill and be a revolutionary, so he bags his commitment to the IRA for love and sex. Dedicated IRA comrades are depicted as unthinking terrorist robots. "},{"Title":"  Excellent and Unconventional","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It amazes me how one penis can distract a mass of viewers.  Indeed, the revelation is a 500 lb gorilla, but that doesn't take away from the touching romantic aspect or the superb camera work.  Unlike most of the cinematic world, the real world is unpredictable, as is this movie.  I really enjoyed this compassionate and well put together film.  Let's hope Neil Jordan keeps breaking with convention and crossing genres.   "},{"Title":"A great film, BUT...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...the one scene that anybody who has seen the film (or probably heard about/seen parodied on Ace Ventura) knows I'm talking about, kinda puts a damper on it.  I mean, it adds to the film--which really is beautifully made and acted--but what can I say?  It's disturbing.  I guess it was necessary to the film's plot, though I think it could have been just as good if Dil was just a normal female.  It's all about the power of love and just what one would do for another in this, the crying game.  A great message overall; it really touched me.  I would definitely recommend it to anyone, but...just prepare yourself.   "},{"Title":"Not brilliant but works better than all its parts (pun unintentional) suggest it should (suggestive spoilers of course)","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of IRA terrorists capture a black British soldier and plan to kill him unless the Brits release an IRA prisoner. While holding Jody, Fergus makes the mistake of getting to know him and as the pair bond he comes to like his hostage. As the moment of death or release approaches, the others realise that Fergus is getting too close but it is too late as Jody has told him all about his lover Dil, and made him promise to visit her in London and tell her that Jody's final thoughts were of her. Against his better judgement Fergus promises, should it all end badly, that he will.Throughout the film I kept hearing this little voice in my head telling me that it just shouldn't work as a story. The narrative is a bit too convenient, the characters hardly detailed, the twists a bit overly done and some of the acting a bit shaky &#150; it should all hang together but it surprised me by doing just that. It starts as a very theatrical series of scenes with the two actors dominating the film, then suddenly becomes about another relationship before ending up with a bit of bloody revenge at the end. It sounds like it is all over the play but the individual bits work quite well &#150; in some places almost despite itself. The relationships are the main area that this is evident; Jody and Fergus shouldn't bond as easily as they do but yet the film convinces when it makes this happen. Likewise Fergus and Dil come together too easily and yet, although it doesn't ever ring true, it still managed to engage me and make me care.The cast don't really help either. Whittaker manages to get past the fact that his accent is pretty horrible and the fact that his character is weak and ends up producing a reasonable performance. Rea is likewise hampered with the problem of trying to make his character work despite the material but yet he also somehow manages it. Davidson plays it all well but it slightly takes away from the film that very few people will not know his surprise. Dunbar and Richardson are far too basic to be worth a great deal although they do have very little material to help. Like I say though, somehow Rea, Davidson and Whittaker all make it work.It is somehow greater than the sum of its parts and I was confused as to how it managed to do it. It has enough individual flaws and problems to perhaps nark many viewers (as it did me at times) but it somehow all hangs together and overall is actually and engaging film &#150; although the more you think back over it the more you see the weaknesses and not the overall strengths. "},{"Title":"Totally disturbing","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie starts with IRA man Fergus befriending a british soldier who he is meant to kill. A few days before the man dies, he shows Fergus a photo of his girlfriend (Dil)who he asks to confront. As he gets to London,he starts a job as a construction worker to find Dil is an attractive woman working in a salon and singing in a local pub in the evening.The film has an unsettling atmosphere and succeeds in setting the message to the audience that the director intended.If your curious to know the twist I am not yet going to give it away but send me an e mail if you want to know.The twist will give a frightful effect to the audience who thought of Dil as an attractive female. Until you have seen the film,think again I warn you. The Crying Game has to be director Neil Jordans most accomplised work to date so I will award four out of five. "},{"Title":"Mona Lisa - Sleaze + IRA = The Crying Game (SPOILERS)","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film about five years ago and thought it was dull pretentious nonsense.I saw it again recently and enjoyed it much more (if enjoy is the right word) but I still can't see why it was praised so highly.The Crying Game is very similar to Mona Lisa (which Neil Jordan directed six years earlier) in that it concentrates on a man working in unpleasant circumstances and his relationship with a woman who isn't all she appears to be.In Mona Lisa, Bob Hoskins brilliantly plays an ex-con chauffeuring a slim, half-caste prostitute he grows to love who turns out to be a lesbian. In The Crying Game, Stephen Rea adequately plays an IRA volunteer who becomes involved with a slim, half-caste hairdresser/singer who turns out to be a man.This twist, which probably gained the film much acclaim, comes as little surprise as Dil (expertly played by Jaye Davidson) looks like a guy in drag right from the start. In fact the whole IRA plot seems ultimately irrelevant and was apparently used simply as a means of building up to the story of Dil and his secret and to illustrate the lengths Fergus (Rea) will go to in order to protect him.This is the basis for the entire film and as a result the story seems a little thin.The character of Dil looks so like the prostitute in Mona Lisa that you get the impression that Jordan has a fascination for women matching this description though probably without the additional 'attributes' that Davidson brought to the role.The final confrontation scene between Rea, Davidson and Miranda Richardson is so similar to the corresponding scene between Hoskins, Cathy Tyson and Michael Caine in Mona Lisa that The Crying Game appears to be little more than a re-hash of Jordan's earlier and in my opinion superior film. "},{"Title":"What's to like??","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"24 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really tried to like this movie. The critics (before I knew better) raved about this film so much it got me pumped up to see it. Well, to say it was a letdown is putting it mildly. Then again, a lot of people like sick and sordid films. I learned the hard way how sick mainline film critics are since they just loved the idea of a key character in the film turning out to be a transsexual. Wow! Cool! (Okay, if you say so.)There are just too many uncomfortable, sordid and dark scenes in this movie, including a horrible first 15 minutes in which Forest Whitaker is a hysterical IRA hostage out in the middle of the woods. That beginning was anything but entertaining, at least to me.However, I don't know anyone who watched this movie and liked it - not one! "},{"Title":"Such a shocking reveal","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jody (Forest Whitaker) is a British soldier lured and kidnapped by Jude (Miranda Richardson) and her IRA group with Fergus (Stephen Rea). Jody befriends Fergus and Jody tells him about his girlfriend Dil (Jaye Davidson). Jody runs away as Fergus follows reluctant to shoot him. By coincidence, the British army arrive to gun down the IRA group and accidentally runs over Jody. Fergus escapes and seeks out Dil, the London hairdresser.Writer/director Neil Jordan does something special here. There is a slightly homosexual tone between Jody and Fergus' interaction. It doesn't let on but it's constantly there. Of course it's about the shocking reveal. It certainly shocked me when I first saw it. At first glance, it could be seen as a simple gimmick. However watching it more than once, the whole movie is infused with that theme. The twist isn't something out of the blue and yet it's completely unexpected. "},{"Title":"After Watching Citizen X (1995) I Was A Stephen Rea Fan For Life.","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the other best Stephen Rea film I have seen. Neil Jordan who has directed many hit films such as Angel 1982, Interview With The Vampire The Vampire Chronicles 1994, and The Butcher Boy 1997.Fergus (Stephen Rea) is a member of the IRA. He kidnaps Jody (Forest Whitaker) on orders from his superiors. While being held hostage, Jody talks to Fergus and becomes close to him. Jody knows in his heart that he will be killed eventually and so he bequeaths a last request to Fergus to take care of his lover called Dil.When Fergus takes Jody into the woods to carry out his execution, Jody makes a break for it. Fergus cannot bring himself to shoot the fleeing Jody in the back, but Jody is instead accidentally run over and killed by British Saracen armoured personnel carrier as they move in to assault the IRA safe-house. With his IRA companions seemingly dead after the attack, Fergus flees to London, where he takes a job as a day labourer, using the alias Jimmy.Watch this highly acclaimed film to see what happens next...The Cinematography by Ian Wilson is superb. Jordan's direction is top-notch. The background music score is more than adequate and the casting is superb. I found Jaye Davidson's acting superb for a debut actor. He and Rea really lift the film. "},{"Title":"..what a wonderful disaster..","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Please read other comments - they minutely detail this movie. Not much I can add - I agree, but I visualize a much greater film after reading the extras. Stay away from them until you've watched the movie.I LOVED this movie. The disaster is, it had to be filmed on a shoe-string budget. All of the actors-actresses gave strong performances, but better talent could have been found. Once you discover the secret, you'll understand my criticisms, as The Oldest Drag-Queen in Captivity.Very little is said about this plot we go in blind, if we do not know about The Irish Republican Army, made-up of fanatics similar to Al Qaida.Jody (Forest Whitaker) is a British soldier, but that's all we find-out about him. He is captured as a prisoner by the IRA. For the second half of the movie, it needs a much prettier man. Maybe the budget could not afford a handsomer actor. Whitaker is very good in his short role, and apparently he didn't object to being associated with this shocker.Fergus (Jimmy, Stephen Rea) was much too old for this role - look at the virile soldiers he's working for. His only purpose is to be an executioner for Jody, but develops a liking to him. He actually could have been a pawn for revenge, Jody knowing he was going to die. He made Fergus promise to look-up his lady-friend in London. Rea portrayed his role with too much guilt and/or sympathy, or sexual denial. Although good, his acting could have been stronger.Dil (Jaye Davidson, an unknown, therefore cheap) is Jody's lady-friend. There is a secret about her. I was surprised that few viewers saw the secret immediately - distinctly apparent to me. That character was described by Kubric to be impossible to cast - I know dozens who could have played the role, and would have been more convincing. In a gaybar like The Metro, everyone knows everything about everyone. Jody's being kidnapped should have been no surprise; there were headlines; it's my opinion Dil was on a vendetta to find her lover's killers.Jude (Miranda Richardson) is the brilliant femme-fatale for the IRA - very clever girl. Apparently the IRA knew more about Jody than we are told. Jude shows-up at every location Jody would have been in. Dil would have been no mystery to Jude - she even knew where she lived. ....a little heavy on the powder. Dave was Dil's abusive boyfriend. Jude and the IRA-soldiers do-away with him (although we are not told of this) and too late Jimmy realizes the IRA-Dave has been stalking him, tightening the grip for more executions.After the secret is revealed to Jimmy, the plot is too convoluted to write about without being excessive. Just pay attention. Fergus-Jimmy misses the next execution, and Jude knows exactly where to find him - at Dils pad. In she stomps with weapons, but Dil turns-out to be a better shot. This provides the idea Dil was hip, all along. Dil murders Jude without remorse, saying she was there. Poor Jimmy is so protective of Dil, he does the time for her.The Crying Game was a very popular song, and gives the movie its name. Dil lipsyncs it. All of the music does its job well. Cinematography is great. The disaster is, filming it bankrupted its producers; Miramax backs-off financing it until it sees the finished product, then realizes it's going to be a huge success. It distributes it, raking-in the cash.Dil-with-the-secret is the central role of this movie - the producers didn't visit enough gay bars to find a softer-looking person to play the role. Had I known they were searching, I'd have sent them a dozen, ultimately more beautiful and talented. One user wrote no one is giving-away the secret. That's how I learned about it, in a review about another movie. EVERYONE gives-away the secret. For our society, it should not be that shocking - it's all around us. If you don't see it, you aren't looking.There should definitely be a re-make of this film. The story is too beautiful to be left as it is. After all of these caustic comments, I LOVED THIS MOVIE. I rate it at 20. Watch it to come out of The Dark Ages - do so without preconceptions. Bravo! to Neil Jordan; he knew exactly what he wanted to film, and certainly deserved his Oscar. It should be shown to every high-schooler - they know about it, anyway. Adults have no excuse for not seeing this movie.Congratulations to everyone who had a part of bringing it to the screen - YOU will come away either pro or con - watch it twice and really understand it. If you don't, you're could be chicken and extremely discriminate....... "}{"Title":"Twilight The Movie of a young black man","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never seen such a great movie, it was STUNNING and beautiful in all aspects, I am honestly wondering why this is not top 10 yet, the scene where the girl was crying and the boy went up to her and slapped her was great. y friend thought this movie was bad at first but then he thought it was awesome, so did I. so Basically we win and you don't, we would like to buy a cheeseburger. Thank you.Also, if you prefer horror movies, watch this because I think you will get a hair of stuff if you continue to rise beyond the many colors of reduntant colors and reluctant decisions of your succinct thoughts. Even though you are the prime-minister you will enjoy this movie, I would personally give this a 9.5/10, this is really an upcoming film. Christopher Nolan, move out of the way!i have cancer please hep me..i like it when the black man is afraid of trains and stop by die in everyone "},{"Title":"Emperor's New Clothes","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't seen this film but had heard good things about it and knew the 'twist'. It was shown on Film4's 'Films for Life' season in April 2011 so finally decided to watch it and was astounded by how bad it was. I'm bemused by all the comments here about the good script, good acting, etc because I experienced the exact opposite. The acting was appalling, especially Forest Whitaker and Jaye Davidson; Whitaker's English accent made Dick Van Dyke's Mary Poppins accent look good. It was all over the place, varying from Cockney to Australian to Texan American in one sentence. He was obviously concentrating on the accent as his acting was very hammy. Davidson was perhaps the most wooden and un-natural actor I've ever seen on screen - his happy, sad, drunk, murderous and suicidal were all delivered with the same emotionless deadpan monotone. The dialogue was stilted and full of cliché after cliché. The plot was unreal and relied on suspension of disbelief - apparently English people cannot distinguish between a thick Belfast accent and a Scottish one (wait a minute, that's Americans isn't it?); apparently the IRA plot the assassination of politicians off-the-cuff the day before in the back of a car with a 5 minute run-through and then, when it goes wrong, just wing it and deliberately instigate an OK Corral shoot-out....oh my, such a bad film "},{"Title":"thought provoking","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm really only writing in response to the only other posted comment on The Crying Game because I feel it was rather simplistic in analysis. Yes, the movie is rather destrurbing, however, it raises issues of gender, sexuality, and relationships in a very intriguing way. by the way, if you don't' want the surprise spoiled, stop reading NOW. The fact that Jimmy decides to remain friends with Dil (and possibly more--it's ambiguous) even after he discovers she is biologically a man, calls into question all of our deeply ingrained traditional ideas of what is acceptable and appropriate. The last part of the movie is not necessarily a coming out on Jimmy's part, but could be interpreted that way. I saw it more as evidence of a strange and unique platonic connection; they need and appreciate each other's company for different reasons and have laid down all preconceptions and public social worries in coming to that conclusion.  "},{"Title":"Nothing without the twist","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know what?  I had just spent ten minutes writing a REALLY GOOD comment on this film before my computer crashed and I wasn't able to send it.  Of course, being the lazy lazy man I am, I'm not gonna write it over again.  Here are some of the main points.*basically relies on twist.  not much of a film without it.*where the hell did all the money go?  shot for 6 million but LOOKS like it was shot for 500 thousand.*Twist comes out of nowhere.  Unlike recent surprise ending movies, such as The Sixth Sense and The Usual Suspects where you ask yourself How did I miss that?  It was SO obvious!, The Crying Game has a twist that really does leap out at you fromt the depths of movie uncertainty.*If you don't know anything about this movie, especially the twist, go see it.  The less you know, the better. "},{"Title":"Falls flat after 50 minutes","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Start of the film , hostage conversation and a few scenes after that are well done. After that movie goes haywire. Every scene is repetitive in the second half and leads to a weird ending. I think film has a message which Neil Jordan couldn't really register. Actors were good, story was good and theme was good but it just stops moving after a point and falls flat on its nose in the end. The DVD's have an alternate ending in the special features which is actually what Neil wrote in the screenplay. The DVD ending of the film is what financiers pushed Neil Jordan for. I recommend if you liked this film then don't watch that ending because its pathetic. Also some of the reviewers felt that this film is irresponsible towards IRA. I think they shouldn't bother about that. The last thing anyone would remember of this film is IRA. Don't rent just wait you may get to see it on TV. "},{"Title":"An unprecedented movie that might be very shocking, but that is also very good.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When first released in 1992, this movie created a shock wave and I sure can understand why. Even when seeing it today, this is still a rather unusual movie, even when you already know what will happen. It's unusual not only because it talks about the friendship between a kidnapped British soldier and an IRA terrorist who has to guard him, but also unusual for all the things that happen afterward. Of course I'm not going to tell you what you're about to see, but I'm pretty sure that you will be stunned, if not shocked.The director and the actors really did a very good job, because even though this movie may look like a complicated puzzle from time to time, at the end all the pieces fall into their place. And perhaps even more important All the emotions in the movie feel very genuine. I never had the feeling that all that happened couldn't be true, even though it all was very remarkable.Despite the many twists, the rather slow pace of telling the story and the sometimes disturbing content, this is really a very interesting and original movie that should be seen by everybody. Personally I give it a 7.5/10, but I'm sure that many people will not like it because of some things that they will see. "},{"Title":"I'm loud, darling, but never cheap.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will always remember this film from the classic Simpson's episode where Mayor Quimbly nearly gives away the ending. Also, the hordes of jokes that were simultaneously also released during the same time as this film. You couldn't go anywhere without hearing something about the almighty of almighty cliffhangers. This film had viewers up in arms, whether it disturbed or excited, this film caused a reaction. Director Neil Jordan did a spectacular job of bringing to life, not only some key issues, but also the cast of this film. Everything, from the song, to the actors did a Oscar-worthy job of bringing this story to life. In my review of Dead Man Walking, I talked about how Oscar likes to award those who give us that 'warm fuzzy' feeling, well, this is yet another example of how the Academy turns it head. Just like Sophia Coppola, Jordan's brilliant film only took home the award for best Screenplay when it should have taken home so much more.The Crying Game is a brilliant story that did not get the respect that it deserved. This is a must-see for anyone with a passion in films.Grade ****** out of ******  "},{"Title":"boy george sang the songthe crying game. perfect","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i used to hear the song the crying game when i worked nights at the supermarket. i thought it was a good song. i knew it had something to do with the movie the crying game because i remember going to the movies and seeing posters of the crying game everywhere. for a long time, i had not a clue what the crying game was about(the movie cover doesn't reveal anything but a woman with a smoking gun. now that i am 25 and can understand the art in projects such as music, movies, and books the song and the movie make sense. i recently saw the crying game on bravo. but now it's on starz! tonight at midnight, so it won't but cut now. a week after seeing it on bravo, i watched ace ventura pet detective and heard the crying game song. curious again i went to this web site and noticed that boy george sang this song. if anyone recalls, boy george wrote mostly all his songs about this bandmate and lover johnny when he had the group culture club. songs likedo you really want to hurt me and karma calmeleon have the same tone as the crying game song. anyways, i made my point without giving up details of the movie. but the movie, the song, and boy george all tie in nicely "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking and bizarre","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very shocking and disturbing movie, The Crying Game was not at all what I expected.  Set in the heated world of IRA terrorists, the film introduces us to Fergis, a kidnaper who loves his country but finds he can't kill for it. His friendship with his hostage, played by Forest Whitaker, is convincing, and indeed a thought-provoking idea.  When Whitaker is killed, it is a riveting, surprising, but somehow grateful tragedy Fergis did not have to face his conflict and shoot him.Perhaps the most shocking moment in the movie (okay, it definitely IS the most shocking) is that abrupt scene between Fergis and his man-woman.  I had thankfully NOT seen a review of this movie before renting it, so my surprise was sudden and complete.  Fergis's reaction to this strange discovery is understandable, and although he still cares for Dil, it is in a different way than before.  This situation left me wondering how exactly one would deal with that; Dil suggests that Fergis kiss her and pretend, when he obliges she encourages more, and Fergis acknowledges, I can't pretend that far. Dil's hidden sexuality is foreshadowed subtlely by clues I missed the first time around Jody mentions Jude wasn't his type, Dil stops Fergis from going too far while kissing (so when she insists he knew she was a man, we are led to believe he did not know--she wouldn't let him know.)However one may dwell on the unusual relationship defined in The Crying Game, there are other issues at stake here the fight for humanity and country, the choice between one's self and one's love, the conflict between freedom and righteousness.  This movie presents such a tangible taste of these moral dilemmas, I recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"The Most Misunderstood Masterpiece Of Our Times","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neil Jordan's The Crying Game is the ultimate achievement in his career of variations on a theme. A film which has been embraced (unfortunately) by the gay community as a film about the acceptance of homosexuality, the very praise of the film for this reason has missed the point entirely.Jordan, through the story of an IRA terrorist who promises a soon to be dead British soldier that he will take care of his girlfriend explores Jordan's fascination with idea of the individual pitted against the demands of ideology. It does this in spellbinding and dramatic fashion. By the way, she's a guy. Thus the much talked about plot twist which is seminal to the story. But this plot point does not become an end, only a beginning. The IRA terrorist, Fergis (played by Steven Rea) had fallen for this woman. Now, freed from the sexual feelings, Fergis still cares about her/him. When his IRA associates come back to town to plot their next terrorist act, they hold her life as a bargaining chip, forcing him to choose between the person (humanistic) or his beliefs (ideological). The unfolding of the story is riveting. If you have seen any other Jordan films, you know that this theme plays out eloquently in all his films. Whether it is Brad Pitt in Interview With A Vampire struggling with his conflicted nature or The relationship between Liam Neeson and Alan Rickman in Michael Collins, Jordan uses this theme as a powerful storyteller. While the theme of conflicted nature and being true to people over ideals may have resonance in the gay community that have misread the film, it is really a transcendent question we all face. Eloquently summed up in the age-old story of the frog and the scorpion, The Crying Game evokes with power and emotion questions which affect us all. "}{"Title":"The greatest movie ever made!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't use the term greatest movie ever made lightly. I actually NEVER use it, except for when it comes to this masterpiece. Superb performances, exceptional writing (which won Neil Jordan an Oscar) and battles with The Sixth Sense and Psycho for having the biggest surprise/twist in a movie - ever! A twist which, like with the other two films mentioned before, was so respected that people DIDN'T spread the word about its nature. But it's not great because of that famous twist. It's great because it simply works on every level on a haunting, gentle and very simple way. Nothing is forced, and the whole thing (twist not-with-standing) has one of the most unpredictable stories ever told on film. Starts out as a hostage thriller, then turns into a drama, then an intimate love story and then ... well, I wouldn't want to give anything away to the unlucky person that has missed one of the greatest cinematic experiences in the history of film... Don't go on being left out. Give in to The Crying Game now! "},{"Title":"A Very Clever Film","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I recall the CRYING GAME was one of the first thinking person's films One of those little Indie's that came along and changed the way we looked at movies.  I have recently viewed in on tape not having seen it it since 1993 and there wasn't much of it that I remembered except the big surprise which even then I had figured out a half hour earlier.The best part about this film is Jaye Davidson's performance and Neil Jordan's wonderful screenplay.  They were both unique for the time and stand up to it on this second viewing some eight years later.  The plot twists and turns and one is never quite certain where it is going. There are two story lines that seem unconnected until they connect up perfectly in the film's third act.As for Jaye Davidson he is quite amazing.  I also recall at the time of this film was out that I thought the Academy had best give him the Oscar this time because although he was young, his career would probably be limited.  I can see from his bio that it was indeed. He did a couple of small films after CRYING GAME but by 1995 he had now gone back to working in London's fashion world.  That is sad.  It would have been nice to see him get more chances to act.  Stephen Rhea on the other hand as the film's main character pretty much looked like he was sleep walking his way through it.  HE unfortunately is still very much out there acting.  Most recently appearing in THE MUSKETEER.  There just ain't much justice in Hollywood.I urge you to take a look at this fine film if you haven't seen it or to revisit if you have.  "},{"Title":"I already knew the secret","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching The Crying Game again for about the fifth time. I saw it about 10 years ago after someone had told me all about it. I deliberately took a friend to see it in the theater to see her reaction. And her reaction was Well, I thought she was sort of attractive but they could have got someone better until she realized the truth, and then was somewhat in a state of disbelief.Alot of things appeal to me about this film - the true friendship with Fergus and Jody, the enchanting accents, the humor, although it is very, very dry. I think it is quite witty in dialogue, has enough drama and action to satisfy alot of people. It will either totally involve you or leave you cold, I think. It is a thoughtful, strange movie by Neil Jordan, whose movies I never fail to enjoy.I think I would have to call it the strangest love story one could imagine. Certainly most unusual and not forgettable at all. 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Crying game...a crying shame.","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1992 was quite a year, or I imagine it must have been. I was only five years old. I do recall voting for Bill Clinton during our elementary school election. Clint Eastwoods western UNFORGIVEN won best picture at the Academy awards. THE CRYING GAME won best original screenplay Oscar for Neil Jordan. A lot of hype was built around a shocking twist that would not have existed the internet was more accessible. In retrospect it was pretty obvious and the movie built around that shocking twist doesn't quite work.A British named Jody soldier falls victim to the seduction of an undercover IRA agent. Her associates kidnap him at a carnival and hold him hostage. Jody befriends Fergus, the only one of the group that isn't completely merciless. Jody escapes and gets run over by a tank when British soldiers arrive and obliterate the IRA agents. Fergus survives and goes to England where he meets Jody's girl friend Dil, and falls in love with her. Fergus hides the secret of his past and his connection to Dil's former lover while Dil hides a big secret from him.A big portion of the movie revolves around a twist. If you know anything about movies you know what it is. In this internet age nothing is unknown. If you have two function eyes you can figure it out. I wont ruin that twist. There may be someone out there who doesn't know it.Most of the movie is devoted the love story. I never felt a chemistry between Fergus and Dil. Dil is not a character I rooted for. I didn't think Dil was very interesting. Her obvious secret once uncovered makes her quite boring. The surviving IRA agents come back and find Fergus in England. This should have added a little juice to the story, but it didn't. I never found a reason to care about the story.The performances are solid all around, not counting Stephen Rea as Fergus. His performance felt lazy. Oscar winner Forrest Whitaker is sensational although he only appears in the first act. The Jody character has a habit of staying with you even after he's gone. The best performance comes from the actor playing Dil. I can see why the big secret stayed so secret it was because the performance was so convincing.I personally hate twist endings. Most of the time there only done for shock value. This movie was one of those times. It was totally unnecessary and served very little purpose. Outside of the big twist the movie is not that great. "},{"Title":"Remastered thriller about the kidnapping of a British soldier.","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish I could actually give this movie a rating, so settled on 5. The DVD we got did not have English subtitles, and with overly loud background noise and music, we found in near impossible to hear, let alone, understand what the actors were saying for what little we did try to watch. And we had read how good this movie is. And it looked it too, from what we have read and know of each actor. I wish whoever is redoing movies, or making movies, would make sure that audiences can understand most of what is being said (and seen) in a movie, and if not please add in English subtitles. That this is occurring more and more just shows that those in the business of making movies do not care about audiences. So another highly anticipated movie has been sent back. What a shame. "},{"Title":"Guilt","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SpoilersNeil Jordan, while making this film had one question in mind, How far can guilt push a person? As Fergus demonstrates, plenty far.1.) He moves to another territory - in fact the land of his sworn enemies - in order to fulfill the last wish of a dead man he had barely known.2.) In fulfilling said wish, Fergus stalks Dil, beats a man, convinces himself that he is in love with her (really, he was simply trying to take care of her), continues to protect her despite his marked repulsion concerning her transexualism, and eventually attempts to change her physical appearance and home to keep her safe (Though I think much of this change was reflective of an unconscious drive to bring Jody back to life, which is why Dil wore the same shirt Jody had always been dreamed of in by Fergus).    3.) Ultimately, Fergus ends up going to prison for a murder Dil committed.Though it is easy to say that these events occured because of a newfound love which had evolved, that is not the point being made by Mr. Jordan. By continually reproaching Dil for calling him honey, Fergus makes it clear that he was not in love with her. He had merely been doing what he could to abate the tremendous guilt he had been feeling. More so, he did not choose to help her, it was his nature of extreme conscientousness that forced him into these extraordinary acts. It is precisely because this is not a love movie, that its statement is so profound.   "},{"Title":"Didn't need the twist","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someone here asked where all the money went in this 6 million dollar film. Well, my guess is the extraordinary acting talent (an extremely rare commodity in the cinema these days). Stephen Rea was brilliant as the rogue but sensitive Fergus, and was cheated out of his oscar (Al Pacino won it for his whining/screaming routine in scent of a woman). Adrian Dunbar was also excellent, accompanied by noteworthy performances from Miranda Richardson and Forrest Whittaker. Rather than the usual run of the mill syrupy drama, which usually lacks even a shred of originality or spontaneity, The Crying Game posseses a fresh storyline and a very clever dialogue. My main complaint is about the infamous subplot, which I felt was completely irrelavent to the story. While it gave the film added mystery and uniqueness, the so called twist probably alienated more audience members than it enthralled. Still, because of the strength of the film's acting and story, I found it easy to overlook. There was also a breach of realism during the Dis Irae sequence that I found somewhat silly, since the average moviegoer would have a hard time believing that the British Army could be so sloppy.  Nonetheless, I am proud to recommend this feature, and advise prospective viewers not to be put off by its portrayal of alternative lifestyles. "},{"Title":"Fantastic mingle of plots","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What was the Crying Game all about? It is hard to say, but one thing is for sure, it was put together in a genius fashion. The viewer is unsure where it all steers at and the famous revelation of Dil's secret is only one point in the story, although it puts a lot of pepper in. Sometimes you will find that certain male viewers tend to be disgusted by even a mention of that being possible, but it seems some of them were quite enchanted by the beautiful Dil until then. In general, the cast is doing a very good job and make it easy to relate to the characters, what, in a story like that, is probably more difficult than it looks like. The script full of twists is very well written and the movie should be applauded for having the courage to kill one of the main actors right after the beginning (which is not to say, killing an actor early on always makes a great movie).If you are open minded enough for watching an individual look on the Northern Ireland problem mingled with an unusual lovestory, this is a must-see! "},{"Title":"Intriguing and Compelling!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie recently for the first time.  I knew all about the movie from the hype it got 10 years earlier, and I knew what to expect, so it wasn't really a shock to me (especially since I also dated a transexual shortly before the movie came out).  I found myself also wondering if Jody had set Fergus up knowing that he would be killed.  However, the movie focuses on the 'true nature' of people, considering the frog and scorpion story.  I think that Jody genuinely liked Fergus and, due to life experience, knew that it was in his nature to be kind.  Because of this, he wanted Fergus to visit his lover knowing that once he met her, there would be a strong chance that he would take care of her.  He also knew that, if anyone else was going to be able to get past Gil's physical problem, that it would be Fergus.I enjoyed this movie immensely and would recommend it to anyone interested in an adventurous/intelligent/romantic movie.  And figure out for yourself if it was all a nasty last-resort prank played on Fergus by Jody, or if it was a loving last-resort plea to have Fergus look after Jody's ill-fated but beautiful lover. "},{"Title":"You're in for a surprise...maybe.","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was at the most average. I don't know what all the hoo-ha was about. For years, I'd heard that this film holds this amazing plot twist, that will keep you astonished for months to come. What? If you don't know what this film is about, you're in for a real treat. Or, disappointment, depending on how you feel about the subject. Most people know already what the big surprise ending is, as I did, but if you don't I won't ruin anything for you. Just be prepared, that when you do find out what the twist is, it's pretty graphic and in your face.It's a film that I found distasteful, and really bad. It wasn't at all the type of film I thought it would be. I have to say I was overall quite disappointed with the film. It lacked quite a bit, and the first forty minutes of the movie, are unbelievably slow. Once you finally get to the point of the film, you're so numbed from the first almost hour, that it seems like the movie is hardly worth your time, by then.I will say though, that Jaye Davidson was outstanding in his role, and was quite believable. And, I'd like to add that I'm quite surprised that he hasn't done more, since then, acting wise.The film again, is quite slow, and not very well written. I felt the writers really strayed away from writing about the actual criminal activity that was going on, and focused more on the relationship between the two main characters. Which, frankly was pointless.I wouldn't waste my time with this one if I were you. It's not at all what everyone makes out to be, and although it is a cult classic, not all cult classics are worth watching, or as good as people tend to think they are. 'Rocky Horror Picture Show'. That's all I'm saying.But, for the time when it came out, and the acting in the film, it's better than most films probably could have been. I just didn't care for it. "}{"Title":"Unique and fascinating","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surprises follow other surprises in this moody, weird, shocking, and touching film.  It's unlike anything else in the history of the movies, except maybe the director's own Mona Lisa.  I see in the Trivia section of the IMDB page that Kubrick had an influence, and I might have known that by the way that the no-hurry rhythm of the story contrasts with the suddenness of the violence.  But the film is basically one of a kind.I guess some people are disappointed because The Crying Game isn't really an action movie despite the picture of a woman with a gun on the poster.  But don't listen to the complaints that the film is boring.  It's a believable yet unpredictable story of people trying to turn their backs on violence and to find out who and what they really are. "},{"Title":"The IRA....an army?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable flick.  But the whole notion of the IRA considering itself a legitimate army that conducts court martials, rather than a ragtag bunch of terrorists and murderers made me laugh.  Jaye Davidson looks so much like a girl it is very very scary.  Stephen Rea's performance is nothing short of perfect and he definately should have received the oscar. "},{"Title":"The Scorpion and the Frog","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The use of this story in The Crying Game is not unique in cinema history. It was told by Orson Welles in his 1955 movie, Mr. Arkadin. (I at first thought that Mr. Welles was the author of this fable, but it apparently has been around for some time.) "},{"Title":"Good but overrated...","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps because I had seen the film before (years ago), the major twist was nothing new to me and didn't strike me as it probably should have.  That being said, I found the movie to be good but overrated based on what I had heard about it.  The storyline is familiar but the way things play out are not and that's where the film benefits.  There is strong acting throughout and I stayed interested, but once the film ended I wasn't extremely moved and didn't think too much of the proceedings after having turned off the TV. All in all, a good movie worth a viewing but not more than that...7/10. "},{"Title":"I'm loud, darling, but never cheap.  - Dil","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In all honesty, I have to say I was extremely disappointed in 'The Crying Game'. People were telling it was such an amazing and surprising film, but I have to tell you I kind of knew she was a 'he'. I mean, who couldn't, - ADAM'S APPLE! I wasn't too surprised with that, but I was shocked when they revealed his/her/it's penis (WOW!), creepy stuff. But besides that 'The Crying Game' is overall a very good film. Neil Jordan does his finest direction to date with 'The Crying Game', and his screenplay is also powerful, but drags a lot especially during the middle. I think the best quality about this motion picture is the acting. Every actor is at the top of their game. Stephen Rea gives a carefully-crafted powerhouse performance (that is in my opinion his best) as Fergus, a member of a notorious anti-IRA activist group who with his co-workers including the crazy, violent vixen Jude (Miranda Richardson - in a swift and brilliant performance that should have earned her an Oscar nomination), kidnap an IRA Soldier, Jody (Forest Whitaker - in one of his best performances) to hold him for ransom. Fergus is in charge of guarding Jody and the two of them start a friendship. After all goes to sh*t, and half of Fergus' team and Jody dies, Fergus keeps a promise to Jody that he will seek out his girlfriend, Dil (Jaye Davidson - another incredible Oscar-nominated performance, the best he's given). Fergus falls in love with Dil, but doesn't know she's a he. When he finds out he decides to stay with her because he fell in love with her/him/it. But Fergus' violent past comes back to haunt him. 'The Crying Game' is a very good film, but it relied to much on it's twist, that in my opinion wasn't too much of a shocker. Still, even with that aside the quality of 'The Crying Game' is still up there. I would say if you see this one afternoon or night on HBO or one of the other movie channels I recommend you watch it if nothing else is on. 'The Crying Game' is a film about the acting which is no doubt exceptional. It's very gritty, and definitely not for the more weak-hearted (those who would hate to see two men kiss should avoid this), but I have to give credit where it is due and say 'The Crying Game' is not a great or excellent film like many will have you to believe, but again, it's a very good film with superior aspects all around, but the big twist isn't too convincing. Grade B "},{"Title":"interesting film","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok.  This is  one weird movie.  Though i do think it was a well made film, it was just too weird for my taste.  This is about a group of IRA terrorists, who take British soldier Jody(Forest Whitaker) hostage.  Fergus (Stephen Rea), one of the IRA terrorists gets to know his prisoner, and forms a little bond with Jody.  Jody asks Fergus to look out for his girlfriend. And eventually, Fergus goes looking for Jody's girl, and this is where the story gets good, and not too mention odd!  Whitaker is a little unconvincing as a british guy.  And i'm a little bit confused.  Is  Jaye Davidson a guy or a girl? *?* (never saw any of his/her films before, except Stargate, and i was still confused about  his/her gender)  c D But Stephen Rea and Miranda Richardson were pretty  good.  I was expecting a little bit more violence, but i guess i can't complain.  The action scenes weren't too bad. Other than the shocking plot twist, i did enjoy the film.  I still don't think its a great film, but a well made one. "},{"Title":"Mediocre film with a clever - but too well known - twist.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A soldier is captured by the IRA and one of his captors takes a special interest in his former domestic life.The general public love one trick ponies or novelty films. In lean times a film can live on these things alone. Crying Game is another example.(Shame it wasn't made in French I am sure it would have won the Best Foreign Film Oscar!) This film would have been quickly been dropped in to the bargain bin (if it got on to video/DVD at all) if it were not for a twist -- that while original -- is hardly worth waiting up for.When you start watching this you start to think -- yes, this is OK and very easy to follow. An examination of what is known as the Stockholm Syndrome (prisoner and captor getting too close) and is a kind of will he -- won't he (kill him) exercise.(A bit like a single intense episode of The Sopranos.) While this is generally OK it looks a lot like quality television and it does drag on more than it should. Even with quality acting and actors -- the thing develops at a snail's pace.(Special credit for Forest Whitaker for doing a wonderful English working class accent.) Then come the twist that people are praising as the biggest reversal of expectations since Psycho. For my part it was OK and makes the whole thing in to something different -- but it did nothing to disguise the waiting (rather than crying) game you have to sit through to get to it.On a general note, I am not a big fan of director Neil Jordan, but I admire the way that he tries his best to be different and try out new things. Sadly a lot of his new and different doesn't deliver the entertainment or intrigue that I demand from my movies. "},{"Title":"Let's twist again....its in your nature","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of course I am not going to tell you the twist, but basically the IRA capture a British soldier in Northern Island and hold him hostage. That is only the beginning. One of the IRA members finds himself later entering into the soldier's world.The twist is that the world is not quite what you are led to expect. This twist made this low budget film a huge commercial success internationally.The problem with twist films is that if you don't get to see them early enough you will be told the twist at some time. I have had the experience of seeing both the crying game and The 6th sense knowing the twist.With both these movies the story itself is compelling enough. Also in the crying game, the twist is not at the end but near the middle and forms part of the overall character development.Still an interesting movie though it simplifies the IRA into a bunch of thugs (some of them are, it is true) and reduces everyone to our nature, instead of saying we act out of circumstance. "},{"Title":"Don't take it too seriously","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watched this one again last night on FilmFour.  Not a bad film, not a great film either, but it is the crazy twist that makes it memorable and that only survives (if you're lucky) the first viewing.  Stephen Rea makes the film human, mostly because his trademark 'lost mongrel' look works here for the first time since 'Angel.'  The rest of the cast overact (even Dunbar who can be very good) and poor old Forrest Whittaker struggles with the London accent so much that he ends up doing a world tour, taking in Sydney, Johannasburg and Macclesfield along the way.  Jaye Davidson is awesome, but it's one-time gig unfortunately.  I think for anyone who actually lives in Northern Ireland, the terrorists seemed pretty two-dimensional and the kidnap plot wasn't very believable let alone the army appearing in a rescue attempt. TRIVIA.  The railway bridge at the beginning also appears in 'Angel (1982).'  My girlfriend went to the same high school as Stphen Rea. "},{"Title":"Way overrated","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Honestly, this isn't that great of a movie. It has two wildly disparate acts--the first concerning a hostage situation with the Irish Republican Army, and the second a sort of weird love story. The first act is somewhat interesting and well done, with a good performance from Forrest Whitaker (whom I generally dislike, except for in this movie and The Last King of Scotland). However, when it abruptly ends, the plot then drags on and on with a tedious love story, the only original element of which is its unconventional sexuality. The novelty wears off fast. This sort of otherwise boring movie might have been held together by tremendous performances from its leading cast, but the acting on the part of Stephen Rea and Jaye Davidson is sorely lacking, especially the latter. All in all, highly mediocre at best, receiving critical acclaim only because of how different and new it was. "}{"Title":"Good, but may be too many twists","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Crying Game' is an original movie in many ways. It seems to be about one thing, but suddenly turns ninety degrees and is about something completely different. It does not do this once but a couple of times, surprising us every single time. Here it works most of the time, but sometimes it feels the movie is there for the twists, not the story around those twists.The movie starts with a kidnapping by the IRA. Jody (Forest Whitaker) is the victim, the kidnappers include Jude (Miranda Richardson) and Fergus (Stephen Rea). Fergus is a friendly guy, only doing this for the IRA-cause. Jody talks with Fergus about a lot of things including his girl at home named Dil (Jaye Davidson). Fergus has to promise that he will talk to Dil if something happens to Jody.Things do happen to Jody, although not the way you might expect. Fergus keeps his promise but while doing that he is also running from the IRA, since things did not go as planned with Jody. He finds Dil and they fall in love. Fergus has hard times with that since Dil still does not know the truth about Jody.Around this point we are midway and we already have had a couple of twists, although some major ones still have to arrive. Up until here I really enjoyed this movie, but I realized the movie had no real focus. Personally I thought the movie was going to be about an IRA kidnapping, about some kind of friendship between a kidnapper and a hostage. It would have made an interesting movie. Now it is more original, changing it to a romantic story, sort of, with some sub-plots that really matter.Again, this would have been fine by me. But the movie has to change its subject again. Yes, I really was surprised by it but the movie lost some focus again. Especially this twist seemed to be there to shake up the audience. Fortunately the movie is good, with solid performances, so I wasn't really bothered by it, but the thought crossed my mind. For a lot of people the twists will make this movie better. For me it was a little distracting, but original and entertaining this movie definitely is.  "},{"Title":"Overrated IRA Film *SPOILER*","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting an IRA thriller with a twist, that's what the movie poster boasted. Instead I got a pretty average movie with not many good twists. In fact the main twist the studio was trying to get us all excited about was obvious waaaaaaay before it happened. I mean come on people, she had an adams apple the size of my fist. Even after a dozen beers in a dimly lit bar I think I would pick it......Hopefully.I have seen this movie three times now trying to see if I've missed whatever it is that make people gush over this movie. I haven't missed anything, its just plain tosh right down to the hokey Stand by your man joke at the end. Sure the acting was great, but acting alone don't make the movie.If you haven't seen this movie yet I recommend you run right out, rent it and tell everybody you love it. I guarantee you will fit in better at dinner parties with the intellectual wannabe crowd.* 1/2 inches out of ***** "},{"Title":"The human soul is an abyss","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well the first thing that comes out on my mind is to ask whether feminine militants of IRA are such femmes fatales as the the character performed by Miranda Richardson which makes her a less convincing terrorist. Talking more seriously now, this movie is a soup which mixes a lot of ingredients that make it a bit awkward after all IRA, terrorism, the kidnapping and execution of hostages, love-hate relationships, transsexuality and so on. To handle this odd and rather explosive mixture maybe a stronger hand than Mr. Neil Jordan's would be needed in my opinion. Because in spite of all those powerful ingredients the plot develops itself in a more or less apathetic rhythm if you exclude the final scenes. Stephen Rea is not very convincing either, in the role of a terrorist with a human heart and the first scenes where he's at once shown as that make us wonder why such a man has joined the IRA a movement made up, like all the other similar ones anywhere in the world, of people who never hesitate to kill unarmed civilians in cold blood as long as they think it necessary, without straining at a gnat with such delicacies as human life or good feelings or the simple fact that the killed ones have children, wives, husbands or other relatives who will mourn them. Well but that is quite another story. In purely film-making terms I still think that this melodramatic story would have required a more melodramatic talent to tell it to us in images and words because human soul is an abyss indeed like the Portuguese poet Fernando Pessoa once said.  "},{"Title":"Sort of overrated.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE CRYING GAMERATING ** (OUT OF ****)The Crying Game is praised mainly because of an unexpected twist that takes place about 2/3 through the film.  I'll admit the scene surprised me, but the rest of the movie wasn't very redeeming.  If one shocking scene does it for you, you might like this, but I've come to expect more from certain movies. "},{"Title":"Some nice acting","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was well put together with a nice score to go with it. But couldn't they have found anyone other than Forest Whittaker to play an englishman? What kind of an accent was that? His bowling action left much to be desired. I also thought the ending was quite odd.But still worth the $0.99 rental! "},{"Title":"Wasted my time","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't know what all the hype was about.  All in all I cried about wasting my time watching this over-hyped film.  Did absolutely nothing for me.As for the big surprise, it certainly was not a secret to me.  It was telegraphed way ahead of time, so that my reaction at the fateful moment was is that all there is?.  I actually kept watching the rest of the movie since I was expecting something bigger or more shocking.Nothing at all special about this movie.   "},{"Title":"The crying (lame) game stinks!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" DO NOT read this review if have NOT seen this film! Contains Spoilers!!!!!!! This film should be flushed down the toilet, where turds belong! I can't believe I sat through this lame, predictable, awful film. When it was in the theater, I went with friends, knowing NOTHING about the film. What a waste of time and money. It seemed so uneven and as if the two plots were never meant to be in the same film. The IRA bit could have one movie, then the love relationship with he/she/it ugly character could have been another separate film. First I thought that Stephen Rea's and Forest Whitaker's characters had a nice friendship beginning then they kill off FW's character! The best one! And my friend totally called it, Those are man hands. No surprises there! And the he/she/it character behaved like such a predictable bitch and this person's acting was AWFUL!!!!!!!!!!!! I can and have been a better actress on two hours sleep and drunk!!! "},{"Title":"Oh god please make it stop.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've got a spoiler for you so if you don't want to look at a spoiler look away right now O.K. here's the spoiler this movie sucks big time.The utter craptitude of this project is beyond shame. A political Trojan horse of a movie if there ever was one. I should have suspected something when I kept trying to determine whether I had stepped into something on the way home from Blockbuster only to realize that the odour was emanating from my blockbuster bag. Never has an olfactory sensation so shocked my senses. Undeterred I removed it from its Pandora's box and unleashed it upon my DVD player. The movie did give me a million dollar idea however-google could invent a penis pop-up blocker for the DVD player, I know I'd buy one. I've had political agendas crammed in my face before but this is ridiculous (pun intended). If certain people want to push their beliefs that is fine but to do it in an underhanded style such as this is disgusting and abusive. Using shock value as your only means of persuasion is unintelligent and actually childish. What if in Bambi at the end a little kid came up hunting with his dad, cocked a shotgun with one hand and blew Bambi's brains all over the screen Pulp Fiction NC-17 style? Then immediately they cut to an American flag waving and patriotic music playing, and a shot of the kid hugging his proud father with a screen that said The End brought to you by the NRA. That would be the shocking equivalent. Never before has a movie sucked in this way and perhaps...one never will again. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Friend was raving about this film for some time and I was looking forward to watching it.  I thought the film was ok, but a little boring and really about nothing.  There were a few problems with the film, from my point of view Forest Whitaker was presumably added to stick an American actor in for marketing reasons, but his poor English accent and over acting spoilt the believability for me.  You then had Miranda Richardson, who is always identified as a typical Englishwoman playing an Irish girl.  Why not use an Irish actress.  I won't even mention the comical dream scene.Forgiving the bad casting, the crux of the film, I assume is the shock that Dil is really a man.  The problem for me is that I knew that the actor was male and that the bar was a transvestite bar, so it wasn't much of a surprise.  The scene where 	Jody was run over by the army vehicle was a bit bizarre as none of the soldiers seemed to notice.The film then drifts along from this point and has a slightly predictable ending.  I couldn't get into the feeling of the film and by the end I didn't really care too much for any of the characters.  In my opinion they weren't very well developed.  The strange (un)reaction of Dil when HE finds out that Fergus was in some way responsible for Jody's death was also bizarre.Overall, not that bad, but bad casting, acting and a strange script spoilt the film for me.  "},{"Title":"What happened??","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"     There I was, peacefully enjoying the movie.  It was quite good, realistic atmosphere, authentic dialogue etc.  THEN came the twist...  I'm sorry I can't tell you about the rest of the film, I switched it off after that...   NOT because I was offended or repulsed, but because the big 'surprise' had NOTHING WHATSOEVER to do with what had gone before it.  It just came completely out of left field.  When even the film's tagline shamelessly promotes the one big 'shock' in the movie for all it's worth, you can be sure the rest of the film that's built around it won't be much cop.   Juvenile shock tactics just to get bums on seats? It's schoolboy stuff; and that's really who this film should be aimed at, despite the clamouring of the pseudo-intellectual crowd who claim to love it for its 'daring'.  Pssshht. "}{"Title":"Wake up people!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the WORST movie I have ever seen! I'm not just saying that either. This is the only movie I have ever said forget and shut off! I always watch the whole movie just in case they get better but I just couldn't stomache it anymore. I was just soooo bored there was no way that anything could happen to improve this crap! The only positive thing I can say about it was the actors! They did the best they possibly could with what they were given! I don't recommend this movie to anyone, but ya never know you might see something in it that I don't. "},{"Title":"Forget it.","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's no point to this movie. Not worth watching. Ten lines of text are required to publish this review. Yes. You read that correctly. 10 Lines. Ten Lines. One Hundred divided by ten. Ten times ten, divided by ten, is the number of lines. So I must continue to write words until I have ten lines. Why I cannot delete a review? I don't know. So I'll write until I have enough. Ten lines required to publish this review. Ten Lines. One Hundred divided by ten. Ten times ten, divided by ten, is the number of lines. So I must continue to write words until I have ten. Why I cannot delete a review? I don't know. So I'll write until I have enough.Ten lines of text are required to publish this review. Yes. You read that correctly. 10 Lines. One Hundred divided by ten times ten and divided by ten again. Ten times ten, divided by ten, is the number of lines. So I must continue to write words until I have ten lines. Why I cannot delete a review? I don't know. So I'll write until I have enough. "},{"Title":"What's The Point?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't have to go into the details of this pointless, meandering movie because just about every human being on the face of the planet was conned into believing (thanks to the critics) that this was a modern day Gone With The Wind.The production, direction, editing, sound and acting are superb, but what is the point of the story (is there a story?). This film is like a day in the life of...what?  A man can learn to question his own sexuality or accept other people's alternative life styles?Before I forget.  The scene.  You know.  THAT scene.  As soon as Dil shows up I whisper in my wife's ear, That is one masculine looking chick.  I was shocked but it takes more that a one second scene to make an entire movie.The film reminded me of 2001 A Space Odyssey (a great film).  Not because of the film itself, but because of people's reaction.  People need to rationalize paying a baby sitter, a movie, popcorn and a soda, so for days after seeing this people were actually having discussions of the films meaning. "},{"Title":"It was okay........","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was okay...I liked Forest Whitaker.  He was the best out of all of the cast.  He shouldn't have got run over.  That was weird.  But i guess it helped the plot. The first was the best part of the whole movie though.  It was entertaining. Then he got run over.  I didn't like that. But I guess you could say it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"SPOILER Sick and silly homoerotic rubbish","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Evidently a cult movie with the homosexual set, The Crying Game is a homoerotic fantasy based on a deeply disturbed transvestite character, Dil, implausibly mixed up in Irish terrorism. The blurb speaks dishonestly and misleadingly of the film as a romantic thriller without disclosing its homosexual character. Irish terrorists should sue. The film should carry a health warning. "},{"Title":"The Crying Game","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very interesting and obviously controversial British drama from Oscar and BAFTA nominated director Neil Jordan. Basically British soldier Jody (Forest Whitaker) is kidnapped and held captive by the IRA, and an unlikely (brief) friendship develops with Fergus (Oscar and BAFTA nominated Stephen Rea). When the hostage-holding goes wrong and Jody is hit by a car when escaping, Fergus, feeling responsible, decides to go and see the woman Jody's lover. He eventually finds her, a hairdresser named Dil (Oscar and BAFTA nominated Jaye Davidson). He calls himself Jimmy and gets a job as a day labourer, and eventually starts seeing Dil, who has no idea of his IRA background. But the pivotal moment of the film is when Fergus eventually undresses Dil, and he didn't realise, she is a he! (The Crying Game definition To find out your girlfriend who you've had intercourse with used to be a man, or, To get a woman to undress herself only for her to reveal a penis). He does promise to stay with Dil, as long as she/he (whatever you prefer) starts to dress as the gender he was born to be. Meanwhile, IRA member Jude (BAFTA nominated Miranda Richardson) who helped in the kidnapping of Jody has come back looking for Fergus, probably to kill him. Also starring Jim Broadbent as Col. I have to admit the first time I saw the film I thought Dil was played by a girl, and they had trick photography, I didn't realise it was guy! Featuring three or four versions of the song The Crying Game, my favourite version is by Boy George. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Picture, it won the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film, and it was nominated for Best Film and Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Miranda Richardson was number 15 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, and the film was number 32 on The 50 Greatest British Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Boring, pointless and on the whole a waste of time.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Generally with films like this where its not a HUGE hit only those who liked it will seek it out to review - I only review/add comments when I feel strongly about a film.This HAS to be one of the most boring and pointless films I have ever seen with a poor twist (which made the film interesting for like 5 seconds) and it all went downhill from there on.......Other people are going on about the relationships and character development etc, but I just don't see it.5/10 - NOT recommended. "}]