[{"Title":"A Nod to the Rom/Coms of YesterYear","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"50 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The Cutting Edge is a classic movie and one which I never get tired of watching.The chemistry between Moira Kelly and D.B. Sweeney really sells this picture, even before you see the impressive scenery and fantastic skating sequences.The script is filled with quotable gems, (It's not like his nose was perfect) and what could be a fairly thin story (that, OK, has been done before) is lifted firmly out of the cliche zone by first class direction, a thumping early 90's pop soundtrack and breathtaking choreography.I can't fault this movie - it's one of my top five - and would recommend it as a family favourite.This movie gets a very enthusiastic 10/10 from me. "},{"Title":"5.9...5.8....5.9....6.0....5.7.....5.9.......","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Take a handsome young ex-hockey star who could never do much other than skate, a prima-donna figure-skater who finds fault with every world-class partner thrown her way and laughs at said ex-hockey star, and an obligatory crazy-genius Soviet expatriate, send them all after Olympic glory, and you have The Cutting Edge.Lead characters Doug Dorsey (D.B. Sweeney) and Kate Moseley (Moira Kelly) are star-crossed skaters an eye injury at the Olympics ruined Doug's hockey career, while an ill-timed fall in the pairs figure skating finals leaves Kate's destiny unfulfilled. Coach Anton Pamchenko (Roy Dotrice) fishes Dorsey out of a construction site and transplants him to the Moseley estate in Greenwich. The fish-out-of-water concept was not as blatant as Pauly Shore's movies, but it was definitely there.The stereotypical supporting cast did its job Terry O'Quinn is the wealthy, doting father who is either obsessed with an Olympic medal for his daughter, or obsessed with his daughter who happens to want an Olympic medal (the movie never really makes clear which), while snobby fiancé Hale Forrest (Dwier Brown) is forgettable yet necessary to the plot, as is Walter Dorsey (Chris Benson), Doug's stereotypical nuts-and-bolts, slightly homophobic and very skeptical brother.With Breakfast Club-like cost-efficiency, the film sticks to the dialogue between the few main characters, who are on screen for the large majority of the film. The questions are timeless will Kate marry her snobby fiancé or will passion erupt from the love-hate relationship with her skating partner? Will they overcome the judging bias against ex-hockey players and win gold? Will Kate loosen up? Will Doug gain some culture and refinement? One could say that this film is predictable, but that is a good thing. Films like The Cutting Edge lose very little even if you've heard the story told a hundred times in a dozen ways. Suspense is not the goal here; romance is, and this film serves up more of it than almost every media-hyped blockbuster I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A great story for all ages","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I was twelve years old when I saw this film.  Then, I thought it was great. Now, at twenty-one, I think it's awesome.  Some may criticize the inaccuracies of the skating, but if one looks closely at the credits, world renowned skater Robin Cousins is the technical advisor and skating scene coordinator.  Also, the pairs skaters they compete against are also, as far as I can tell, are real skaters.  While they probably wouldn't jump into major competitions right away, they did it this way most likely for timesake.  It's a sweet love story that is refreshingly free of violence (save the occasional slapshot), gratutious sex, and vulgar language.  It is a delight for young and old combining chemestry, believability, and awesome skating sequences.  I give it a nine and a half out of ten; if for nothing else, then for the warm fuzzies you get from watching it.  "},{"Title":"Funny sports film/romantic comedy","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I like this movie. First off, you have underrated actors DB Sweeney and Moira Kelly showing their stuff. It is probably their best film they have made. The chemistry is great between the two. You can tell that when they fly insults at each other. The whole cast does a good job and the scenery is nice. I usually don't like films that use Canada as a backdrop for a US city, but in this case, It does a good job as a replacement for Minnesota and suburban New England.My favorite scene is where they are ready to skate their first performance together. Doug goes backstage and lets out some of his bodily fluids. He goes back to explain to Kate that he always had two helmets and it usually took him 10 minutes to warm up for a game. Kate reminds him that their program is only 2 1/2 minutes. He stares blankly at her and says, So eight minutes afterward, I'll be okay LOL. I always think of that line when I am nervous and going into something major.There are a few cameos by other skating personalities such as Robin Cousins (who also was the technical advisor) and Jo Jo Starbuck. There aren't many ice skating films out there and there are a few that are good. This is one of the few. TOEPICK!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Coming of Age Romantic Comedy","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I found this movie very enjoyable to watch. The chemistry between Moira Kelly and D.B. Sweeney is very realistic. Even their arguments with one another appears genuine. Each of them wounded from previous experiences, not willing to open up to one another. All of this taking place in a point in their lives where they are each struggling to find something more out of life and end up discovering themselves and one another. Eventually, taking both of them beyond the quest of a gold medal.The skating scenes are wonderful and the music (especially the scores from Patrick Williams) was incredible.This is a movie that I never get tired of and it keeps drawing me back to it. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is one of those movies that show that you don't have to have special effects or lots of money for a movie to be great. This is like a movie from 1940s in which acting is the main factor.The tension between two leads is the structure of this movie.Its a great romantic/comedy movie and one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"Most underrated film of all time.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  To those who may not have had the pleasure of viewing this film yet, here is a warning it is addictive.  As others have commented, the Cutting Edge has a rare quality of becoming more watchable with each additional session. The word session as just used is appropriate because this movie is pure therapy. One can only hope that actors Kelly and Sweeney can be brought together again to forge another hit.  "},{"Title":"Might well be the most inspiring romance ever.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The Cutting Edge is a classic example of how a low-budgeted and simple movie can turn into a great and inspiring experience, given proper actors and well written script. All the Titanic fans out there, think Jack and Rose are the best? Watch this one... The  chemistry between Doug and Kate is excellent and both actors give very magnetic performances. This is a great date movie, unless of course you fall in love with Doug or Kate (depending on your gender), which is actually quite likely... If not for anything, everybody should watch this film at least for the ending, which is sooo beautiful. I think it was wise to stop the story right there; it leaves everybody wondering what Kate and Doug will do then. The Cutting Edge can well be the best romance I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"It touches me even now.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I watch this movie over and over again. It drives my daughter crazy but she just laughs and walks away from me. The setting is great due to my love of skating which I have done in small measure my whole life. The father and coach seemed so real to me and very much a part of the support system for the two younger actors in the movie.To me the movie is well constructed and acted. The characters appear real to me and take me on their journey of life as well. I did fall in love with Doug Dorsey and I do hope he is doing well now. I wish to thank and creator of this movie and the director for bringing out the best in the members of the cast. It is a classic to me. "},{"Title":" You're such a neanderthal","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  D.B. Sweeney is great as Douglas in this awesome romance flick. The following cast is delightful. The costumes are beautiful. One of the good farces in the genre, Cutting Edge will urge the viewer to play the game of love. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Passionate","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I think Moira Kelly is astounding in this movie. I believe she is one of the most underrated actress's of our time. Her chemistry and emotion with D.B. Sweeney is incredibly passionate. They act with such intensity you start to believe it's really happening.At the beginning you see how icey Kate is. But as the movie progresses and her relationship with Doug starts to bloom she starts showing more emotion. You start to see the real Kate Mosley, not an uptight ice queen. Doug brings out the best and worst in her. And he's right, Don't say we're not right for each other because the way i see it we may not be right for anyone else. I think this movie is so romantic and it's like it's a reality t.v. show. To me it just seems that real. Their Passion and love seems that real. "},{"Title":"I thought I was alone","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" WOW, I always thought I was strange for watching this movie 14 times in one day when I was 16. I have a feeling most of you are women, I'm a man and I think this movie is one of the best Rom/Com I've EVER seen. Never mind the fact that it's pretty much an adaptation of Shakespeare'sTaming of the Shrew The chemistry is spot on between the cast. There was a girl like Kate's character that I was madly in love with at the age of 16. We bickered just like the two leads of this film. This film was my light and the end of the tunnel. Alas, it was not to be. When I finally confessed, my best friend told me Never... Why can't life be like the movies..... "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good for a formula movie","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" OK, so the plot is formulaic. There is nothing new here, really. Or is there? I have seen this movie a few times, and always liked it. I think it's the acting and dialog.The acting is a cut above what you would expect from the movie. The female lead is a prima donna. I felt like her complex human emotions at times were fairly believable. Sometimes she's bitchy. Sometimes confused. Sometimes you like her.The male lead is perhaps not quite as good. But they did not fall into the pattern of simply making him another dumb jock. In a scene where they have both had too much to drink, I felt he reacted in a very realistic way. He delivers this great line in the movie to her after she insists he button the top button of his costume. Something to the effect of 'if buttoning that button made the difference between a long happy life and a painful death, he would not give her the satisfaction.' It was a perfectly acted scene, IMO.The dialog was much better than expected in this type of movie. There's some pretty funny lines. And some generally great exchanged between the actors that are far less dull than you would expect. If I put this into the category of sports movies, I would say it really rates well partly due to dialog.OK, so you can predict the plot. Obviously, it's a formulaic movie. But along the way, they throw in a few curves, and the characters react in many ways like normal humans would in the same situation, at least in my opinion.If you like the love/hate romance movies, and triumphant sporting movies, I think this is up your alley.p.s. chick flicks are not my favored genre, so the fact I liked this movie, says something I think (because it's a bit of a chick flick at times.) "},{"Title":"Leaves one feeling good","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I first saw this movie as a teen at the movies, and although it follows the tried and true formula of a romantic comedy, the charisma and chemistry between the two lead actors is what sets apart this movie and makes it memorable. Such a movie only works when you start caring about the characters and are rooting for their happy ending - and in that feat, this movie succeeds. The basic premise is of a promising hockey player who is paired with a partner-needing figure skater. The film works on their repressed tensions and relationship conflicts both on and off the ice - which they eventually succeed in melting. For those too elitist in their taste in intellectual occupation, you don't have to admit you enjoyed this flick - but I don't think you'll regret the interlude. Have fun - the actors looked like they did. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I am a guy who usually likes action movies, and normally I don't like romantic movies, but this particular movie really blew me away. It is just great, I loved it.I think it has a very good plot. I just started watching it on TV almost accidentally, but it quickly got me. I feel weird to say this but for a moment it made me feel like when I first fell in love with my now wife. I'm going to buy it and see it with my wife soon, I'm sure she is going to love it too. I highly recommend you to watch it. It mixed art and a semi-torturous love story in a capturing harmonious style. At the end I felt like I wanted to make out with my wife again. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I love this movie. I cant remember when I first saw it, but I loved it right away. I used to do figure skating, Artistic roller skating actually. I used to copy the bit at the beginning with my friends where she skates off with her ass in the air and her skirt pulled up a little. But I always wanted to do Ice-skating instead. So every time I watched this movie I felt so envious of Kate because she was so good and she got to do something i wanted so much to do but couldn't. I lost the video I had of this movie a few years ago and was so upset I actually cried. My mother found the DVD in a store the other day and bought it for me and I haven't stopped watching it since. These days i feel so many emotions whilst watching the movie i don't know what to feel XD. I recommend this movie to every single child and adult alike. "},{"Title":"Cameo of My Life","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I think that The Cutting Edge is a totally heart warming story. It makes me laugh because as a student in the gifted program, I don't get along with a fellow student named Adam. My teacher always tells us that we both want to be right, and to watch when we say never, because the same thing happened to her and now they are married. This situation makes me think of The Cutting Edge. I also think that it breaks many male stereotypes, because the 'tough, big- headed, male rough guy' is turned into what some may see as a 'girly skater' and what for? ALl for his love of being on the ice, and for love itself. After seeing this movie, all the guys in my future have some very difficult shoes to fill. To sum it all up, The Cutting Edge is a heart- warming tale of love. "},{"Title":"confession 2nd favourite film of all time!","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I am 26. I am male. I like James Bond movies and science fiction. There is no reason I should either watch this movie or enjoy this movie. The concept is dated and done a million times over. A lot of the dialogue is hokey and obvious. And.... I love it. Sweeney and Kelly were at their peaks for these roles, playing the bitch and jock or that era perfectly, and the unashamed 80s and cheese-factor only add to this films charm. We need these films to remind us that there was a world once where romance did not feature cappuccino, text messages, expensive cars and fashion sense. I do not know how this film managed to find its way into my chart... I cannot explain it - just watch it and it may do the same thing for you.... or not. Toepick. "},{"Title":"Loved it, loved it..","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I thought this was the cutest movie I've seen in a long time. I had heard about it before, but never seen it until this week. Boy was I missing a good time. I enjoyed the playful banter between the two main characters. I especially enjoyed the scene where they were playing hockey. What a hoot. His continual baiting of her was adorable. Of course I think that these two actors have been seriously over looked for some good roles. I believe that both D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly could have played the romantic leads in several films that went to other actors. We have such a shortage of romantic comedies, we need more of the electricity you could feel between these two. If that was acting it was GREAT. I also think that Paul Michael Glaser showed promise as a director. He made me feel very connected to the characters in the movie and very much wrapped up in their struggles.Kudos also to the skating doubles, they were magnificent. The photography in the skating sequences was interwoven well enough that it was not overly obvious to me that they were doubles, even though I knew they were. I hope this film has been seen by a lot of people who feel the same way I do.  "},{"Title":"Favorite Film of All Time","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  As a figure skater, my movie choices of my profession are rather limited. If you take out Ronin, in which Katarina Witt is shot, Ice Castle, which I hated, the Cutting Edge is practically the only one left. I loved it. Sure the movie wasn't realistic, but it was good none the less. Wholesome and the skating sequences weren't bad. I loved the Pamchenko. My parter and I even attempted it a few times. Overall, definitely watch this if you are a fan of skating or just have an afternoon to watch a movie. I've seen it more than 20 times...this movie is timeless. My coach plays clips from this movie to us when we are waiting for our turn to compete and even at the celebration parties. I love it.  "}{"Title":"Definitely A Classic!!!!!","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The Cutting Edge has become one of the most popular sports romance films ever released.Despite the fact that it never did well when it was theatrically released back in 1992,it has found its afterlife that it became one of the most beloved films after it was released on video and shown on cable television.The story is about an unlikely partnership between an ex-hockey star,Doug Dorsey and a champion figure skater,Kate Moseley as they try to win the gold medal in pairs figure skating in the Winter Olympics.Their constant quarrels and banter at each other during their training until they realized that they have fallen love with each other is what makes the film entertaining from beginning to end.Credit D.B.Sweeney and Moira Kelly for their performance as both have lots of chemistry.Despite the fact that Doug is arrogant and Kate is a bitch,their characters have remained etched to millions of viewers who have seen the movie.They also came to love how both developed to become better people after they have fallen in love with each other and have realized that they cannot live without each other.Aside from their love story,the underdog theme worked so well in this movie as their quest for the Olympic gold remains extremely difficult from the Regionals to the Nationals until they meet the Russians in the Olympics.Their final move known as the Pamchenko twist has remained popular among fans and figure skaters alike. Viewers will also get entertained as both go through a grueling training under their Russian coach,Anton Pamchenko.Aside from that,the sport of figure skating has come into prominence due to the popularity of this film.Despite the fact that it is clichéd and predictable,it did not become a hindrance into becoming an enjoyable and entertaining or better yet a classic.Credit should be given to Tony Gilroy for its great screenplay for it not only resulted into lifting this film into becoming more than it should be but it unknowingly resulted into a popular franchise wherein 3 sequels have become a remake of sorts of this film.This is truly one unforgettable film!!!! "},{"Title":"Often Imitated, Never Duplicated, PERFECT love story..","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I have lost count of the number of times I have seen this. It is extraordinary in every way, and that is IN SPITE OF the fact that it appears to have been done as a B-movie on a limited budget and with limited expectations. First the story. A bratty young girl raised by her domineering father to win a medal in skating. Nothing new there. But add to the mix the idea that she needs a last-minute partner because she has burned through all the ready talent, and the best candidate appears to be an ex-hockey skater who can no longer play .. and now it starts to get interesting. Then factor in some of the best on-screen chemistry in recent memory ... and presto, before you can say JACK ROBINSON, we are suddenly in the big leagues in spite of the small budget. One of the tightest scripts ever, with a double climax at the end. (To this day, every skating teacher and skating student will break out laughing when you say toepick with that certain special intonation.) Moira Kelly and D.B. Sweeny give the performances of their lives yet, ASTONISHINGLY, don't even seem to realize it. (They were young and probably thought that bigger and better parts were ahead of them -- but history will show that, unfortunately, did not happen). Succeeds on so many levels -- as a sports story, as story of personal redemption, and absolutely kills as a love story. More recently the Disney people, realizing that they had overlooked this gem, tried to monetize it with some belated sequels, but lightening seldom strikes twice. A one of a kind guilty pleasure, iconic, capable of being watched over and over, a film that never gets old, and never fails to capture the imagination or steal your heart. A perfect 10. ------------------------------------------------------------Update Oct 14 The good news is that Disney has grudgingly acknowledged just how good this film is by creating a franchise. Of sorts. The bad news is that, while entry #2 and #3 are OK (but still a pale imitation of the original), #4 is barely watchable at all. Out of curiosity this writer found a copy of the original and re-watched. No, all those who gave this a perfect 10 were not crazy. On re-watching, the tightness of the script, with many clever double-entendres, shines; as does Kelly's ability to deliver some of the best reaction shots in the history of the medium. Chemistry to spare. "},{"Title":"Made me start skating","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Look, this movie is cheesy as hell. I would hope that anyone who plans to watch it would know that in advance. It's a Cheesy Sports Movie with tights (and skating skirts). But it's the best damn figure skating movie that ever was made, and perhaps the best sports romance since Pat & Mike. Kate is a spoiled bitch who has, for some reason, decided to be a pairs skater. All of her problems are the fault of her partner. Her search for a new partner is not going well. Then she meets Doug Dorsey, a washed-up hockey player, and the script pretty much writes itself from there.I saw this movie when I was 12 years old. I had never tried ice skating before. The day after I saw The Cutting Edge, I begged my parents to take me to the rink. As it happens, I had a natural talent for figure skating. Although I never made it to the higher echelons of the sport (I started very late and was rather tall, which makes jumps and spins more difficult -- and pairs skating was definitely not in the cards for me!), I had finally found an athletic pursuit I enjoyed. I love it to this day. The Cutting Edge ended up costing me thousands of dollars and thousands of hours of hard work both on and off the ice (not to mention many, many bruises), but it inspired me at a time when I desperately needed to be inspired. I cannot imagine my life without it. Even though I only skate for fun these days, I am grateful to the filmmakers for opening my eyes to joy, regardless of the cheesiness of the package it came in. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film with Sweeney & Kelly's best work of their careers","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" First off, for all those critics who claim this is a chick flick, I'm a guy and I love this movie. I watched the VHS with my kids when it was newly released, and just watched the DVD a couple days ago, getting a lot out of the special features. Especially enlightening are the commentaries by the main actors done in 2006. The overall rating of 6.5 on IMDb is sadly warped by the careless railings of a few hacks who gave it unfairly negative reviews. It deserves much better. Fighting Amish (not his real username) gave it a 1/10 but his comments lacked any substantial critique, focusing only on how much his girlfriend liked it...and then he wonders why he's no longer with her! A movie made with so much care and artistry should not be casually trashed by someone with emotional issues. "},{"Title":"One of the best....","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This makes great watching even 14 years after it was made! The story is well written and the characters are at least believable. I can't imagine what the logistics of making this must have been like, since camera angles would have been used not only to 'disguise' the skating doubles but also show the footwork that led to complicated moves such as the jumps, lifts & throws.The story is not entirely impossible, though in places it's a bit far-fetched; an Olympic hockey player, Doug Dorsey (Sweeney) with NHL potential suffers a career-ending injury during the 1988 Calgary Games, while pairs skater Kate Moseley (Kelly) loses her chance at a gold medal when her partner drops her during a lift. Her sharp tongue and bad attitude have driven possible partners away in droves. Now, her coach makes 1 last attempt at finding her a partner - and decides to try with Doug. Although a bit apprehensive at first, Doug agrees to try, and they head for Kate's practice ice on her father's magnificent Connecticut estate. Kate is less than thrilled about this arrangement and tries to run Doug off the way she has the rest of her partners. But Doug has no intention of leaving as this may be his only chance of any kind of career on the ice, and he puts up with Kate's sharp-tongued insults from the start to work their way back to U.S. Nationals - the stepping stone to the Olympics. As their skating blossoms so does the growing romance between them...which leads to Kate dumping her boyfriend on the eve of U.S. National Championships, and the two of them securing a place on the 1992 U.S. Olympic team. With their coach, they start planning a spectacular yet dangerous move for the long program in the hopes of beating the heavily favored Russians, Smilkov & Bruskin (real-life skaters Christine Hough & Doug Ladret), who had won the European championships with perfect across-the-board scores. Kate's announcement that she plans to retire following the Olympics leaves Doug stunned and a bit disillusioned, until she tells him he will find another skating partner easily. When the time comes for their long program, they will bring the arena to its feet...Choreographed by Robin Cousins, a former men's champion himself, the skating sequences are mostly spectacular save for the Pamchenko move, which would be highly illegal and dangerous. In addition the logistics of making it would be almost impossible. After making the throw Doug would have to perfectly gage where she would land in order to make the spectacular catch that he does in the film, and also, the throw itself defies logic as he would end up throwing her sideways - not up - in which case her head would likely either hit the boards or ice. Although the skating is mostly done by the doubles the camera angles give the audience an idea of the work that goes into some of the moves, in particular the jumps which require some very tough footwork. One thing that others have correctly pointed out is that the real Olympic & Nationals arenas are not darkened for the performances - they are very well lit. This is true of figure skating shows, including the finale at the Olympics, but not for the actual competitions.While this was made well before I started figure skating myself, I love to watch it even just to see the moves and be able to recognize them! A great movie for anyone who's into figure skating and/or romantic comedy. I could watch this one a hundred times. "},{"Title":"Sweet, charming, hilarious, touching, and heartwarming romantic comedy","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" THE CUTTING EDGE, in my opinion, is a sweet, charming, hilarious, touching, and heartwarming romantic comedy. As far as I could see, Kate (Moira Kelly) was an absolute b**** most of the time! This was because of her attitude and the way she treated Doug (D.B. Sweeney) most of the time. Still, if you ask me, they made a really cute couple. I especially loved it when they were going out on their dates together with each other and getting along. Before I wrap this up, I must say that everyone involved in this movie did an excellent job. Now, in conclusion, to all you D.B. Sweeney or Moira Kelly fans who have not seen this sweet, charming, hilarious, touching, and heartwarming romantic comedy, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"If you see a chick flick, make this your pick.","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I loved this movie when I first saw it at twelve as well, and every time after that, it has never failed to amuse me. Granted, the script doesn't delve into profound philosophic issues, but the characters are real, quality people with a real, quality script to back them up. After having seen the combination of D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly, it's really surprising to me that neither of them has been in film as much since, especially not together. I have a feeling when this movie came out, the public just wasn't *smart* enough for it, as it tends to poke fun at the verbally challenged. It's a sweet and well-done romantic comedy, and I don't usually like romantic comedies that much. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I liked this movie. It was very taming of the shrewish for lack of a better subject, yet was very sweet and classic. Sweeney and Kelly had good chemistry and were a good focus in the movie. There was a great right of passage for each of them in their own personal relationship with each other; and if not anything else having a great supporting great actor like Terry O'Quinn helps the plot along. I give it a 9. I really liked the actors and the general storyline was unique because it was unusually positive for the time period. The feel of the commitment in the actors appeared genuine whether it seemed positive or negative to each of others at any given time in the film. "},{"Title":"Great And Funny","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" i first saw this film when it came out in 1992 and i loved it then. while move i found the video and watched it again and realised it still had the same effect on me. the film is more romantic's or a chick flick. thought i have know a lot of guy that have watch and liked it. the film is both funny and romantic that yes may have been done over and over but you can never get tired of seeing different ways of making a comedy film that is also romantic. D.B Sweeney play a ex-ice hockey star that no longer play due to a injury during the Olympics, Moria Kelly play the bitchy figure skater that need a partner for the Olympics. the pair are brought together by her couch who believes that if the pair can work together will be like dynamite. And he's right. if funny to watch how the characters try to hide there feels for each other and there jealously. believe that they don't have a chance with the other. but in the end they do get together like true romantic film. i'll not spoil the ending, but it's a great and funny film to watch is you are into romantic films or like sport based films with a twist. i give this film 5 star and hope you enjoy it as much as i did. "},{"Title":"One of the Top 10 I Ever Have Seen","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Hey, this is one of the best films I have ever seen.  Every time I see it, it  gets better.  I have seen it over 10 times.  These two kids were just perfect for the rolls they played.  I am disappointed I do not see the names in leading roles in other pictures.  But just take my word for it; this is one of the most delightful, suspense filled, goal achieving, stress filled sports movies with a love affair you will ever see.  JUST DO IT.Each time I see the film I see more and understand new features of the stressed relationships.  And what a switch, when she finally falls for him in the bedroom while drunk, he turns her down because of his respect and sense of honor; and it seemed so real.srg "}{"Title":"A Sweet Little Romantic Movie.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Boy this was a good date movie.D.B.Sweeney and Moira Kelly ( thump thump my beating heart !! She's a baby doll !! ) were a blast to watch.Their chemistry reminded me of the heyday of Moonlighting,when Bruce and Cybil were lighting the fireworks of sexual tension.I miss that show.Terry O'Quinn was great as Moira's father,and Roy Dotrice was hilarious as their trainer.If you like to watch two strangers from completely different backgrounds fall in love then you're in for a treat.Cliche,maybe,but altogether charming.If you are a romantic you'll end up buying it on DVD just as I have.Too bad neither actor/actress has been all that consistent. "},{"Title":"Not an average love story","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This is a very fun love story between Kate (Moira Kelly) an ice skater whose father is obsessed with her getting Olympic gold in figure skating, many guys had tried to become her skating partner but all of them quit after spending some time with Kate and her spoiled-child attitude, except for Doug (D.B. Sweeney) an ex hockey player who challenges himself and Kate´s father to become her partner no matter what.The nice part of this story is that every scene with Kate and Doug is filled with lots of smart quotes as they attack each other, you can feel the sexual tension between them growing stronger all the movie making you wonder if such tension was not for real they both are terrific actors.This story makes a nice movie for Christmas and New Year season as we can share the character´s celebration for those dates, but anyway highly enjoyable any time of the year.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and beautiful to watch. Fun for whole family.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is basicly a retelling of the Taming of the Shrew and Kiss Me Kate in a attractive figure-skating setting. A fun movie, pleasant to watch. Not deep but well done. The hero and heroine do a great job as young actors and have gone on to journeymen acting careers. One of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Classic movie from the 1990's","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is a terrific movie from the early 90's. TOE-PICK! It has many great lines, the clothes are hilarious at the new year's eve party. It has something for both guys and girls and is so much fun. It has a great story and a pretty good soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"The Chemistry","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  May not be the most original movie or win any acting awards but by the end of the movie you really believe the two main characters are in love. There is a definite Chemistry between Moira Kelly and D.B Sweeny.It is probably the only thing you will remember about the film. "},{"Title":"omg","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This was really trite. Everyone acted like adolescent teenagers. There was a denouement in the middle where Kate points out that she has been acting absurd which is great because I would've strangled her myself at that point otherwise. Everything was extremely improbable and they were extremely un-self-aware. The awkward shyness alone was so difficult to watch. Had they been more intelligent they would have gotten to grips with it two months in. There were some great lines of dialogue that saved the movie (You can come to the office and help with commodities arbitrage. (later) Do you care about her? I don't like to see her upset. Well I suggest you invest in blindfolds.) Moira Kelly was luminous and beautiful. She was like the second coming of Audrey Hepburn in this movie. At the end DID THEY WIN THE MEDAL OR NOT? did she throw over her fiancé FOR NOTHING? or does it not matter because it's LOVE? (worst timing of love declaration ever)? the whole thing just got pushed OVER THE TOP with the ending first kiss. "},{"Title":"Decent sports movie about figure skating and coming-of-age","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Released in 1992, The Cutting Edge revolves around a sassy female figure skater who can't keep a partner, Kate (Moira Kelly), and a hockey player, Doug (D.B. Sweeney), who's injury forces him to consider being the girl's partner. They seek Olympic gold with the help of their coach (Roy Dotrice) and the backing of Kate's rich father (Terry O'Quinn). Rachelle Ottley is on hand as Kate's rival for Doug's attention.The plot is reminiscent of 1978's Ice Castles in regards to the romance between a figure skater and hockey player, but this is more of a formula sports flick. Moira Kelly is brassy in the manner of Carrie on The King of Queens (Leah Remini) whereas Sweeney comes across as a more likable Ben Affleck. People complain that they're so opposite that they couldn't possibly be a couple in real life, but there's a reason opposites attract is a saying. My wife and I, for instance, are total opposites, but have been happily married for over twenty years. Anyway, everything clicks for an amusing albeit predictable sports movie/drama/romance. The film runs 101 minutes and was shot mostly in the greater Toronto area, but also Lake Placid, NY (the hallway where the couple first collide, the ORDA Complex) and Pasadena, CA (the interior of the château in France).GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Actually pretty well done","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The Cutting Edge is a 90's Rom-com that features a pair of skaters who you wouldn't of course expect to be together. One is a hockey player and the other an actual figure skater and when both are paired up to go for gold, well they might fail at the first hurdle of training. The film is one packed with schmaltzy lines and a fairly basic story and yet the film in my opinion is actually an OK one. Listen I mean this is no fantastic film, no revelation and really not one of those films that might surprise you at just how good it is, but this is still not a film I feel that is easily dislikeable. Directed by Paul Michael Glaser (Starsky from 70's cop show Starsky & Hutch) who does a good job of at least keeping you hooked in on the film, the movie never seems to fade and even when a few wobbles maybe do appear, they don't create some massive fail.I could start with talking about the cast, the director and just the plot but really the first person to mention is Tony Gilroy whose screenplay here is actually great stuff, of course Gilroy would go on to win and be nominated for major awards but this was the first movie he ever wrote. The story is not exactly original of course not but it's the dialogue that Gilroy gets just right, it's not stupid and doesn't feel like stuff you would just never hear in real life. Gilroy's script is then put on the screen fairly well with Glaser's direction and it really feels like a film where hard work was put in and it's good to see really.The film stars D. B. Sweeney as hockey player Doug Dorsey and Moira Kelly as figure skater Kate Moseley who is spoiled and not exactly on board with working with Dorsey. Both play their respective roles well and do the best they can do to make you at least feel something toward them, for me it is Dorsey who you connect with most although Kate has her moments as a character. I liked most of the supporting cast too with Roy Dotrice and Terry O'Quinn popping up in important roles; a lot of this movie comes down to yet again that small dialogue from Gilroy's script and Glaser seems to make the scenes actually kind of interesting even if they on the outside look dull and predictable.The Cutting Edge is a film I would most definitely recommend and even though it is far from perfect it is still rather satisfactory. One thing I must say that does get increasingly annoying is the camera work when the actual skating occurs, it tries to do this strange slow motion kind of thing that just feels annoying after a while, although most skating scenes are at least done pretty well choreography wise (choreographed by an Olympic gold medal winning figure skater Robin Cousins no less). Another thing that lets this movie glide along nicely is the soundtrack filled to the brim with high energy songs and some rock music at times to really kick it into gear; it uses the music though particularly well when training is going on. So The Cutting Edge is really no film that necessarily delivers something refreshing but it does come out nicely and you could say it at least delivers the landing in a more than just mediocre way. "},{"Title":"Never Could Be Deuplicated","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" PlotThis is the story of a hockey player named Doug Dorsey (D.B. Sweeney) who can no longer play hockey and is forced to work in a factory. After hours he continues to train even though no professional franchise is willing to put him on their roster. Determine to play he enlists into the local bar league that is happy to have him. Then one day a coach happens onto him while he is working on an outside job. He introduces himself as Anton Pamchenko (Roy Dotrice). Doug mistakenly believes him to be a hockey coach. Anton explains that he is not a hockey coach and then hands him a pair of figure skates. And then the plot thickens. Doug is transported to a wealthy businessman's residence who among others things has his own ice ring. Kate Moseley (Moira Kelly) is along in the ring skating. After introductions Anton proclaims that they could become a figure skating couple and make it to the next winter Olympics and possible win a gold medal. After a few rocky starts they are soon on their way of making that a reality.Character DevelopmentIt is not often that the lead roles grow as individuals and change so dramatically. Doug is the basic fish out of water character, but Kate also needs to grow up and adapt and overcome her differences. There are role reversals and clever moments and regressions. Character and broken down and built up again and it really doesn't give much away to state that they is a happy finish.ActingWhat is truly wonderful about this film is that the all the lead roles and many of the minor ones do a stellar job in the acting department. Sweeny and Kelly have a ton of chemistry together and really move along the romantic wedge of the story forward. The writing plays well with their playful banter which is quite often. They try to outdo each other on and off the ice and become a better team because of it and grow closer together despite themselves.OverviewThis story is one of the better ones and even though they have tried to duplicate the magic in this film more than once they couldn't get the lightning to strike twice. But this fact doesn't go against the grain of logic because other remakes have gone just as poorly, the film 'Sabrina' (1995) with Harrison Ford would be one of those examples. "},{"Title":"Good chemistry for a solid rom-com","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" It's the 1988 Winter Olympics at Calgary. Doug Dorsey (D.B. Sweeney) is a promising hockey player, but his career is cut short by an eye injury. Kate Moseley (Moira Kelly) is a spoiled temperamental pairs figure skater who goes through every partner. Then 2 years later, Moseley still can't find a partner, and Dorsey can't find a team. Her coach Anton Pamchenko decides to put them together despite their combative relationship.They have good chemistry together. Their combative nature is the perfect heat for a relationship. It is a fundamental building block to a good rom-com. That's what we have here. Two perfectly match solid actors doing a good rom-com. Moira Kelly has the perfect indignant pout, and Sweeney has a great sly smirk. "}{"Title":"Saw this on MGM a month ago very good.","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I didn't catch the very beginning of it but I seen most of this movie. The story is about this guy played by DB Sweeney (who was in that 2000 animated film Dinosaur as the voice of that dinosaur in that movie)who's a former hockey player who had some sort of accident meaning he can't play Hockey anymore. So he decides to try something else which is(yup) Ice skating,where he meets and later falls for a girl played by Moira Kelly(who was in One Tree Hill and The Lion King). Problem is she's getting married so there's a will they won't they scenario going on.Bottom line I found it really enjoyable and if its on TV again I won't miss out on the beginning of it.If you like Ice Skating movies then check it out. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I just recently discovered this movie and I have watched it I do not know how many times and will keep watching it. Sweeney and Kelly did an excellent job and would love to see them in more movies but that never happens so I guess I will just have to be content with watching this one. I have never written a comment before on any movie but had to voice my opinion on this one. I have also watched the cutting edge 2 and 3. I loved 2 but wish it could have had Sweeney and Kelly.Number 3 was disappointing. It was too much like the first with just changes in the characters and I did not like the fact that Jackie did not have Alex. It ruined the second one in the fact that they were not together. Some times I think I get too wrapped up in the movies I like. ha ha. Thank you for your attention. Lou "},{"Title":"For Skating And Romance","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" After viewing The Cutting Edge I realize that I saw some of this same story a few weeks ago when I watched Sonja Henie in It's Your Pleasure. In that film Michael O'Shea is a professional hockey player who gets banned for life after slugging a referee and Henie recruits and trains him to be her partner in her ice show.No professionals here just talented amateurs. D.B. Sweeney takes a nasty blow during the Olympics in Calgary which robs him of peripheral vision on one side, bad for hockey player where you have to see some opponents coming up on both sides if you have the puck. His career, his hopes of making it to the National Hockey League is over.At the same time Moira Kelly is a talented, but really temperamental figure skater, a Tonya Harding in the making, who blows the finals at Calgary when she and her partner fail to land a big move. She's decided she needs a new partner. If she's to do well at Albertville four years later she has to have a new partner. But the problem is that she's got such a bad reputation no one will skate with her.I think you can see where this one is going without too much trouble. The problem I had with The Cutting Edge is the same one I had with the Sonja Henie film, the skills for hockey skating aren't the same for figure skating. I really can't see a Maurice Richard or a Gordie Howe ever making it in figure skating.Still Sweeney and Kelly are an attractive couple and through some clever editing, distance and rear view cinematography, and shots of them from the neck up on ice you do get the feeling you are watching them if only for a moment. Of course Kelly will never be confused with Sonja Henie and they didn't even try to actually show Michael O'Shea as a figure skater. But both Sweeney and Kelly look far better than James Stewart, Joan Crawford, and Lew Ayres did as skaters in Ice Follies Of 1939.This is definitely a nice film for fans of figure skating and young romance. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I like the movie very much,i watched it a hundred times! i like kate moseley's character,really,what a bitch! my favorite part was when kate and doug played hockey  and she got irritated when she can't score(i love her expression!) moira and d.b. make a good pair so sad they were not given another project together.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Romcom/Sports Films Ever Released","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Back in 1992,it was the Olympic year and The Cutting Edge was released.It romantic comedy film.The plot is about a very rich, spoiled figure skater Kate Mosley,played by Moira Kelly,who is paired with a has-been ice hockey player,Doug Dorsey,played by D. B. Sweeney for Olympic figure skating. They face off against a Soviet pair in the climax of the film, which is set at the site of the 16th Winter Olympic Games, in Albertville, France.Kate Mosley is a world-class figure skater training for the 1988 Winter Olympics. She has genuine talent, but years of being spoiled by her wealthy father have made her all but impossible to work with. Doug Dorsey is an exceptional hockey player with drive, skill, and a full complement of arrogance. His team is also in the Olympics. Doug suffers an eye injury during that game which damages his peripheral vision, and he is forced to retire from the sport. In the lead-up to the next Winter Olympics four years later, Kate has driven out all potential skating partners with her attitude and perfectionism; her coach, Anton Pamchenko, needs to find another replacement. He proceeds to track down Doug, who by now is back home in Minnesota, working in a steel mill and playing in a semi- professional hockey league on the side. Desperate for another chance at Olympic glory, Doug agrees to work as Kate's partner, even though he has a macho contempt for figure skating. However, Kate's snooty, prima donna behavior gets on his nerves immediately. The first few practices between them do not go well. In time, though, their relationship grows warmer, and they learn to work together and become a pair to be reckoned with both on and off the ice.They advance all the way to the finals in Albertville and look to be one of the top pairs competing for the gold.Everything is going well until they realize that they have fallen in love with each other. Doug and Kate are forced to reconcile these new feelings with their mutual desire to win at all costs.Although a lot of the thematic formulas were applied in this film from other movies like sports underdog,unlikely romance from two people from different backgrounds,the United States-Soviet Union rivalry and many more,Cutting Edge works as it was entertaining from beginning to end.Credit that to the brilliant screenplay from Tony Gilroy.Despite of applying many clichés that have been used in many romantic comedies,the story was presented in a way that the viewer will find it both original,refreshing and surprisingly addictive. Added to that,there great chemistry between Kelly and Sweeney that the viewer will definitely be engaged in their characters.Aside from that,their performance made it heartwarming due to their honest portrayal.Both made the film engaging and surprisingly addictive.And of course,the one could never forget the 90's soundtrack in the movie led by Joe Cocker's Feel Like Forever.Overall,I consider this one of the best romantic comedy/sports movie ever released. "},{"Title":"You will laugh and you will laugh","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This movie was made in 1992, so it still has the 80's feel to it. There are too many funny stuff in this movie and I will not bother to describe them here.I thought mixing sports with romance worked perfectly here. Perhaps ice skating partnership is a great avenue to make that happen. The main reason it worked is the two actors who had great chemistry. But I also want to credit the director because the shots were very well done creating perfect moments where the two showed their chemistry.I kept laughing through out the movie, but expected typical dumb ending. The movie really surprised me with great ending. Of course, movie is a movie and a hockey player turning into a figure skater is not realistic. If you can look beyond that, this is excellent entertainment especially for people who love figure skating, or just romantic comedy.One complaint is the PG rating is wrong rating because I heard inappropriate words so it is not for all ages. There is also heavy drinking scene. And the movie starts with the guy getting up naked after having sex. I love the movie, but I wouldn't show it to my daughter until she is old enough. "},{"Title":"Everything is right with this fun movie!","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" 'Kate' (Moira Kelly, looking as beautiful as ever) is a gorgeous figure skater and 'Doug' (D.B. Sweeney) is a handsome hockey player who's come a long way, but only for lunch after he meets temperamental Moira.The two head-strong skaters are persuaded by their skating coach 'Anton' (Roy Dotrice, in an enlightening performance) to go pairs at the Nationals and then on to the Olympics while Anton and Kate's over-protective, but loving father 'Jack' (Terry O'Quinn) stand by and watch the fireworks.Engaging film with the refreshing quality of being about something different a hockey player-turned-figure skater. Well-directed by Paul Michael Glaser. "},{"Title":"A Romantic Movie I Really Loved!","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I'm a guy and I've seen a lot of romantic movies but for some reason this movie has touched me. I bought the DVD and have watched it so many times it's like an addiction. DB Sweeney's and Moira Kelly's performances are just amazing. Moira and DB do make a beautiful couple. The chemistry between them and especially their facial expressions is priceless! I like the part where Kate is drinking for the first time and you could see her face when she took her first shot! Great ending! It's the first time I ever shed tears (embarrased). Even after 16 years, Moira is still a beautiful woman! Both DB and Moira are the best of friends to this day. I wish that they make another romantic comedy together again. I sure miss them! "},{"Title":"Sweet.. and more nifty one-liners than you may recall,,,","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I echo the warm sentiments expressed by many here at IMDb -- this is classic 40's type romance, filmed mostly in my hometown, Hamilton, Ontario, with pleasant skating choreography, and a rousing, pounding Soundtrack, including some great 'straight-up' Blues tunes. And, if you haven't seen it in awhile, there may be more great one-liners than you recall! D. B. Sweeney (awesome as 'Shoeless Joe' in '8 Men Out') plays Douglas Dorsey, an ex-hockey player recruited to pair up with spoiled, but talented brat, Kate (the charming Moira Kelly) in 'pairs' skating. She couldn't cut it with any of her previous 'traditional' partners - why should she succeed with this 'Neanderthal'? Well, if she wants to win gold, she will have to find a way - rich daddy has run out of options. He has the best (Russian) coach Pamchenko (played by ageless Roy Dotrice, now 85 years young! - recall him as Mozart's overbearing father in 'Amadeus'), but Dad's dream of a Gold medal requires a working partner for his mercurial daughter.Meantime, we are treated to some memorable stuff Dorsey (to Kate's financé) If I was you, I'd invest in blindfolds (response to I don't like to see Kate hurt) When I played hockey, I had 2 helmets - one for the game, and one for just before the game (explaining his penchant for vomiting before tense competition). Pamchenko to Dorsey, who threatens to walk out early in his audition And 'Gretzky' - I am the last person who is going to come looking for you (a lesson for anyone who won't accept that their last chance has arrived).8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than the second one.","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I watched the sequel first, I thought that it was pretty good. So I watched this one after, wow, I am totally impressed. The camera person certainly did a much better job than the person who shot the second movie.In the sequel movie, you can clearly see the faces of those doubles, and instantly tell when they first appear. That breaks the continuity of that movie because you are constantly reminded that they are not the real deal. In this first movie, the cinematographer hid those doubles' identities very well with different angles and lighting, I certainly can't tell which is which. It looked as if those two characters can really skate.And they acted well, so you believed in them. In the sequel, those two actors played hard, but you can tell that they don't really have the connections.And it has that certain appeal of the 80's movie, the music, the clothes they wear. So it can be a good nostalgia movie for those who love the 80's. "}{"Title":"Great Movie-Superb Dialogue -)","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" This movie is one of those overlooked jewels that few paid attention to at the time of its release, and even fewer pay attention to all these years later, but if you want to witness SUPERB repartee - sexual tension at its purest and highest form, this movie just about can't be topped. Before actors started taking it all off and making everything so incredibly dark and over-sexualized, this movie created a deep web of emotions by means of incredibly clever, often poignant, dialogue that makes every single scene in this movie worth watching over and over again. I remember at the time it was released (I saw it in the theater opening weekend), I felt that Paul Michael Glaser's depiction of the actual ice skating scenes in the competition phase was disconnected and had no flow. I feel less so now, but whereas at the time that disconnect diminished the movie for me, it doesn't anymore, because every time I watch this movie, I am just more and more amazed at the incredibly clever dialogue between D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly. This movie - believe it or not - sets The Standard for how two actors should spar on screen. And any two about-to-be-lovers who manage that kind of sparring in real life, well, they are INCREDIBLY BLESSED -) I hope this review will get a few more people to watch this wonderful, upbeat, lovely gem...... "},{"Title":"Cutting to the chase, this film is most enjoyable and romantic","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Doug Dorsey (D.B. Sweeney) was a hockey superstar. After a very successful college career, he landed a choice spot on the Olympic team. However, during an important game, Doug was severely injured when an opposing player decked him. Although he made a recovery, his vision was substantially altered, making it impossible for him to return to the game of hockey. He now works construction in wintery Minnesota. Kate Mosley (Moira Kelly) is a spoiled little rich girl who resides in a Connecticut mansion where she has her own ice rink. Although she has also been an Olympic contender in the ice skating pairs competition, her uber-diva personality has interfered with her medal count and her ability to hold onto her partners. Now, Kate is searching for a new man to skate with her and her very respected Russian coach, Pamchenko (Roy Dotrice) is offering Doug as a possibility! Who is he kidding? Doug is a HOCKEY player, not an ice artist. Yet, Pamchenko insists on a trial partnership and, lo and behold, Kate and Doug start to become the dynamic duo of the skating world. But, with Kate's prickly personality and Doug's own bossy demeanor and wandering eyes, can they manage to stick together long enough to win any darn competitions? We'll see! This is a most enjoyable and romantic film, especially made for those who also adore the lovely sport of ice skating. Sweeney and Kelly are near perfect as the sparring partners who may just harbor some loving feelings for each other. Dotrice is a stitch as the Russian Coach while Terry O'Quinn does a nice turn as Kate's father. All other lesser players are well chosen, too. As for the costumes, especially the skating garments, they are quite fetching and the settings are beautiful, too, particularly the home and grounds of Kate's Connecticut residence. Then, too, the script is funny and touching while the direction is lively and sharply edited. If you are a fan of humorous romance, skating, and/or dueling genders, you will find this movie to be an excellent viewing choice. But, truly, almost everyone will find this movie to be an enjoyable watch, even those who think ice skating is for sissies alone. "},{"Title":"The Cutting Edge isn't so cutting edge.","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I loved this movie when I was like, 7. I thought it was awesome. I think I really liked this movie because it was about skating and fiding glory in the end. Because I watched it again tonight my opinion is really different. With a sane mind, I don't know how someone could seriously sit through this film. Someone clearly wanted to make this movie, but I don't know why they thought they should have. They may have overthought the plot and underthought the soundtrack. I don't know. I used to rent it like weekly and my brothers would basically run in horror. I wondered why at the time, but now I realize my mistake. Would I sit through it again. Yes. Yes I would. Why? Long live the Pamchenko. "},{"Title":"I would like to see all Moira Kelly movies!!!","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" First of all, I think Cutting Edge is the best romantic/comedy ever made and I never get tired of seeing it over and over again... It's love story is much far more better than Cutting Edge 2 although CE2 got the moves, the original is still better in terms of drawing the viewer's attention. Moira is so natural and very talented, not only in acting but also when it comes to music, she can sing, play instruments and that's the reason I wonder why she's underutilized. I think a lady with such great talent should be given a better, if not, the best break of her career and I think she deserves the best roles Hollywood could offer. I'm dying to see the Dorothy Day story coz I'm so curious about it, in fact, I would like to see all her movies but I can't find any here in the Philippines except for Cutting Edge and With Honors... Moira and D.B. really look good together, I'm dying to see them in Two Tickets to Paradise... "},{"Title":"Effective skating scenes along with griping drama","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  What kept me interested in this movie was the strong love-hate relationship of the lead characters. Perfect chemistry between the stars. Couldn't cast a more perfect couple, even thought they were opposites. They were young and vibrant and head-strong, and make you care for them, and wish they would fall in love in the end. A well-used formula but the difference is in the execution. Director Paul Glaser should play the big league if he is able to turn out sensitive and well-crafted production like this. D.B.Sweeney was handsome and athletic, as was Moira Kelly who was beautiful, talented but temperamental - the only daughter of a millionaire father who lost her mother when young. You get the drift, bring out the knapkins. Apparently they did many of the actual skate scenes. Nice role for Terry O'Quinn (Stepfather). Beautiful winter scenes. What more can you ask for ?Seth Quinn  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie gave me lots of laughs and the skating was great especially the final skating the two of them did. In the beginning I almost turned the movie off as Kelly's character (Kate) was such a spoiled brat but I decided to hang in there and it's really sweet when she finally gets an attitude adjustment.  I throughly enjoyed watching Sweeney's character (Doug Dorsey).  They were really cute together in the end.  Now this is the third or fourth time I've seen this film and I enjoy it every time.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A Quality Movie Showing Passion in Developing Relationships and Great Camera Work, Acting, and Direction","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie was full of some very interesting surprises. The director, Paul Michael Glasser, is better known to most of us older folks or TVLand viewers as Starsky of the Starsky and Hutch televised cop show. His attention to detail, lighting and camera angles, character development, and his use of sexual and romantic tension was impressive.Like Tin Cup and A League of Their Own (both of which were shot much later), The Cutting Edge caused me to truly focus on specific sports (those of hockey and figure skating) and to appreciate the athletic development process. Even if that process is not portrayed in a manner technically true to form within this movie, the leap of faith is an easy one and you don't lose the passion or the intent of the story in watching it.This movie also made me aware of D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly for the first time. All of their later work, that I've seen, has been compared to the quality displayed within this one. Their portrayal of the development of a relationship shows depth and insight and brings out the comedic characteristics as well.The Cutting Edge holds up well, even after repeated viewings. The scenes that first brought an emotional reaction from me continue to do so (surprisingly) just as strongly as they did the first time. It IS one of my favorite movies. I would recommend renting or purchasing it as the television version dilutes chemistry between the two main characters because of the commercial interruptions. However you get to see it, it is WELL worth the time. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I am a sucker for romance films; and the Cutting Edge is, in my opinion, one of my favorites!D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly add such CHEMISTRY to their characters. Two skaters from such different backgrounds; a spoiled girl, and an ex-hockey skater...The verbal sparks were furious...it was truly magnificent! Both actors played their parts extremely well!The last 10 minutes are the best, in my opinion. I won't give anything away, but the last 10 minutes were my favorite to watch! "},{"Title":"Surprinsingly good movie","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Figure skating is one of my passions (as a spectator, since I can't do it myself because of some health problems). I love everything that has to do with it. Therefore, when this movie was anounced on TV las week, I thought I have to see it. And I'm not sorry. The figure skating scenes are wonderfull and very well performed. Someone in this website wondered if the twist they did in the end was possible. As someone who understands a bit about figure skating I tend to think that it is indeed possible (though very difficult). All the performers in this movie are great and the relationship between Kate and Doug is incredibly amusing; the tension and attraction between those two is amazing. If you like figure skating and/or romantic comedies this is a movie that you have to see. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Great, yet unrealistic film. If you are just looking for a fun movie on a Friday night, girls, you'll love it. Sorry guys, but it's a chick flick! As a figure skater, I was not impressed by the skating. Note in real life they don't use spot lights at the Olympics! Check your local listings for this film, it is often on TV. Go rent it if it's not on TV in your area! "}{"Title":"One of my favorite movies..","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I first saw this movie about a year ago and literally the next day while walking in my town i saw the advertising poster at an old dilapidated movie theater and its been one of my favorite movies ever since. The ice skating at the end is sooo pretty it makes that my favorite scene. I could watch that scene 100000 times. "},{"Title":"Ultimate chick flick--on ice!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Rough-cut babe Doug (D.B. Sweeney) and ice princess Kate (Moira Kelly) skate frantic circles around each other until they compromise and create artistic harmony to save their careers. Really just a fun feel-good movie... ladies, put this on your list for girls' night. Guys, the hockey scenes are short and far between. Unless you're looking for brownie points with your girlfriend, you can skip this one. Note The soundtrack is pure early-90s nostalgia. "},{"Title":"magic","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  well, the cutting edge is over a decade old, but it still holds up pretty good. i'm just going to address all you lovers out there...this is the bomb! yes, there are 101 dated clothes, words, and music. yes, the plot is a bit(k, maybe alot) hack-kneaded. i still love it. the two leads are great. d.b. sweeney is the jock all women would love to dote on(and have those arms around them). moira kelley is , well, quite bitchy. movies where no concessions are made to the 'weaker sex' are quite rare.....no token feminism, just some good ass- kickin and witty repartee'. you folks know who you are! 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Clever and entertaining little romance","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I rented this film recently, to watch with my 11 year old daughter. She loved it, but I found I enjoyed it more than I expected - enough to take a second look.  This is neither a sweeping saga nor a deep philosophical film. It is a light romance set in the figure skating scene.  But it is very taught and entertaining.  The performances are strong with terrific chemistry built up between the leads and an outstanding supporting role by Roy Dotrice.  I recommend this one strongly for those wishing to leave the screen smiling. "},{"Title":"What a GREAT movie!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I LOVE this movie. I think the storyline is well-thought-out and the chemistry between Moira Kelly and D.B. Sweeney is so believable. D.B. Sweeney was so adorable in this. You can't help but fall for his charms! There are so many great lines.  The soundtrack is also very energetic, and it's a shame that no one released it. Definitely not one to miss if you like ice skating, romance/comedy, and drama.  "},{"Title":"Melted my heart....","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time, not only because I'm a romantic film buff but because great acting, direction, and abounding chemistry. Admittedly, there's a predictable plot but this flaw just speaks to the strength of the rest of the film.  It STILL manages to deftly overcome the tired romance genre formula.  D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly are phenomenal and I wish they were superstars right now!  If you're looking for a comedy with just the right amount of melodrama, The Cutting Ege delivers!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I can watch this movie three times in a row.  I'm an admitted romance fanatic, and this is the best romance I've seen so far.  It has just the right amount of romantic suspense, and the story develops at exactly the right pace.  The chemistry between Doug (D.B. Sweeney) and Kate (Moira Kelly) is amazing.  Add in a subplot about determination and Olympic success, you have an awesome movie.  No wonder they call it a contemporary classic. "},{"Title":"A movie better than the some of it's parts","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Despite it's problems this movie has become a personal favorite of mine, I've probably watched it over half a dozen times since its release to video but I still stop to watch it whenever its on. Its biggest flaw is that its plot offers no real surprises, it strictly follows the usual formulas and you practically know how its going to end right from the opening credits on. But the sharp wit and humor of the script, competent direction and likable cast is what makes this movie such a treat, and it owes everything to the chemistry of its two leads. D.B. Sweeney plays an ex hockey player who's promising career is abruptly ended when a head injury permanently damages his eyesight. In his desperation to have a career in skating he accepts an offer to train as a figure skater with Moira Kelly, who's nasty attitude has sent all other potential partners running away screaming. He knows his career as a hockey player is over for good, and feels this is his last chance to make something of himself, so he tolerates Kelly and just hurls it right back at her no matter what she says. Sweeney is entirely convincing is his role and like most roles he's played he has comedic talent and charisma to spare, and delivers some truly memorable one-liner jabs. My favorite `I'll bet you look pretty good from a few thousand miles away' Moira Kelly is not only a visual asset (that's an understatement!) to whatever role she plays but in my opinion she, like Sweeney, is extremely talented and very much under appreciated by Hollywood, I think she's worthy of far more attention than she seems to be getting. Her character is bratty, sharp-tongued and sometimes just plain mean, and immediately begins a hatchet job on Sweeney from the moment they first meet. But what Kelly manages to convey is that under all of her character's bitterness there is another side to her personality, one that is in fact deeply troubled by what she has become and feels guilty about her treatment of Sweeney and others. (She seems to have a talent for this, e.g. `Changing Habits')For her character skating, which began as a love and has now become her prison, is a source of pain and torment for her and that is what makes her character so sympathetic. This all finally erupts in what is one of the movies most touching moments, when she tearfully admits to everyone her feelings of guilt and how she feels about herself, instantly defusing all Sweeney's built up anger and resentment towards her. Also few actresses could have made this movie's tear jerking climax as effective as it was, she knew just how to make the moment work for her character, and did it ever!Together Sweeney and Kelly turn what should have been nothing more than 2-dementional tripe into a funny, often touching romantic comedy that rises above what it lacks in originality and stands up to multiple viewing. They're the type of actors/actresses you give a movie a chance just because they're in it, I hope we start seeing more of them.  "},{"Title":"A well written movie that is fun to watch","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I felt this movie deserved a better review than simply It was really cool. I really liked it.  The movie is well written with some rather impressive chemistry between Kelly and Sweeney. The skating sequences are wonderfully put together, and although at first I thought they might be using doubles, it looks as though the actors are really doing quite a bit of high class skating which is a tribute to the actors skill.The one downfall of the movie is that it rehashes all the same old tired cliches in sports and romantic movies. Hard luck guy meets hard to work with girl, they work for years, hate each other at first, then fall in love. However, this is all so wonderfully done, that we simply sit back and enjoy the show.I thought that one of the strong points of the movie is how it ended. I won't give anything away, suffice it to say that the ending makes you feel good without beating it into you.This movie is a movie that will be enjoyed by many people to come, simply because it is good movie making that is genuinely entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Moira Kelly is a dream","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The cutest girl I've seen on a movie. Look at those eyes, that expression. She looks like an angel skating wearing that white jersey and skirt. Oh boy ain't she beautiful! Great acting, that girl (now a even more beautiful woman) is a damn good actress. Why on earth didn't she get to star BIG movies?And a nice story, so romantic but not the boring kind, the funny and moving and intelligent kind.The boy does a great job too. I don't like his mouth but he is very ok.Secondary characters maybe are a little too schematic, but Moira just makes that fact unimportant, irrelevant and invisible.I hate the local newspaper critic who rated that movie with one star. What an inept! "}{"Title":"Nice love story, great entertainment","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I really enjoyed this.  Ice skating is always great to watch, so when they occasionally make a film on skating I'm always dying to see it. The two leads make a nice pair, on and off the ice, and the ending was great.  The film did not drag at all which was good, and unusual for contemporary films which often run for over 120 minutes.  From what I could tell the skating looked good- but then I'm no expert.  It's just light and fluffy.  A real feel good film, without the heavy handed approach which seems to spoil many current 'teen romance type' films.    "},{"Title":"You think I'm trying to get a program out of you?","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is, hands down, the best skating love story movie that has ever been made. The quotes are nothing short of memorable!!!It's my favorite! I suggest you all see it. . . SEC "},{"Title":"Wow! Great movie!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I found The Cutting Edge to be an unexpected, pleasant surprise. Yes, it's another romance, but it's a romance done right with some comedy and some stunning scenes involving the skaters. Moira Kelly and D.B. Sweeney are great in their depictions of Kate and Doug -- I found them to be very believable, and it really is something to watch the two interact throughout the entire movie. The skating scenes were extremely well-done -- many times in the movie it seemed as if Kelly and Sweeney were actually performing the stunts, and doing a great job at it. Again, I really enjoyed The Cutting Edge (I got it on video as soon as I saw it for the first time on TV), and I'm almost certain most of you out there will find it as enjoyable as I did. "},{"Title":"A mediocre movie with a few great moments between the two leads.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Overall, not a BAD flick, but I'm glad I watched a friend's copy instead of paying a rental fee. Being a hockey fan I was prepared to be bored to tears by the figure skating plotline, but D.B. Sweeney played a (mostly) believable ex-hockey player, and the predictable situations throughout the film were nicely balanced out by what turned out to be sort of a surprise and not-too-unoriginal ending.  I'd recommend seeing it if you're into any kind of skating and can't find anything better to watch on any given night. "},{"Title":"Practically Perfect","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" First off, I am a male and yes I loved this movie...a lot. It was a fantastically sweet and packed movie. It has drama, love stories, human mistakes, and skating (which I admit I do adore) This is a movie that goes beyond being a 'chick flick' and if you try it most men can enjoy it. Little bit of hockey and a decent amount of figure. If you pay good attention and enjoy the film the words 'toe pick' will start to make you laugh. Both head actors do well together playing on the subtle hatred between them. Please please give this a try I promise you will not be disappointed. This remains one of my favorite movies ever. It begins with Kate needing a new partner. She has basically annoyed every single partner thus far but is enormously talented in figure skating. Kate is a spoiled rich brat who essentially loves making the men in her life suffer in the rink. One day her slightly overbearing instructor is sent to look for a new partner. A man named Doug is discovered who is out of hockey and is somehow convinced to swap to figure skating and meet Kate. They battle many times and try hard to develop a relationship but at terrible expense. The movie continues to get better and even throws a bit of twist here and there.Watch it and enjoy...especially with a loved one...especially a loved who likes to skate -p-Daniel "},{"Title":"Wholesome, entertaining, excellent storyline, & great cast!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Saw this movie for the first time over a year ago. Enjoyed it so much, I watch it every time Comcast Cable has it on. If there aren't any shows on that interest me, I'll go to OnDemand to see if The Cutting Edge is available there. Not kidding, I must have seen this movie at least 40 or more times since last year. Even got my hubby to watch it and he's not really a fan of that type of movie. He loved it and he also will watch it again when Comcast offers it. Especially loved the scene where he challenges Kate to play hockey. Even if I'm not feeling well or in a bad mood, that scene really perks me up!. The background music is superb and really catchy. Hey, I'm almost 71 and that movie makes me feel like I'm in my thirties. I'd recommend The Cuttine Edge for anyone & everyone. It's a movie you can enjoy with all ages and not end up being embarrassed, if you know what I mean!! SURE WISH THEY WOULD MAKE MORE MOVIE LIKE THAT. IS THERE A POSSIBILITY OF A SEQUEL?? Sincerely, GrammaMillie "},{"Title":"Love the Movie","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I'm not a hockey fan at any cost. But my first love is figure skating. Now I can't skate worth beans but I love watching it. It is differently a joy that I try not to miss. Also this is one of the first movies I remember ever seeing in the theater. I thought that it was interesting to combine the two sports of hockey and figure skating. Yes both are skating but they are very different as well. I think that it would be cool to see if they won or not. Though we all know that we know that it's make believe and they didn't win. Anyway it is a joy to watch and a classic in its own right. A movie that family can sit around together and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Cool Figure Skating Movie","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I watch this movie when I was in my teen age on LD. I Loved this movie & I love Moira Kelly. She's so cute, attractive & pull out some act in this movie. It's a typical sport movie where they have to partner, work hard & win the competition in the end. The road to reach there, the struggle & the situation surrounding it is the one that makes it difference. It's a light hearted movie and I might be biased but ever since I watch this movie I wish I'll be able to skate. It's funny, it's witty, it shows that hard work will pay off in the end and you shouldn't judge a book by its cover and give everyone a chance and encourage them rather than shutting them off. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Skating/comedy/romance/wit what more could you need","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I have nearly a thousand films and this is in my top 3.A fantastic figure skater but such a B*** that no-one wants to skate with her, and a hockey player who's career is destroyed in two seconds. Whoever invented this film was a genius! To look at this description you may think, predictable romantic rubbish, but this is not just a girlie film, there is slaging matches, injuries, implications of sex, risky dangerous skating moves.This film even though not a thriller in the car chase sense, keeps you on the edge of your seat at competition times, makes you laugh and cry.Sarcasm is a main ingredient and is a must see for all.The cast were superbly picked, not only is the story great but the acting is fantastic, you don't have to be a skating fan to watch this! "},{"Title":"My second favorite film of all times!!!","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I'm a movie lover, especially romantic comedies and movies about sports so is no brainer that The Cutting Edge is my second favorite movie after the Shawshank Redemption. This movie may not be a classic but for me is memorable one. I remember that I saw this movie because a friend of mine recommended it back in 1992. Since then I had watched it over a 100 times and practically know all the lines like'  The difference is I'm in the mood to kick a little ass or Toepick jajaj!!!I think Moira Kelly and D.B Sweeney did an amazing job together and really created sparks on screen. I love the screenplay, the acting and the 90's music. Most of all, I love the combination of sports, comedy and romance to create this wonderful cult classic. This movie is my guilty pleasure and I will always love it for that!!!! "}{"Title":"awesome!,awesome!,awesome! romantic comedy(the best)","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" this is one of my all time favourite movies.i went to see it when it opened in 1992,and liked it so much i saw it several more times.(I immediately had a crush on Moira Kelly and still do,to this day)it's basically the story of pairs figure skater Kate Mosely(Moira Kelly)who is on the verge of Olympic gold at the 1988 Olympics,but disaster strikes,and Kate's dream of an Olympic gold medal seem shattered.because Kate is a prima donna, she can not find any partner to work with her,despite her immense talent.meanwhile,US amateur hockey superstar Doug Dorsey(D.B Sweeney)is receive permanent vision loss during a vicious hit in a playoff game during the Olympics off the same year.Doug's dream of pro hockey evaporates.I don't want to say too much more,but put it this way 2 years later,these 2 wind up as training partners in a bid for Olympic Gold in1992,and since they are both from completely different worlds,you can imagine what happens next.anyway,this movie has it a all,great dialogue(especially the interplay and barbs shot back and forth between the Kate and Doug)very well choreographed skating sequences,perfect music,amazing chemistry between the 2 leads.and,of course,romance,with some comedy.this movie is very well paced,with no spots which drag at all.as for the 2 leads,i don't think you could find a better match than Kelly and Sweeney.every time i watch this movie,it is better than the last.trust me,if you haven't sen The Cutting Edge,you owe it to yourself to do so.it's just a great film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A well deserved '10' for the film, The Cutting Edge","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I am 68 years old, and proud to say I am a huge fan of D. B. Sweeney and Moira Kelley. The Cutting Edge film they made together was absolutely enchanting. I don't know how many times I have seen The Cutting Edge film and am spell-bound each time. What chemistry they have together. Except for Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan you don't see that chemistry often. As individuals or as a team, I look forward to their work. We need to see these talents more often. Their works are classic Americana! Good, clean and wholesome...someone please get this point across to the heads of studio's, done right it could 'profit' our children as well as their bottom line. Thank You Rosemary "},{"Title":"Nice story, fine performances","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I believe D. B. Sweeney and Terry O'Quinn are among the more under-appreciated film actors. Although he has gained a much-deserved amount of praise for his role in the acclaimed Lost series -- O'Quinn earlier didn't receive the attention deserved for his work. In this film he plays a sympathetic, properly reserved role, as Moira Kelly's wealthy single parent. In other work, he was convincing as the wacko psychopath, playing the Stepfather in the flicks of the same name - a totally-opposite persona.Sweeney and Kelly are thoroughly likable and engaging, as the former hockey jock and figure-skating ice princess needing a new doubles partner.There's little suspense as to where the story is going, but this in no way diminishes the movie's charm. Although it was obvious that neither lead was raised to become a competitive skater, and there is a significant use of doubles and camera techniques, in depicting their on-ice moves - this also doesn't detract from enjoying the story. Finally, I love Moira Kelly. She is, for me, in the same category as Kristin Scott-Thomas, Ann Heche and Traylor Howard (the co-star, assistant to Tony Shalhoub's Monk on the TV series.) These actresses aren't the drop-dead gorgeous types like Julia Roberts or Charlize Theron, but I find them even more appealing and attractive. "},{"Title":"Toepick!","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The first time I saw The Cutting Edge I was ten years old and I remember my mom saying I'd like this movie. In my own, slightly naive and stubborn 10-year-old way, I complained. 1 hour and 40 minutes later, I was in love. This is one of my favorite movies of all time -- D.B. Sweeney (If I were you, I'd invest in blindfolds) plays this role fantastically and Moria Kelly (Can we please teach it how to breathe with it's mouth closed?) acts out the Ice Queen with extreme perfection. There are few ice skating movies (The Cutting Edge, Ice Castles, Ice Princess...) but this is one of the best. You'll absolutely fall in love when you watch ex-hockey player Doug Dorsey and temperamental pairs skater Kate Mosely spit insults at each other while getting ready for the Olympics. Get ready for a new favorite, because this is a definite 10/10. "},{"Title":"Like a good book you can't put down.","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I rented this movie by accident and sat down to watch it anyway. As soon as Kate and Doug clashed (crashed?), it took some willpower not to skip to the end. Dougs will to win and Kates unwillingness to lose, started the hidden tension and gradual sexual tension, from the moment they were thrown together. All the actors put in performances that were essential to their characters and the story - a simple story, simply made, was carried by half a dozen main characters and worth watching. It had me wanting/not wanting this, for them throughout the boy wants girl reversal, culminating in a huge sigh of relief at the end (and a couple of other emotions). Believably, it could have been a chapter out of someones life, and their story was just being told. Everything about this movie worked. No glitz, no glamor, no clever effects - a story for all generations. "},{"Title":"Similarities?","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Today I had nothing to do (for once,) and had the TV on, when this movie came on Lifetime. It was certainly enough to rivet my attention, and so I began watching it. I've never been one for the sports/Olympics/high stress movies, but this one wasn't about that, it was about the relationship between the two skaters. Speaking of the relationship, has anyone ever noticed the similarities between this plot and Taming of the Shrew? I'm not saying it's a rip-off, or stolen or anything. In fact I'm saying that I think it's clever and well-done. First off, the female lead's name is Kate, then her extreme bitchiness adds to the shrew title, and add in one head strong, selfish but well-meaning man, and you've got nearly the same plot which involves Petrucio and Katherine. I think it's marvelous. All in all, the acting was good, the film design was great, and the movie, highly recommended, and well-worth seeing. "},{"Title":"toepick","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" The Cutting Edge is a family film about a world class figure skater Kelly and her hockey playing partner Sweeney in the US doubles qualifications for the Olympics. After an injury in college, Sweeney can't get into hockey to save his life. Kelly is such a b---h that she can't get a decent doubles partner. The coach goes to the field of last resort for a skater &#150; hockey. Kelly and Sweeney get off to a very rocky start, they fight like cats and dogs until the find they like each other and get their program together. The on screen chemistry is very good as they seem just like a real live couple. I nice film for the entire family. "},{"Title":"I love this movie, inside and out...The Cutting Edge is great! 10 thumbs up!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" I love everything about this movie, start to finish. I am such a big fan, and I have enjoyed this movie for almost 15 years now. I have seen this movie so many times that I know much of the dialogue by heart. I am not really one who usually likes sports films much, (I do like figure skating, though) but I am a sucker for a true romance film. The constant sparring between these two characters was like a spice, it gave this film a lot of flavor. DB Sweeney and Moira Kelly have such wonderful chemistry, and they really do make this movie the gem that it is. I wish that they had been cast in the sequel as well. I hope the sequel is as good as the original, but without DB and Moira, I doubt it could be. But I will soon find out.... "},{"Title":"What a WONDERFUL movie!!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" It's not often enough that a good ice skating movie is made. This one was put together so well and the chemistry between the actors and actresses was so real that you get pulled right into it. I never tire of watching it. The toe pick always gets a laugh from us! I would like to see more of Moira Kelly in movies. Her expressions are GREAT! She played the part SO well! The whole cast was a good choice. So realistic. I can really relate to the skating on hockey skates before getting a pair of figure skates. That toe pick can be a real pain! Literally! Growing up in Alaska, I spent a lot of time on the ice. This is such a great movie, too, because I can share it with my granddaughters. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A sweet romantic comedy to watch&#133;","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Okay, Yes I know it not an epic movie like Doctor Zhivago or complex like Syrianna. But for me, I love this popcorn movie for pure entertainment value. There is great chemistry between Moria Kelly and D.B. Sweeney that really gets you involved with the story. The soundtrack is excellent and the ending is perfect for this film. It follows the typical romantic movie formula but where others fail and The Cutting Edge succeeds is the heart and execution of the filmmakers to get the audience involved.I'm glad I own it and recommend it to everyone. It is a guilty pleasure to watch and a lot of fun. "}{"Title":"Romantic comedy it is!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Three words fab-u-lous! I loved it! The ice queen and the hockey player teaming up to win a gold medal. It was instantly my favorite movie the first time I saw it. The lead actors were perfect. I can't say anything bad about this movie, other than it should have a sequel. Rent it, watch it...you will probably fall in love with this timeless movie! "},{"Title":"Wonderful film..I know it, you know it, the American people know it!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Judging by the vast number of favorable comments made by IMDb users regarding this movie, I think it is safe to conclude that The Cutting Edge is one of the most beloved films on this website. This fusion of a love story and sports movie seems to appeal to men and women across the board. DB Sweeney gives a strong performance in a role where his athleticism serves him well. And everything about Moira Kelly, and her performance, is wonderful (admit it, guys, she's drop-dead gorgeous in this movie). I'll bet Bob Dole loves this movie, too.    "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy movie to Cheer Up the day","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was on TV. The first touch really moved me to buy the VCD. I really love the story, a light story that can make you smile and forget all the mess you make all day long. The chemistry is really work, and the acting is also good, both for D.B Sweeney and Moira Kelly.  "},{"Title":"a great movie!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  i got to watch Cutting Edge in school for the first time, actually. and i thought (from the title) that it was a skating/hockey drama. but it's actually not! it's a wonderful blend of romantic comedy and drama, and a little bit of terrific figure skating!this is a feel good movie, and absolutely one of the greatest! "},{"Title":"Great Feel Good Film","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I absolutely love this film.  I watch it often and it always makes me feel great.  When I have had a particularly hard day, I look forward to coming home and popping The Cutting Edge into the DVD player, it always cheers me up.  It is kind of like the Rocky movies, it is hard not to root for them and then when they win you feel like you are there with them.  This is a must see movie!! "},{"Title":"Bounce spin, to a throw twist, and I catch her? Sort of. (hardly)","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Need I say more? OK I'll lay down the line for you.The romance and comedy are wonderful. The characters and acting are wonderful. The music is great! The skating is great... except the move.The move is totally unrealistic. Whose idea was it for them to do a bounce to a throw twist? You can bet it wasn't Cousins! (British Olympic Gold Medalist 1980, who choreographed this entire movie). Such a thing is physically impossible to do! You would have to... well ask any skater you know.Also, why is it that when naming a girl from Russia, the writers always leave the A out of her last name if it ends in OV? Seems like they should do more research on that I guess. "},{"Title":"Kiss me Kate! Taming of the Shrew","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Watching this movie, I was struck by the similarity to Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew. The protagonists get off on the wrong foot. The dominating, spoiled female meets her match. The couple deals with adversity and betrayal with responsibility and all's well that ends well.  "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  There really isn't anything bad that I can say about The Cutting Edge, I thought it was a very original and interesting movie.  The movie has got great comedy, interesting characters, and some very good acting.  The movie is also full of some really cool shots, and I love the slow motion used in the film.  I don't know what else to tell you other than give it a chance, it's a good flick.  I hope you enjoy it.-Chris "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I watched this movie and to tell you the truth, wasn't terribly moved by it. One thing that I liked about it was its reality.  Maybe it doesn't depict the qualifying process correctly, but it uses world class skaters as their opponents, instead of more actors.  Too many times, you see all actors, and then they don't even do their own on-ice programs.  The teams they used for competitors were top ranked Canadian pairs teams who had seen world competition.  You don't get many sports movies that have world class athletes as competitors.  (Some times you see them taking a swing in a ball movie, or talking after the game in the dressing room, etc. but not competing)  I am big, into hockey, and I have yet to see a hockey film, with world class players. Another thing is that D.B. Sweeney's character making the transition from hockey to ice skating in two years. This is extremely tough, but believable. I know of world class skaters that have made transition.  But you have to remember he was a world class hockey player, who would have already had a good foundation on skating edges.  He worked extremely hard in the movie to learn the holds/lifts/ and jumps.  He would have never competed in singles competition, and maybe was the weaker of the pair, but chemistry is important too.  And this movie had it. For not being a fan of figure skating, I found this movie quite watchable. a strong 7/10 "},{"Title":"LOTS OF FUN!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Ok, so this is one of those just sit back and have a good time movie. From what I have read, it doesn't follow the guidlines for skating--I can care less. The chemistry was very good between the two actors and both delivered solid performances.  "}{"Title":"The best movie EVER!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The first time I ever watched this movie, I was about 10 or 11, and I only watched about 10 minutes of it. I guess I wanted to play more than watch it! Now I'm about to begin my freshman year of college. Recently, I remembered that movie out of the blue, and wanted to watch it again b/c I love figure skating, but couldn't remember the name of it or the actors who starred in it for the life of me. I went to rent some DVDs, and lo and behold, there it was! I think I watched it about 5 or 6 times in a week. This is now my very favorite movie in the world! Unlike other movies, the story never gets old! I'm really sappy, and I cry just about every time I watch it! Definitely rent this video, because it's a must-see! "},{"Title":"Nice flick!  Try it!  You'll like it!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Here is a film of romance and of love.  It is presented without violence, without volumes of foul language, and without mega doses of death. (Hollywood, are you listening?)  It does not have the passion of The Promise or the flighty quality of Sleepless in Seattle or the effervescence of You've Got Mail, but it is enjoyable.  There are flaws in the story line, but they are not show stoppers.  For the most part, they exist solely for lack of time in a 2-hour movie.  This one is definitely on my list favorites. "},{"Title":"My favorite romantic movie","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I think that each one of us has a chord in his or her heart that, if touched, can put you knock out (from a romantic point of view). The romantic formula that does that effect to me is the theme of the Taming of the Shrew, and the movie The Cutting Edge has all the elements of that formula. I did not even know of the existence of this movie and bought it almost by accident. Well, I ended up watching it something like 17 times in three weeks... For all those days, I was like in a trance, with a stupid dreamy smile on my face... and I'm a guy who usually watches movies like Terminator and Die Hard...Some people point out the inaccuracies of the plot regarding the qualifications for the Olympics. That is true, but come on guys, this is a flick, not a documentary. If I wanted to be so picky to point out the inaccuracies of all the movies out there, I'd have no time for anything else in life, and life is too short to be picky on a movie like this. I'll tell you what... If a movie has the goal to involve the viewer emotionally, well this movie is the one that got me involved more than any other.I understand that not everybody will like this movie. After all, the world is beautiful because everyone is different, and some people are as romantic as a frozen salmon, but who cares... I liked it, all my friends liked it, most of them have watched it quite a few times (let me warn you this movie, if you happen to like it, is addicting) and I loved the incredible flow of emotions I felt for days after watching it. No other romance movie had this effect on me, and this fact alone overcomes all its (eventual) defects.And by the way, the acting is superb and the chemistry between the two main characters is awesome. Ah, even the soundtrack is beautiful...What can I tell you? Hollywood sometimes surprises me.  "},{"Title":"Truly the best film ever made","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Such beauty. Just thinking of the 'Pamchenko twist' brings tears to my eyes. And the players, resplendent in their lyra body suits. The eighties soundtrack, so full of whimsy. The look on her face when he tells her that he loves her. So forceful. So manly. So uncliched.A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie!!!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I just bought this on DVD last week after renting it numerous times over the years!!  I saw it the first time when I was in 8th grade and I am now 21 and love it just the same!!  This is absolutely one of my most favorite movies and I cannot say enough good things about it!  I realize there are inaccuracies as far as the qualifications to get in the Olympics etc, but life is too short to sit and nit pick movies like that!This is a fantastic movie for anyone of all ages to watch.  It is a great love story and no matter how many times I watch it, I still laugh at all the witty comments of their first meeting and I still get chills in the final skating scene!!  I urge anyone who hasn't seen this to buy it on DVD or rent it immediately!!  It is so good!  10 out of 10!!   "},{"Title":"The best love story ever created on video.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The movie The Cutting Edge has perhaps had the greatest effect on my life of all movies that I have ever watched.  The first time I saw the movie I was in the 6th grade and watched it for English class.  Then, I didn't understand boy/girl relations very well so the mood of the movie isn't as strong as it hits me now.  Moira Kelly is absolutely fabulous.  People say that they want to see her drama, talent, and attitudes like that of The Cutting Edge in another movie, and I totally agree.  I believe the other movies that she stars in does not have the same impact as The Cutting Edge. I would also like to see a sequel to the movie because the audience is left hanging in the end on several topics.  I watch the movie now at least once every two weeks showing friends and family, and I never get sick of it.  I only fall in love with the movie more and more as I watch it.  I believe I fell in love with Kate Mosley, but not Moira Kelly.  If anyone who reads this is offended or would like to oppose my opinions, see my email address above. I have a lot more to say but the words are almost a thousand. "},{"Title":"Where are they now?","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  It's the classic Romantic Comedy formula. A man and a woman stuck together without choice, they hate each other, they bicker, they curse etc. Then they fight, realize they're in love, and go all mushy. It's done particularly well here, especially considering the fact that there were no real big names in the film.Moira Kelly and D.B.Sweeney make an adorable couple, and they have a genuine chemistry between them. D.B.Sweeney looks and acts like a cross between Ben Affleck and John Cusack, playing the cocky, self-assured but desperate ex-hockey player. Kelly is delectably bitchy, playing the Daddy's girl figure-skating talent. Roy Dotrice playing the Russian Coach Anton is also quite hilarious. Considering how well the two leads performed in this film, it's a shame they having really made it big. They are both good looking, and good actors by todays standards, but they have not made another film since that really stands out. With these sad thoughts aside, I would recommend anyone to catch this gem on TV whenever it comes on, because this film is currently unavailable on Video. "},{"Title":"Romance and skating, you gotta love it","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I love romance and I love skating, which probably explains why I love this movie.  The music is great and the sexual tension charges the movie throughout.  I think it's romance at its best.  The soundtrack is finally out and I recommend that as well. "},{"Title":"Still a Favorite!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  When I was about twelve years old, I (with some friends) watched this movie EIGHT times in a row- that's all in one day, consecutively. Now, even after that and eight years later, I still LOVE this movie. I love to watch the skating. Granted, you can pretty much tell that it's not always the actors, but what do you expect? They DO do some of it themselves. The acting is marvelous...Moira Kelly is great at the witchy role, but also plays the flip side well. This movie is full of lines that you will be quoting for years after you've seen it- believe me, I know! "},{"Title":"Totally Inacurate","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Don't get me started on what an inaccurate representation this movie is of the amateur/ Olympic hopeful ranks of the figure skating world.But just a few things  First there are several tests that the D.B. Sweeney character would have to take with the United Figure Skating Association before he could qualify to compete at the National/ Olympic level.  You CAN NOT just jump into the Senior level like in the film!  (And it usually takes a several years just to schedule and pass these tests!)Secondly,  in real life D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly's characters would have had to compete in regionals and sectionals before they could ever qualify to go Nationals!  (Even Moira's character could not go b/c she had not competed nationally or internationally and placed in the top three the year before.)Thirdly, during an amateur competition whether regional, national or international no one EVER skates with the lights off with only a spotlight!  (It's WAY too dangerous!  Have any of you out there ever seen the lights off during the Olympics?)And finally, no matter how good a skater D.B. Sweeney's character was, there is NO WAY he could become an Olympic level pairs skater in just 2 years!  It usually takes 2 experienced pairs skaters that long to get good together, much less when one of them is trying to learn the sport!  MAYBE in 4 years, but that'd still be stretching believability a bit.Anyway, having been a skater, it is very hard for me to take this movie seriously!  (No matter how appealing the two lead actors may be.)  I am SO tired of skating movies made without real ice skaters.  Believe me, there are TONS of former skaters out there who are now actors who could've done these roles!  If you want to see the only accurate skating movie to date on film, rent Ice Castles!  There you see a film that presents the real skating world and is about 90% accurate in doing so.  And besides, it's nice to see Lynn Holly Johnson really skate (no double necessary) and after 20 years her skating still looks pretty darn good!  "}{"Title":"Sweet and Effectual...","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I saw this nine times in the theater when I was seventeen.  Nine times. Now, I'm almost a decade older.  And I still love it.  It's flaws are more apparent now - as a film critic and cineaste, I'm more attuned to looking for flaws nowadays.  But the film is undeniably fun.  And its ending is one of the most romantic, if not better, ones out there. "},{"Title":"A thrilling film","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I feel that the plot may be very realistic. The actors and actresses play stunningly side by side to give a thrilling, enjoyable and fun experience for all the family.I love Moira Kelly and she looks extremely cute(don't you think)in the skating outfit. "},{"Title":"Combination love story, sports drama,","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie has personal significance for me because my friends have always told me that my personality resembles D.B. Sweeney's character. While it is true that the movie starts out with a non dramatic and seemingly predictable form, the twists and turns adding the sports drama make this movie one of the top sports movies ever made. D.B. Sweeney's charisma is a great combination to Moira Kelly's arrogance and knack for shooting down Doug with intelligence and grace. More importantly is the inspiration which derives from these two characters as they overcome obstacles to shoot for the coveted gold medal "},{"Title":"Can never get enough of this movie!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I forget why or when I saw this movie for the first time.  I only know that I rented it almost every time I went to the video store after that.  I finally decided to order myself a copy to save  some money. -)This movie has it all  beautiful figure skating, both in rehearsal and performance; a touching love story; great humor; character development (massive); lessons in life and love; great soundtrack; and the hooks to pull you into the story and keep you there throughout the film.I'd recommend this film to anyone who likes romantic, personal growth, Olympic sports, or touching films.  Like I said, this one has it all!If you liked American Anthem, you'll like this even better! "},{"Title":"What an absolute joy it was to watch this movie.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I have not enjoyed a movie as much as this one in a long time. The quick witted bantering between the main characters was wonderful to watch. The photography was magnificent and the music topped off the exciting atmosphere throughout the movie. Our entire family thoroughly enjoyed this movie from beginning to end and hope to see Moira Kelly and D.B. Sweeney in a movie together in the future.. magical chemistry! "},{"Title":"bloody great film!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  this film shows the hardship of an athlete an the breakthrough he gets which is not only challenging but whilst onlookers find it ridiculous, the character Doug proves everybody wrong, even his bitch of a partner, Kate. It gives all us no hope losers a look at what could be. "},{"Title":"Best Mix of Genre You will Ever See In A Movie!!!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Let me start by saying that this thing has got it all.  The actors do a great job and this film introduced me to Moira Kelly.  I'm like a big fan now.  This is a very funny movie and the first time I saw it, I was on the floor laughing like hell. You gotta buy this movie or at least rent it.  I watch this thing almost every day. "},{"Title":"A refreshing romantic comedy","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  First and foremost Moira Kelly is a talented actress.  Moira has a gift for convincing her audience that she isn't acting and she proves this point in the movie.  This is one of the better romantic comedy flicks that I have seen.  The characters, Kate & Doug, have a mutual antagonistic attitude toward one another which leads to a romantic climax.  The only negative aspect of this film is that the ending is very predictable.   However, I still find this movie to be entertaining and refreshing.   "},{"Title":"This was very romantic!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie so much!  The way that they did not reveal their feelings until the very end of the movie made it extra special.  I do wish that they would have told how they did at the Olympics though, I guess it can only be assumed if they won or not.  I loved the movie! "},{"Title":"What a great film!!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This film is really great!! I loved this film because it has a great love story and this movie has a beautiful actress Moira Kelly (she is so gorgeous).Whoever wants to see a beautiful woman and a cute story should watch this film.....  "}{"Title":"A Well-produced, Directed, Acted & Presented Film","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  It's clear to me that The Cutting Edge has accomplished what few films have done following the original release.  That is, it maintains it's popularity, and deservedly so.  Just this month, MGM released the CD of its musical score and did so 6 full years after its original showings.  Edge also maintains a constant presence on movie cable systems, which would not be the case if there were not a willing and receptive audience of viewers. Further, Edge is one of those rare instances where all of its elements come together, from a sharp and humorous script, to Paul Michael Glaser's effective direction, to the engaging performances of D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly, whose interactive chemistry and tension make the film enjoyable and believable.  In my opinion, Sweeney is especially effective.  This under-rated actor deserves more screen engagements.  Check him out in such films as Roommates, Gardens of Stone, and Three Days in October, and you will see what I mean.  Sweeney has the ability to fill the characteristics of each role he plays and convey them realistically to the audience.  The Cutting Edge performs its role extremely well  it engages a viewer's interest, holds that interest, tells an appealing story and has a fulfilling ending.  After all, what is a movie for? "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Demonstrates that good movies can still be made without massive violence and mayhem.  This is a beautiful move of love.  It is definitely on my list of top 10 or 15 favorites. "},{"Title":"best love story ever","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie has it all. Action, Romance, Humor. I wanted to be Kate. And I'm still looking for my Doug Dorsey. I recommend this movie to everyone, and I've made all of my friends watch it at least twice. "},{"Title":"WOW!! Great Movie!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Wow what a great movie. I love it. It is one of my favorite movies of all time. I love the part where they are drinking I think that part is great. But my favorite part is where he tells her he loves her for the first time.  "},{"Title":"A Must For You Who Like Romantic Movies","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A nice but somewhat unlikely plot, but never the less a truly romantic story about the important figure skating queen and the hockey pro that gets injured and have to alter his career. I warmly recommend this movie for all you lovers out there.In my opinion this movie is just as good as the more well known ones, like Notting Hill, Bodyguard, You've got Mail, etc.In any case I believe that you have to be a emotionally cold person, not to like this movie and take it to your heart.I first viewed it when it was released and I watched it again just a few days ago, and I believe it still has it's edge (no joke intended).  "},{"Title":"i never get tired of this movie","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I know this movie is supposed to be third rate... (where are these actors now anyway?) but I absolutely love this movie. I like the ice skating but I also just can't get enough of the violent chemistry between these two. Anyway, if you like romantic comedies that are a little corny with a solid happy ending, watch this movie. Plus, its cheap. I bought the DVD for like five bucks (its an undiscovered blockbuster) "},{"Title":"A romance on ice.","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Moira Kelly plays a skater who went every skate partner, that she could find. One day her coach came up with a idea for her to skate with a hockey player (D.B. Sweeney) with an injury that end his playing career. Could their dreams come true for Olympic Gold? I enjoy the story and the chemistry between Kelly and Sweeney. It is a nice escape for a lazy afternoon. "},{"Title":"a cliché-ridden film that will probably please romance fans","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" My wife and I both watched this film together and my bet is that, in general, women would prefer this film (even though the lead male is playing an ex-hockey player). At heart, it is a chick flick where you know what must occur in the formulaic script--but this isn't necessarily a bad thing. For those who love the genre, they will be quite pleased. For people like me who are not romance junkies, you will probably find this movie slow going and too predictable.Moira Kelly plays an ice skater in search of a new male partner. She is really wealthy but she's also a spoiled and demanding young lady. When trying out potential partners, she clicks, reluctantly, with D.B. Sweeney and he is made her new partner. Naturally, she is petulant and their relationship is rocky and icy at first (that is THE convention here) and you know they are destined for each other (in movies yes, but in real life this just ain't gonna happen, folks).Predictable but sweet--a decent film that packs few surprises but still a dandy little romance. "},{"Title":"Nice romantic movie with one major flaw","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" SPOILERS Cutting Edge is a very well liked movie and I can understand that, I've seen it Twice now and moderately enjoyed it. But I can't count this among my favorite romantic movies because I was let down by one Major thing in the movie.That was the fact that there was so little actual skating. For a film about skating they didn't seem to show much of it. There were a lot of sequences of the skaters' feet which I guess is because the leads were probably not the ones skating. But I must say both times I've seen this, I spent a lot of time thinking OK this is a movie about skating. Show some skating now! I just feel with a movie about romance AND skating we should see as much skating as romance.I am not knocking the movie at all because I actually found it enjoyable. But being a major fan of figure skating, I do notice there are not a lot of movies around about that particular sport. The only other one I've seen is Ice Castles. So with the few there are, I want to SEE some of it! I was a bit let down by that.Other then that, the movie was a nice way to spend some time. It had some really good, touching moments and the two leads as mentioned by so many had tremendous chemistry. I also found the whole romance on the ice story, very romantic. And being a fan of romantic comedies this movie was appealing on several levels. I just wish that one very major thing wasn't missing. "},{"Title":"Predictable, Boring and Unoriginal","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":" Nothing about this movie is any good. It's a formulaic predictable romantic comedy geared to make females force their significant others to watch. In other words, it's a predictable chic flick that is neither comedic or romantic and is extraordinarily forgettable. If you like watching the same thing over and over then this movie will fit just perfect. I was also forced to watch this with my g/f at the time and it's no surprise we are no longer together. I enjoy great movies that are wonderful to watch, while she just wants to see the same thing over and over again just with different actors. Nothing good to say about this movie. The title says it all. 1/10 (one b/c I can't give it a zero. "}{"Title":"Strictly by-the-numbers","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sport","Review":"  The cookie-cutter gets to work overtime in this obvious and unoriginal love story.  The plot, such as it is, has been done before a trillion times so there is no need to recount any of it.  Suffice to say that all 12 year old girls will love this movie while the rest of us will be forced to make a face.  Even the soundtrack is awful!  Its not that I dislike figure skating, although I don't, its that I dislike cliched, bad movies.  "}]