[{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm not quite sure what happened to poor ol' Pinhead, but his character sure got an overhaul for this misfire of a film.  He is transformed from his more mysterious visage into a gimmicky Freddy Krueger-type mass-murderer.Once upon a time in the series, you had to open a puzzlebox searching for the secrets of pain and pleasure to be attacked by the Cenobites.  But no more.  Hell, all you have to do now is go to a nightclub and you're on the victims list.  Sillyness abounds as the DJ becomes a CD throwing cenobite and a cameraman launches missiles (yes, missiles) from the lens buried in his head.  Stupid.Way off base when compared with the rest of the series, and not worth your time. "},{"Title":"The waste of a perfectly good franchise","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  first of all, Hellraiser III isn't a BAD film. In fact, it's quite good if it would stand on its own. And it certainly is one of the more decent efforts in the overall disappointing decade of the 90's. Compared to the first two Hellraisers, however, it's a bit of a failure. Hellraiser ('87) and Hellbound ('88) were horrorfilms in the purest possible form and my two all-time favorites. There were 4 indicators in those movies that brought them close to being the definition of horror.1. Creating a unique and utterly morbid atmosphere (through settings, music etc...)2. Building up an unbearable tension ( the occasional twists etc..)3. Showing nasty and very bloody sequences in a beautiful way4. The presence of a true horror icon !! ( in this case...PINHEAD )Hellraiser III fails to at least 3 of these points...The dark and macabre settings from Hell and the mental institution are replaced by a bar which plays horrible rock music, there's almost no tension to detect and it's a very predictable story. The gore however is still present, but the quality of it doesn't come near the originals. The Boiler Room massacre puts Clive Barker to shame, I think. The whole story know turns around the character of Pinhead. He's more than ever the star of this movie and that almost goes wrong. He talks too much and he even starts to become funny. That certainly isn't good for a horror icon. ( Look at what a joke Fred Krueger became ). Director Anthony Hickox obviously is a big fan of Pinhead and he wanted the movie to be especially about him. Every now and then Hickox tries to link this film to the original story but it clearly isn't his biggest concern. The tapes about Kirsty in the Chanard institute and the dream-sequences where Joey meets Elliot Spencer are too fake and forced. The movie does explain where Pinhead comes from but it certainly isn't stressed enough...Hellraiser III goes very much over the top near the end and I almost lost my love towards Pinhead after the church scene ! I'm trying to forget that particular part. It really is a shame that this movie is part of the series. If this would have been a new film ( with a new demon ) it would have been an enjoyable, well-made change. But as part of a great series it fails to deliver and you're left behind with a disappointment. This movie was followed by episode 4 Bloodline and a few others after that. The fourth is a surprisingly good attempt to bring back the spirit of the original ones and should be watched directly after the first two. Everything that came after part 4 should be skipped unless you're a die-hard Pinhead fan. "},{"Title":"Ya know...","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Being a slasher horror fan during it's rising in the late 70's early 80's I watched the first 2 HellRaiser films and when I saw part 3 I was disapointed.   But watching it again (HBO 01/27/04) I gotta say I was impressed with the story in general.I Really got into the last bit where the PinHead chracter confronts it's good self   Very good plot twist written in the classic feel for the character.If you were a fan of the first and second HellRaiser films rewatch 3 with an open mind... time heals all wounds. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser falls by the wayside","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Watching this film as part of a four movie Hellraiserthon, I was full of expectation after the brilliance of the first two films.  This third venture was a total disappointment, replacing the plot and tension of the earlier films with pretty girls and lots of mindless violence.  The only saving grace was the excellent performance by Doug Bradley as a very confident and menacing Pinhead.  Personally, I'd watch the first two films many times again, but skip this vacation from quality. "},{"Title":"The Worst of the First Three","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have yet to see Bloodline or Inferno, but Hell on Earth is the worst of the first three Hellraiser movies. It lacks both the wit and the sheer terror of the first two films. What's more, it breaks the rules established in the previous Hellraiser films (that is, Cenobites cannot harm the truly innocent, the Cenobites can be summoned or banished by the box, and so on). And while Pinhead actually spoke very little in the first two films, in Hell on Earth he is downright talky. Unfortunately, only a few of his lines are very memorable. It is unfortunate that Clive Barker did not have more to do with this movie (he wrote and directed the first and wrote the story for the second), as it might have turned out much better. "},{"Title":"Pinehead in New York","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    One of the reasons I liked the first two Hellraiser movies was because it had different elements of evil. You had the wife who was willing to kill for her creepy skinless lover that lived in the attic, and than you had the demons that came from a puzzle box. The sequel to the first one had the same things that made the first one great. But in this one you just have Pinehead who is not as witty as he was in the first and second one. It seems to me that the makers of this movie are looking for another Freddy and Jason and I have to say that those two are stating to look really good and Pinehead is starting to look really bad. This movie could have been something good. But its not so don't wast your money. "},{"Title":"Passable Sequel In the Long Running Series","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser Hell on Earth stars Terry Farrell as a young television reporter investigating a horrific murder where the victim appears to have been torn apart by hooks and chains somehow connected to a strange puzzle box discovered near the body. The clues lead to a prostitute and a sleazy nightclub owner who's latest art installation is a remnant of the cenobite dimension left behind on our world which contains the blackened soul of Pinhead. Hellraiser II director Tony Randel co-wrote the screenplay for Hell on Earth and he tries to pack a bit too much into the film. The climactic chase through the city streets with pyrotechnics and special effects exploding all around feels forced, like much of the action here. It's dictated by the unwieldly script rather than flowing natuaraly. If you like the first two Hellraiser films you'll want to see Hell on Earth and you may even enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Good, but the beginning of the series' downfall","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The films 'Hellraiser' and 'Hellbound Hellraiser II,' weren't like anything ever seen before. They were doors into new worlds. The end of II was an open ending, so it seemed only natural that more sequels come, and 4 years later we got one. But something had changed, and not necessarily for the better. It was decided that Pinhead, otherwise known as the Lead Cenobite, would be the villain and given more to do this time around. On top of that a big studio, in this case Paramount, would be the new distributor and we all know what can happen sometimes when a big studio gets involved. If I'm making it sound like I hate 'Hellraiser III,' I don't, but like other fans I feel this is where the series began to lose it.Pros Pace moves right along. Good performances, the standout being Paula Marshall. The urban setting is a nice change of scenery. An OK score that mixes some classic 'Hellraiser' themes with some new stuff. Some really good special and visual effects. The war scenes are well done. Some excellent set pieces, my personal fave being the one in the club. Some pretty neat new Cenobites.Cons No real surprises or much we haven't already seen. Though Doug Bradley does a good job as both Pinhead and Captain Elliot Spencer, the fact that Pinhead is made the villain and given more screen time does make him a bit less scary and mysterious. The final confrontation is kind of disappointing.Final thoughts Though not at all a bad film, this second sequel to Clive Barker's ground breaking film is a step down from it's predecessors. As I said there's not much here fans haven't already seen and both Pinhead and the film are pretty much on the same level as other movie monsters of the time, which was never the idea. But still it's fun, has some style, and is far more interesting than some of the other sequels.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"An Okay 3rd Installment","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Where Hellraiser 1 and 2 were both very dark and very British, Hellraiser 3 Hell On Earth is very Hollywood.J. P. Monroe is the scumbag, soulless owner of The Boiler Room, a somewhat gothy dance club decorated with morbid art. In his search for more profane objects to add to his collection, J. P. comes across, and subsequently purchases, an odd pillar in an art gallery, which fans of the first two films will have no trouble recognizing. Enter Joey Summerskill, a frustrated reporter who comes across a bizarre death in a hospital emergency room. As she watches, a young man is torn to pieces by hooks and chains that appear out of midair. Eager to discover the story behind the gruesome, supernatural death, and with only one clue to follow, Joey arrives at the Boiler Room and befriends the insecure and abused Terri, J. P.'s ex girlfriend. Together, they discover the history of the Lament Configuration, the bizarre happenings at the Channard Institute and the story of Kirsty Cotton. But it doesn't end there. Joey begins having dreams about a man named Elliot Spencer, a World War One soldier who warns her that evil has been unleashed in the form of his own evil alter ego, the Cenobite Pinhead. Indeed, Pinhead soon breaks free and turns The Boiler Room into a slaughterhouse. Now he wants Joey. But can Elliot Spencer stop Pinhead before Joey is taken to Hell?This isn't a terrible sequel, really. It's not great, but it's nowhere near as bad as some of the others that followed. There's some nice bloody gore and naked girls, and Pinhead, as always, seems to be enjoying himself immensely, seducing his victims with a smile and making his offer of an eternity of pain seem quite irresistible. His scene with a priest is particularly nasty and blasphemous...and wickedly funny. The storyline doesn't always make sense, there's a lot of unintentionally laughable moments and some of the acting borders on the ridiculous, but all in all, Hellraiser 3 is pretty good cinematic junk food. If nothing else, Doug Bradley alone always makes these films watchable with his flawless portrayal of Pinhead.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sensing a chance for a real story, a newswoman stumbles upon a sociopath art dealer who's in possession of the box that summons Pinhead and his demons and forces her to find its origins to finally defeat him.Frankly, this one is one of the most underrated efforts in the series. Among the many positives here is the fact this one finally manages to uncover the real past involving Pinhead and his connection to the box which causes this to really connect the series together. By doing that in accordance with the heavy use of action within this, as there's no shortage of exciting, high-energy action scenes, this one is packed to the brim with exciting elements. The opening hospital scene that sets up the cause to investigate the nightclub, the first encounter in the bedroom with the Pinhead statue, the gradual realization of the friends turned into the new Cenobites and the massacre at the nightclub are just some of the rather impressive and exciting action through this, and each one tends to get all the more exciting by gaining in spectacle that causes all the rather enjoyable fun throughout. Of course, the real spectacle here is the mad dash through the streets where there's non-stop threats on display, from the initial attacks like the possessed power-lines and charged water chasing after her to the blasting eruptions underground and finally the appearance of the Cenobites which lead s to all sorts of chaos as their new-found powers are put on display against the few passersby left on the street as well as trying to contain her running down the street. This is a lot of fun and really gets the kind of exceptionally enjoyable and gory action-packed sequence that scores quite well as a show highlight as well. There's also the rather fun feature of having Pinhead around for quite a bit of screen-time being ably rewarded with him fully getting those glorious monologues and dementedly enjoyable quips that he goes through on the others, and the ones in here are among the better ones in the series due to all the extra time he has. That also gives him some fine extra scenes as the tormenting of the priest in the church and the release from the statue which really completes this one quite well. The only thing that really hurts this one is the battle in the secondary dimension that really just amounts to all sorts of posturing without really doing anything and is filled with some lame special effects throughout despite being quite impressive the rest of the film. It's the only real flaw in this one.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, a sex scene and mild drug use. "}{"Title":"'Hellraiser' without the suspense, tension, or intelligence","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In a city without pain, a reporter, Joey (Terry Farrell), discovers a man being attacked by seemingly alive chains. Before she can get her scoop, the man explodes into a shower of meaty chunks. Hearing the story of a mysterious box, Joey tracks it down to an embarrassingly 90s club called The Boiler Room. There, she finds out that clubgoers are being fed into a pillar by some rich prick (Kevin Bernhardt) to sustain Pinhead (Doug Bradley) in an attempt to bring him and his legion of Cenobites back to the world. It's up to Joey to defeat the Cenobites and send them back to hell where they belong. . . or bring Hell on Earth.In what's obviously the most action-packed of the first three films of the Hellraiser series, Hell on Earth seems to take a turn more for the style of the stalk-and-kill-type slashers, regardless of 1992 being a dead year for the slasher subgenre. All four of the major slasher series (Freddy, Jason, Michael, Chucky) had already reached their break by this point, so it seems that Hellraiser was either too late on becoming a 'slasher'-type film. . . or they just wanted to become a way to fill the void. Either way, while it made for a faster-paced Hellraiser, it did not make for a better one. Now, I'm not saying it's a bad film, because it's not. . . just very mediocre (which is the worst type of film to me). It's an interesting film just to see a new look at the franchise and there's a nice amount of the classic Hellraiser violence, gore, & horror. . . but the painfully good tension of the first two Hellraiser is greatly lost in exchange for all of the action. I would suggest this to fans of the franchise as there's a good amount of Cenobite action and all. . . even though some of the Cenobites are ridiculously dumb (I'm sorry, but CD-head? Gasoline-martini man? C'mon now). But, it's definitely the worst of the first three (the only ones I've seen thus far, but I have IV sitting in front of me ready to be watched & reviewed). . . but it did keep me entertained and that at least allows it to have an average rating.Final verdict 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Fun sequel, that lacks what the first two had","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH (1992)starring Terry Farrell, Doug Bradley, Paula Marshall, Kevin Bernhardt, Ashley Laurence, Ken Carpenter.plot Reporter Joey (Terry Farrell), troubled teenager Terri (Paula Marshall) and playboy club owner J.P. (Kevin Bernhardt) are in danger from Pinhead (Doug Bradley) after he is resurrected from his purgatory. Meanwhile, Elliot Spencer's ghost contacts Joey in order to save him from his purgatory, and Pinhead sets out to create 'hell on earth' by creating new cenobites.the good The thing that kept me engaged the most was the characters. Joey and Terri had great chemistry and make a good example of true friendship, Doug Bradley is great as the evil Pinhead and the good Elliot Spencer, I loved to hate the selfish and cocky J.P. and Ashley Laurence has a cute cameo as Kirsty.It also had some fun action and great visuals from director Anthony Hickox.the bad Even though Doug Bradley was great as Pinhead, here he is missing what the other films have. The emphasis on how Pinhead is not evil. He does not run hell, he just works at it. He does what has to be done. Here he is just an unstoppable killing machine.I also hated Ken Carpenter as Doc, he is a horrible actor! "},{"Title":"Down the dark decades of your pain this will seem like heaven.  Disappointing third instalment.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser III Hell on Earth starts in a New York art galley where night club owning playboy J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt) buys an interesting & unique piece of art, a sculpture that contains the remains of Pinhead (Doug Bradley) the sadistic Cenobite from the original Hellriaser (1987) & Hellbound Hellraiser II (1988). Joey Summerskill (Terry Farrell) is a journalist on assignment reporting for a news program from an emergency ward in a Hospital where she is witness to a strange incident. A guy is rushed in with hooks attached to chains piercing his flesh, Joey looks on as the guy's head explodes. The guy was brought in with a girl named Terri (Paula Marshall) whom Joey locates & questions about the incident. Terri says that the guy stole a strange puzzle box from Monroe's sculpture & that's where the hooks came from, the sculpture is in Monroe's night club The Boiler Room. Joey is determined to find out the secret of the puzzle box & land herself a big story. Meanwhile Pinhead has convinced Monroe to bring him victims so that he may resurrect himself & raise hell on earth...Directed by Anthony Hickox this is the point where it's generally agreed the Hellraiser series became crap, while Hellraiser III Hell on Earth isn't really that bad it's nowhere near as good as it's illustrious predecessors. The script by Peter Atkins, who also makes an appearance as one of the new Cenobites, turns the series into the crappy horror franchise that it has become & tries as hard as it can to appeal to the American teenage market, ugh. For a start it makes a central character out of Pinhead, the previous films were never just about him, they were about an overall feel, creepiness & atmosphere & not revolving around a invulnerable horror character spouting lots of one-liners. The other Cenobites also disappoint, instead of the twisted grotesque design from the previous films Hellraiser III Hell on Earth turns them into a gimmick, from a bartender (writer Peter Atkins in a cameo) who uses his fire breath to ignite alcohol, a DJ (Brent Bolthouse) who has CD's implanted in his face & he uses them to throw at people (they must have razor edges or something) & Doc (Ken Carpenter) as the cameraman who has a camera stuck through his head, right. They come across as tacky & crowd pleasing. In the previous films the Cenobites were kept in the background, all mysterious & menacing while this time around they dominate & have little purpose. The films starts off a bit slow but things pick up at the end & it's not a bad watch but just comes a such a disappointment after the two originals which were two of the best horrors to come along in decades.Director Hickox has to take responsibility for ruining the series. The films set in New York, again to appeal to American audiences, he gives Pinhead's alter ego Elliot Spencer a large role & it all becomes supernatural & muddled. In the end Pinhead fights himself & it's just mundane. The other Cenobites are wasted, they use their 'special power' to kill someone & that's it. The puzzle box is almost completely forgotten & is no longer needed to summon the Cenobites. The dark atmosphere & tension present in the previous films is severely lacking & replaces them with explosions & silly novelty deaths. There are a few decent gore scenes, hooks embedded in flesh, exploding heads, severed limbs, skinless people, a hole on someones head, a melted hand & death by lethal CD's!Hellraiser III Hell on Earth had studio backing which is why it ended up so commercialised so it probably had a decent budget. The film looks nice throughout & has good production values. The acting didn't impress me.This is a disappointing film yet at the same time not a particularly bad one in it's own right. If you liked the first two for their originality, darkness & gore then I'm pretty sure that you will be very disappointed with Hellraiser III Hell on Earth like I was. Having said that I still think it's OK & worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Pinewood to Hollywood - A Step Too Far","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser III significantly ups the bar in production values compared to the 2 previous films. Actually filmed in America this time (the other 2 were shot in Britain although they were set in America), everything about Hellraiser III is bigger, grander and more spectacular than its predecessors.Apart from the story, that is. Although Clive Barker is an executive producer, his hand is noticeably absent from the screenplay. Bolted together by Peter Atkins and a hack who went on to work with the Power Rangers, the story loses a lot of its emotional appeal. The film focuses more on gore and spectacle than the original tale of obsession, love and loss, and is weaker as a result. Attempts are made to provide the heroine with an emotional back-story, but they descend into cliché by using that tired old I lost my father/brother/son/hamster in Vietnam plot device.I could tell that I wasn't engaging with the story when I noted the use of an old-fashioned wireless set as a way of initially communicating with the Pinhead Cenobite's original human persona. Captain Spencer is meant to have been a British army officer from WWI (1914-1918), but public radio broadcasting didn't start in Britain until 1922. Being able to nitpick like this when you've paid to watch something on the big screen is not the sign of a particularly good film.The idea of a Cenobite without any moral compass reduces Pinhead (A horror creation on a par with Dracula, in my opinion) to the same level as every other stereotypical celluloid purveyor of pointless cruelty and ultra-violence. Adding insult to injury, the closing credits are accompanied by some amorphous Goth-rock band belting out a track called Hellraiser. How imaginative. All the ambiguity, magic and mystery of the original films has been well and truly bled out by Hellraiser III. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Peter Atkins script, Anthony Hickox's film is a worthy successor to Clive Barker's flesh-ripping original. A good horror sequel , this is adult horror to die for.","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser III gives the series a much needed jump-start, following a great and classic original, and a strong first sequel. Unfortunately, the 'Female Cenobite' (mysteriously left unnamed), 'Chatterer,' and 'Butterball' are gone, but a series of about half a dozen new Cenobites keeps the hellish imagery alive. I think that one of the better elements of this instalment in the series is that they show all of the new Cenobites being created. In the anti-religious tradition of the Hellraiser series, some of Pinhead's antics in the church near the end of the film are great. When the priest holds up the cross to him, Pinhead melts it in his hand, and at the same time he utters an absolutely brilliant bit of dialogue, 'Thou shalt not bow down to any graven image.'After that, Pinhead's self-crucifixion scene was wonderfully sickening, yet his intentions in doing that were both clearly presented and morbidly farcical. Jesus was crucified, paying for man's sins, thereby saving mankind from damnation and becoming the subject of countless masses of people's unquestioning adoration, inspiring Pinhead to crucify himself and state that 'I am the way.' Therefor the underlining meaning is that Pinhead will sacrifice himself, paying for man to 'live' in sin. Utterly brilliant! Besides all that, I think that this instalment had some of the best death scenes of the series so far, particularly in the nightclub. Some of that was almost physically painful to watch, a sure sign of success for a horror film. Not only was that Boiler Room massacre convincingly portrayed, but writer Peter Atkins also had the excellent idea to have poor Terri walk through the masses of mutilated bodies after the massacre had ended. Pretty uplifting stuff, huh? A little too gory and bloody? Don't moan about that, it's not supposed to be good, clean, fun. This is a horror film, and by definition, horror films are supposed to be horrible. Hellraiser III achieves this horror better than either of the two that preceded it, finally leaving the viewer satisfied. With its bravura camera-work, fetishistic Cenobite designs, nerve-jangling soundtrack, and literate Peter Atkins script, Anthony Hickox's film is a worthy successor to Clive Barker's flesh-ripping original.Freed from the stone prison of the Pillar of Souls, Pinhead quickly dispatches decadent rock club owner JP Monroe. Hearing of JP's gruesome death, TV reporter Joey Summerskill sniffs a scoop, but what she finds is something more nightmarish Pinhead and his new purveyors of pain, Camerahead, CD and Barbie. "},{"Title":"Average sequel with some flair left","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an ok and entertaining movie.  Still I would have preferred another Kirsty adventure to explore the various concepts and ideas of Hellraiser 2 in more detail. The original two Hellraiser movies had more creative input from Clive Barker and also had a more British gothic feel.  This americanised approach to sequelitis gives us the usual yawn inducing jokes, lots of explosions and special effects overdrive that made the horror sequel (and most of the originals) so archaic and at times plain embarrasing in the late eighties and early nineties. However Hellraiser 3 still has a lot more to offer viewers looking for something darker or more thought provoking tan the average stalk 'n' slash sequel.  The nightclub owner, JP Monroe (character name) is a selfish hedonistic male slut who has sex with women and then doesn't want to know them.  But he is shocked initially, when he sees the fate of his latest conquest at the hands of Pinhead (still in statue form from the end of Hellraiser 2).  Thismakes his agreeing to procure more victims for Pinhead even more evil and it's good to see some sort of layering of evil at work.  Deep Space Nine's Terry Farrel is hardly in the Heather Langenkamp or Ashley Laurence school of intelligent and resourceful heroines but she is more than a few steps up from the Denise Richards school of bimbos. Character Terri (Paula Marshall) is pretty pathetic at times, but as she's probably been under the influence of creeps like JP Monroe her whole life, it is possible to sympathise to an extent and there is a nice twist to her victim role, when it's her time to feed Pinhead. Once Pinhead is freed from the statue there is some fun to be had with the nightclub massacre, the creation of new cenobites and the pursuit of Joey (Terry Farrel) who has what Pinhead needs but can't just take. The original Hellraiser score is as effective as ever and helps inject some mood into the early parts of the film and it also subtly foretells Terri's expected demise. Ultimately however, Pinhead has been reduced to camp bogeyman and to some extent it is your usual Hollywood gore sequel, but there is enough of a sombre tone carried over from the earlier Hellraiser movies to raise it above some of the garbage that horror fans were being fed at the time.  And at least it does develop (if not totally satisfactorily) the human origin of Pinhead from the previous sequel.  I'd say 3 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III...enjoyable but not the best.","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I rented this movie last Friday , me and my girlfriend watched it.I think it is not that well made as the other two hellraiser movies, but the other movies are more original and this one pinhead is like a Freddy Krueger..Jason killer.But it is so well made and interesting i loved when Joey walked through the window and came to the other room...So magical and scary.The main character makes the movie believable and real.I loved the scary dreams she had about her father,the were so touching.Very gory and good.People will identify a lot with one of the characters named Terry because the girl is starting her life and she is kinda lost like all of us were.Some scenes that you will enjoy is when she is being chased by the cenobites across the street and when the good side of pinhead talked to joey through the radio or the TV.I truly recommend this movie...not the best but still a movie all hellraiser fans will love. rated RSTRONG VIOLENCE,SEXUALITY AND LANGUAGE. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the Hellraiser series!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH is easily one of the series best entries! True this sequel really wasn't needed, much less necessary, since it's story was pretty much all told & finished with HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II, but what is here makes for a highly enjoyable entry. Many fans of the series have scoffed at this entry, since it is quiet different in tone & execution from that of the first two films, but I found the new direction in terms of it's story & execution to be a breath of fresh air & at least made it not only different than most sequels, done to popular horror franchises, but also thankfully refrains itself from merely treading the same old grounds as it's predecessors. What's interesting is how the film doesn't create new cenobites or new hells as one would have thought, another sequel might explore, especially since all the villains that populated the first two were all dead by HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II's end, but rather just expands on the originals story, relocating it from Britain to New York City (Although it is never explained why the forces of darkness chose this location, rather than staying where they were). The acting is strong here & the characters were well thought out & interesting. The major stand out is the character of J.P. MONROE, who bears a strong resemblance to the character of Frank in the first two films. A man who's sexual lusts knows no bounds, or can ever be satisfied & who is quiet a spiteful character (he even betrayed & murdered his own parents in order to obtain his vast wealth) in fact he even utters a line Frank uttered in the original film Come To Daddy as he tries to lure his naive teenage girlfriend into his clutches, to use her as a intended sacrifice to Pinhead. Speaking of Pinhead, he takes centre stage here & is shown quiet a bit, wherein the first two entries saw his appearances limned along with his followers. With the battle between him, Joey & Pinhead's good side, Elliot Spencer, being the centrepiece of the film, which makes HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH, a much more dualistic film than the previous entries. I really enjoyed Bradley's performance here, it's easily one of his best portrayals of Pinhead yet. You can tell he is really having a fun time in the role. He delivers his sadistic one liners with such unholy relish & sadistic glee that one almost considers it a shame, how badly his character was misused, in a series of increasingly mediocre sequels that were to follow. The direction by ANTHONY HICKOX is really good, as he is able to deliver several cool shots & captures the carnage that Pinhead & his cenobites unleash at all the right angles. The kills are cool & the gore is nice & plentiful & while Randy Miller's score is really good (We also get some of Christopher Young's musical cues from the first two films as well) a rock soundtrack mostly dominates the film, with MOTORHEADS HELLRAISER rock song being a nice fit (Rocker OZZY OSBOURNE also assists with some of the music). Another thing that a lot of fans didn't like was the Cenobite creations, calling them silly, I disagree, I thought how they were created was interesting, while it does disappointingly stray away from the chain embedded in flesh like creations of the first two, each cenobite is cleverly fashioned, based on their human indulgence & loves in life, such as a bartender who mixed & lit cocktails is turned into a fire breathing coenobite, a character who loved smoking has cigarettes lodged in her hands & throat, a cameraman has a camera turned weapon lodged in his head etc. The box itself here is no longer used as a key to enter into the dark beyond, but rather serves (this time) as more of a crucifix that would be used to ward off a vampire, as Pinhead seeks to destroy it, an act that will leave him free to terrorize mankind for all eternity. The film's budget is certainly bigger, not only is the picture slicker looking, but also featured plenty of good chase scenes & explosions. Thankfully the film doesn't make the mistake of it's predecessor, by humanizing Pinhead & going to deep into a back story. While does it does not ignore what happened in HELLBOUND HELLRAISER II, I consider it a feather in this film's cap, that it was able to take that idea (which I never liked by the way, I felt it cheapened the character & liked it best when in the original film, we assumed he was a demon that had guarded & walked up & down hell for centuries) & make it work.All in all, I highly recommend HELLRAISER III, not only does it expand on the HELLRAISER mytho's, it takes this entry in a much fresher direction & while that could so easily have spelled disaster for the film, the great news is, it doesn't hinder the franchise at all. HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH is just a fun, popcorn monster movie, delivering plenty of great stunts, carnage, fun characters, interesting villains & most of the series trademarks to make fans happy. ASHLEY LAURENCE has a cameo appearance as Kirsty. Followed by HELLRAISER BLOODLINE **** stars "},{"Title":"Haven't seen any of its predecessors, but this movie's pretty cool","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Though I haven't seen the original Hellraiser or its sequel Hellbound  Hellraiser 2 I can say this is fun, decent B-movie fare.  However, I'm not sure if this is one of those sequels that depends highly on the plight of its predecessors.  I saw the video in the discount bin and purchased it for $4.88.  What did I have to lose?  The special effects are awesome.  Doug Bradley is good as Pinhead.  The gorgeous Paula Marshall (who many probably remember as the interviewer who found out about Jerry and George's alleged gay secret on that great episode of Seinfeld) is also in it.  Man, man, man, is she hot!!  There are a few touches of humor.  All in all, good shallow entertainment and probably a delight for horror lovers. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Money the root of all evil","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although the first 2 were under budget and the SFX were very bad, they followed the original story.  Hellraiser and Hellbound were not about nail-biting edge of your seat gags and one-liners, it was about presenting a concept most people are exposed to but do not think of.  We are taught that Heaven is where we all want to go to, and Hell is bad, but what if it were switched and hell is what we strived for.  Barker was trying to make a twist on Puritian belifes as he feels trapped or banished from regular society as can also be seen in Nightbreed.  In Hellraiser, only those that make an attempt will be blessed with an experience beyond limits... pain and pleasure, indivisible.  It isn't about mass distruction and death, it is about people comming to terms with what awaits us after this world.Even on a tight budget the real hellraisers were successful, so a big company, Paramount, thought Why can't we make $$ off of this thing.  So this 3rd attempt had a larger budget and threw a bunch of special effects in, found some witty one-line writers, used Doug Bradley and the box, but never bothered to read anything Clive Barker did.  Just because Doug Bradley is Pinhead doesn't mean they know what they are doing.  They took a good story and made it into a generic slasher movie.  The cenobites didn't even have the corpse like blue skin signifying lack of blood.It started out OK, but in the middle they made some idiotic decisions Random people become cenobites (you have to strive to become a cenobite, Frank and Julia never were), these cenobites have CDs and cameras in their heads??!?! WHAT THE HELL??!?!If you like Nightmare on Elm Street and have no clue what the real Hellraiser stories (as in before the movies were even thought of, like in the comic books) this might be good for you, as it wasn't lacking in Hollywood fluff, but for anyone that knows who Grizlard was, this was a disapointing derailment of a good concept. "}{"Title":"OK","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is clear that by the third movie Pinhead was being refashioned as a new Freddy Kruegger or Jason or Michael Meyers, and that the series could not sustain the morbid atmosphere of the first two flicks. Hence, we have a much more commercial film, with an all-out monster showdown at the end and some new cenobites that seem to have come straight off of Elm Street. No harm, no foul. Entertaining in a highly mindless way. The women are all sexy in an early 90s way. Interestingly enough, HELLRAISER III is the only one of the series I own on tape. Don't ask me why. I probably picked it up for $3 somewhere. The series has since run out of gas and been consigned to straight-to-video. As big a fan as I am of horror films and franchises, I don't think I have seen the last two or three in this series. I am also still holding off on LEPRECHAUN IN THE HOOD. And PUPPETMASTER IN SPACE. I still can't believe I rented JASON X. My eyes still haven't recovered.  "},{"Title":"Pinhead he is undoubtedly the star of the show. it finally releases Pinhead into our world to cause Hell on Earth","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Doug Bradley is absolutely mesmerising in the role! He's sneering, charismatic, deceitful, manipulative yet playful with the character. The one thing he doesn't do is turn Pinhead into a parody like Freddy Krueger became in the later Elm Street movies. He expertly walks the line being a terrifying monster whilst delivering cutting one liners with confidence and not damaging the brand or heritage in the process.The movie finally releases Pinhead into our world which is a fascinating idea the embodiment of Hell being seen by the general population and not just someone who opens the lament configuration box.Hell on Earth (the series' first US production) would also mark the beginning of the Hellraiser's relationship with Dimension Films, as opposed to previous producers New World Pictures. Still a strong sequel both Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992) & Bloodline (1996) 'are exceptional sequels to the first 2 classics.8/10 'We'll tear your soul apart! "},{"Title":"Hell On Earth is not the movie many Hellraiser fans portray it to be. Pinhead brings Hell On Earth To New York","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Vilified by many as the beginning of the end as far as the Hellraiser series is concerned, Hellraiser III Hell On Earth is anything but.This film is what Hellbound Hellraiser II is to the original, a progression, a sense of a series in evolution. It continues what Hellbound began and doesn't hold back for one second. After Hellraiser we screamed for more Pinhead and his Cenobite army, and after Hellbound we again wanted more Pinhead and his return to the sequel; now Hell On Earth brings Pinhead back as well as increasing his much wanted screen time in a film which has more action than an Arnie/stallone movie! This is essentially what this movie boils down to, and why I like it so much, the action it has. From the increased chaos on the streets of New York to the complete carnage in a seedy Night Club, this installment has it. It has the quality that so many horror fans long for in their favourite horror movies, which most of the time they lack; action and a distinct amount of pace to go with it.Hellbound had its share of high-intensity scenes, however this film also has them and despite Hellbound and Hell On Earth not being a shade on Hellraiser in terms of imagery, visual impact, story and raw quality, Hell On Earth is a decent movie, which holds it's own as far as entertainment value is concerned. Like in its predecessor, Hell On Earth again takes Pinhead's character to new levels and we learn more still about what he is and who he used to be. Elliot Spencer, Pinhead's past self, actually comes into the story in a big way, giving us a most interesting film packed full of hair raising events and unusual but intriguing Cenobites to watch.Hell On Earth is not the movie many Hellraiser fans portray it to be. It is instead another positive accomplishment as far as a good sequel is concerned, so again I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Now for my personal favourite, Hellraiser III Hell on Earth.","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" think a Hellraiser movie should be about the Cenobites and that's what this movie does it finally releases Pinhead into our world which is a fascinating idea the embodiment of Hell being seen by the general population and not just someone who opens his forbidden box. If you haven't seen this movie yet you really should, this to me is a very competitive film as my favourite in the Hellraiser series.Hell on Earth is one of the most fun entries in the series. For fans who simply want to watch Pinhead and the Cenobites cause chaos on Earth, then director Anthony Hickox delivers on that front. Mythology is at the forefront here, An entertaining horror extravaganza. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III Hell on Earth  The film unfolds as intelligently as it can. Good Adult Horror","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Directed by Anthony Hickox and written by Peter Atkins, the film unfolds as intelligently as it can, under the circumstances. One piece de resistance has Pinhead dispatching every single patron of a crowded rock club, with weapons including flying, razor-sharp CD's. Another finds Joey, in one of the bizarre dream sequences that link this film to the Nightmare on Elm Street ethos, meeting Pinhead's nice-guy alter ego and being given the worst possible news that the gateway to hell is somewhere in her apartment.A horror film that starts off in an art gallery deserves at least a little credit for upward mobility. And Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is also commendable for helping to usher in the age of high-tech horror, with computer-generated special effects that bespeak a definite sophistication. That's not to say that a head isn't blown to bits 10 minutes into the story. But it does at least help make sense of this series and its considerable success.Pinhead's refined diction helps make him of interest to a more discerning audience, as does his way of expressing himself. There is a secret sound at the center of the world, and its sound is like razors through flesh, he tells the pert television reporter Joey Summerskill (Terry Farrell). I'm here to turn up the volume. At first encased in a statue that is purchased by the vain, greedy rock club owner J. P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt), Pinhead eventually breaks free and fights a couple of feisty heroines. Also in the film, along with the pretty and dauntless Ms. Farrell, is Paula Marshall, who looks and dresses like a junior Cher, and who knows her way around a pair of brass knuckles. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is an entertaining picture","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser III Hell on Earth takes place in the city streets, which are filled with apocalyptic imagery crashed cars, fire, explosions. With this moment, the series has transitioned from the small-scale, intimate horror of Barker's original film to a more expansive, apocalyptic vision of Hell on Earth (as the title of this second sequel suggests). The new Cenobites come complete with catchphrases ('That's a wrap', Doc/the cameraman Cenobite asserts after killing a number of police officers), and in retrospect it's easy to see why Hellraiser III Hell on Earth alienated some of the fans of the first two films, but it doesn't deserve the negative attention it deserves to be re evaluated and HellraiserBloodline.The climax of Hellraiser III Hell on Earth leads to a battle of wills between Spencer and Pinhead which employs some ugly-looking CGI morphing effects and might make the viewer think of the climactic 'mind battle' between telepathic brothers Darryl Revok (Michael Ironside) and Cameron Vale (Stephen Lack) in David Cronenberg's Scanners (1981). The film's final scenes contain what perhaps are some of its strongest ideas. After the threat represented by Pinhead and his Cenobites has been quashed, Joey wanders through the devastated city landscape and buries the Lament Configuration in some wet cement on a building site. Via a montage, we are shown a new building being constructed around the site where the puzzle box is buried &#x96; and outside this new building is a strange, esoteric statue, whilst inside the architectural style of the building has taken on the aesthetic of the puzzle box itself. There's a hint here of an exploration of the relationships between occultism and architecture &#x96; of the kind highlighted in the myths surrounding the architecture of Nicholas Hawksmoor. A classic film with an intriguing story ans good acting, it is well above the usual standards of the genre. "},{"Title":"Decent.","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The introduction of some corny-looking cenobites, liven this bleak film up just enough to call it decent. The plot for this film was rather uninteresting in the sense that no excessive action takes place. The idea of Pinhead and his gash being sent to Earth on a quest to take it over is a storyline that has been used for countless movies involving villains. I guess it would be safe to say that this film hardly compares to any of the other installments when it comes to the characters, and also the story itself. Easily one of the worst installments in a franchise that you'd think would be hard to tarnish. "},{"Title":"Departure From the Novel Leads To This...","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A reporter (Terry Farrell) is looking for the big story and finds it at The Boiler Room, a popular club where a young woman witnessed someone die in a very painful manner. Also, the reporter has dreams of her father, who died in Vietnam. And the origin of Pinhead! Some people consider this one the best in the series. I am not one of those people. While there are many great aspects of this movie, the primitive special effects seem to subtract from the overall story. And continuing in the Hellraiser tradition, many things simply do not make sense. Who opened the art store? Where did the statue come from? Why does the statue not attack JP at first, but will later on?As I say, the special effects are primitive. And I do not mind that, because at least they put in a solid offering. But some things just seem like they could have been done better. In Hellraiser parts 1 and 2, there was no problem creating a person without skin that looked creepy. We see another example in this film, but they also get slurped into a statue and this is very unconvincing. In 1992! The effects of the original Nightmare on Elm Street blow this out of the water. Others have complained about the cenobites looking like Borg rejects, and that is a fair point -- this film goes above and beyond in incorporating terrible ideas into cenobite bodies.Terry Farrell does a fine job as the lead. She is a strong heroine, and unlike your typical horror woman, she has more brains than body. You might recognize Farrell as a character from the greatest sitcom on television in recent years, Becker. The plot is respectable. There really was no more story to tell about the Cotton family at this point. Moving on to show what lengths evil will go to in order to return to Earth was a good change. And brought to us by Peter Atkins (also the writer of part 4) and Anthony Hickox (who directed the incredible Waxwork films).I do not care for the change in direction the films take from here, though, regarding the cenobites. I understand after explaining Pinhead's origin (something I am very thankful for) they opened the door for more cenobites, but this film and the fourth introduce some of the lamest characters with the lamest one-liners. The subplot of the father is okay, but also makes the Hellraiser mythology even more complex than it is... now we have Hell, Earth, the mind, who can and cannot touch the Lament Configuration... oy vey.Obviously when a horror series gets going, the sequels are not going to be what the original was. You get paler and paler copies of the original (like Multiplicity). But Hellraiser, unlike Leprechaun, at least kept the quality respectable through part four... and some (though not myself) would say even up to part six. Check this one out to clear up some mysteries, then catch part four to get the whole story. "},{"Title":"More cenobite silliness.","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The third entry in the Hellraiser series shows a distinct change in approach, aiming itself squarely at the teen market rather than at the 'serious horror fan'. Pinhead returns once again, dishing out pain and misery to all who cross his path. It is up to intrepid reporter Joey Summerskill (Terry Farrell) to try and send the spiky-bonced monster (and his legion of all-new 'cool' cenobites) back to Hell.Anthony Hickox, director of straight-to-video horrors such as Waxworks and SundownVampires in Retreat, eschews the rather serious and dark tone of Clive Barker's original movie, opting instead to go with a rather more accessible plot that itself takes a back seat to the special effects. This film is all about the visuals and Hickox loads the film with some very effective (and some not-so-quite effective) makeup and optical FX. And in true early-90s fashion, the action is accompanied by a pretty awful 'metal' soundtrack.Fans of the first two films may not like the new direction the film takes, but those who found Barker's vision rather too twisted in the first place won't be overly offended. I enjoyed the movie for what it was&#151;a big dollop of B-movie excess&#151;and in that respect, I think Hickox has done a pretty good job. It won't win any awards, but you'll have fun while it lasts. "},{"Title":"Pinhead...Freddy Krueger style!","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A lot of people badmouth this movie because it was different than the first 2. I Think it was better actually. I liked Pinhead in this movie, he seemed more alive. Also, new characters, which was a very nice change of things from the first two. We have a new storyline here as well, which is very well done and I think it outdoes that of the first 2 movies. We also get a new set of Cenobites here. They are very interesting, and a nice change of pace from the same 3 cenobites in the first 2 movies. Except the one new cenobite in the 2nd movie (won't mention name to prevent the use of spoilers). Fans of the Nightmare series will love this, and die-hard Pinhead fans will love this as well. There's something for everyone. I give this 9/10. Seriously, you will like it. "}{"Title":"Horror-ble movie","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser and Hellraiser 2 is SO much better. I've never been a fan of hellraiser until i saw the first one and the second was even better! I guess i shouldn't be surprised about a sequel to a sequel but so many people say this is there favorite movie and its so good. This movie is a huge piece of CRAP! There's a part where Pinhead is in a dance club about to kill a hundred or more people and pans over to a girl at a table, her drink floats out of her cup turns into the face of pinhead then freezes and stabs her in the mouth. This movie probably sounded really good on paper but it came out horribly. If you haven't seen any Hellraiser movie and want to give a shot do NOT start with this one i beg of you! p.s i got this movie for free and i still feel ripped off. "},{"Title":"New and Improved Cennobites!","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In the third installment of the Hellraiser series, we meet Joey (Terry Farrell), a reporter waiting for a good story to boost her career. She finds it in the ER when a guy is brought in, his body loaded with hooks. He gets literally ripped while the doctors are trying to save him. What is going on, she wonders. Her investigation leads her to Terri (Paula Marshall), who brought the guy to the ER. Seems she found the familiar puzzle box stuck in a stone pillar at her boyfriend J.P.'s (Kevin Bernhardt)club, The Boiler Room. What they don't know is that J.P. discovers Pinhead (Doug Bradley) encased in the pillar, and that he is giving Pinhead victims so he can be released.Joey finds out about Pinhead and about the man he used to be, Captain Spencer, who tells Joey that in order to release his soul and stop the bloodshed, Pinhead has to be sent back to Hell.Of course, this is easier said than done. Released from the pillar, Pinhead causes quite a stir in the club. When Joey gets to the club, she meets Pinhead and his new Cennobite Crew. She soon runs for her life, being chased around town by Camerahead (Her friend), CD the DJ(Using CD's in an ugly way), and Barbie Cennobite (Making nasty cocktails).This was a pretty good film in the series, and a cool new Cennobite crew. Nasty surprises throughout the film, and a great addition to the series. "},{"Title":"Hell used to be a better place","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked the first two Hellraiser movies, they had good ideas and good scary visual, but I did not like Hellraiser III. I think it was made at the beginning of the CGI (Computer Generated Graphics) effects fashion, but CGI was not yet prepared for a horror movie, at least not with their budget ) Props, make-up and even stop-motion would do a better job.Oh! And (sadly) there were the new kinds of cenobites. I did not watch this sequel to see what new cenobite would came up, I was expecting a good and clever horror movie like the other ones, but instead I got lame cenobites, bad CGI effects, badly used cliches and a weak story. Sometimes it seemed they were making a bad parody. I even did not want to see the following movies, afraid that they would make dislike the whole series. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Cheap looking sequel reduces the complicated Hellraiser and Pinhead legends into your standard Freddy and Jason cliches complete with teenagers running around in distress and discussing their so called problems in between.This time around Pinhead (Doug Bradley) and a TV news reporter (Terry Farrell) battle it out for possession over a box that can open the gates of hell and end the world as we know it. Not even Bradley's commanding presence can breath life into this.Unrated; Sexual Situations, Nudity, Extreme Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Turns the work of a visionary into a money-grubbing franchise","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In 1987, Clive Barker brought to the cinema screen a vision of horror and degradation that was tightly wound around a fascinating mythology of sadomasochistic demons from another world who questioned our own desire for the ultimate pleasure. It is no understatement to say Hellraiser changed horror, and its inspiration is still clear to see in modern horror, although none I've seen possess the ability to truly get under your skin (but thankfully not rip it apart) as Barker's film does. A franchise always beckoned and its first sequel, Hellbound, tried to develop its universe further but ended up a good-looking mess.Hell on Earth signalled the series' rapid decline in quality and imagination. Ambitious young reporter Joey Summerskill (Terry Farrell) is searching for that one big story to help project her career forward. While she wraps up a dull story at a hospital, a man covered in blood with metal chains protruding from his body held up by an unseen entity is rushed in, and is brutally ripped apart just as he is placed on the operating table. Knowing this could be her big break, she tracks down the woman who fled the hospital, Terri (Paula Marshall), and discovers her at a club ran by a slimeball named J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt), who has recently purchased a stone pillar possessing the trapped soul of Cenobite Pinhead (Doug Bradley).Hellbound, for all its flaws, at least attempted to further establish the mythology, giving us glimpses of Pinhead before he opened the lament configuration. Although Pinhead appears in his human form, dressed in World War I attire, we learn little about his history, and combined with the horror icon's inexplicable new found love of quips and shouting, Hell on Earth feels completely disconnected from the films that came before. It's also cheap- looking, in particular a scene which sees Joey fleeing from Pinhead and his fresh-out-the-oven new Cenobite recruits is badly edited, consisting of feeble explosions while the unconvincing Farrell screams repeatedly. Surely an embarrassment for Barker, Hell on Earth contorted the idea of a visionary into money-grubbing franchise. "},{"Title":"Underrated solid a decent best third sequel to the Hellraiser horror flick franchise - I love it!","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992) is my second favorite in the trilogy of Hellraisers. I know this film get's a lot of hate, I know it is not a classic, but I seriously love this movie to death, I never thought it was that bad. In my opinion Hellraiser III is very decent third good sequel that it is actually a real horror flick and it is not a fantasy like was the second movie. I still love this movie mainly because of actress Terry Farrell which she did of one her best acting performances as the main heroine reporter Joanne 'Joey' Summerskill. Terry Farrel did a TERRIFIC job as the main heroine in this film that I love to death. The film was filmed in New York which you can see the twin towers from here, we finally see Pinhead the leader of the Cenobites been an evil monster like he is, unlike he was a friend to Kirsty (Ashley Laurence). He wanted to destroyed the world and I loved that, I love that they show what the new Cenobites can do, they were killing people. I love the flashbacks and dreams sequences on a Vietnam war. I love Doug Bradley playing to characters one as Pinhead and the second one as Captain Elliot Spencer that reveals the story to Joey (Terry Farrell) to what happened with him. I also love that Ashley Laurence has a special appearance in here in a video cameo.Plot An investigative reporter must send the newly unbound Pinhead and his legions back to Hell.They should have ended the series with the trilogy, by this film, I don't care about the next sequels, I don't care about the Bloodline movie. I think Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is the last decent film in the franchise that I Love, I will definitely never watch Hellraiser Bloodline or any other Hellraiser movies I will only stick with this film.About the plot a reporter Joey Summerskill becomes a witness in a hospital of unusual death of a young man. So she try's to get a story behind it, so she finds the girl Terri (Paula Marshall) and she try's to help's her out, but the owner and her ex boyfriend J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt) rules her back in to his dark world, while try to sacrifice her, to the Pinhead statue, but that backfires at him. I love that Pinhead get's resurrected and he get's his army of cenobites back on this world. Joey is the only one that can defeats him and she does. I disagree with all the haters about this film, it is a great horror flick and it does have a happy ending. For the 90's this movie worked for me. Loads of excitement are gore all around. And a good story to boot. Doug Bradley was great playing both roles, and Pinhead was definitely a bad ass in this flick. I love Terry Farrell as the lead heroine in this flick.I think the speed of it is better than the others, and has a slasher feel. Pinhead lost to a cenobite in the second one, so it loses points for that to me. They made Pinhead into more of a monster here. It works. With the split and all it makes sense. The acting from all the cast is decent, the special effects are good and they aren't terribly. The story ark is good and the a action on the end of the movie is fantastic. I love that Joey runs in to a church while Pinhead was chasing her it was fantastic, when Pinhead re encounters a priest. This movie is really different horror film from the first two but it is still a decent! Director Anthony Hickox did a solid job as the director, he shot the camera perfectly. The Boiler Room Club massacre was also a great horror shot scene that I liked and I still love what the movie shows what other Cenobites can do, like they were using CD's for a blades and were cutting people awesome. I also love the night scenes when the final battle was showed.Overall This movie isn't the best or a classic like the first two were, but it is a solid and decent film to watch worth of a time. It is not boring it fast paced and well acted. I love this movie and mostly I love Terry Farrell in this flick I love her. Hellraiser III Hell on Earth get's a solid 10 by me.Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is a 1992 American-Canadian horror film and third installment in the Hellraiser series, directed by Anthony Hickox and starring Doug Bradley, Terry Farrell, Paula Marshall, and Kevin Bernhardt.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Dimension Films Starring Doug Bradley, Terry Farrell, Paula Marshall, Kevin Bernhardt Director Anthony Hickox Producers Christopher Figg, Lawrence Mortorff, Clive Barker Screenplay Peter Atkins, Tony Randel Based on characters by Clive Barker Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 33 Mins. Budget $5,000,000 Box Office $12,525,537 "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III Hell On Earth","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The third instalment of the Hellraiser franchise begins with a reporter the big story continues to elude until one night at the hospital she witnesses something supernatural and inexplicable. The mischievous cube has returned and is wreaking havoc. Then one of the creatures behind it offers a character named JP the chance to join up with it; at first JP is reluctant, he lures girls into his inner sanctum with flattery, and once he has had his way with his conquest of the night, gives her her marching orders. He may be a jerk of the first order, but murder for pleasure is not his style, even though the entity reminds him he murdered his own parents!JP agrees to go along with it but the partnership doesn't last long because after he tries to feed his next conquest to it, she punches him out with a knuckle dustered fist, and takes his place. After that it all gets a bit confusing, as if it hadn't been already, but if you like gore, special effects and pyrotechnics, you should find something in the last twenty minutes or so of interest, and if you like the type of music one usually associates with films of this nature, you might like the soundtrack too, especially the title song by Motörhead. "},{"Title":"Part 3 is scarier then the first 2","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first two Hell raiser movies are very scary. But the third one is scarier. This is very scary. I can think of scarier. The fourth Hell raiser movie Hell raiser the blood line is scarier. But still this very scary. It is one of the scariest movies made before 1996. This movie as great acting. It also has a great story line. It also has great special effects. This movie is very intense. If you like scarier movie then you need to see this movie. The fifth one Hell raiser inferno is pooh pooh. The sixth Hell raiser movie Hell raiser hell seeker is also pooh pooh. Hell raiser deader which is the seventh Hell raiser movie is also pooh pooh. But not this one. This one is a most see. "},{"Title":"Panic at the disco....","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Reporter Joey Summerskill learns about the notorious puzzle box, the unbearable pain it can bring, and Pinhead, after seeing a young clubber get ripped apart by the box's chains. She tracks the box and a woman named Terri down to a club called the Boiler Room, owned by playboy J.P., who feeds Pinhead, trapped in a marble pillar, blood from club members so he can escape. As time runs out, Joey must think of a way to bring Pinhead and his Cenobites back to the realm of Pinhead's human self or succumb to an eternity of pain and suffering......Seeing the third installment as a fifteen year old teenager was, ironically, heaven. The make up was brilliant, it was all blood and gore, and the music was loud.Seeing it twenty years later, the make up is still great, the blood and gore covers up the obviously bonkers plot, and it's blooming loud. Sometimes so loud you cannot hear the bad script, but you can still see the poor CGI.The Hellraiser franchise has always been an oddity. Obviously Barker never intended Pin- head to be referenced as much as Freddy or Jason, he wasn't even a main character in the series until this movie, and this is where the series went down the wrong alley.The director is notorious for making goofy films. Look at the Waxwork movies, and the second Warlock, enjoyable but throwaway fluff.The Hellraiser films where supposed to be serious Gothic horrors, and thanks to this, we get a video camera faced man walking round shouting stuff like close up.It's not bad by any means, but imagine how many must have felt when the franchise basically sold out? "},{"Title":"Just a slasher","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If the franchise would have ended with the 2nd part, then there already would have been too many films, but the 3rd part is even more out there. Barker must have thought that too, 'cause after Anthony Hickox's 3rd part Barker jumped ship and back away from the whole thing (even if he was only just the executive producer on this one already) So he didn't have much to do with the story and he didn't hide that fact or the fact that he wasn't too pleased with the sequels. Hellraiser III made the biggest mistake it could make. It lowered Pinhead to the level of all the other baddies, he only differed from any other typical killer by looking better and having a few good one liners. So they successfully made a slasher movie out of the series. Pinhead is stuck in a block after the Big Confrontation in Hellbound, The block containing Pinhead and the puzzle cube is bought by a young playboy as an art piece. Pinhead busies himself escaping by getting the playboy to lure victims to his presence so he can use their blood. Once free, he seeks to destroy the puzzle cube so he need never return to Hell, but a female reporter is investigating the grisly murders thus standing in his way. After the pointlessly dragged out beginning (you have to wait till almost half the film for Pinhead to escape) he is ridiculously quiet and spends the rest of the film running from the other Cenobits with the cube in his hand. Barker's pain and pleasure theme is gone, in its place we get the very original we have to stop the bad guy before he releases chaos onto the world theme. After the first film that's totally of logic. The makers must have wanted us to just forget that he was neither evil nor the bringer of chaos before. So this part brings to fruition what Hellbound started in other words stripping it of meaning. Then with no original concept it just adds itself to all the other stupid, pointless horror sequels. This also meant that the terrifying Pinhead becomes someone who chases a woman how? by walking menacingly slowly behind her! He becomes a supernatural baddie in a slasher movie, who kills without discretion or reason anyone who gets close just not the one he should be killing. And the Cenobits who are made from his victims are just plain lame. The killings at the disco that were promising in the beginning of the scene quickly turns to something with which it's easy to see that the whole film should have landed in the garbage. In the bloodcurdling calm Pinheads place we got a hysterically laughing, over emoting Freddy clone. In place of the weighty, brutal atmosphere we got a silly, cartoon parody of itself kills just to shock viewers. So even the gore doesn't end up meaning too much. All in all the only thing positive that can be said about Hell on Earth is Pinhead's awesome church scene. And its true, if you forget there was a first part, that it's a perfect slasher film. 5/10 https//www.youtube.com/user/Videodromeblog "}{"Title":"More Pinhead less imagination","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched all the Hellraisors together in one day and have to say loved them all. Hell on earth was very different from the other two ,somthing that Buffy the Vampire slayer were inspired by, it can be placed in a different genre.More mess ,more blood,more people but less effort , which have obviously put off all the fans.For me the main pleasure was to see more of Pinhead and enjoy his presence but in return we loose all of those beautiful creepy Hitchcock moments, imaginative atmosphere of hell , the endless labyrinth and the mysterious mythology and of course powerful female character Julia , the queen of Hell. The female character Joey doesn't bring anything to the film the mass murdering scenes are just simply brutal and stupid but fun to watch . and end chase is just sad and silly but the transformed bartender and camera man are great.basically if you replace the pinhead with something else it would simply be unwatchable. but hey , its just another chapter,just Pinhead being adventurous for a change. "},{"Title":"Human dreams...such fertile ground for the seeds of torment.","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is a guilty pleasure of mine. It just has an entirely different feel to it that separates itself from the first two. It's more of a slasher flick than a Hellraiser film in my opinion. Even though Clive Barker is still producing, Pete Atkins is still writing, and Bob Keen is still handling effects, many things have changed to make it different. I believe the main thing is the change of locales; from England to North Carolina. It really has a big effect on the overall feel of the movie. And of course the director's own stylistic approach changes the tone. I don't know how Tony Randel captured Barker's sense of style so well in Hellraiser II. Anthony Hickox (one of my favorite unsung horror directors) is at the helm this time and brings his own sensibilities to the movie. There's nothing whatsoever wrong with that, it just has a bit of campy humor lurking beneath the surface. It's not as classy as the other pictures is what I'm trying to say. Peter Atkins still writes great dialogue though; dialogue that only a slightly smarmy, aristocratic villain could deliver. He's at his best writing for monsters who are almost regal (like Pinhead and the Djinn). And Doug Bradley presents said dialogue relishing every evil remark. Bradley finally gets top billing this time around and some sizable screen time outside of the Pinhead make-up. We get more on the Elliot Spencer backstory that was brought up briefly in Hellbound. You have to dig Doug Bradley. You have to love someone who loves their work. And he absolutely adores playing Pinhead. So much so that he felt rage and jealousy upon seeing a stand-in with his costume on. How great is that? He's really quite possessed with the character and he is the only one who can ever play it (much like Robert Englund and Freddy Krueger). Terry Farrell is fine in the lead and Hickox regular Paula Marshall is quite good as well. Watch for Ashley Lawrence in a cameo as well. Blink and you might miss her (a big disappointment for me). As I mentioned earlier I feel that one downfall is the campy elements, the new Cenobites in particular. They include Barbie (played by writer Atkins, which is pretty cool) who makes gasoline cocktails, Camerahead is pretty self-explanatory, and CD who was a DJ that throws CD's at his victims. The Camerahead Cenobite delivers lines such as That's a wrap! and Are you ready for your close-up? It just seems a bit misplaced. Though as Pinhead proclaims they are shadows of his former minions. The second downfall is the absence of the Christopher Young score. I feel that his Hellraiser score is one of the best in horror history. It's a shame they couldn't utilize it a bit more in this picture. The effects are still wonderful though. The first time you see Pinhead emerge from the pillar (where we left him at the end of part II) is quite shocking and unexpected. That scene blew me away when I was younger. Also, the club massacre scene is something to behold. You can see some influence from this sequence in the party massacre scene in Wishmaster (which Atkins also wrote). The money shot of the film is just after Pinhead breaks free from the pillar and the camera pushes in to reveal him as he beckons Marshall's character forth. Sadly, the rest of the sequels throw continuity out the window so this is the last of the trilogy. Watch for Armored Saint performing in the club scenes and a cameo by Hickox himself in a dream sequence.Note for genre buffs Clive Barker directed Motorhead's video for the song Hellraiser. Unfortunately it is not featured on the DVD. Also keep a sharp eye out for Waxwork's Zach Galligan. "},{"Title":"Pinhead meets Freddy.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With that `clever' subtitle, how could this film suck? Enter the mistake all horror films with on screen villains make because the heroine dies and/or moves on to other projects, the villain moves to the spotlight.  This is an even more fatal blow to Hellraiser because Pinhead never was meant to be in the spotlight, have too many lines, and this series was not meant to be a slasher. Ooh, I know, since Hellbound Hellraiser II made the mistake of pulling off a tolerable explanation let's correct that mistake and explain it to death!  Let's go into more detail about pinhead and the box and set us up for Hellraiser Bloodline with 90 minutes of backstory and no story for itself!I really don't have much else to say and don't think I need to say much else.  Ashley Lawrence isn't the only one abandoning ship on this one (no, the 10 second cameo doesn't count), Chris Young also disappears on us.  The concepts of the first two films go away, and we have Pinhead moving to Elm Street with his band of  `clever' new cenobites.  This is hardly an ambitious move for any horror franchise, especially for Hellraiser.  I mean, don't we have enough ominous unstoppable killing machines wandering around the horror aisles at your local rental place?  At least Jeepers Creepers did some things differently.All the latter Hellraisers get points for ambition.  #3 is just mediocre slasher with Cenobites and a box.  It's not necessarily the worst in the series, but damn it's the most boring . . . "},{"Title":" We'll tear the Earth apart","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Kevin Bernhardt is pretentious as J.P. in this eager horror farce. The remaining cast is exceptional. The costumes are sophisticated. One of the fair movies in the genre, Hellraiser 3 Hell On Earth offers meaningless horrors. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I'm indifferent on this one","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok. While I must admit I really really enjoyed this movie and probably enjoyed it most of all from the Hellraiser series from a visual standpoint, I can't really say I am going to give it a good review. Why you may ask? This one should have been the one to reveal Pinhead's past. How he got to be what he is....etc. He just kind of up and goes to earth through a statue and this is were the creepy storylines from the first one go sour really. It doesn't really have anything to do with the others. What's up with that woman's flashbacks of her father in the war. I can't remember very well but does it even explain that and it's connection to Pinhead? I don't think it did. Pinhead was never meant to be a slasher icon or anything like that....horror icon...maybe...not slasher but this movie becomes a slasher in the end and that changes Pinhead a little too much. So in the end...I find this movie to be eye candy and fun in that slasher feel....but not in the Hellraiser feel. "},{"Title":"pinhead is back!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It seemed that Pinhead had joined with Freddy and Jason, to become a caricture of hiself from the previous films..but over all a fair movie..great effects and a good budget..directed by a good director.Anthony Hickox knows the horror genere real well. But its not as good as his Waxworks. Terry Farrell and Paula Marshall are beatiful actresses..so its a feast on the eyes there.. "},{"Title":"*sigh* they had to think we were stupid...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK, this movie shows incredible potential.  But to those who have followed the original movie and read the book (The Hellbound Heart by Clive Barker) this movie seems totally confused.I guess I had thought that if a Hollywood movie house took over the rights to the doom-gloom angst-ridden, totally atmospheric movie 'Hellraiser' they would have wanted to expand on and continue the theme.  Wrong. Hellraiser was conceived of as a description of the personal hell that one creates for themselves by doing the evil that people can't seem to help doing.  In a way this is at odds with some Christian ideas (one Hell fits all, perhaps). I don't know, as I don't really follow theology as such.So what is wrong with Hellraiser 3?  Well, Hellraiser 2 finished with the Cenobites of the original DEAD/KILLED/DESTROYED (or whatever) by the Chanard Cenobite (this is probably due to the fact that halfway through filming the original Hellraiser 2 idea, Kirsty's father (Andrew Robinson) dropped out and the story had to be changed suddenly).  Fair enough, perhaps all that meant was that they were trapped in the WOODEN block from the first two movies.. which somehow becomes a STONE pillar in the third.OK, so not looking good to start with.  However, the first half of this movie travels fairly well (Terry Farrell is great as the annoying American would-be TV journalist with some charisma-that-hasn't-yet-been-erased-by-cosmetic-surgery - admittedly rare for American TV presenters).  The other characters fill their roles with precisely the correct methods for their personalities; but the film does not add up to the sum of its parts.  I think this is mainly because it is over-complexified why do we even bother with the scenes of Elliot Spencer (Pinhead's ghost) trying to encourage Joey to bring Pinhead to him, or to her, or whatever the mumbo-jumbo is about; how is it that so many new Cenobites are created from the innocent bystanders?  (Cenobites are not created in generality - otherwise Julia and Frank of I and II would have been transformed, and so on).  Also recall it is desire that calls us, not hands or whatever -- the characters of the cameraman and others were hardly destined to become new Cenobites.  But somehow the crap director thought it was necessary to turn Hellraiser into A Nightmare on Elm Street part 2 (which similarly squashed the good ideas in the series and replaced the scary monster Krueger with some useless dummy Krueger which was totally unbelievable and not slightly scary).A recipe for fixing this movie would simply be to remove the garbage about Elliot completely (sorry Doug, but that was poor scripting, even though you performed the part perfectly).  Replace the entire sequence of the Nightclub killing and ending with a remastered, more intense thrill that does not stoop to American-levels of gore, but reminds us that the Cenobites are what we call for ourselves, through OPENING THE LAMENT CONFIGURATION, into our own realities.  (*phew* can't wait to see the outtakes for this movie if ever Anchor Bay remaster it for DVD.) "},{"Title":"good effects, lots of gore, a weak plot and mediocre acting.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  why they didn't stop after the second movie is beyond me, but credit should be given to writer/director Anthony Hickox for trying to take the series into a different direction.pinhead gets a lot more screen time and has become a wisecracker of sorts. the cenobites from the first 2 films have been forgotten and a whole new group has been created for this film. the plot is really weak so the thing that carries this movie is the once again well done gore effects. the unrated version contains a lot more gore than the R version, especially  the club massacre scene.as with every Anthony Hickox movie (he's the guy behind the Warlock series) the acting ranges from okay to borderline sleepwalking. BUT the focus of this movie is Pinhead and actor Doug Bradley does a good job once again.strictly average at best and only worth renting for the effects and gore.rating5 (unrated version)  "},{"Title":"Third Best of the Four?","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker's 'Hellraiser' and 'Hellraiser II' are fantasticslices of gory comic-book horror, whose power lies in theconvincing mythology they create and the menace of the box andthe cenobites. The third outing, subtitled 'Hell on Earth' lacksa lot of the mood which made the first two installments soeffective, and instead goes for a more commercial routeresembling Craven's Nightmare on Elm Street series. Uneven andsometimes plodding in its pacing and structure, III nonethelessdelivers its share of shocks and gross-outs, and sticks closeenough to the storyline of the original to make it a worthwhilesequel. The new cenobites are a bit dumb, yes. And the churchscene was absolutely unnecessary, and ruins one of the mostoriginal aspects of the first two. That being how they don'trely on established religious symbolism for their depiction ofevil, and therefore sidestep comparisons to The Exorcist etal. But dime-store theology and characters without common senseaside, Hellraiser III still exceeds your usual horror movie PartIII and even your usual horror movie for that matter with it'sinventive and unflinching depictions of the avenging angel,Pinhead, extracting his pleasure from the pain, fear, andsuffering of the innocent. Just beware Part IV, 'Bloodline'. Thelaw of diminishing returns finally hits.                                 "},{"Title":"Not that terrible, but not that good...","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From the bowels of Hell and beyond came the cenobites, a race of demons devoted to pleasure through pain.... creatures who feel orgasmic pleasure through the horrific mutilation of their own flesh and other's... Gothic nightmares of terrifying proportions...That's in the first two Hellraisers. In this one we get a guy with a camera lens for an eye and a guy that shoots CDs at people. Um, what happened?This movie isn't that lame- Terry Farrel is an okay actress, although more suited to the confines of television- and Doug Bradly is very, very good at Pinhead, although I didn't really care for the story line that made him the villain trying to come into our world or whatever, like Freddy Krueger or some damn thing. That didn't work.My favorite scene is where Pinhead is massacring all the people in the club. I wish that that scene went on for twenty minutes, ala Dead Alive, but this is a corporate-backed American sequel, so something of that caliber would never happen.Anyway, not unwatchable (like say, Friday the 13th part 8 or Halloween H20) but not as good as Hellraiser 2, which I loved.Oh, and by the way, the guy playing the bartender also wrote Wishmaster, so maybe he deserved his fate at Pinhead's hands... "}{"Title":"Very Freaky...I Like It...!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've seen all Hellraiser movies,i have Hellraiser 3 right here in my VCR,i've watched it and thought that it was very well done. Clive proves for the third (and not last) time that he's the king of horror,this film is better than the original,i love the nightclub scene,its really freaky,but enjoying in many ways,one thing the lagged in the movie was the acting,the girl (don't know her name) runs inside the church from demons (of which i would commit suicide right away from)suddenly they come in the door,and right in front of their face she just says Then what the f*ck is that?I mean duh!The acting was poor,but the film wasn't lousy and pretty enjoying.7.3 out of 10  B "},{"Title":"what the hell happened on earth?","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" i hate this film with a passion, it's easily the worst theatrical hellraiser film. i love first two films and even the fourth film Bloodline, hoping the third film will be at least entertaining but nope, it was dreadful to watch after the first watch. i don't really think clive barker or the screenwriter peter atkins really care at this point, since around that time they lost creative control over the production and the franchise. it's americanized, changed in tone and direction (directed by the b-movie stinker anthony hickox) turned into something hellraiser should have never been a really pointless slasher film. why!?first let's start with the positives j.p. monroe (kevin brendardt) is a likable love-to-hate villain, the barb wired cenobite design is pretty cool, Pinhead (doug bradly) is great as usual and he's the highlight of the film with his awesome lines of dialogue. also pinhead's back story is the only decent part of the whole film. the film has pretty good production values but not as impressive as Hellbound. it has it's moments but it can't save the film from his really bad points. the negatives the main plot sucks, gives very little to the series, ignoring it's own rules with the puzzle box and it's mythology, joey (terry farrel) is a terrible replacement for kirsty cotton, she's your'e typical boring horror chick with more looks then personality, and not to mention her acting is awful. the direction by anthony hickox also hurts the film aiming more towards a Freddy Kruger film with pinhead, with less suspense, too much horror cliché's, very cheesy and sometimes very stupid dialogue. i can't take anything in this film seriously, the cenobites are badly designed and laughable (with the exception of the barb wired cenobite), then there was the boiler room nightclub, this ruined the film for me. why half of the plot takes place in a night club with horrible rock music and extras that are clearly gonna die!!!, why not take place in a museum or ancient temple where the main plot makes more sense!. just go see Hellraiser Bloodline instead it's returns to it's roots, more satisfying and closer to the original two then this piece of crap. "},{"Title":"What began in Hell, will end on Earth...","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Joey Summerskill is an ambitious TV reporter whose life is changed forever when she witnesses the horrific death of a tormented teenage boy, torn apart by chains. Determined to find the truth behind this gruesome event, she discovers the lament Configuration Box which opens the door to the Cenobites' demonic world of pleasure and pain. Once again Pinhead walks the earth, creating a new army of Cenobites from the transmuted flesh of his victims and his one desire is to reclaim the box and free himself from the powers of hell.This film starred Terry Farrell, Doug Bradley & Kevin Bernhardt.Hellraiser 3 is not the worst from the first 5 Hellraiser films I have seen, because number 4 is. However this one isn't great. The plot was good and if executed well I think this could have been a good movie, however some of the scenes in this movie were sloppy and wrong. I liked the idea of the soldier who became Pinhead finding Joey and telling him to lead Pinhead to him were he has power, but again this was a scene that I found kind of messed up and not living up to it's potential. Not really recommended but watch if you want to complete the trilogy because the sequels that follow this one are a waste of time and cheap sin offs.*/***** Very poor. "},{"Title":"Taking hell out onto the street, in don't midjudge violence quota third installment","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love the Hellraiser movies. Pinheads's facial features are spellbinding with the voice of a man, I'd feel hesitant about meeting. Though this third installment, does show signs of wearing, it still packs quite a punch, where it seems to have eased up on the violence some, that's if comparing it to number 2 which was all out, in vast supply. There is still a bloody lot of gore, but it's not as graphic like in it's predecessor. (chains have never looked more scary) This Hellraiser is remotely different from the other two. This one's more modern, if with a wooden plot tacked on around the gore, what have you. Here Pinhead has escaped. His box has ended up in this statuette that this young gigolo, nightclub owner, JJ ,has bought. So we know what is to ensue. The p..sed off girlfriend, (Paula Marshall) ends up at this female journalist's place, investigating this big story, where soon it's them against the forces of evil with Pinhead taking it out onto the street in an explosive finale. Hellraiser fans will still like this one, where others there will be varied opinions. We have a nice little sex too with rose giving JJ, before the sweet little thing becomes Pinheads, and JJ's mouth is agape with shock. "},{"Title":"Beginning to lack charm","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Clive Barker's Hellraiser (1987) is considered by many to be one of the most unique horror films of the late 80's. What emphasized those opinions were gruesome images along with its Gothic tone. A year later, New World Pictures released Hellraiser II Hellbound (1988) and although it wasn't as critically praised, it still resonated with many fans. I found it enjoyable but the writing was much weaker than I had expected it to be. Then, jump four years later and we get Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992), which to many just didn't satisfy and bordered on the edge of really bad. The sad thing is that, it is bad, even with the few good things it has going for it.The plot is about a down on their luck news reporter, Joey (Terry Farrell), who can't find a decent story to save her career. That is, until she comes into contact with the lament configuration after watching a hospital patient's head explode. Amazingly after being okay with such a traumatizing experience, this intrigues her more to find out what this tiny puzzle box is all about. To do this, she digs into the past using archives from Dr. Channard's mental asylum and interview footage of Kirsty Cotton. It is also explained to why Pinhead is back in this movie because in the movie before, he was killed off. This is one of the better parts, at least when it comes to the back-story and continuity. Peter Atkins, the same writer of Hellraiser II Hellbound (1988), wrote the screenplay. I'll admit, it's very much appreciated that Atkins' is keeping the continuity straight. If that wasn't at least on track, my rating would probably be lower. But even so, Atkins' ability to give explanations to why this mystical puzzle box decides to make various humans cenobites, and others not, makes no sense. Is it just by random chance? The cast on the other hand is another bowl of mixed nuts. It's great to see that the casting department had Ashley Laurence come back for a small cameo in the asylum footage and of course Doug Bradley as Pinhead himself. That was great, but the main lead, Terry Farrell wasn't. Farrell just didn't make her character come off as a strong female lead, no matter how many times one says Go to hell!.Unfortunately, dialog is another problem. I don't know what Atkins was thinking when it came to dialog, but almost every character here (and maybe even a little bit of Doug Bradley's lines) all have this sarcastic if not watered down dialog that makes them sound like these lines were written for a bad comedy. The Hellraiser franchise is not a comedy, not even a dark comedy, so why are characters making bad puns or being overly sarcastic? Even some of the new cenobites have corny dialog. For example, any female besides Joey (Farrell) wasn't that smart in speech or actions. What's up with that? It wasn't necessary then and it isn't now.Let's not forget though, this is a horror franchise so there will be plenty of death, blood and ugly images. And for those who wish to see that, yes, you will get your eye full worth without a doubt. But, if you're the viewer looking for the same kind of tone and chills you felt from Hellraiser (1987), it won't be found here. Even more surprising is how absent Randy Miller's score to the film was. I was actually impressed with his work from both Darkman II The Return of Durant (1995) and Darkman III Die Darkman Die (1996) because he not only made sure he stuck to the original theme, but added some unique tracks to them as well. Here however, right from the intro credits is Christopher Young's music! It's not to say Miller didn't provide anything, because I know there were tunes in there I never heard before but it seemed like most of the music was just recycled and edited. It's sad when a composer comes off as sounding lazy &#x96; especially if they aren't that bad to begin with. It's not to say this movie doesn't pull through, but its original tone and atmosphere of the picture no longer exists which makes it depressing that a franchise so likable is beginning to lose its charm. It's beginning to get to a point where the only reason why someone would want to watch this is for Pinhead alone. But Doug Bradley can't carry this picture by himself. Otherwise it would've worked from the first installment.The third entry is much lighter in atmosphere and doesn't carry itself the way the first two did. The continuity is thankfully kept in order but the dialog isn't too clever and the only real character that's worth a watch is Pinhead himself. "},{"Title":"Bloody sequel let down horrendous acting and script","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" seen once before, one scene as always stood out to in this movie, scene when girl skin torn of her body in the movie. (I enjoyed that scene) The plot was little confusing at first with a the whole dream angle of the movie, (It makes sense at the end of the movie) , some parts of the movie, I felt like i missed something long the away,This is a lot gory then second movie, which I did enjoyed nasty gory bloody scenes,What bring this movie down is really horrendous acting from the whole cast and half the things they say don''t fit in with scene that just happens, scripts was really bad. One scenes that really cracked me was . The Priest. Demons aren't real. They're parables, metaphors. Joey, as the doors open and Pinhead enters Then what the BEEP is that? I have no idea, what meaning of the last scene meant. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What the...???","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This move was a HUGE disappointment. Even hell has rules, but none of the rules established in I and II were continued into the third installment of this movie. For instance, only those individuals with the right desires (such as carnal, sadism, etc.)and who managed to open the box were taken by the Cenobites into hell. Innocents were not to be touched. However, in this movie, Pinhead kills dozens of innocent people who never touched the box, and several of those victims were turned into Cenobites who later go after the heroine. Huh???? Even Frank and Julia were not turned into Cenobites and they were both evil! This movie was not worth the time I spent watching it. "},{"Title":"The first mainstream Hellraiser film does well enough while leaving some key things behind","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What made Hellraiser one and two brilliant besides the direct hand that Clive Barker had in it was the special effects. They were low budget films that they went out of their way to create this incredible fantasy world with well made special effects that drew you into their world and created this twisted fantasy world. When a film doesn't have a huge backing or Hollywood money I think the film makers get to do more creatively and have to work with less and that is what can make or break an indie film especially a horror indie film. So enter Hellraiser 3 which you can absolutely tell was the film where they started to get Hollywood money. The special effects are a little less realistic and more computer generated. The story is a little more mainstream and same with the characters. Sadly we also lose the main character of Kirsty Cotton who was the Hellraiser scream queen from one and two although fortunately she is shown in a small segment to help move the story along. Hellraiser 3 isn't bad and it still keeps the continuity going which is great but I felt like it sort of trivialized Pinhead and made him the joke rather than the evil killer.Kevin Bernhardt is the sleazy club owner who is sucked into Pinhead's evil world of lust and pain. His character is vapid and emotionless and basically just there to be the evil human villain which I suppose he accomplishes. Terry Farrell is our new heroine and she does well as the strong headstrong reporter. Her connection to Pinhead's character works well and the investigation she does carries the story well. Paula Marshall is decent as the lost homeless girl being used and abused by Bernhardt's character. Marshall and Farrell have good chemistry together and I think are underused as a team. Of course Doug Bradley returns to his signature role as Pinhead and his real life counterpart Elliot Spencer. Bradley embodies Pinhead and is certainly a horror master in character. I cannot imagine anyone else playing Pinhead. The voice, his behaviour and the entire character is twisted and disturbing even though Hellraiser 3 made him seem a little less mysterious and evil and more mainstream.One of the highlights of the film and perhaps some might think as a stumble is the addition of the creative, twisted, and almost humorous 'new' cennobites created by the puzzle box. Camerahead (played by Ken Carpenter) who also plays Farrell's human camera man before being turned, CD the DJ (my favourite as he has some incredibly gory kills with flashy saw like CD's), and Barbie Cennobite (a bartender turned killer). The climatic scene of the three cennobites attacking civilians in the street is without a doubt a cool scene although as mentioned very Hollywood. But for me it did not ruin the film, it simply made it a little more mainstream. It didn't hold the true level of fear and mystery and gore that the first two films did. Director Anthony Hickox started with some truly great really bad B-Movie horror films so this was right up his alley at the time but he definitely slipped into just straight up bad B-Movies which is unfortunate because I do see some talent here. If you're a true Hellraiser fan obviously this one might offend your senses but for a third instalment and as a huge horror buff I didn't mind this one bit. It was worthy albeit different than the previous ones. The series may be stepping downwards but its a slow stepping so not so bad. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Certainly not a bad movie, But sub par compared to the first two.","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser 1 was a masterpiece. It turned out to be one of the best horror movies of the 80's (which was a good time for horror if you ask me) maybe even of all time. it was well paced, creepy, and strangely moving. Hellraiser 2 was also a fantastic film. it was one of the very few sequels that are actually as good or better than the original. (this and wayne's world 2). Hellraiser 3... well,it was pretty good. the big problem here was that rather than making him the emotionless figure of pure evil like the first two he was turned into just another bad guy in another horror movie. basically hell on earth was campier, bloodier, trashier, and much more mindless than it's predeccesors. back when it came out it seemed like an abomination, now, when compared to current horror (if you can even call them that) movies it looks like a masterpiece. so overall i thought it was a decent movie, just don't compare it to the first and second. "},{"Title":"Pinhead The Hannibal Lecter of B-Movies","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At the end of Hellbound Hellraiser II, we were introduced to the human side of Pinhead, the iconic face, voice and hook thrower of the series. The sequel elaborates on this &#150; he has indeed split into two characters, the cenobite and his former self, both more alive than ever.I read in an interview that actor Doug Bradley got offers from female fans to father their children. There's a sex appeal to the character very like Hannibal's, and it must be in Bradley's facial expression or the fact his make-up doesn't really disfigure him (Unluckily for us, the sexual angle in Clive Barler's Book The Hellbound Heart is never explored). Bradley personally thinks it's the way he's filmed in that gorgeous costume. It adorns a plain-looking guy and turns him into the androgynous drag queen from hell.With 15 years distance and the higher resolution of DVD, a lot of the effects and make-up in this enjoyable shocker look ridiculous, which is half-way compensated by the good acting of the main cast. It has a straight-forward story (Pinhead taking over the real world) and some memorable scenes, particularly when he mocks the Christian last supper. It introduces female heroine and news-hound Joey whose dreams of saving her father (Daddy is back &#150; again!) from death in Vietnam lead her to Pinhead's human self, a disillusioned officer in the trenches of the First World War. Joey is partly accompanied by the tramp girl Terri, a lost soul who can't dream or separate good from bad friends. She's an ex-girlfriend of J.P. Monroe, the sadistic grown-up rich kid who lets Pinhead loose upon the real world. They are all flawed, yet somehow sympathetic. The supporting cast ultimately end up in the meat grinder as usual, but Pinhead has to coerce and seduce rather than threaten this time. He has to use all his remaining brain cells &#150; at least in the first half, which leads to his most intelligent lines in the whole series &#150; maybe. I can't tell, because this was the last one I watched.Of the first three, it's the most fun and the most spectacular in terms of explosions and massacre, though not the most shocking &#150; the crown of skin-crawlers goes to its prequels, and among those narrowly to Hellbound Hellraiser II. Pinhead gets to play his favorite game with a club full of people, some of whom can't act even for their lives, but must have had a great time. The weird Boiler Room club setting and constant Heavy Metal music remind me of the Rammstein video Angel (Engel). The lighting unfortunately doesn't work very well for Pinhead at DVD resolution, but the set is spectacular. Bradley's performance as his human side relies too much on screen presence &#150; there's almost no acting to speak of in his scenes with Joey as they wander among the mutilated dead of his past. Just like in the unmasking in Hellraiser II, he remains completely characterless &#150; a cartoon. Maybe that's deliberate to keep him usable in the future, but also a bit disappointing. World War One was disillusioning for many people &#150; one of them created the Lord of the Rings.An enjoyable waste of time, and also a cult classic. "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Joe Cool Review Hellraiser III Hell on EarthStarring Terry Farrell as Joey Summerskill, Paula Marshall as Terri, Kevin Bernhardt as JP Monroe and Doug Bradley as Pinhead/Captain Elliot SpencerPlot Trapped in the pillar of souls, Pinhead finds a way to escape when a rich guy named JP Monroe buys it as decor. Now free from the rules of hell, Pinhead strives to make a Hell on Earth, with himself as the new overlord.Openers This movie is hailed by many as the worst of the series. A lot of people were extremely upset that Pinhead was moved to the foreground of the series when he had been in a supporting role previously. (These were the same people that complained when he was moved back into that very role most likely). And so this movie has become extremely underrated. Does it have it's flaws? Sure. Is it the piece of crap people claim it to be? Far from it. Let's continue.The Good I would complain more about Pinhead becoming the main villain if Doug Bradley did a poor job playing him, or if the script gave him really cheesy lines(like they did with Freddy many times) but Pinhead is never made into a joke. They still make him an evil bastard and so he works here. While not as memorable, he does have some good lines here(Down the dark decades of your pain, this will seem like a memory of Heaven.) and some great moments in general. I particularly loved the whole church scene which was so blasphemous and evil. Pinhead escaped from Hell and now he's enjoying his newfound freedom. So Pinhead wasn't ruined. What else is good? How about the fact there is some continuity from the previous two movies? When Pinhead was freed, so was his good version, Captain Elliot Spencer, who serves as a spiritual guide for our heroine and the anti-Pinhead. So Doug Bradley manages to play two roles here. Not only that, but Ashley Laurence makes a cameo here as Kirsty too. Finally, Terry Farrell does a credible job as Joey, even if it does indeed seem like she's trying too hard to follow in the footsteps of Ashley Laurence.The Bad That said, this movie has a lot of bad. The new cenobites for example. Half man, half CD player. Half man, half camera. A guy with some sort of piston running through his head, and a girl who smokes cigarettes through a hole in her throat. Nowhere near the creativity or madness that we've seen with such cenobites as Chatterer. Not to mention they all talk and have personality, when in reality it's supposed to make you devoid of personality when it happens to you. And while Pinhead may not have any cheesy lines, he does tend to ramble. A lot. Not to mention everyone else gets bad lines. Let's not forget the typical line to say when fighting Pinhead that's become almost cringe-worthy Go to hell. Yeah, we get it. Not to mention I felt that the actual Hell on Earth mode left a lot to be desired. There wasn't enough carnage for the movie's premise! The supporting cast also didn't do well in their roles I felt.The Ugly Again you get pleased by lots of gore. There is an entire scene at a club where EVERYONE is slaughtered. There's more hook attacks, Pinhead eats a girl(in which first her skin is pulled off), and lots more bloody goodness. There's one thing you can always count on with these movies, there will be blood.Final Verdict Hellraiser III is underrated. Sure they made Pinhead the lead character, and yes this does feel more like a slasher flick than a typical Hellraiser movie, but it's a FUN slasher flick. I recommended, although it's not required viewing like the others.Rating *** of ***** "},{"Title":"R-rated cut review","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After years of all the other Hellraiser flicks being available to own on DVD, fans can rejoice now that Paramount has finally released what the fans want to see...kind of. The DVD, released last week, is the censored R-rated cut that was shown in theaters. Does it matter? In most cases I would say no. Most of the time, I don't think movies suffer when a few minutes are sacrificed in order to get an R-rating. In the case of this particular one, however, I feel that the missing material adds to the film and without it, the censored cut seems a bit choppy. It's clear scissors were taken to it. The unrated version is the better deal. If you have the unrated cut and think the current DVD is worth buying, think again.So how does the R-rated cut hold up despite the missing footage? Surprisingly pretty well. There is still some great gory moments, a decent plot line, and solid directing. Director Anthony Hickcox handles the kill scenes well and is able to build a fair amount of tension throughout the proceedings. With a lesser director, this third Hellraiser wouldn't have been half as successful as it is. The screenplay could have been better (no Clive Barker to help out with the script this time). There were times when it felt like an uncredited screenwriter was brought in since some things didn't gel with the rest (The whole CD attack for example). Also, leads Terry Farrell and Kevin Bernhardt are sort of bland, though it seems to have more to do with the screenplay than their abilities as performers. Overall, this is a worthy sequel and one of the better horror films from the early 90s. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Should have been done better","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a great fan of Hellraiser and I like Pinhead a lot for he is one of the greatest characters in Horror history. By now, I've just watched the first three films of the series. I very enjoyed the first two films, for they had a very cool and creepy atmosphere and were some masterpiece of dark art. But Hellraiser 3 never reaches the level of these two flicks. First of all I missed the great scenes in hell that made Hellraiser 2 such a great and stylish film. Secondly, the acting of some of the main characters is very bad, especially Terry, although the actress is very pretty. Thirdly, there is too much Pinhead. Don't get me wrong, as I already said above, I very like this character, but sometimes less is more, it should be something special and thus rare when he appears, and in this film he appears much too often. Though I liked the idea to bring his human form into play. What I also disliked is the whole disco setting. Although I'm a great Heavy Metal Fan, I didn't enjoy the whole thing, for it lacks the darkness that the first two films had in them. And Hellraiser should not include these massacres, they're under Pinhead's contempt, not his style! "},{"Title":"Worst of the first three","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Anthony Hickox's father, Douglas Hickox, directed one of my all-time favourite horror films, Theatre of Blood. When I saw the Hickox name appear in the opening credits, I thought maybe, just maybe, greatness could run in the family. Put simply It doesn't. The two Hellraiser films up to this point were both very well done, different horror films. This, on the other hand, was likely made simply to cash in on Pinhead's icon status, and turn him in to another Freddy Krueger. Though it did start out pretty good, the more it told us the worse it got. The killing blow was when Capt. Spencer called Joey over to his world. Made an already cheesy movie even worse, flashback and all. Shortly after that, they decide to break their own rules by killing a ton of innocent people. Make sense to you? Me neither. The new Cenobites were awful, especially the CD dude. They were definitely scraping the bottom of the barrel for that one. The film's two redeeming qualities were the incredible gore effects, and Doug Bradley. No matter how pointless and cheesy his character gets, this guy always puts on a good performance. As far as this series goes, stick with the first two.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pinhead Released","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Pinhead Released on Earth is basically the story of this addition the Hellraiser franchise and while it's not as good as the first it's better than the second, if a bit poorly made (some of the Cenobites are a bit laughable). The story while good isn't that well executed by Anthony Hickox, but it's fun to see what Cenobites Pinheads creates, while these new Cenobites aren't as scary or should we say serious than the ones in the first two, they sure are a comic bunch. The way that Pinhead is brought back from his demise is a bit so-so (come on he can't really be killed anyway.), it's still keeping with the character's background.The acting in this one is, apart from Doug Bradley; who ones again outperforms his co-actors as Pinhead/Elliott Spencer, is very lacking. Terry Farrell is so over the top in her acting of Joanne Summerskill; an journalist that comes across a video recording of Kristy, that it's more of a joke than anything else, granted she some shinning moments but they are few and far between. Paula Marshall does an okay job as Terri; a lost teenager that has no place to go but of cause knows where Pinhead's monolith is, but the character dosn't have that much dept. >Spoiler< The Cenobite made out of her is almost as laughable as the one made from her former boyfriend. Ashley Laurence's role is so small that it's can't be judged, but nice to see her in this as it keeps this installment in line with the franchise.I give this 7 out of 10, mostly due to the fact that the effects are better than in Hellbound. It's still worth seeing in a continuance viewpoint, but if you haven't seen the first two movies then see those first before seeing this. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie but.......","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As much as i enjoyed this movie due tot he fact that Pinhead is a prominent part in this one the constant reminder that he is all to naive gets rather irritating. He is constantly monologuing and acting as if he does not have the power to stop the female lead in her tracks. He also is not as frightening because of the constant humor which is actually quite enjoyable. I enjoyed that this movie explained exactly where pinhead came from. I liked how at the end Both the previously human pinhead and pinhead joined as one in order to save the lead female. However, it would not be the end of pinhead. considering he comes back for the sequel Hellraiser Bloodline. It had no tension nor parts where i had to cover my eyes (except for some of the gory imagery) in fear of what may come next. I very much enjoyed this movie and would recommend it as long as you can stomach it and are not eating and if you enjoy pinhead a great deal!!! "},{"Title":"the series goes commercial","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSIt was bound to happen eventually that after the first two films, Barker's clever series would go commercial. In the third, fun but pointless, film of the set, this is exactly what would happen.In the third part, all of the cenobites have been killed or imprisoned. All of the cast from the previous two films are absent with the exception of a few brief video clips from Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence) and to accomodate this, the action is relocated from the small town mental institute to New York. Terry Farrell plays Joanne Joey Summerskill, a up and coming reporter who flukily witnesses a man being torn apart by hooks on chains. Researching the incident, she is introduced to Terri (Paula Marshall), her ex-boyfriend J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt) and a mysterious statue containing the evil cenobite leader Pinhead.Before really condemning Hellraiser III, it's worth considering it's good points. These are very limited sadly, but basically can be summarised in that the film is violent, gore filled and contains one or two scenes of intensity. Other than that, it's relatively limited.On the downside, Terry Farrell, tries very hard to play her role, but ultimately does a very weak performance and does nothing to stop us from remembering her purely for her later role as Jadzia Dax in Star Trek Deep Space Nine. The plot is weak and farfetched, bringing in Pinhead's original self, Captain Elliot Spencer, as a form of good to challenge the evil. Truth be told, the only logical reason for even mentioning the Captain is that it seems like Doug Bradley wanted more lines and this gave him them. This leads to the problem though in that Pinhead is always at his best when the silent, mysterious evil monster who can scare you just by appearance. In this film he turns from being terrifying to more a figure of fun. The same feels true of the new cenobites. Whilst in the previous two films all of the cenobites, even the awkward looking doctor in the second, were slightly menacing. In this third encounter however, all of these monsters look slightly farcical. J.P's cenobite appearance at the end in particular is daft in that he feels more reminiscent of a Hammer Horror Igor than a serious movie monster.What else can be said really? With a better plot and with less postmodern cenobites (ones featuring cd players and television cameras are just stupid), Hellraiser III could have been an average film. It might be gore filled and extreme at times, but this never seemed to be what this series was about. The first two films contained, at least to some degree, an evil world which was dark and intense. This third effort is sadly more in tune with the more recent Freddy Kruger or Jason Vorhees flops than with it's predecessors. A terrible shame and an utter waste. "},{"Title":"No Justice in Hell","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser III is a big departure from the previous two films (although it was written be Pete Atkins, who wrote Hellbound).  The beginning of the film presents us with lighting and locales that just seemed too representative of the early nineties time period.   	A lot of the film doesn't make sense for the first hour, which is punctuated by dreams, and a few killings which just chalk it up to `slasher' status.  Events are too formulatic, which cheats us out the novelty of Hellraiser I and II. 	Things start to make sense after about fourty-five minutes, when we learn that Pin-head's human form has been split from his Cenobite persona, which has taken refuse in a statue, that talks to its owner. 	The dialogue from Pin-head is a lot less all-knowing resident of Hell, and a lot more devil-on-your-left-shoulder.  But at least his vocabulary stays intact.  This doesn't save him from being degraded down to Freddy-status as just another evil voice in the shadows. 	After being released from the statue, Pin-head goes out on a rampage, and making himself so damn public.  Because everyone has seen him (not to mention an earlier hospital scene), the movie seems a lot less personal, and looses traction for it.  The up side of this sequence is the end where you watch a closed door seep out blood with hook noises coming from inside for a length of time that just makes one feel slightly uncomfortable. 	In the final moments, Pin-head creates his own Cenobites, which lessens their mystique.  The last four were truely creatures of hell, but these guys just look like a make-up designer's wet dream. 	All in all I thought it made a good horror film, but its desire to stay with a more conventional formula makes it a bad choice to carry the title Hellraiser. "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as I Expected","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first viewed Hellraiser III Hell on Earth after I saw Hellraiser Bloodline in a theater (the most underrated Pinhead flick of all). I was going to rent the original, but they were all out, so I rented the Unrated version of this. And I didn't think it was that bad after what I had been hearing.Pinhead is pretty much himself in this as he was in the other two. He's just shown killing more than when we just saw him kill one victim. He still has smart things to say. And he still has all 128 pins embedded in his head.The new Cenobites were interesting, but they weren't as creepy as the Chatterer, Female, or Butterball. The only two real intriguing Cenobites were the CD Cenobite and the Terri Cenobite.The cast was good. We got to see Doug Bradley as Human and Pinhead. Terry Farrell, long before her role on Star Trek Deep Space Nine, is intriguing to watch as the young reporter who is given the task to stop Pinhead, as well as Paula Marshall and Kevin Bernhardt, who play an ally and foe to the reporter that become Cenobites in the end (I wonder if those were really the actors under all that makeup and leather).And a big plus is that they use the original score instead of cooking up some cheesy score as most third sequels do. It's good to hear the original score, which mixes horror with eroticism.Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is not a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Above average slasher flick, at best...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The third installment of the Hellraiser series deviates from the first two in the worst possible way.  It turns the involving mythology, story, and innovation of the first two into a slightly above-average slasher flick. The only reason it's above average, though, is due to the elements of the original that remain (Pinhead being the most obvious, though he himself almost falls prey to becoming a catchphrase wielding shadow of his former self).  But other than that it's a basic genre-exercise.When others point out this movie's strengths, they point out its strengths as a slasher flick or self-parodying sequel (a fate that many horror franchises suffer from).  This is greatly opposed to the first two of the series, which could actually stand on their own as strong *movies* (though the second one got somewhat confused by the end), not just horror/slasher flicks. "}{"Title":"Hey, it was decent!  (SPOILERS in here)","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't know why this movie got a bad rap.  I personally thought it was well-done.  Some parts were actually pretty scary (ie. when Pinhead traps everyone in the nightclub and kills em with chains, and Pinheads demolition of New York.  The whole idea of Pinhead's good self (capt. Elliot Spencer)was nicely drawn out and contrary to popular belief,was not corny at all.  It made the movie more interesting.  The new cenobites were actually kinda cool and funny (Joey's camera guy's funny line after he was turned into a cenobite-Look what he did to me, you little bitch!)  Anyway, I could go on and on about this but to keep it short this was a pretty good horror flick.  It didnt have all the unnecessary gore like Hellraiser II did, and it still was scary and good to watch.  7/10 "},{"Title":"what a trip","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Really, and I thought Moonwalker was a treat. I had to turn my tv on in a dutch hotel and stumble into the last 30 minutes of this comedy. The things explode everywhere, a guy which is killed by a cd, another one which is killed by a augmenting lens, and I was laughing so hard my guts were aching. All the clichés were there, all the improbabilities, etc. If this movie has its last 30 minutes like this, I wonder how mediocre the rest will be. When the pinhead melts with the priest or the scientist or whatever it really had me laughing... even those Z movies deliberately made in an awful way aren't this good. For a trip like this I also recommend The Exorcist 2 or Showgirls... "},{"Title":"While not the best of the series, it was certainly hilarious!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The third installment in the Hellraiser series, we follow a female reporter, Joey, who stumbles upon the infamous 'Puzzlebox' and unleashes the terror within. The opening scenes of the movie are quite amusing. We see a screaming male wheeled into an operating room on a gurney. He has the infamous metal hooks and chains hanging from his shredded flesh and we can immediately identify this to the joyous work of Pinhead and his cenobites. As the doctors calm the screaming male, a sadistic nurse lays out weird-shaped and rather deadly looking implements on the table behind him. This really has nothing to do with the story, but it gives you the sense that these people aren't really Doctors and nurses. Before they can operate on the male, the chains spring to life and rip his body apart and we are introduced to the central character of this story.Joey is a struggling reporter who decides to cover this particular story. She talks to the victim's girlfriend, Terri, who explains that all of these things happened after he played around with a 'puzzlebox' that he stole from an antique collector. Terri gives the puzzlebox to a sleazy club owner who she once slept with and he unleashes Pinhead and his cenobites once again as he accidentally opens up the portal that connects Hell with Earth.The fun starts here once Pinhead gatecrashes a popular night club called The Boiler Room. This is actually the highlight of the whole movie. As the patrons run towards the chained doors, each one is killed in a brutal yet hilarious fashion. One female patron has a spear of ice jutted into her open mouth. A male patron gets three snooker balls shoved down his mouth!! You basically see a lot of people getting hoisted into the air with chains and whatnot, but we get to see very elaborate killings. When some of the unfortunate victims return as cenobites, Joey discovers that she's stumbled upon more than just a hot scoop. Actually, the cenobites in this movie are the most creative out of the whole series. Joey's cameraman gets turned into a cenobite and he has his camera installed into his head! A disc jockey has the unfortunate experience of having CD's implanted into his head and further uses them like Ninja stars as he hurls them as weapons! A bartender concocts molotov cocktails as he 'shakes but not stirs' his 'special' drink as he throws them at police officers who fire pointlessly at them with their guns.The most hilarious scene is when Terri (now a cenobite) walks around with a cigarette poking out of the flesh of her exposed throat and she burns Joey with it. But all good things must come to an end once Joey sends them back to where they came from. Not much insight is given to Joey's character - but the viewer hasn't really come along for the ride to learn about someone we don't really care about. We all came to see Pinhead and his cenobites, and that's what we got! The only one real surprise about this installment was catching Kirsty in a cameo as an asylum lunatic trying to convince everyone that she has been to Hell and back. It is quite obvious she was placed in this scene as a special treat for all the Hellraiser fans out there as this scene was completely irrelevant to the storyline.While not the most memorable of the Hellraiser series, it certainly provides enough laughs for an hour and a half of fun. It usually airs on the Sci-Fi Channel every few months. Keep your eyes out for it!6/10 "},{"Title":"Another good sequel. Almost exactly as good as part II.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Once again we are drawn into the world of Pinhead and the Lament Configuration. However, if you think this film is like the first two, you are wrong. Hellraiser III Hell On Earth is a different approach on the Hellraiser mythology, and a good one at that.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!We open up in a city Hospital where a reporter named Joey witnessess the death of someone who opened the infamous puzzle box. She tracks down the person who witnessed the man opening the box and together the two search for some answers. However, a nightclub owner has found the soul pillar where Pinhead has been imprisoned since Hellbound and accidentilly releases him. Joey learns that in Hellbound Kirsty had split both the good and bad sides of Pinhead and with the help of the good half must destroy Pinhead before it's too late.Good story, acting, and effects. *** out of *****. The last good Hellraiser(So far anyway). "},{"Title":"The best of the lot!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really don't care what anyone says. This film is definately the best in the series. It's full of shocks, gore, excitement and tension. Just like a good horror movie should be. Although this time around some of the claustraphobia is lost through the streets of New York, rather than in an old house like the original 'Hellraiser'.Ashley Lawrence doesn't really make an 'official' appearence which I think, is a good thing as her character couldn't really be improved, they'd just be dragging out a perfectly good charatcer.There's also a good back story in this film, explaining how Pinhead came to life. But it's more of an action/horror film, rather than just pure horror. Fans of the series don't miss this, but be wary of Bloodlines. It has nothing to do with its predecessors and is just plain stupid. "},{"Title":"pretty good for a hip sequel","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In the past few years, there have been a lot of horror sequels that are really just hip updates of the originals.  Carrie 2, Halloween H2O, and the Friday the 13th where Freddy goes into the Nintendo come to mind. Each of these sequels paled in comparison to the original, partly because they are dated in their hipness after five years. This is not the case with Hellraiser III.  It is a pretty good story. As usual, we get the gore and cool costumes.  There are more cenobites in this one than all of the others movies in the series (i DO miss the other original three, though).  The Pillar of Souls is here (from the end of the second one), along with some brief recaps of the second movie (there is even a cameo from Kirsty!).  The soundtrack is okay, but it should be pointed out that this soundtrack has music from actual bands KMFDM, Motorhead, etc. which is a first for the series. Anyway, the story is about a reporter, Joey (Terry Farrell), who wants to get a Big story.  She stumbles on a victim in a hospital who has hooks dangling from him- Hellraiser style.  The victim had been brought to the hospital by a girl named Terri (Paula Marshall).  Her investigation into the story through Terri leads her to a cool club called The Boiler Room. Terri's ex-boyfriend owns the club, and happens to be an artist/art collector who recently acquired the Pillar of Souls. The story has some insight into Pinhead, too.  One of the things I like about Hellraiser III is that it doesn't mess with the storyline. Pinhead's character is a real focus of the movie, all the way to the end.  Don't worry, though- he still has his profound lines throughout the movie, but he also has a sense of humor now!  My favorite scene in the movie in definitely the church scene... I should probably say now that the fourth movie is not as good as any of the others in the series and was a huge disappointment for me.  But that is a different review... "},{"Title":"Hellraiser, A Trilogy  (?)","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser IIIHell On Earth is about a young nightclub owner named J. P. Monroe who buys a statue with Pinhead's face embedded in it.  Pinhead makes J. P. bring him women who's skins will make him whole again.  Meanwhile, a newsreporter named Joey Summerskill receives the puzzle box from a punkette, who is later turned, along with J. P., into cenobites.  Joey has all this time been visited by the ghost of World War I Captain Elliot Spencer, who gives her hints about how to stop Pinhead.  Even at the end of this second sequel, the ending is left wide open for yet another sequel, which finally appeared in 1996, called HellraiserBloodline.Hellraiser IIIHell On Earth is Unrated for extremely strong graphic gory horror violence, strong sexuality, nudity, and for strong language.  "},{"Title":"Why do people rate the Hellrasier movies so highly?","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've never understood why these Hellrasier movies get so much accolades in the horror genre. Hellrasier is often called a horror classic. I've never understood why. Putting Hellrasier in the same category as the Exorcist or Halloween is just laughable in my opinion.This third instalment has plenty of gore and gruesome death scenes but suffers from the same problems I've always had with the other Hellrasier movies - the acting is just terrible, the dialogue is inane and the direction is amateurish and extremely dull. There is literally no attempt made to make any of the scenes suspenseful and intelligent. Everything is just thrown in your face and made obvious. Aside from the gore, Hellrasier has nothing going for it. I wish there was something positive I could say about it but I really can't. The only positive I can draw from this is it has some interesting death scenes. That's it.The Cenobites in the other Hellrasier movies were actually pretty cool, in this movie though, the Cenobites just look ridiculous and silly. (You'll see what I mean when you watch it). There's also too many Cenobites on screen at once - Why couldn't the director just stick with the original four Cenobites we were already familiar with? Was it really necessary to have 5-6 Cenobites on screen at once?Pinhead was also extremely annoying in this film; with his pretentious one liners and obvious attempts to try and come across as evil and spooky. (Cackling like a maniac etc..). If you want to watch a movie with people getting killed brutally for no apparent reason, then you'll probably enjoy this film. But if you're looking for an intelligent, well directed horror movie I'd strongly recommend you watch something else. This film isn't for you. "},{"Title":"The Kaballah of Hellraiser","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (Words have been compromised to pass the spelling censor.)The three designs evenly distributed on Pinhead's (Doug Bradley's) Hellraiser puzzle box represent The three forbidden secrets of the sacred mysteries, which is always a tour through the Underworld, Hades, Sheol, the Bardo and also known as Hell. You will notice that first a central button is pushed. This face represents the witchcraft secret revealed especially on pages 170 and 171 of The Adventure of Self Discovery by Dr. Stanislav Grof and available from www.heliotrope.com .Pain and pleasure indivisible, it replaced LSD. You cannot enter the Underworld without the golden bough ( Vogel stimulation with the Vegas nerve), but, The road to Averness is easy, Virgil, in his Aenied. William Morgan was killed for revealing this secret. Second, two things spread and a finger is stuck in the gap. This represents the alchemy secret revealed in the earliest posts of Dr. Lahunkun in groups.yahoo.com/group/alchemy61/ . There you will learn how to make an opposite polarity cancellation reactor, which the ancients called a shekina. Dr. Wilhelm Reich was killed for revealing this secret. And, third, the circle was traced all the way around by a finger. This represents the sorcery secret, that there are other probability time lines that can be contacted, visited and used by taking advantage of the fact that the polarity cancellation equals the natural logarithm of the probability relationship. Did you ever notice that TV and movies about time travel always propagated that if you, messed with the past it could be disastrous for the world. First of all, you can't go back on your exact time line, like to meet your actual past self, for, the quantum probability wave crests prevent this by clashing. This is solid quantum mechanics. The propaganda that time was only one line for everybody was a lie, and it's denial a secret. But, we complained enough that Scientific American, in it's May 2003 article The Multiverse confessed that there are multiple time lines; and, the mutiverse is so infinite, for example, there has to be a real Pinhead somewhere, sometime, on some probability time line, in a multiverse' that has everything. And, each probability is repeated infinitely. Sorcery is probability manipulation. For example, rituals by manipulating probability distributions change time lines. Rituals are not witchcraft. There is no real witchcraft without Vogel stimulation. If with but the faith of a mustard seed you say to this mountain move it shall be moved. I knew a girl who bragged about the incredible bad luck she had. The more people who believed her the worse her luck became. It pays to control our speech. Rituals are sorcery. Dr. Franz Ludwig Boltzman was killed for revealing this secret, and THEY put S = k Lyn W on his gravestone. In Hellraiser II, Hellbound, we saw that Hell is structured in stone. Who builds in stone? What is a builder in stone called? THEY consider these secrets to be THEIR exclusive privileged property. THEY dare claim a monopoly on Hell! Recreational and entertaining place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live here. In Yahoo's Alchemy 61 you will learn how to explore the Underworld like us, explorers in the further regions of experience; demons to some, angels to others. The earlier posts of Alchemy 61 provides you with many other related sites. We have such sites to show you. "},{"Title":"Nevermind the critics! It's worth a shot, or two, or even more...","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Many reviewers regard this as a bad sequel because they see the Pinhead character turned into a Freddy Krueger lookalike, and the perverted ways of the series replaced by a more conventional good against evil approach. Ultimately, this is where Hellraiser leaves Europe behind and goes USA.I, personally, disagree of this point of view. Watching it carefully, I really could have the feel of an real Hellraiser movie, although this identity lies behind a big amount of misplaced noise and visual pollution that, along with the poor acting, weakens this effort.P.J. Monroe, Terri, Joey, these characters aren't that far behind the Cotton family, they share the same hedonistic, self-centered, obsessive, pleasure/pain driven behavior we expect in a Hellraiser movie. P.J. particularly is the perfect summoner of Pinhead. Self-indulgent, hedonistic, violent and violent obsessive, amoral and eager to go further in the realms of extreme experience. It should work with him. The plot is there, the lines are there, the scenes, the sets. In the paper, it seems very appealing, but in the screen, none of that shows up on screen. All the characters are pale, weak, like a bunch of lovesick teenagers waiting for something to happen in their lives.As the main roles can't convince the audience, the movie reveals exactly what it is a gory horror movie, meant to shock the audience with graphic violence. And that's too bad, because you can't (I couldn't) get ultimately connected to it. Every now and then you get wondering about the quality of the blood or what's the best outfit among the cenobites, when you should be scared out. That's why this movie falls so far behind the original. It's ultimately shallow, a shell of the movie it could have been, if it was done the right way.But it is not that bad at all! Not at all! When Pinhead (and Cap. Spencer, in a smaller scale) is on screen, he breaths some fresh - or should I say filthy - air in the effort! He is cruel as ever and comes with a handful of cool lines (note the 'secret song' quote) that are rooted in the classic Barker material.The boiler room slaughter is a very strong scene, and the church mocking sequence is one of the most creative horror movie sequences I've ever seen. The video-taped Kirsty is also very cool, and it could have been explored in a better way.This movie is specially appealing for those who demand a larger screen time for Pinhead, as he didn't get much of it in both Hellraiser and Hellbound. Hell on Earth gives you loads of him!By the way, I have to state that Pinhead laughs a little to much in this, and I like the original shut face attitude of the first film best, but I admit this is just me.The new cenobites, in my opinion, can't get close the original group. They just don't share the same feel, and you can tell from the start they are a different breed. I personally like to think the cenobites in this movie as a Pinhead carved fake, not as actual Leviathan-made cenobites...I can't forget to mention the score. The songs played are O.K., but the score in itself, just like in Hellbound, is too weak!!!! It sounds like something you've heard before, but can't get you in the mood, i.e. elevator music. This movie could have been 50% if you only add a score at the same level as the original.All in all, this is a movie that was killed by its own director. Each and every flaw in it could have been avoided by a careful direction, but it seems that this one was more concerned in making cameo than making movie. I really wish somebody else had done it, and I wonder what a master such as Zack Snyder could have done with this material.Nevermind, Doug Bradley knows what this stuff is all about, and manages to save the day. So if Pinhead is dear to you, don't pass this by. "}{"Title":"Insultingly stupid sequel to two horror masterpieces","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is a fine collectors DVD set from Anchor Bay; The first 3 films in the Hellraiser series, contained in an awesome replica of the 'Lament Configuration' puzzle box. Hellraiser 3 Hell On Earth, is an embarrassing mess of a film. It has the unfortunate honor of being the first dud in a series that got progressively worse, after two of the finest horror films to emerge from the 80's.The original Hellraiser is a truly dark, hypnotically evil little film, filled with sadistic sex, grisly violence, and corrupt, sinister characters. It is one of the few films that is still genuinely frightening. Next came Hellraiser 2 Hellbound, a film that is surprisingly great, and in some ways even surpasses it's predecessor, with it's amazing and outrageous imagery, particularly it's unique vision of Hell. And Julia, an even more formidable embodiment of evil, than Frank, of the first one. Then along comes part 3, an Americanized version, watered down and dumbed down by Hollywoods toxic influence. As usual, Hollywood sucks out the power of a horror film, by adding sickening comic overtones. While the original Cenobites were scary and fascinating in their own right, these new cenobites, with names like Cd Head, and Camera Head, are laughable and stupid. It's like Freddy Vs. Jason, or a bad Buffy the Vampire Slayer episode, especially towards the end, with the battle of the cenobites in the streets of New York. In fact, from the opening scenes, when it becomes obvious that the location has been shifted from dark and gloomy London, to tacky and trendy 80's New York, I knew that i was in for a disappointment. What the filmmakers failed to realize here, is that the thing that made parts 1 & 2 so special, is that they were pretty much devoid of the comic overtones crap. Those films were played straight, and deadly serious. They played like horror films for intelligent, thinking adults who take their films, especially horror films seriously. Hellraiser 3 Hell On Earth is geared towards 13 year old kids who throw popcorn at each other in the mall cineplex. The story is all over the place, and the screenplay is a mess. The only element of the film that possesses any quality is the storyline about the handsome and sinister J.P. Monroe, a sick bastard who killed his parents to inherit their millions. He uses the money to buy an extravagant nightclub, a miniature world where he crowns himself King. He comes to possess the evil statue that houses Pinhead, who employs the corrupt J.P. to feed him young girls, so that he might again become flesh and blood. The J.P. character is good, but he is killed off fairly early, and the movie completely falls apart after. Guess what happens? Lots of dumb American teens get killed. What a profound disappointment for someone who has such great respect for the first two films. For fans of serious horror I do not recommend this trash. The series does not recover itself until Inferno, the fifth installment, an elegant and stylish film noir study of a corrupt cop who comes across the Lament configuration box. However for fans of the Scream films, and the countless Friday the 13th and Nightmare On Elm Street sequels, where liberal doses of comedy are mixed in with teens being butchered, they might enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Sad Addition to the Series","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I wont bore with Details of the Film as there is plenty information about the Story here.My Complaints lie within the IDea the Film very loosely Follows and continues with a story that in no way, deserves to be a part of the Hellraiser series. the only thing it has in contrast to the other films is the cenobites and pinhead.I gave it a 2 out of 10 because i simply was dissatisfied with the film as a whole. Considering the first two films this one lacks in gore, story and concept.this film was made for one reason to introduce new cenobites, which i might add are not even in the future films, except for one brief moment. Not even long enough to warrant this film.I found this to be more of an embarrassment to the series.Now if you want a film that delves deeper into the History and background of the Box and the life of Pinhead as well the toymaker watch HRBloodLines i found it to be much more satisfying, although I wanted more in it I felt it did more for the series. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Abysmal Sequel.","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser was a series that started off with so much potential. The first two installments were completely unique, all while being utterly disturbing and showcasing some mind-shattering gore effects. While the first two movies were perfect excercises in true horror and focused on just how low the human spirit can go, Hellraiser III plays out more like any of the A Nightmare On Elm Street sequels. These movies were never about Pinhead (Douglas Bradley). In this installment, he is reduced to a wise-cracking, obnoxious villain. Unlike Freddy Krueger, no one is cheering for Pinhead, because when he chooses to talk, it's annoying. So many times I was yelling shut up at the screen. The stuff he would come up with was just stupid and dragged the story down. And while I appreciate them elaborating on his mythology, it was all so unconvincing (his good side roams the dream world? Puh-lease). The movie itself could be mistaken as a made-for-TV movie, if it weren't for the cheesy gore effects (which come off really awful this time around). The characters are also way too cartoony and unrealistic. There is a certain plot-point where Pinhead taunts a character about killing his parents which is never mentioned again in the movie and makes you wonder why they brought it up in the first place. Oh, and did I mention the cenobite that shoots CD's at people? Don't even get me started. Although it was released in the 90's, Hell On Earth is an attempt at making Pinhead an anti-hero in the vein of 80's icons like Freddy Krueger, Jason Vorhees or Michael Myers. They definitely sold the series out with this one, and fail on all attempts, as this series went straight to straight-to-video after just one more installment. It may be worth watching if you haven't seen the first two movies, but if you have, this one will make you wretch in pain.2/10 "},{"Title":"American horror (horrible) franchising","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I guess fans of this type of movies will always give a dime for their icons, may they be Jason, Freddy, Candyman or whoever else. These icons are the offspring of a tradition that started with the late 50's b-series and spawned into the 70's gore. There is a slight difference, however no real commercial sense was implied in the making of these movies. In the case of the HELLRAISER series (as well as NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, FRIDAY THE 13TH, etc.), a bright idea, instead of being explored, gets exploited. Nothing left but to be startled at the stupidity of it all. Although I wouldn't go as far as to consider myself a fan of the series, the original HELLRAISER was the first cinema fright I remember as a child. Also being a fan of gore, trash and underground cinema, I cannot consider HELL ON EARTH anything but a laugh of a movie. Sorry this review didn't focus on the movie itself, but the comment should fit better when bearing this sequel in mind. For bearing it is all about, one cannot hope to enjoy this movie and understand a straw about real cinema. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Many consider that this third Hellraiser Hell on Earth, directed by Anthony Waxwork Hickox is very bad and stupid, but I don't think so and I was pleasantly surprised when I viewed this. The story takes place this time in a big city in which the Pinhead and cenobites try to attack and bring Hell on Earth, thus the title. There is again a certain way to call Pinhead, and all the weak persons do so in order to get some satisfaction and pleasure...Instead, as we have learned in the previous films, they get something that PINHEAD considers pleasant and satisfying! Pain.There are many atmospheric scenes and one disco mayhem scene is memorable as Pin and pals attack and soon many kind of killing machines are invented and *small spoiler* cenobites destroy the whole place and people in it. Flying and slicing CDs are only among the many creative death tools found in this nice piece of horror trash. *no spoilers anymore!* The atmosphere is very dark in the streets throughout the film and I think this is as noteworthy as Hellraiser 2, as far as we talk about sequels. Part two has that problem that it relies too much on splatter effects and becomes pretty stupid and boring. This third installment is in my opinion far more interesting and also inventive, and I was pleasantly surprised having read all the bad comments from some people. This is not a horror masterpiece like Barker's first Hellraiser, but as a sequel and piece of 80's (often stupid) horror, this effort by Anthony Hickox is very well done and can be viewed several times without getting bored.7/10 but still, cannot be mentioned in the same sentence with the original Hellraiser. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen...","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Clearly a perfect example of why sequels in Hollywood are horrible. Shot in NC, my home state this laughable sequel exceeds in only one thing, overdone B-horror cheese. The plot, which has basically little connection to the first two films, takes our viewers to what apparently the writer believed to be the counter-culture/underground rebellious youth scene of this time period. There a reporter runs about trying to stop Pinhead who for whatever reason is resurrected through from a stone statue. The worst parts of this film though have to be the new Sinnebites created specifically for this film. For whatever reason the creators decided to have 1, a demon created from a DJ that shoots CD's from his head, and 2, a demon created from a reporter that has a camera lens in his head he uses to smash people's skulls with. Geez, what next guys?? A demon created from an office executive that shoots hell powered stables and invoices? Or perhaps a cenobite fast food operator that flings Satan's deep frying grease and the third level of hell razor fries. Do not waste your time with this film UNLESS you are looking specifically for a over-the-top B-horror film. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III Hell on Earth (1992)","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser III totally changes the direction of the series,and turns Pinhead into the main villain. We didn't get to know much about him in the first film,because Frank Cotton was the villain. Pinhead has plans to bring Hell on Earth,and the only person that stands in his way is Joey Summerskill,a reporter who is investigating the strange happenings. Maybe I am a little too harsh on the first Hellraiser.Maybe Clive Barker's story didn't appeal to me.I seem to like this entry a bit more,no offense.We get some creative special effects,and Pinhead is very scary,and bad ass. Most of all it is more fun,and fast paced than the first Hellraiser.I have yet to see Hellbound Hellriaser II,so I'll give it a try next trip to the video store...3/4  "},{"Title":"Reasonable Entry In The Hellraiser Series","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser IIIHell On Earth was not as good as the first two films but it was a reasonable entry in the series.Some people have criticized this film for not having Ashley Laurence or Claire Higgins from the first two films in it. But did we really want to rehash the same old plot? This was something different which is why I respected it.That pesky box is back causing trouble and the sexy Terry Farrell is the reporter who gets drawn into it's world. Pinhead is back (with some new, and sadly, inferior Cenobites)and he plans on bringing hell to earth literally. Only Farrell and Pinhead can stop him.What do I mean, Pinhead can stop Pinhead? Well, Pinhead used to be a human Army Captain in his former life and his human alter ego is trapped in limbo. Only Pinhead can stop Pinhead...does that make sense?The film is in no way as atmospheric as the first two films which were set in that horrible house and we don't get to see hell this time because most of the action takes place on Earth. But the film does have it's moments and there are a few scares to be truthful. It's also nice to get a bit more backstory on Pinhead's life as human after the first two films which only briefly touched on the subject.All in all, Hellraiser III is a respectable film. Don't compare it to the first two films (like I have done). Just watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"This movie is retarded to say at best.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The best compliment that I can give this movie is that the special effects were halfway decent and that the girls looked hot.This movie is retarded and stupid at best and downright idiotic and horrible.The only horror and fear that I got from this film is that I turned on the screen and spent some time watching this. I turned it off 3 times and still was unable to finish watching it.SCARY? NOOOOO!! STUPID-YESSSS!!!If stupidity and lack of story was at the top of the list, I would give it a 10, however they are not, so I will give this movie a  **1**...simply to credit the efforts of people who did not any main creative power for this film.I believe that cast and crew aside of the DIRECTOR and PRODUCER have worked hard and deserved a paycheck...and this is where my compliment goes to...the cast and crew for putting their time and effort to make this work. (Camera crew, lighting, makeup, gaffers, electricians, casting, transportation, craft service,painters, set decorators, location scouts, maintenance, hair and makeup....but NOT the DIRECTOR or PRODUCER...no FRIGGEN way.)The director should not be paid, nor should the producers. Infact, I strongly believe that they should be paying ME. YES, I should be paid for watching this!!! Why not? This was outragiously boring and stupid; and I felt cheated within the first 10 minutes or so.>>>>My over all comment....BAD...VERY BAD...VERY VERY BAD...oh yeah...and STUPID!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the sequel.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser 3 is better than number 2 but not as good as the original,still is a good attempt though.This time (ignoring the first two in the series altogether) it involves a reporter,a hooker and a nightclub owner.The nightclub owner gets hold of the box and unleash's Pinhead who then erupts havoc on earth.The reporter is trying to solve the mystery who teams with the hooker.It isn't as predictable as it sounds and the movie has a few flaws,but apart from this it is great.The effects are great and it doesn't fail on scaring the audience.I suppose by now Pinhead has lost his appeal but that doesn't make him out to look like a threatening pin cushion.There are new demons and they are all creative.There is more originality this time and I liked it.I thought it was more enjoyable than Hellbound.One thing it doesn't beat is the first in the series. I don't reccomend these movies to people (only people with an aquired taste).I would say if you're a fan of the series then go for it.If you liked the original but not interested what happens afterwards,then all the sequels are not worth bothering with.I rate 3/5.  "}{"Title":"A little cornier than I remembered","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I remembered this film to be very entertaining, but I just saw it a few days ago and it's not that great as I remembered. There's some pretty bad acting, and the direction is pretty bad too. It's very unintentionally funny, if you want some laughs and the gore and nudity are great! But the least of the series. NOTE  This film mainly focuses on Pinhead, one of the cinema's most freaky villains. "},{"Title":"How could Barker let Hollywood Swine do this to his masterpiece?","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just saw Hellraiser 3 the other day, and I've never seen a more typical example of a pathetic sequel thrown together by talentless Hollywood big shots to make themselves a little richer.  The stereotypical characters make me sick.  There's  the whiny girl with a bad case of PMS who thinks her life is miserable because her boyfriends have been mean to her.  There's the rich spoiled brat of a nightclub owner who entices countless women with mommy and daddy's money only to spit them out when he's done with them.  However, what makes it all even worse is that Pinhead is the most stereotypical of all.  What was once a brilliant character is reduced to find all of the supermodel victims I can and kill them with my chains ala Freddy Kruger.  The story has gone from a complex masterpiece from the genius mind of Clive Barker to a film more generic than Wes Craven's 'Scream' with the typical 'the bad guy is loose and we have to stop him' plot that has accompanied almost all other horror movies to date.  On a scale of 1 to 10 I'd have to give this movie a 1 compared to the 10 Id give it's predecessors.  I just hope Bloodline (Hlrsr 4) isn't this bad despite the fact that it is 4 in a series that should have stopped after number 2.   "},{"Title":"Coffee with Pinhead.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was the definitive movie in the Hellraiser series in that it defined Pinhead as the ultimate nemesis whereas before, Frank held that role.Many critics have stated that this movie was totally unnecessary within the series, but I beg to differ. It explained who and what Pinhead was, introduced you to his character in a much more satisfying way, and allowed the viewer to develop a bond with his charismatic persona; both as human and as demon.These factors are quite necessary if this series is to continue. Terry Farrel and Paula Marshall (of Warlock The Armageddon and Steve Martin's surprise 2004 summer hit Cheaper By The Dozen) both contributed their best work (Paula Marshall was just hitting the big screen), rendering solid performances.This movie will be somewhat of a disappointment for splatter fans as it is not the bloodiest of the line. While this may not be the bloodiest (but it is quite bloody) or most action-filled installment, it is most necessary in following the story line and flow of the gruesome nightmare journey into Hell that is Hellraiser.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Entertaining and well-made","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the thing which keeps this series above most of the Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday 13th sequels is that each new Hellraiser film has a completely new storyline.This time Pinhead is trapped within a pillar of souls, but is released thanks to the actions of a sex-crazed nightclub owner. He becomes the central villain as he is let loose upon the city (along with the people he turns into inventively-designed Cenobites). However, a reporter (who witnessed someone being torn apart by chains and is determined to find out what happened) is guided by the ghost of Elliot Spencer, Pinhead's former self who has been released from his demonic side.All in all, this is an inventive and well-made sequel, probably one of the best of the Hellraiser series. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III is by far the best of the series so far. It is the first one that has any decent acting (although still not great), good direction, and even a fairly respectable story.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pinhead has returned, and again he wants to destroy that pesky puzzle box, the door to Hell, so that he will never have to go back. His return to the world of the living is fascinatingly done with an updated version of that horrific rotating pillar that we're all so familiar with by this point. Kevin Bernhardt plays J.P. Monroe, an arrogant night club owner (the `Boiler Room') who is at first persuaded by Pinhead (still trapped in the stone pillar) to help him come fully back to life in the traditional Hellraiser manner. As is to be expected, not everything goes perfectly as planned, and the ensuing madness is both sickening and morbidly entertaining.Ashley Laurence has been mercifully removed from the cast (probably saving the film from failing like the first two did), except for a thankfully brief cameo in which her character is referred to in order to learn about the history of the box and to prove its capabilities. Hellraiser III gives the series a much needed jump-start, following a weak but cult classic original, as well as an even weaker first sequel. Unfortunately, the `Female Cenobite' (mysteriously left unnamed), `Chatterer,' and `Butterball' (both of whom probably SHOULD have been left unnamed) are gone, but a series of about half a dozen new Cenobites keeps the hellish imagery alive. I think that one of the better elements of this installment in the series is that they show all of the new Cenobites being created. However, when Doc becomes a Cenobite (`Camerahead'), some of his dialogue refers to his life as a human, contradicting the previously established characteristic of the Cenobites that they don't remember their human selves.In the anti-religious tradition of the Hellraiser series (remember `Jesus Wept,' from part I? That was by far my favorite), some of Pinhead's antics in the church near the end of the film are great. When the priest holds up the cross to him, Pinhead melts it in the poor guy's hand, which is a terribly cruel thing to do, but at the same time he utters an absolutely brilliant bit of dialogue, `Thou shalt not bow down to any graven image.' Words to live by, people. After that, Pinhead's self-crucifixion scene was wonderfully sickening, yet his intentions in doing that were both clearly presented and morbidly farcical. Jesus was crucified, paying for man's sins, thereby saving mankind from damnation and becoming the subject of countless masses of people's unquestioning adoration, inspiring Pinhead to crucify himself and state that `I am the way.' This is great stuff.Besides all that, I think that this installment had some of the best death scenes of the series so far, particularly in the nightclub. Some of that was almost physically painful to watch, a sure sign of success for a horror film. Not only was that Boiler Room massacre convincingly portrayed, but writer Peter Atkins also had the excellent idea to have poor Terri walk through the masses of mutilated bodies after the massacre had ended. Pretty uplifting stuff, huh? A little too gory and bloody? Don't moan about that, it's not supposed to be good, clean, fun. This is a horror film, and by definition, horror films are supposed to be horrible. And Hellraiser III achieves this horror better than either of the two that preceded it, finally leaving the viewer satisfied. Even when you think you are watching what will be a cheesy ending, a plot twist makes it good again, saving us (and the film, technically) from a goofy and patronizing &#145;happily-ever-after.' This was a very good horror film. It's almost worth watching the first two just to get to this one, and hopefully this unexpected but very welcome upward trend will continue with the rest of the series.   "},{"Title":"It's rare when I can say it, but this was abysmal.","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just went back and watched first two before this one. What was Doug Bradley thinking when he signed on to put Pinhead through this? There are quite a lot of things wrong with this movie.First off Pinhead is way to humanized in this one. He talks a lot which makes him more human and less demon from Hell. I also didn't like how it wasn't really Pinhead doing all the killings. It was just a shell of Spencer's former evil manifested on earth. I hated that. I couldn't believe it when it pointlessly started laughing during the club scene as well. Which brings me to my next points.The movie was way to urban to be a Hellraiser movie. I didn't like it that it took place in a club a lot and in the city. Plus Pinhead and the cenobites were exposed to way to many people. What ever happened to the only people seeing them was the people that figured out the box? That took away a lot of mystery of them.Next is all the pointless scenes of gore. I'm a big fan of gore, but the gore meant completely nothing in the movie as compared to the last ones. The club scene where Pinhead out of no where just kills a bunch of people is a shame.They tried so hard to make Pinhead the anti-hero villain like Jason or Freddy eventually became, but by this time nobody was asking him to be the anti-hero. This was only the third movie. I didn't feel for anybody in the movie and they tried desperately to make people care about Pinhead for some reason.Next up is the freakin cheesy new Cenobites. I'm sorry, but a fat bartender Cenobite isn't going to replace butterball Cenobite. WTF was up with the camera Cenobite and his one liners? I also had to chuckle at the CD Cenobite.The pay off to the Spencer/Pinhead separation was done decent, but Spencer and Pinhead being separated really wasn't needed in the first place. Oh well it's rule that classic horror series must be turned into jokes.In the end this movie was completely abysmal. Which there's not many movies that earn that title from me. Pinhead was elevated to the central character and humanized a lot, because of all the lines he had and his actions. The desperate attempt at making Pinhead the anti-hero villain didn't work for me.The pay off to the Spencer/Pinhead separation was done decent, but Spencer and Pinhead being separated really wasn't needed in the first place. Part 4 actually seems good in comparison. "},{"Title":"One of the worst horror sequels in history","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In a genre founded on bad sequels, Hell on Earth is one of the worst. After the first two Hellraiser movies developed a powerful mythology, It's all flushed down the toilet in the third movie, apparently to create a franchise in a marketplace dominated by fantastic lead characters. Pinhead does not make a Freddy Krueger, however, and all that happens in this movie is the tearing down of Clive Barker's fantastic world, throwing all of the previous personality and character of it's denizens out the window.  "},{"Title":"Hell sure wasn't impressive...","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With the title Hellraiser III Hell on Earth this third installment of the Hellraiser franchise does seem to want to accomplish something extraordinarily grand. But truth be told then there wasn't even remotely anything even close to Hell being unleashed unto our world.That being said then don't get me wrong, because Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is still an adequate movie in the Hellraiser franchise. But it just wasn't as thrilling or vile as the original Hellraiser movie.One of the good things about this third movie is that more depth is added to the Pinhead character and it was a nice touch to offer that to the fans of the franchise.The fans watch Hellraiser for the deviant ideas and creations of Clive Barker's warped mind, but sadly this third movie didn't have a lot of a screen time with the Cenobites, which was a real shame. And the new Cenobites that were introduced in the movie just weren't all that impressive or memorable. I was, however, quite impressed with the stone pillar in which Pinhead was imprisoned. It had amazing details and a certain H.R. Geiger quality to it.Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is an entertaining enough movie in its own right, but it just wasn't the best in the Hellraiser franchise. "},{"Title":"It's the 90s, let's have fun!","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After two serious and dark films, Hellraiser 3 takes a different direction, away goes the grittiness and in comes comedy, explosions and pop-culture. Also looks like the movie makers wanted to make Pinhead more like an iconic super-villain like Jason and Freddy. Hellraiser 3 can't be looked at with serious eyes, because it's so campy and ridicules, it's a very typical for late 80s and 90s horror films where the movie makers just wanted to make them light and cartoonish. Hellraiser 3 does offer some entertainment value but nothing more. I've seen all of the Hellraiser movies and for me Hellreiser series died after Hellbound (Hellraiser II). "},{"Title":"A Pathetic Cash Grab","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm shocked to see it's still holding a 5 rating on IMDb, what a travesty in ratings. Hellraiser 3 is a poorly acted, poorly scripted, plodding craptastic insult to special effects and slap in the face to the first 2 classics in the franchise. This is a steaming pile of cinematic garbage served with freaking puns...PUNS NOW...on the side. Some reviewers on here are giving it 5 or 6 stars...why? Why in the name of all that's Clive Barker would you give this movie an average or better than average grade? What have you been watching to think this is an average movie people? And...8's? 9's? 10's? TENS EVEN!?! People...you're being bamboozled I tell you. A 10 in the horror genre is perhaps...The Shining, The Exorcist, Alien, you know...something with a strong screenplay, suspenseful cinematography, interesting and strong visuals...something that gets under our skin. How could you idiots rate this a 6 much less a 10, unless you have some sort of bad movie fetish, I just don't get it. I give this a 3. The acting was atrocious, the F/X were pitiful, the cinematography was hackish, and the plot was boring. The cenobites were oafish and pathetic....just a mess all around and if you like this movie then...well whatever. It gets a 3 from me because sadly there's even worse movies like this out there and I give Doug Bradly props for repping Pinhead...the other stars are for doing the credits the right way I guess...whatever, don't even watch this crud. "}{"Title":"It's a watchable third installment in the Hellraiser franchise","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The previous Hellraiser movies portrayed Pinhead as this mysterious enigma that is a force to be reckoned with. This time around Pinhead is portrayed as some boogeyman that needs other to power him back up. The plot is somewhat similar of the goons trying to get a powerful evil villain to come back to the real world with a physical form and powers. While a female reporter is trying to find out what is going on with crazy murders that is taking place and having crazy dreams and visions while doing so. The plot this time is super far-fetched and doesn't make much sense at all, especially when it comes to the human mind. The scare factor is almost all gone with this installment with more human indulgence going on. It actually seemed like a rehash of the first movie with more stuff going on, but more doesn't necessarily mean better when it comes to movies. This time it shows the a lot more human side of Pinhead and his personality traits when he was human. Of his thoughts, motives and desires. Which in a way would have been cool, but takes away from the effective momentum of Pinhead as a horror icon. Not only that this installment breaks away from the rules when it comes to the cenobites (it does explain why, but it gets distracting and feels like a cop-out for mayhem). This one expands upon the human indulgence on the human flesh and pleasure, not in depth though but exterior wise (most of the movie takes place at a night club). Including a bit more masochism as well when it comes to the humans and Pinhead. But it fails to expand up on the mythos in a effective manner. I personally don't think this installment is a effective installment, but it's just alright. It's not awful and for the most part at least watchable.5.6/10 "},{"Title":"Pinhead gets technical","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Strange thing in the world of the horror genre, we have the big names of Jason, Freddy and Michael. But there are a few names while still well known for some reason didn't provide such a big splash when it came to the box office like Hellraiser with Pinhead who is one of the best monsters in cinema. The monster is nothing more than about torture and pain, he feels no mercy towards anyone and loves the pleasure of hurting your flesh. The first Hellraiser is without a doubt a twisted crazy classic, to get into Clive Barker's head must be a trip. He created some very disturbing images that will never get out of your head once you see Hellraiser. It was the first time where a horror film had started dark and stayed dark throughout the entire movie and there was no letting go to let you breathe. Then the sequel came along, still staying dark and having a new world to take us into with the same characters and our questions from the first film were answered. It was a good sequel that could hold up a candle to the original. Then, in the spirit of most horror films, we were given the third Hellraiser called Hell on Earth.The revelation of his own former humanity has resulted in Pinhead being split into two distinct entities His former self, British Army Captain Eliot Spencer, and a manifestation of Spencer's id, which takes on the form of Pinhead. While Spencer ends up in limbo, Pinhead is trapped, along with the puzzle box, amongst the writhing figures and distorted faces etched into the surface of an intricately carved pillar - the Pillar of Souls. The pillar is bought by the rich and spoiled J.P. Monroe, owner of a popular nightclub called The Boiler Room. An ambitious young television reporter, Joey, slowly begins to learn about Pinhead and the mysterious puzzle box. She is introduced to the pain the box can bring when she views a teenage club-goer being ripped apart by the box's chains in a hospital emergency room. Joey is contacted by the spirit of Elliot Spencer, who tells her that this Pinhead is a separate entity. Without Spencer's humanity to act as a balancing influence, this Pinhead is completely evil and has no sense of order. Rather than abide by the laws of the Cenobite realm, he will indiscriminately wreak havoc on Earth for his own pleasure unless he can be stopped.So given new eye candy with Terry Farrell as the leading lady, competing with Ashley Laurence as Kirsty is no easy task. Terry does do pretty well in keeping up with Elliot Spencer, but her scenes with Pinhead are not up to par. A lot of fans did complain about the new cenobites, that they were too goofy looking, I agree in some sense but still liked the over all look of them. I thought they still were pretty intimidating, well except for the CD throwing cenobite, what was that about? I loved how in the end there were about 10 explosions every 2 minutes and they kept going and going and going. I also got a great kick out of how every person Joey bumped into died a second later in the end, if she ran into me on the other street, I'd be more afraid of her than Pinhead. The way people reacted in this film was unreal at times and the story was a bit silly and a let down from the two previous films. But I did find a certain entertainment from the film and I think some people are a little too harsh on it. Pinhead came to bring Hell on Earth and he certainly did for an hour and a half.6/10 "},{"Title":"A new direction for the series...the wrong way.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Basically I thought this movie sucked. Especially when you compare it to the last two films that spawned it. The director and or producers decided to make Pinhead and the Cenobites 'cool' and 'fun' like the Nightmare on Elm Street series did with Freddy. This is basically a failure. Don't get me wrong, Pinhead has some good moments of dialog as he manipulates these idiotic characters from the pillar. But the one-liners were much too cheesy for my tastes. Anyhow here's the lowdown.The good J.P. is a schmuck that you want to see killed by Pinhead. You get your wish. The club seems like a place I'd go if I were of age in '92. Terri was cool and hot. I wish she was the main character.The bad Weak story. Joey. I found the character annoying. What a terrible name for a woman. The new cenobites were ridiculous. They gave them one liners. It was embarrassing. The flashback war scenes with Joey. Joey's presence distracted from any effectiveness here. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There isn't really much to say about Hellraiser 3, because all Clive Barker fans are already familiar with this movie, and they all have strong opinions about it. I'm on the side of those who think that this movie single-handedly ruined the Hellraiser franchise, damning it to crappy, direct-to-video sequels. I'm not sure how one could mess up a Hellraiser movie so badly. Pinhead becomes a Freddy Krueger-inspired serial killer, spouting off one-liners and killing off young adults by the dozen. The Lament Configuration becomes Pinhead's sole weakness, rather than the vessel by which he is summoned. The cast is younger, prettier, and wears less clothes. The new Cenobites are a huge disappointment. What was once the stuff of nightmares becomes over-the-top and silly. In fact, the whole movie is campy, silly, and panders way too much to teenage audiences.The absolute worst part? I liked Anthony Hickox's Waxwork and Waxwork 2. How could he have made such a horrible mess of this movie? Hopefully, it was studio interference that ruined Hellraiser 3, but I guess everyone messes up sometimes. "},{"Title":"More Story Driven Less Talent","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first and second film in this series are probably the best, they offer up a decent story that is well acted. I've seen them both recently and can say that as horror movies go they still hold up even after all this time.With the push for digital effects in movies going higher and higher, well they had to cut the budget somewhere. While this the 3rd movie in the series has more back story for the main villain Pinhead, the acting talent working opposite Doug Bradley is lacking. Thats not to say Terry Ferrel's is a bad actress just that her talents either aren't quite developed in this film or it was made in a hurry to meet a deadline.Gone are the cenobite assistants to Pinhead, replaced by a new cast of cenobites, most of which just feel cheep and cookie cutter made.Many of the characters come across as very fake, as if either the actors aren't all that good or the production was in a hurry to finish and didn't get the best performance from each cast member.Special Effects for the time were decent costumes were not bad. What struck me as odd was the heavy 80's look through out this film, despite the fact that it was filmed in 92 a time when grunge was on the rise.All in all this film is good if you enjoy the series, but if your new to horror or aren't really big on the genre then id avoid this film. "},{"Title":"Harshly judged tantalising third","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A work of art contains 'Pinhead' who is hellbent on escaping and unleashing hell on earth, armed with a puzzle box can reporter Joey Summerskill stop his evil?Clive Barker is absent from a writing role which leaves Peter Akins to take up the reigns and to his credit this screen-play connects the previous films via various flash backs and recordings. However, the story follows a more linear narrative than it's predecessor. Follow up Hellraiser III Hell on Earth swaps the grittiness of the modestly budgeted first for a glossier grander slicker 3rd.  Pinhead is given more story, dialogue and exposition - possibly to appease a wider audience. Hell on earth is really a one-man-show, British actor Doug Bradley is allowed to give a pleasing head-to-head performance as both Pinhead and his former-self Captain Elliot Spencer. Terry Ferrell as the snooping reporter who walks the film playing the genre piece like an 80s thriller. There are some new less-menacing cenobites, that said,Terri/Female Cenobite played by Paula Marshall is noteworthy but her appearance is all too brief. The rest of the cast are forgettable, mainly their purpose is to allow Pinhead some elaborate torture kills.The special effects (although now dated) are digestible and oddly even though this film was made in 1992 it feels late eighties. Director Anthony Hickox competently delivers an entertaining instalment despite the choppy editing, lack of tension and gore.   Nevertheless, there are enough dream sequences, dead bodies and bloody scenes to keep most chill seekers happy until the explosive final act. Overall, in a traditional movie sense Hellraiser III is arguably a very strong sequel and viewer is left with tantalising closing scene, but in retrospect the concept is an empty promise. "},{"Title":"There is nothing majorly good here. There is nothing majorly evil. There is only flesh.","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I like director Anthony Hickox and I like the Hellraiser movies so Hellraiser III Hell On Earth has a lot in it's favour, as far as I'm concerned. Sadly, there's no denying that this was the movie that seemed to concentrate on turning Pinhead into a Freddy Krueger type, a horror icon who has as many one-liners as he has ways to kill someone.The story is a rather simple one. The cenobites are trapped in a statue that club owner J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt) buys for himself. A bit of blood later and we're in familiar territory with chains and hooks and pleasurable pain for those who find themselves at the mercy of the agents of the puzzle box. Reporter Joanne Summerskill (Terry Farrell) is, meanwhile, trying to make a name for herself with a newsworthy story. She's also been having some strange dreams lately, dreams that may allow someone very important to male contact with her.This movie is not a very good one. The acting is almost consistently abysmal from everyone involved (though Farrell does okay and Doug Bradley is very good), the script by Peter Atkins limps from one set-piece to the next with many boring moments in between and the extra time devoted to the backstory of Pinhead is something that many fans felt was unwarranted. Pinhead was just Pinhead - we found out that he'd once been a man in the second movie but there was no need to delve further into detail.Hickox directs all this competently enough but he's hampered by the weak material (though this would be far from the worst of the series). Thankfully, he pulls out all of the stops for the moments of major carnage. The sequence of destruction that takes place in The Boiler Room is still impressive for it's FX and nastiness.With some great gore, a touch of nudity and some creative new cenobites, this isn't a waste of time for fans of the first two movies but it's worth bearing in mind that it takes the series almost into standard slasher fare as opposed to the crazy darkness of the first two films. "},{"Title":"Pinhead entering Freddy Krueger territory=failure.","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (Credit) IMDb) Pinhead is stuck in a block after the Big Confrontation in Hellbound, The block containing Pinhead and the puzzle cube is bought by a young playboy as sculpture. Pinhead busies himself escaping by getting the playboy to lure victims to his presence so he can use their blood. Once free, he seeks to destroy the puzzle cube so he need never return to Hell, but a female reporter is investigating the grisly murders and stands in his way.I do actually manage to get some cheesy entertainment value out of this, but for the wrong reasons. This is not a Hellraiser movie, nor does it feel like one. In all honesty, it feels like a rejected plot straight out of a Nightmare on Elm Street sequel. Pinhead cracking jokes? Come on, I get they were desperate to make this franchise into a hit, but they were doing fine by themselves. Pinhead had already created a legacy with the first two movies, so why the comical route, more money? Well their attempt tanked with a measly 12 million at the box office for there efforts. The gore is certainly fun, but where it comes from it isn't. Some of the cenobites are laughable. One with a hole for a cigarette? One who ejects flying CD's? Bit much in my opinion. The dream sequences are probably the best part of the movie, and there are some solid performances. War scenes I should also give credit too, for looking realistic. Too bad the whole movie is basically a silly excuse for a sequel.Performances. Doug Bradley plays it OTT, and I didn't buy it. He wasn't funny, and just came across as an angry, comical, sadistic buffoon then scary. Give me the real Pinhead over this comedian any day! As Elliot he's very solid. His dream sequences with Farrell were well done, even if his dialog stunk. Kevin Bernhardt plays the sleazy J.P Monroe decently I suppose, but he felt a bit off sometimes. Don't know what it was, but it just felt that way. Also, he smokes in almost every single scene! Terry Farrell provides us with a solid lead. Couple of off moments, but she performed very well for the most part. Her strong-willed performance got her through this in one piece. Ken Carpenter is horrible as the Doc, plain and simple. Paula Marshall is very good as Terri. Her sniveling ways got a bit tiring after a while, but other then that, I enjoyed her performance. Her chemistry with Farrell is also good. Ashley Laurence has a cameo, nothing memorable.Bottom line. For some odd reason, I watch it once every couple of years. Probably because I'm a big fan of Pinhead. I get some amusement out of it, but I cannot in any sense of good conscience state it's a good sequel, because it's very mediocre. The real Pinhead died in number 2. Is it worth a viewing? Yes, I suppose it is. Not in a good way though.4 ½ /10 "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If I were writing an encyclopedia and it came to the point where I had to explain extreme special effects overkill, all I'd have to do is recommend this movie, particularly the last half hour of it.Up until the last half hour, it seems like a pretty good movie (I haven't seen the other ones), it had the gore and suspense of any great horror movie, but after Pinhead says I'm going to enjoy making you bleed, that's where you can really tell that they were still under-budget and went on a spending spree. The effects were so overdone that I ended up laughing through most of the end.I didn't notice too many continuity errors tho, the only one I can think of off bat is when Terri is running from Pinhead, the fire hydrant blows off and floods the street and the power lines fall into the water and you can see the sparks in the water. She steps up onto the sidewalk to escape the water. After being attacked by wires from the storm drain, she goes running down the street somehow not getting electrocuted. "},{"Title":"Ah, Hell","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" They've got to come up with better subtitles. The same word showing up in the main and subtitle should never be done once (Hellbound Hellraiser II,) but twice? (Hellraiser III Hell on Earth) What's next? Hellraiser Hell in a Handbasket? All Hell Breaks Loose Hellraiser? Or just Ah, Hell, Another Hellraiser? (Actually, there'll be more in the future of the series Hellseeker and Hellworld. I don't think those were as clever as mine.) While they're at it, they should pick up a better screenplay writer. Or reboot the series, despite a lot of people's distaste for reboots/remakes. Hellraiser III Hell on Earth, though not a horrible movie, would've been best served shelved and then rebooted two decades later.In the same lines of other 1980s and early 1990s horror franchise sequels, comes Pinhead's third outing in which now the box is bestowed upon a TV reporter, Joey (Farrell,) in the Big Apple who must trick Pinhead &#x96; for some demon, sorry, Cenobite, he's pretty naïve &#x96; in the ghost world of Pinhead's alter-ego Captain Spencer so Pinhead can be defeated&#x85;ONCE AND FOR ALL! Seriously, they were making this up as they went along. But there's a little more to the thin story. Joey's trying to make it big in the news, so she's trying to crack a story after witnessing a exploding victim of the puzzle box everyone in the Horror Movie world should avoid, much like saying Candyman 5x in the mirror or going into the water&#x85;when they tell you there's a shark or piranha in there.Meanwhile, Pinhead's pinned to a post and copying from the movie's two predecessors, he needs someone to bring him blood so he can escape. No problem &#x96; these Hellraiser movies are chalk full of fools. Needless to say, he escapes, and there really is Hell on Earth with the biggest blood bath totaling more deaths than the first two movies combined times six.I admired that about this movie. Not only was the subtitle (lazy, though) accurate, but with the very limited budget &#x96; what producer really thought his/her return on investment would be high, anyways, so aim low &#x96; they did an effective job at mimicking Superman II's NYC Street Fight. (Yes, I'm aware it was Metropolis in the Superman flick, but NYC was always the inspiration for NYC.) In addition to the street scene where Joey must flee Discman (I actually liked that one) and other foes, the club attack was pretty impressive, for what it was. If you're into Slicing'N'Dicing types of horror movies.The lines were weak (SEE Hellbound Hellraiser II's much better display of Pinhead quotes,) the special effects &#x96; though slightly improved (SLIGHTLY) &#x96; weren't quite there yet and the sound quality was awful, as was the acting. The sequel's definitely inferior, and they literally just made up new rules or new scenarios to fit the screenplay that had to take all but 15 minutes, which included a 10 minute break, to write, but it's recommended for ONLY die-hard Pinhead fans. You could do worse. "}{"Title":"Stupid....","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm serious when I write this comment Is this a horror movie or a comedy? I just can't figure that out. I was ready for som pure sick violence and gore which I did get, but besides that I saw a CD Cenobite, a Camera-man Cenobite and a cocktail Cenobite. Even a smoker cenobite and a metal pipe in his head cenobite. The camera-man cenobite even said hilarious things after killing people like That's a wrap and Ready for your close up. Even Pinhead started to use muscle power and yelled and growled like a dog. They killed Pinhead to say it in other words. And one scene you could se Jim Carrey appear in a coffee cup! It looked just like him! Surely it wasn't him, but... Jeez! I'm giving this movie 5 for two reasons awesome killings and scenes that made me cry of laughter. Seriously, I cried! For all you Pinhead is awesome and mysterious-people out there Do not watch this movie! "},{"Title":"The best in the series","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think that this was a very entertaining movie but just a little to gory in one of the scenes. You'll see pretty much of Pinhead (very mighty scene in a cathedral) and his pale friends with interesting special effects. In my option this is the movie that contain the most in the Hellraiser series. But I think that the first movie have the best scene. When Pinhead and the other demons come to Kristys bed at the mental hospital. There mighty appearance and cold soulless way to speak (especially moonface or what to call him?) made my neckhair to raise. Not because I was afraid but because it was so damn good. In the second movie they don't come close to this feeling. The third movie has the best feeling and effects overall. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Series that I've seen","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen the latest one, Hellseeker I believe it's called, but this is by far the worst out of the first five I've seen.  So far my ranking goes something like this1. Hellraiser - Gotta love the grittiness and gore and insanity.2. Hellraiser V Inferno - The only sequal to bring something new to the series.3. Hellraiser II Hellbound - Not bad, an interesting recreation of hell, but the story was extremely scattered.  Good visual effects.4. Hellraiser IV Bloodline - Alright until they ended up in space. What's with horror movie sequals that end up in space?5. Hellraiser III Hell On Earth - Lets get to it.Lame story.  Cheap CGI visuals. Lackluster characters.  Spineless villains. What was with the CD throwing cenobyte... I mean.. come on.The only good part was the multiple-hook-ripping scene in the beginning of the movie.  The plot was nonsensical. The characters were totally one dimensional and unbelieveable, and there seemed to be some failed attempt at retuning the villains. The acting wasn't even up to hellraiser standards.Anyways, not really worth watching if you ask me.  Maybe for the gore, because that's the only remotely interesting thing about this movie.  "},{"Title":"Another good entry in the series","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hellraiser III Hell on Earth  was another good entry in the series. While the film has little in common with the first except for a cameo by Ashley Laurence it's good in its own right. The film takes a different approach and succeeds. Terry Farrel ( sexy as hell) gives a good performance and it's good to see a early Paula Marshall. The film has some scares and introduces a few new Cenboites including .CD With a tit shot and nice scares. Hellraiser III Hell on Earth  is a good entry.  "},{"Title":"A bad movie, that's really bad...","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, I like bad movies.  I even liked Friday the 13th. Part 5 A New Beginning.  My criteria for a bad horror film 1) the acting doesn't have to be great, but at least as good as a high school drama student; 2) special effects don't have to look that real, but at least show that someone tried to make it look realistic (show a little effort);  3) it should have a somewhat coherent plot; and (applying only to sequels) 4) let it follow the other movies logically, use a little continuity, and resolve what was left unresolved in the previous film(s).  That said, this film isn't even 'so-bad-it's-good' it's just bad.  Terrible acting, terrible story, but slightly follows previous movies in the series via references to Kirsty Cotton, from the first two films.  But even the reference is, at best, weak and only serves as a way to connect the film to the others (which is okay, but amounts to-- and resolves nothing).  The new cenobites are pretty stupid too.  This movie tries to be things it cannot be it tries to be a good story, but it's not; it tries to add a little comedy, but nothing's funny; it tries to be scary, but if there was any horror in this movie it's the fact that it was made at all.  But it is gory, but not like the previous movies.  Pinhead is more menacing when he's in an atmosphere that's not quite British and not quite American.  He's scarier in an attic or in the walls of a mental hospital than a New York nightclub or in the streets of Manhattan.  This film sort of suffers from the 'Friday the 13th Syndrome'--let's put Pinhead in New York and see what happens.  What's next, Pinhead in space? "},{"Title":"True Life Scares","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was living in New York City when I saw this movie.  At one point, Terry Farrell goes running down the street with several Cenobites hot on her trail.  They happened to chase her past the very movie theater I was inside watching the movie.  I was badly frightened and began to scream and panic.  I thought, The monsters are right outside.  What if Terry Farrell leads them in here?  What if they decide to stop chasing her and come into the theater to get me?  I was terrified, rooted to my seat thinking that if they did, I would see my own self on the screen, being killed, sent to Hell or at the very least seriously mutilated.By the way, it's virtually impossible to translate Clive Barker to the screen.  He can't even do it himself (Hellraiser, Nightbreed, Lord of Illusions.)  This is an exception.  It's a pretty decent horror flick with a delightfully ominous and grisly opening.   "},{"Title":"From what I've seen, it's the best of the series.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  rating ** 1/2 out of ****I've put off watching Hellrasier III Hell on Earth for a long time now, probably because of how I didn't particularly care that much for its predecessors.  The original Hellraiser was a so-so horror film that was veering dangerously close to sub-par territory and Hellbound was a sequel that featured an incredibly silly core for a plot when you think about it (It turns out the girl's journey to hell was nothing more than an attempt by her uncle, of all people, to get her into his bed).  But it's to my surprise that Hellraiser III is actually better.  Why is this?  Probably because it has no pretentious story pretending to tell more than there actually is.  This film is made for no other purpose than for sheer entertainment value, and for that I find it considerably more respectable.  It also has Terry Farrell in it, and she's a considerable improvement above Ashley Laurence and Claire Higgins combined in both acting ability and looks.The movie begins with Joey Summerskill (Terry Farrell), a down-on-her-luck reporter, trying to get her big story.  She's in a hospital one night, and a young man is admitted and he has chains embedded into various parts of his body.  The doctors try to do what they can but he literally tears apart in front of their eyes.  This, Joey believes, is the story she's been looking for.  She tracks down the person who brought the young man to the hospital, a woman named Terri, who apparently is the boyfriend of J.P. Monroe, the owner of a popular club.  It's also this same club that contains a statue of the cenobite Pinhead, whose demon form is now trapped in this condition but can be revived with blood.  Pinhead is eventually awakened and he makes a deal with Monroe, thus creating a chain of events that sets Pinhead free and out to wreak havoc on the city.There are a few things that are immediately noticable about this film when compared to the previous installments.  For one, it doesn't have that dark, pervasive atmosphere, which is good since it wouldn't fit here at all.  Another thing is that the movie has a more polished look to it, due mainly to the fact this was a big studio release.  So, on a technical level, this movie does indeed look more professional and competent than the other entries.  Of course, it takes more than just that to make Hellraiser III superior to its predecessors, and it accomplishes that because it's a fun ride and acknowledges its own lack of ultra-seriousness.It's in my opinion that series fans are being far too hard on this movie and are pretty much wrong when they consider it among the series' weakest films.  I've even heard complaints that it lacks the depth of the original, which just makes me want to laugh because the original had about as much as depth as a puddle of dog urine.  Stylish direction and weird imagery does not add up to meaningful and deep, and director Clive Barker didn't have the convictions to take his film beyond the level of a gorefest, albeit still a somewhat stylish one.  The sequel, Hellbound, was just a dreary and silly descent into a very bland-looking hell.Director Anthony Hickox chooses to play Hellraiser III as a thrill ride in one form or another and is mostly successful.  The movie begins somewhat slowly (though never boring for a moment) but builds up to a furious final half-hour that features a hell of a lot of gore, some terrific visual effects (as well as some weak ones), and a slew of new cenobites, all of which lack the dark seriousness of the previous ones and are obviously played for laughs here.  Not a bad thing, if you ask me, considering some of the past cenobites were a little unintentionally funny and a change of pace is welcome.As is usual, you can expect tons of gore from a Hellraiser film, and this one's certainly no exception.  I believe I saw the R-rated version, so that probably explains why a few scenes looked a bit trimmed and toned down.  There are still some very memorable scenes of mass slaughter, such as a nightclub massacre that results in what must have been 100 total deaths, an immense body count!  The gore here looks less grimy and repulsive, and as a result, is less disgusting and disturbing than the previous films. Terry Farrell is pretty good as the reporter who has stumbled across the biggest story of her life.  Admittedly, her good looks do mask some of her less convincing moments, but she's fairly solid for the majority of the running time.  Doug Bradley is a scene-stealer as Pinhead, who is used more extensively in this film.  Gone is the enigmatic creature and in its place is a more darkly humorous and delightfully wicked villain.  A lot of series fans complain about this rendition of Pinhead, but I enjoy it far more than his We have such sights to show you! bits from the original.  His performance as his human self is not bad, either, and it's actually a little hard to believe (in a good way) that these two very different characters are played by the same actor.Now, this is a good sequel and fun horror film, but it's by no means a great movie, which obviously means it still has flaws.  The plot stretches a bit thin at times (but there's still far more of one here than in Hellbound) and some of the effects work is a bit shoddy at times.  Some of the one-liners are also more groan-inducing than hilarious, such as That's a wrap! and Time for your close-up! The movie is also never scary or particularly suspenseful and you do get the feeling that Hickox was often trying to play the film as a flat-out horror flick.But on the whole, this is much better than I could have ever expected and it's nice to be pleasantly surprised by a film that I was certain was going to be pretty weak.  Another sequel was made not long afterward, entitled Hellraiser Bloodline, which I have yet to see but have read almost nothing but bad reviews.  I'll have to check it out sometime, but it seems likely that Hellraiser III is probably the best in this series. "},{"Title":"Nice Idea...Bad Delivery","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I picked this bad boy up on DVD, all I can say is I only wish I had seen it before buying it. I had seen Hellraiser 1 & 2 before and thought that the story was progressing fairly nicely until I watched this monstrosity.The director of this movie took a new twist and made it more into a wide spread killing spree than the other films. I found that the bar scene was done tackily and that the effects were mediocre at best. The editing was well done and kept the story moving along nicely. Overall I would say rent this one before buying it due to the fact that it's not everyone's cup of tea!3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"One of the two greatest Hellraiser flicks ever made!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the Hellraiser movie that made ME a fan! Great plot, cool new Cenobites, LOADS of blood and gore,...ok, most of the acting- cept for Doug Bradley( Pinhead), and one or two other characters- completely blows. But there's one thing that separates this film from all the others, pretty much making it tie in the top spot with Hellraiser II the Lament Configuration takes a few new forms in this flick- new forms, might I add, that it takes in THIS flick, and ONLY in this flick! This one's a keeper- and DEFINITELY worth checkin' out! "},{"Title":"kick ass","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For being a horror-loving maniac, I hate to say I had not seen either of the Hellraiser movies until recently. I was born in 84, so I definitely had time to catch this one. My mother suggested I rent the first movie one night b/c I was searching for a bloody, scary, sickening movie...yes, I love those the best. So I picked it up...and, suffice to say, I thought was good and went and got part II, III, and IV. I should say, no movie I have seen has had such gore...well, besides brief moments in EVENT HORIZON (my fav movie of all time...maybe) Doug Bradley makes Pinhead almost loveable. For me at least. I find I hate him at points, but love him at others...maybe it's my fascination with the underworld. He has a unique look, as well as the other cenobytes. Out of the series (haven't seen part V yet....still on the one-night shelves) this one (III) is most definitely my favorite. The humor is great. Pinhead is in it enough to satisfy me...whereas he was not in the previous ones. Pinhead makes even the ugliest depths of hell look beautiful. Of course, being a gore and hell fanatic...maybe it's just myself. I would love to meet Clive and Doug and see how it really was to make these films. To me, they are brilliant and amazing. Most definitely good horror films.  This one, being the best. -) "}{"Title":"Hell to earth... please send in script doctor","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser was quite the franchise back in the days and I decided to revisit the world of the Cenobites and the Pinhead phenomenon. The first part had all the terror, but fell apart when it mattered most (the ending was atrocious). Hellbound improved on the script and had some great memorable scenes, but all in all was just too chaotic and amateurishly written to really captivate. Hell on Earth filmed several years later is a step up from part II, but a long way away from being a good movie.This part focuses mostly on Pinhead (Doug Bradley) as he tries to escape the confines of his realm of hell and traverse into our world. The means of achieving this is through the sculpture that emerges at the end of Hellbound. There to stop him is Joanne (Terry Farrell), a failing news anchor with high aspirations, but not much luck. Unfortunately for her Pinhead has already broken into our world and is ready to introduce torture that this world has yet to see...This movie very much focuses in Pinhead, the break out character of the series and in some sense Doug Bradley is the sole reason that this movie is any good. No matter how crappy lines he receives he sells them with such conviction and evil that you find the whole scenario believable. The back-up cast is relatively fine, albeit visibly C-class actors, so Bradley really shines amongst mediocrity.There are some nice lines in this one, albeit all too often the script dives head-first into banal corny directions making several scenes of horror a bit laughable, instead of scary. The most idiotic cop-out by the script concerns Pinhead being a bad-ass killer throughout, but suddenly becomes as harmless as a poodle with rabies when Joanne is the target. On the plus side for the scriptwriter someone finally tried to introduce some set of rules which reign in the world of Cenobites and the mysterious cube. Not all of it makes sense, but at least the film seems to have more focus and doesn't derail as Hellbound did.The last third of the movie is really a let-down, after a quite nice build to the culmination. Suddenly we have goofy Cenobites popping up all over the place. Unfortunately they provoke laughter and not fright as all of the Cenobites from the first two parts did. Enough said that you have a DJ Cenobite, a cameraman Cenobite and a barman Cenobite... Basically this causes the movie to take a turn for the worse into bad 80s horrormovieland...Surprisingly after 4 years the special effects seem to be worse than in the original. The first two parts actually withheld time rather well, whilst in this one you can't help notice how out-dated some of the effects are. That said the sculpture is done brilliantly and several scenes may make you cringe in a good way.To finish on a high note The end scene is pure brilliance. "},{"Title":"Pinhead what do you think you are doing","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched the first 2 films in loved them. I really was looking forward to seeing this. How disappointed I was.The story went well but they chose actors that cannot act to save their life. The characters, I didn't really connect with.The scenes with the new demons, oh dear. They just went over the top and utterly ridiculous.One of the most disappointing thing is that pinhead lost his evil voice. Nooo he is supposed to sound evil.The scenes with the war dreams and the new dimensions just did not make any sense and didn't go anywhere Seriously I think they should have stopped at 2. "},{"Title":"exploding head","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" did anyone else notice that when the mans head explodes in the first few minutes of the movie that when the woman leaves the room to throw up, u can see the man in the background with his head well intact? this was extremely bad editing as it had just shown his whole head completely torn apart and yet seconds later it was bloody but in one piece! other than this ridiculously crap editin piece i enjoyed this movie, its not as repetitive as the first two in the sense of julia, frank and kirsty nonsense! all that was okay the first time round but why make another movie out of it?! different people is always better but i have to say the familiarisation of kirsty and the cenobytes was enjoyable. i think that there was too much sex in this movie. it was really unnecessary and seemed quite stupid as u watched it. "},{"Title":"Hey Pinhead is finally the star.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After the first two movies being the most popular character and having very little screen time, finally Pinhead is the focus.  Ironically, this one is rated lower than the first two, so maybe he was better off in the background.  I actually like this one about the same as two and I liked two better than one.  So I did like this part better than one also.  I am guessing though, this one isn't liked as much because it really is more of your standard slasher rather than the twisted world of the first two so I can understand why people didn't like it as much.  This one has Pinhead actually separated from the human he was.  He is still part of this macabre statue seen at the end of part two and he is now owned by a very odd art dealer.  This and that happens and before long Pinhead is unleashed on earth killing everyone in his sights and changing them into more weird beings like him.  There is also this lady involved I think she was a reporter and she has a dream of the guy who Pinhead was.  All in all I thought it was okay, but this is the last Hellraiser movie I watched and from what I see here there are quite a few more of them. "},{"Title":"good but not that good","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is good but not as good as the original two. The thing I liked about this one is that it had more gore than the other ones. I wished the original Cenobites were on this one. The new Cenobite that shoots cds out of his head is just dumb. Over all it was OK. I recommend this to anyone who likes the Original Hellraiser movies.  "},{"Title":"The worst of the four","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love this movie, I really do. I think all the Hellraiser movies are brilliant. One of them, however, has to be the weaker one. And this is it. It doesn't have the suspense of the others and there seem to be an orgy in creating new Cenobites, and (although I like Camerahead) it feels like the rest of them were just 'forced' into the plot. Still, it's a really good horror movie, and if you like the others, you should see this one. "},{"Title":"Failure in the writing; most of the thrill was gone.","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Rich and entitled JP mistakes one of the pillars of souls (which includes a puzzle cube) as a work of art, and purchases it. Clever lad.Joey is a junior reporter who is discouraged that she is not getting good stories to cover. Then she witnesses a man being destroyed by what looks like a cenobite attack. So who would believe her? Her only clue is Terri, who might be one of JP's girl friends. Terri kept the cube that the dead man broke out of the pillar of souls that JP bought.JP gets bit by a rat hiding in the hold in the pillar of souls. His blood is absorbed by the Pinhead part of the sculpture.Terri welcomes Joey's interest in the case, and helps her dig into the art world and nightlife that JP inhabits. They find a connection to the Channard institute from the second film.While JP entertains a new girl he's picked up, Pinhead shows signs of waking up. The next morning, Pinhead absorbs the girlfriend into the pillar of souls, and Pinhead becomes able to talk to JP about their mutual interests. JP is repelled and quite curious at the same time. He tries to lure Terri back to get further along in the game with Pinhead. She decides to return to the familiar, in spite of everything. JP tries to feed her to Pinhead, but Terri turns the tables on him.Pinhead's human side contacts Joey via television (hokey moment there) asking for help.How does Terri do against the resurrected cenobite Pinhead? Will Joey get any traction helping the human side of Pinhead? Will the open doorway for the cenobites be closed again? -----Scores------Cinematography 5/10 Netflix, oi. Netflix streamed this film in 1.33 aspect, despite the fact that the film was shot in 1.85. This means visual information was literally cut off.Sound 8/10 Music was composed for the film by Randy Miller, plus music from a number of rock acts was included. Some of the club scene 'live' music was pretty good.Acting 4/10 I liked Terry Farrell as Jadzia Dax in Star Trek DS9, but not so much here. To make it worse, the movie made a poor attempt to convert the actress into being a blonde. Doug Bradley was fine as usual. Paula Marshall I could have done without. Kevin Bernhardt showed all the talent of a bad high school actor.Screenplay 2/10 The character Terri could knock out JP with one short jab? Give me a break. There's a whole lot less here in terms of story and motivation than in the first two. The feeling of suspense, menace, and what-happens-next was considerably less. The carnage at the club was less affecting than the more personal horrors in the first and second films.SFX 3/10 Very little special here. Explosions for the sake of explosions is just the opposite of convincing. Some of the special FX were just stop action with very few stops. "},{"Title":"The Worst Installment In The Franchise","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am a huge fan of the majority of the Hellraiser franchise. I loved the first two films, Bloodline was good, Inferno was a great (and imaginative) entry, Deader was OK too and Hellworld was a very interesting entry (with the best twist ending in the whole series). But Hell On Earth made me sick, and I'm not blaming the gore. The acting was horrendous, the designs on the new Cenobites looked completely half- assed and looked like something from a MadTV parody sketch of Hellraiser, rather than a REAL installment to the one of the most imaginative and interesting horror franchises of all time.Pinhead, who used to be a calm, intelligent and somewhat wise villain that loosely acted as an anti-hero helping Kirsty suck her sick-minded uncle and love-struck step-mother back into the box (as seen in the first two films). But in Hell On Earth, he is morphed into a dull, one-sided slasher villain who just randomly kills whenever he feels like it (aka what the Pinhead character is the EXACT OPPOSITE of). Even in the audio commentary included on the DVD, Doug Bradley (Pinhead) displayed his displeasure of his performance in HOE.Overall, there are some FEW interesting ideas wandering around the dull story and the score is great too. But the horrible acting, the lazy designs on the new Cenobites, the dull approach on Pinhead and the poor script killed this film for me and is, in my opinion and hopefully everyone else's, the worst installment in the Hellraiser franchise... "},{"Title":"Just Horrible","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have seen most of the Hellraiser movies and this one is definitely the worst.The thing that nearly made me switch the film off was the new cenobites. What a complete insult to all hellraiser fans. The cenobites are suppose to be both terrifying and sophisticated and not full of cheesy one liners. A Camera man, DJ and bartender cenobite? Come on!!! I'm glad that whoever came up with those cenobites either got fired or got a kick up the ass because Hellraiser 4 (bloodlines) saw the return of some really creative cenobites.Jesus wept........more like Clive Barker wept.If you loved the first two movies and want to carry on watching Hellraiser movies......then skip this load of dung and go straight on to Hellraiser Bloodlines. "},{"Title":"lacks the imagination of the first two films","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this third film represents a steep drop in quality from 1 and 2.there's very little imagination here.the story is pretty lame.the Cenobites(except for Pinhead) are also pretty lame in this one.there's no real sense of fear in this one,no real excitement.the movie heads into the realm of slasher flick at times.also,it's slow for probably the first half.i wouldn't really consider this a Hellraiser movie,other than the fact that Pinhead is in it.it's a pale imitation of the first two.it's not necessarily a horrible movie but it doesn't meet the Hellraiser standard in my opinion.iv'e seen a lot of horrid movies,and this doesn't fall into that category.for me,Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is a 5/10 "}{"Title":"The Decline of the Cenobites begins...","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The Hellraiser franchise is probably one of the most ingenious ideas ever in Horror cinema, but sadly it is also the proof that ingenious Horror formulas usually decline with each sequel. Clive Barker's Hellraiser of 1987 was an absolute masterpiece of Horror and positively one of the most terrifying films ever brought to screen. The 1988 sequel Hellbound Hellraiser II was not quite en par with its predecessor, but still a great and genuinely scary Horror film with an incredible atmosphere, terrifying infernal villains and ultra-gruesome gore effects. This third film in the series, Hellraiser III Hell On Earth of 1992 only keeps up on the gore, but sadly not on atmosphere and suspense, and is an ideal example of how the 90s were the decade which generally marked the decline of the Horror genre.I wouldn't necessarily call Hell On Earth a bad film as such, but I simply find it annoying to an infuriating point how the film detaches the creepiness of its predecessors. The settings of part 1 and 2 were Hellish beyond comparison, the epitome of an original and highly terrifying vision of cinematic Hell. This third part is suddenly set mainly in a club where a bunch of idiots dance to bad music and pseudo-macabre decoration. The first face that is seen in the film is that of club-owner J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt), and from the very first second, I couldn't wait for that idiot to die a violent death. The guy buys a morbidly-looking sculpture, which is - surprise! - a hideout in which Pinhead and his fellow Cenobites are waiting to be awoken... The majority of the other characters are not much less annoying. The only slightly likable human character is the female lead Joanne, played by Terry Farell, and that's only because she's pretty hot. The worst thing about Hell On Earth, however, is the decline of the iconic character of Lead Cenobite Pinhead (Doug Bradley). As it was the case in so many other Horror films in the 90s, the makers of this film obviously felt the necessity of giving one of the most terrifying Horror villains a 'funny' touch - which completely destroys the gruesome greatness of the character. They even felt the need to make a 'good' counterpart to Pinhead - the person he was before becoming a demon. Also, Pinhead's persona is turned upside-down as he laughs all the time in this one - another aspect which lessens the creepiness of the character. Even so, Pinhead is still by far the most memorable aspect of this film. Another aspect in which this is still exceptional is the ultra-gruesome and genuinely sadistic gore. Gore alone isn't everything, though. Among other unnecessary aspects, Hell On Earth adds many superficially 'coool' elements like blue cyber-rays or a Cenobite with a Camera coming out of his eye. Ouch! Overall, this review may sound a bit too pessimistic. As said above, the film isn't all THAT bad, and it definitely has its entertaining moments. It is just so unspeakably inferior to its predecessors that it is hard to point out any positive points. It is still better than most of the sequels to come, but the lack of scariness and the travesty of the original is hard to forgive. "},{"Title":"The Turning Point","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This garbled, confused and at all stages, amateurish movie is the reason why the Hellrasier franchise has turned into nothing more than a incoherent series of proving grounds for b-movie directors.Whereas the first and the second movie, have a firm grip on the Hellraiser mythology in terms of themes and the more technical aspects, director Hickox makes sure to blunder his way through the process of crafting the movie, and to firmly stab the mythology in the back. Sub-par editing, bland acting and dull settings are just a few of the things that makes this Hellraiser one of the worst. Suffice it to say that it has as much quality as Hellworld, but whereas Hellworld only violates a series that was already dead, Hellraiser 3 loads, locks and fires the killing shot.Lets take a look at a few of the reasons, this trash is only worthy of scorn or even wrathWhereas the first two feature Cenobites and their world as based outside traditional western belief system, and centers on more broad themes of lust and perversion , sure its called hell in the first two, but it is strongly implied that it is not connected to a contrary belief system; this is a hell that takes all comers, from the perverted (Frank)to the innocent (Kirsty). Hell itself is positioned in another dimension or even state of consciousness. Hellrasier 3 turns Pinhead into an antichrist figure and a harbinger for some sort of hell on earth. It completely ignores the previous notions of hell and seems intent of wrapping it into layman's definition of satanism and all its trappings . As a result the mythology ends up as pinhead and his minions packed into into the simplest of religious understanding.Pinhead is given way too much screen time in this one. One would have thought this was good, but since the script cannot handle the character with any sort of complexity or mystique, he ends up as buffoon. This is the exact point where Pinhead turned from the majestic emissary of lust and torment, and into the creature serving as plot device for moralistic horror clichés , as we have seen in the fifth, sixth, seventh and eight installments . The regal monologues seen earlier, has been replaced with a baser language and foolish one liners. During the film it got to the point were i half expected the character to fully make the transition to urban slang in order for the debasement to be complete.This assault on the series isn't done with visual subtlety either. The previous installments created doomy and intriguing imagery, using detailed sets, mysterious props and sheer presence from the actors. Hellrasier 3 used the standard action fare of exploding cars and flying glass, in the hopes that this will pass for horror. There's plenty of gore, as there should be in any Hellraiser film, but the inspired dispatchings are far in between, and Pinhead and crew seems more interested in getting the job done, than taking any pleasure in it. Its a classic case of quantity over quality.Instead of interesting and almost tragic (but never harmless) cenobites, we are presented with a gang of cenobites whose design seems to inspired by a casual glance round the scriptwriters apartment. These creatures are purely there to showcase creature fx, not because they serve the already barely coherent plot. As a result they all end up appearing shallow and certainly random. The story revolves partly around TV-reporter Joeys (played by looker Terry Farell, that seems to be incapable of expressing even the basest of emotions) investigation of a gory accident connected to a fancy nightclub, and partly on the owner of said nightclub. A few links to the originals are present, but the script fails to use any of these links successfully, and ends up with serious plot hole issues best ignored. The ending (and the events leading to it)is possibly the worst in any of the Hellraiser films yet , i lack words to describe my feelings about the nonsensical ending. Loathing is the word that might be most appropriate. It is evident that few of the involved had any love for the franchise. This movie was made purely for the studios coffers and the crews paychecks. We, as viewers, are poorer for it. "},{"Title":"Best Hellraiser movie I've seen","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wow. this movie was really really really amazing. Certainly better than Hellbound, and I'd even say better than the first one. This time, the story takes place in the real world, not some isolated house or a mental hospital...or Hell. Pinhead was redeemed in my eyes as a force to be reckoned with. Example JP--Jesus Christ! Pinhead--Not quite. Terry Farrell played a compelling heroine, but I'm also a star trek fan so i had to say that. Trivia in case anyone cares Andrew Robinson from the first movie was in Star Trek Deep Space Nine with Terry Farrell for seven years. If you really want to get into the Hellraiser films, see the first one, skip hellbound and then watch this. "},{"Title":"He's back","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This first time i saw this film i didn't care much for it. The second time i saw it i really liked it. After seeing the second one this one at first seemed like a let down. Now i think it just took it in another direction. This was the first movie to make Pinhead a real bad guy like Freddy Krueger. Before this he was just a cool side character in my mind. The movie has some real stupid things in it near the end with new Cenobites throwing cd's and crap but other then that the movie is a cool Horror film. Pinhead has some good lines and i like the background history on Pinhead. If you have seen the first 2 then check it out. "},{"Title":"Genuine Time Waster on Earth.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Tedious third installment in the vastly popular series loses what very little steam it had in the 1980s by 1992. This time the demented demon Pinhead (Doug Bradley once again) is literally stuck in the odd Pandora's Box that has always been the serie's primary calling card. After a rich play boy buys the strange item, chaos strikes as Pinhead wants to bring his crazed cabal of devils into the real world for good. A female reporter learns of the happenings and tries to become the heroine this time. Hellraiser III Hell on Earth does not fit well with the first two films (this does not really matter anyway). The gore and mess that was so prevalent in the first two installments is not near as apparent here. This will make those few horror fans who care turn away perhaps. Most all others will stay away anyway. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Disapointing","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As a lot of people has already said, this is a poor sequel. Plot is weak, there is your average teenagers without any personality. Sex and murder are shown in a so conventional way, nothing like the twisted views in Hellraiser. "},{"Title":"Truly a Great Sequel!!!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although None of the Hell Raiser Sequels have been bad, Hell Raiser III Hell on Earth has to be My Personal Favorite of the Series. Scary, Entertaining, and The Acting was Darn Good! I Also enjoyed the Ending, as Well as the Exciting Climax found Two Thirds of the Way into the Film. Horror Fans Have got to See This! Some People even Say It's better than the Original! I Wouldn't say it was Better than The Original. I Would say it's Better than any of the Sequels.I Wouldn't Just Say This is the Best of The Hell Raiser Sequels, I Would even go as Far as to Say it Is the Second Greatest Sequel in Cinematic History (Of Course, Puppet Master III is the Best Sequel EVER). For Those Who need to Be Warned, This Movie has a lot Of Gore. I Don't Mind It, But That's Just Me (I Own the Unrated Version, The Rated Version Will be A Lot less Gory) You Decide!I Wish I Could Comment A lot on The Terrifying Climax and Well Thought out Scares. But The Last Thing I Would Want to do Is Possibly Spoil any Second of This Great Movie. All I Will Say is Scary, Entertaining, Clever, Original, and It is a Masterpiece. 10 out of 10. Grade A+Fans of this Should Check out Puppet Master, A Nightmare On Elm Street, Castle Freak, Dawn of the Dead, Night of the Living Dead, Leprechaun, Texas Chain Saw Massacre, and Friday the 13th. For More Recommendations, please Check the Other Movies I Have Commented on By Clicking on my Name Above this Comment Section.    "},{"Title":"The Best of the Four","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Finally, a decent Hellraiser movie.  Doug Bradley and Terry Farrell are both entertaining and interesting, and in a way the movie seems to be parodying the previous ones  the Pinhead in this movie is an evil shadow of the original, and you get the impression the writers are making a comment on the original and its weaker sequel.  One wonders how much work Barker put into this (reputedly, not much).  It has some of the humor and wit that is lacking from the previous two, and Barker's own works as well.  There's still plenty of gore galore, though, for those with a taste for such things.  And Pinhead has the best lines of any of the movies. "},{"Title":"A great follow-up to the second, with plenty of gore too..","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *warning this review does not cover the whole movie, just a brief(but long-typed) summary.Alright, just bought the DVD, loved it! First it starts out showing jp (the medium-rich nightclub owner) buying a statue of distorted faces, one of which (THE MAIN ONE) is pinhead, there is the box stoned into it. Then joey's at the nightclub and sees doctors pulling in a boy all bloodied with chains impaling his body, later the chains shock him and you see his head explode and chunks of it go everywhere (A+ on the gore there!) So now Joey is working on the case, she makes friends with Terri and they kind of work together on the case. (SKIPPING AHEAD A FEW SCENES) THen it shows JP giving a rose to a pretty blone, then 1 minute later banging her in the room in front of the statue, eventually the blonde gets all mad and then yells at him backing up to the statue, then chains come flying out of the statue and rip off her epidermal layer, it is another A+ on the gore, then the chains suck her into the statue, basically Pinhead talks JP into getting women for him to (KILL/BRING TO HELL) So he gets Terri back and they fight after Terri knows what's going on then pinhead shoves 2 HUGE pistons into jp's head, impaling it (A- on the gore here) basically pinhead talks to Terri when he is out of the statue, then he walks into the nightclub and massacres it (A+++ on the gore here!) But you don't see it all eventually you have 40 ppl left and it shows the door with blood gushing under it. Joey calls the camera man to the site and joey leaves after him, she doesn't find the camera man (which is really like a main character) she goes up in the nightclub to find disturbing/gruesome dead bodies, some hanging by their tongues, all mutilated, skin ripped open, pool balls stuck in their throats, ew! (A+ on the gore here) then she see's the camera man dead with the camera stuck in his throat and his head in his hands, after talking to pinhead she runs out to find everything blowing up then she sees the camera man as a cenobite chasing her (NOT REALLY) well he kills a guy by the camera impaling his head! (A on the gore here) then it introduces the other new cenobites (the robot that throws like metal disks into ppls heads) who gives some nice bloody deaths to a guy and a policeman. YOu also see a big (medium fat) cenobite that breathes fire and pinhead, police cars pull up, shoot the cenobites, all they do is get knocked back a tad but keep on walking, they kill the cops (not really gory because the fire-breather blew up their cars, then we see the church scene which could be offensive to some viewers (NOTHING REALLY BAD BUT I WON'T EXPLAIN IT'S ONLY 3 MINUTES LONG)then Joey at the construction site to see the JP and Terri cenobites, eventually she opens the box at the site and traps the demons in the lament configuration! Then pinhead tricks her then pinheads human form argues with him and only here is a weird scene but joey wins it all.*NOTE YOU GET TO SEE KIRSTY A BIT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION*Overall, a good bloody fun movie with some good acting and some freaky cenobites!7/10Rated R  Strong Graphic Violence and Grotesque/Gruesome images Sexuality, and language. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is my favourite out of the Hellraiser franchise because we get to see a lot more of Pinhead, learn more about his human form and get a lot of action. Peter Atkins returns to write the script and with Tony Randel wrote the story for this film, directed by Anthony Hickox who directed Waxwork and Waxwork II Lost in Time (Two good films) does a good job directing this too.Pinhead is basically trapped in a marble pillar after being defeating by the Channard Cenobite in Hellraiser II. It was a torture pillar at first but it changed into a marble pillar. Club owner JP buys the pillar and when a animal bites his hand the blood drips onto it bring Pinhead alive again but still trapped in the pillar, after killing a women JP slept with he tells JP to find him more people so he can escape from the pillar.JP's ex Terri helps reporter Joey to discover what happened to young man who had chains on him, soon Joey learns about the box and what happened before while JP invites Terri to his club and tries to bring her to Pinhead but knocks him out while trying to escape Pinhead offers to help her if she gets out of the pillar. He tells her to roll JP towards him and so she does.Pinhead kills him and breaks out of the pillar while Joey is told by Elliot, Pinhead's human form who to stop Pinhead. After a gory scene in the club Joey goes there to find Doc her cameraman, she finds Pinhead and quickly escapes as his new Cenobites go after her.I don't want to give all the film away because it's a great sequel, Hellraiser III Hell on Earth is one that shouldn't be missed. "}{"Title":"This is a good horror film","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is something very funny (in the creepy scence of the word). It's just adirect horror movie, that doesn't bore you. It's a great gore movie. There's more to be said about this movie but frankly i'll better let you see it for your own bloody good. "},{"Title":"Plodding sequel.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The third installment. The third effort. The third failure. Is this series cursed? That seems to be the only reasonable explanation. Like its predecessors, this film makes little sense, doesn't even follow the rules that it has previously established and adds up to a waste of time. At least they made it a little less gruesome and repellent than Part II (which any normal person must have found unwatchable), but the plodding pacing of this third part in almost equally disastrous. "},{"Title":"A fast and stylized thriller...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The owner of a famous and exotic night club buys at a mysterious store a statue with sculpted forms. What he doesn't know is that the statue hides inside of itself all the evil's power, in the cruel creatures' form led by Pinhead. The imprudent guy ends up freeing the creatures. Third and weakest continuation of the 1987's success, Hellraiser.Trying to accomplish a worthy and creative work as the two previous films, director Anthony Hickox increases a quick rhythm and blood to the show (in stylized scenes, replete of special effects), and he in fact gives anthological sequences as the massacre that takes place inside the club, but even so the result is mediocre, and Hickox isn't the main responsible the fragility comes from a confused and uninteresting plot that ,instead of beginning from where Hellbound finished (a cold psychiatric hospital in London), starts in a hot Los Angeles.The whole cast's poor acting is other point that helped to turn Hellraiser 3 into a collage of violent and nonsense scenes.The two first, Hellraiser and  Hellbound,were filmed in England, and both had a memorable and exceptional cast (to begin with William Hope, who played Dr. Kyle Maclay in Hellbound, and in special with Clare Higgins, who interpreted Júlia, the perverse stepmother.This magnificent actress's character was the main responsible for turning the Barker's stories into something even more special), a script with the Barker's ideas and basic concepts (the pain, the pleasure, the cruelty), an impressive and oppressive photography, a powerful sound track (courtesy of the great composer Christopher Young) and courageous directors who have experience enough to dare.And, when trying to recreate the way to tell a Barker's book, Anthony Hickox failed. Even not being as good as its predecessors, the film is a fast and curious entertainment.Hellraiser 3 is rated for explicit language, graphic violence and adult situations, and it runs 97 minutes.  "},{"Title":"A strong stomach is required in order to survive this macabre journey of pure evil...","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pinhead (Doug Bradley) is back with a vengeance, and a personal vendetta in this vastly superior sequel compared to the first two HELLRAISER flicks. HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH  has the most imaginative make-up FX around, courtesy of Bob Keen.  HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH  is an AWESOME film and yes, Pinhead and company do have lots of innovative ways to murder, maim, maul, mutilate, and simply kill unfortunate victims which are guaranteed to delight horror fans, and shock the delicate in nature.A sleazy nightclub owner, J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt) has, in possession, the statue of Pinhead.  Little does J.P. Monroe realize that he has the potential to release the ultimate evil...Pinhead has been resurrected...   Now, in the form of this statue, Pinhead must consume random victims at his disposal so that he may unleash his evil, pernicious powers to be!  It's up to a feisty news reporter Joey Summerskill (Terry Farrell) to stop Pinhead's diabolical plans and to put an end to him, and his Cenobites forever.  The Gates of Hell must be closed, and that effusively strange looking box holds the key to preventing Pinhead's quest for world domination...It won't be an easy quest for Summerskill though.  Despite all the overwhelming odds against news reporter Joey Summerskill, she still has one ally...The ghost of a World War II veteran (Bradley once again, playing duo roles) can assist Summerskill and give her inklings as to how to stop Pinhead's reign of terror. Unfortunately, for Summerskill, in order to have this WWII ghost defeat Pinhead in the netherworld, she must risk her life to lure Pinhead...driving him into the other dimension...Hell.  The cross-worlds between pleasure and pain are interceded...HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH is a thoroughly well-made thriller. It has a very intriguing story-line, great special effects, and lots of destruction galore against people and property.  Pinhead himself is good at being bad. If nihilism is the name of the game, than look no further!Directed with flair and style by Anthony Hickox (WAXWORK, FULL ECLIPSE), HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH is one of a very small breed of sequels that is overpowering over the original hits. HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH will jolt you left and right! The gory make-up FX are some of the best...and the most realistically staged, frightening sequences ever seen.  The all-new, malformed looking Cenobites for HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH are amazing.Again, I highly recommend HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH  for those brave souls who are willing to explore into deviant territory. The story-line is fascinating and outrageous, the action is well done, and even Pinhead made a great movie villain with his strong ability to deceive lost souls, confusing reality with illusion.  HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH is a complete phantasm of a movie. It combines a good plot, scary FX, and buckets of gore to challenge the viewer's credibility. Let me warn you that HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH is one sinister journey with stomach churning consequences. If you are prepared to plunge into a gruesome world of horrifying proportions, then Godspeed to you...  Horror connoisseurs will find much to appeal to in HELLRAISER III HELL ON EARTH; the weak and sensitive to their stomach souls need not to apply...RATING **1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"another perfect sequel","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ah, 'Hell on Earth'&#133; another gem, solely for having Doug on screen more than most. But it was enjoyable for other reasons, too. I never even noticed that Pete Atkins snuck in there as the bartender who becomes Barbie the Cenobite! And of course the back-story on Elliott was a treat.Everyone really did a fantastic job in this one, too, with playing their characters to the hilt. Even the little ditzy blonde that J.P. lures to bed only to end up a McCenobite snack. Yeah, she was a talking stereotype, but she was 100% into it. She is also a study in how clueless women often act, sad to say. They believe what they want to, ignoring the facts of life and getting hurt &#150; or in this case munched down without sauce. Another little bit of psychology tossed in, and I love it every time they do it. In that scene, there is a quote that I rarely hear cited in any 'favorite quotes' thread, but it's a great one Their wealth was so tempting, their affection so conditional, what could you do? Dr. Pinhead is in. Face it, he'd make a great therapist, even if the couch might have nails sticking out of it. Of course my personal favorite quote is also in this scene Flesh. Power. Dominion. But I'm not going to explain why. =) It was great to read that Doug had gotten to play with the make-up for the second crew's director, applying the wound effects on the guy that Camerahead stabs his lens through. Doug tells us in his book that he was just standing around on set when the crew turned out to be short-handed and he stepped up to help. Now whenever I watch that scene I think, There's Doug's handiwork! The main thing that bugged me about this film was Joey falling for Pinhead's trick of showing up as her father. Not a problem with the movie, it's just one of those 'scream at the screen' moments. How can she be so stupid? But hey, that's our clueless women believing what they want to phenomenon kicking in again! (Not to pick on women - men do it, too). ;) And I know he doesn't believe it, but the bit where Doug says the word 'unstoppable'? It's not messed up. I watched it again a few times (as directed) and never heard a thing wrong with it. That's at least two against one&#133;. *wink* "},{"Title":"Good flick gore pinhead concept","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have heard a lot of my friends complain about this 1, they felt as though it got out of the feel of things, I feel as though it was a good movie on its own merits, its not like the others but there were some good scenes & the concept was decent. "},{"Title":"The best of the series by default","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Faithfully following in the footsteps of its predecessors, 'Hellraiser III' overdoses on the gooey make-up at the expense of a plot. Despite a dearth of decent performances, scares and atmosphere, and the inclusion of a chestnut as old as an unplugged TV that still works, this is probably the best one.Reporter Terry Farrell investigates a strange death in a hospital and comes across the puzzle box (still a great design) and of course Doug Bradley's Pinhead, who is trapped inside a plastic sculpture and using a nightclub owner to supply him with fresh victims. Bradley delivers his lines with conviction but there's nothing he can do about their poor quality; no, writers, nothing he says is deep and meaningful, it's just laughable. Director Anthony Hickox seems to think that Pinhead just standing there is effect enough, but he's wrong. It's all rather silly, and watching people screaming after their skin has been torn off or a spike has been driven into their head puts you off your popcorn a bit. It's one gory effect after another with no real impact beyond 'yuk'. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser III Hell on Earth","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first film is a great dark story, the second film was a blood fest with a rather silly story, I will admit that I didn't have very high expectations that this third film would be an improvement, but I watched it anyway. Basically it continues where Hellbound Hellraiser II left off, where the block came out of the blood covered mattress, and Cenobite leader Pinhead (Doug Bradley) is trapped along with the puzzle box inside of this carved pillar, alongside other faces, it is the Pillar of Souls. Rich and spoilt playboy J.P. Monroe (Kevin Bernhardt) is the one who buys this pillar, being a collector of dark objects and artwork, he is the owner of the night club The Boiler Room. Young television reporter Joanne 'Joey' Summerskill (Terry Farrell) is looking for a big story to be taken seriously, and she starts an investigation into the strange puzzle box, which was stolen from the club by Terri (Paula Marshall), and Joey witnesses the pain the box can create when it mutilates someone is hospital. While Joey uncovers some video tape interviews by former victim of the Cenobites, Kirsty Cotton (Ashley Laurence), Pinhead lays dormant in the pillar until some blood is dropped onto it, and he awakens to consume club goer Sandy (Aimée Leigh). With the help of Monroe he gains the blood from a couple of other victims to completely reform out of the pillar, and meanwhile the spirit of Captain Elliott Spencer, the man who became Pinhead, visits the wannabe reporter to warn her about the demon. Pinhead has become his own entity and will not gain any humanity back, and he will bring Hell on Earth and take over at his own accord unless he is stopped, and he turns many innocent victims into Cenobites with powers. Joey does use a little help from the puzzle box to try and stop the terror, but her main goal is to fuse Captainn Spencer and the Cenobite leader back together to become one entity and be sent back to Hell. In the end, after the epic battle against the new monsters and the dark powers from the realm of evil Pin head and his former self are fused and his entity and the others sent back into the puzzle box, Joey sticks it in the wet cement to make sure no-one else will find it, but the new building it is for is built to lo0ok just like the markings of the box, i.e. Lament Configuration, this twist continues in the next film. Also starring Ken Carpenter as Daniel 'Doc' Fisher and Peter G. Boynton as Joey's Father. This is obviously the film that signalled that Pinhead was the only remaining villain from the first film, so no more Chatterer or The Female (or Butterball), but I guess that is the point of the sequels, because Pinhead is the horror icon, and he is obviously the most watchable part of the series, with his philosophical dialogue and love for torture. The story is still a little bit messy like the previous, the deaths and blood spills are certainly still inventive and in some cases funny, and the use of church stuff and going against good in the world is interesting, a better but still slightly disappointing horror. Okay! "},{"Title":"A fun solid entry in the franchise *** out of 5","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I like it when a sequel goes all out. In this case, the Hellraiser series started out in a house, then we saw the very depths of Hell in the masterful Hellbound, and here the cenobites are let loose in the friggin' city! Yeah! Not only that but this time you don't have to open up the box in order to go to Hell, they come to you! And I love the new cenobites in the film, especially CD. A lot of people don't like them but I don't think they understand why they are the way they are. You see, the cenobites here were not born in Hell, but on Earth. They were made from human resources. And Pinhead clearly states 'shadows of my former troops'.The score by Randy Miller is very good. He takes Christopher Young's themes and incorporates them into a rich lush new score.There are some one liners here and there, but there really aren't as many as people would lead you to think. The most obvious are two given to the camera-headed cenobite. But so what? Pinhead gets plenty of screen time in this entry and it just shows you what an awesome and disturbing creation he truly is.It's the most action packed entry in the entire series and I think it's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Clive Barker's Hellraiser is an entertaining horror film as is HellboundHellraiser II,but I'm going to say that Hellraiser IIIHell on Earth is a big disappointment.The film is really boring,but it has some interesting elements.The gore is plentiful and some of the scenes like Pinhead's nightclub massacre truly blew me away.Doug Bradley is excellent as Pinhead,unfortunately these new Cenobites are more laughable than scary.A guy who shoots razor-sharp CD's,another with a camera in his head,and another who breathes fire?Come on,these villains look more like carnival sideshow freaks than hellish Cenobites.The film is still marginally entertaining,so if you're a fan of Hellraiser series give it a look.My rating6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"It's Not Awful but a Long Way from the First Two","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hellraiser III (1992) ** (out of 4) Third entry in the series has an investigative reporter (Terry Farrell) needing a story and she gets one when a guy is rushed into an emergency room ripped to shreds by what appears to be hooks and chains. She begins to investigate and sure enough she eventually runs into Pinhead (Doug Bradley) who is once again recruiting people to bring him flesh. Many will say that this is where the HELLRAISER series really went to hell and I'd have to agree, although I'd stop a little short of calling this film truly bad. I think it's a major disappointment considering how good the first film was and what a decent first sequel we got. The biggest problem with this film is that it was sold to Miramax and it was clear that they wanted the film to appeal to a larger audience so it really does seem as if they wanted this to fit the teen crowds and not necessarily adults. The first film in the series and to a lesser extent the second at least tried to stay away from the slasher or teen circle and instead went for dark atmosphere, some brutal violence and a rather smart story. The gore and violence is still here but there's very little else working in this thing. For starters, the screenplay has all sorts of dumb one-liners that make you feel as if they wanted to turn Pinhead into Freddy in order to make him seem more cool. I'll admit that a few of the lines work early on but the more that come the more annoying they get. Another problem is the actual story, which is just downright weak and really never goes anywhere. We get pretty much the same structure as the first two films only this time it's watered down and not nearly as smart. Farrell is decent enough in her role as is Paula Marshall as the punk chick who helps her. Bradley is wonderful in the role of Pinhead even if the screenplay doesn't do too much for him. It's well-known that the violence and blood was cut to pieces by the MPAA and it's uncut version is pretty brutal especially the bar massacre where dozens of people get ripped apart in a variety of ways. This sequence is one of the few high points in a disappointing entry to a series that had clearly seen better days but was about to see much worse. "},{"Title":"They really messed up things for this one.","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's very simple why this movie does not work out as well, or is as great as, the first two movies. You can really blame the movie its script for that.The movie has a quite messy story, that besides strays too much away from the first two movies. It's a movie that is different in its style and with its treatment of its characters. Pinhead for instance gets his hands way too dirty in this movie and does way too much. What was the case with the first two movies was that the evil was called upon by the human characters, who also did some horrible things themselves. In this movie it seems as if Pinhead wants more and more power, after he has been released again. This was not at all what the character at first was about. A lot of things just don't make sense within this movie, especially when you start comparing it with what happened in the first two movies.This movie too desperately tries to be an horror movie, done in somewhat the same style as the A Nightmare on Elm Street movies. Even dreams play a quite prominent role in this movie its story.What was more painful than Pinhead's pleasures of pain was the movie its acting. There are some real horrible actors in this movie and since they gave Doug Bradley way more lines and screen time this time it becomes all the more obvious that he just simply isn't a very talented actor.The movie just doesn't ever become a very compelling one to watch. If you have seen the first two movies this one is still somewhat watchable, though you will foremost be still disappointed.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Sure About This One","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  HELL ON EARTH is an improvement on HELLBOUND. Or is it ? Well in its favour HELL ON EARTH eases up on the stomach churning gore that made its predecessor such a turn off , but I can`t help thinking that Clive Barker has sold out the franchise . Sure much of this film is entertaining but it`s also - despite having a couple of Brits as Director and screenwriter - very Americanised and dumbed down . Out goes the unique visions of hell and in its place we get massacres and bullet proof monsters stalking the streets of New York . I did enjoy some of this film but it is uneven in terms of both script , direction and acting . It takes a long time for the action to start for instance and seems to contradict much of what went before in the two previous movies and I was totally unconvinced by the battle scenes . South east Asia seems to be composed of fields and elm trees just like in THE GREEN BERETS and the trenches of the great war weren`t muddy enough for my liking .But as in THE MONSTER CLUB the demons in this aren`t as hellish as humans are. In HELL ON EARTH we see the ripped apart bodies of young men from the first world war and Vietnam while we see panoramas of the WTC twin towers . Compared to what human beings are capable of the cenobites are surely angels after all     "}]