[{"Title":"Visually fantastic!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  Ever rent a movie out of curiosity because, although you've never heard a good thing about it, you want to see it anyway because you thought it looked good?  That happened to me with Little Nemo; I rented it one summer and felt as if I had struck gold.The thing that got me with this movie was that the animators managed to imitate the original Windsor McCay illustrations so closely.  Being an illustrator myself, that completely won me over and that alone would be cause to recommend it.  But this is also one of the most visually inventive animated films I've ever seen.  I will not spoil the surprise by describing anything, but the way this movie depicts Slumberland is surely the best thing about it.  This is definately worth hunting down. "},{"Title":"A Lovely Masterpiece","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" Ever since Walt Disney created the first animated cartoon, some have been great, OK, and truly bad. Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland, in my opinion, is one of those great animated movies. The plot, a young boy named Nemo having adventures in a magical place called Slumberland, will surely enchant its viewers and you will always remember the fun, whimsical music. Not to mention the animation is as magical as Slumberland itself (the work of millions of dollars). I'm surprised it did very poorly in the American box office. I heard that the reason for the huge flop was because it was un-Disneylike. So what? Have you seen the crap Disney has been making lately? (with the exception of Pirates of the Caribbean). Little Nemo is one of the greatest kid movies ever made and if you have toddlers, I thoroughly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Kiddy and Kid Appropriate are two very different things.","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" In reference to my review's my tag line, this is by no means a movie for kids only. Looking back at Little Nemo as an adult, I'm surprised at how well it still holds up in my eyes. The writer's did a good job in making Little Nemo suitable for younger viewers, but without dumbing down the plot, dialogue, or artistic creativity of the film. There's no reason why a kids film can't be smart and original, and it really irks me when writers use a young target audience as an excuse to give us a second rate script.Little Nemo is certainly unique if nothing else. The story follows a young, imaginative boy named Nemo as he travels through the mystical Slumberland. Nemo meets and befriends numerous people throughout Slumberland eventually earning the high esteem of the land's royal family. Unfortunately things go horribly wrong after Nemo's curiosity inadvertently leads him to unleash a virtual Pandora's Box, which threatens to destroy the kingdom. Can Nemo redeem himself and save his new friends?The lead characters are very well developed, thanks in no small part to the great voice actors. They convey a genuine and convincing level of human emotion. Little Nemo has a very surreal atmosphere to it, which work perfectly at conveying the dreamy atmosphere of Slumberland. There are also some surprisingly dark and moody moments. Don't get me wrong, this isn't scary by any means, far from it, but the colors are very effective in conveying the tense emotion and gloomy atmosphere of these scenes. Likewise the more upbeat moments are also very well executed, with a bright vibrant array of reds, blues, yellows, etc. Really top-notch animation, that still holds up very well even by today's standards.I would definitely recommend Little Nemo if you're looking for a quality children's film, that parents will likely enjoy as well. "},{"Title":"They should re-release this on DVD or VCD","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland (aka. Little Nemo Dreamland no Daiboken) is quite a fun Euro-Anime film. It also spun off a video game based on the movie and it is a good film for those whom don't really remember or never heard of McKay's original comic series.It is about a young boy named Nemo and his flying squirrel going on different dreamlike adventures, some of them having different results of their own. Sorry, I just don't feel like spoiling anyone today.I swear, I cannot believe this film bombed outside of Europe and Asia, because it was un-Disney like. Yeah, well, that is why Little Nemo is good. Alot of Disney's (recent) works are so sappy and sweetsy, like syrup on sugar on saccarine. Kind of like an unberable sweetness.Anyways, check this movie out. You will be doing me and others whom remember this film a favor, and PLEASE put it on either DVD or VCD, with also the original Japanese and French tracks too!PS. Did you know that Brian Froud, Moebius and Hayao Miyazaki all worked on Little Nemo? No wonder it is so great! "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  It's sad to see this type of movie put down as a children's movie, because it's a cartoon.  The dialogue isn't only not kid-like, but very refreshing in a cartoon.  The art, and the colors... the music, all melts together into a work of art unappreciated by the general public.  So I ask thee, why? "},{"Title":"It's nice to relive your childhood every now and then","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" My sister and I used to go to this daycare where we watched a movie a day. We watched a lot of movies more than once and this was one of them, because everyone loved it so much. About a month ago, I remembered so little about the movie that I thought I had dreamed about it (kinda ironic, don't you think?). Then I looked it up on IMDb and realized it was a real movie. I got it for my sister for Christmas and having just watched it, I'm glad I did.Nemo is a fun-loving boy who dreams that he goes to Slumberland, a magical kingdom that contains everything any kid would ever love. This place becomes a sort of reality for Nemo and he is entrusted as King Morpheus's heir and given a key to every door in the kingdom- however, he is asked to not open the door that has the key's symbol on it. Of course, he ends up opening it (with a little encouragement from a troublemaker named Flip) and the Nightmare King ends up kidnapping the king.The movie is not an intricate masterpiece storywise, but the plot and characters are so much fun it really doesn't matter! The real joy here is the animated backgrounds and effects- this movie is a visual stunner. "},{"Title":"An Inspired Story","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  Little Nemo, a boy of about 5 or 6, enjoys the bucolic wonders, beauty and fun of Slumberland, but  breaks a promise to the fatherly King Morpheus which unleashes the dark powers of the Nightmare King upon his friends. He must face his terror to rescue them.A terrific children's fantasy without a whiff of adult subtext, demeaning remarks or misplaced self-consciousness. The drawings were beautiful and wondrous; the characters were interesting and unburdened by comic-book-style psychological problems; the storyline was generous and kind, without being obsequious or sentimental.  There are some frightening scenes for preschool children, involving nightmares and the demonic Nightmare King, but the reconciliation at the end of the story makes it all worthwhile.  Very tender children (age 2 - 4) may find these scenes too horrifying unless a parent is there to comfort. "},{"Title":"Little Nemo a joy true to the spirit of the original","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland is a joy and a wonder, just like the original Winsor McCay cartoons. For those ignorant of the history of American cartoons, McCay's Little Nemo series was a classic of naive pop surrealism exploring the adventures of a boy in the dream-world. McCay was sometimes deficient in spelling, but he was never deficient in drawing or imagination. Of course, the movie has to elide or telescope things a bit. After all, the original cartoon was a serial running episodically in newspapers. I find no serious fault with this. I took particular delight in how some scenes here meticulously mirrored the original cartoon. The animation is at various points dreamy, beautiful, dark, menacing and, of course, surreal. I think it is a mistake to view this film purely as a product of the anime industry - the film is instead a meeting of the Japanese culture with American culture. The merger of sensibilities here is quite wonderful. I loved the squirrel's petulant irritation at being called a rat. And I loved the nightmare monster-heel. And, of course,the trickster figure, Pip. The whole thing has the quality of a twisting dream, sometimes good, sometimes bad, just like real dreams. Don't hesitate to buy and watch this. Greg Cameron, Surrey, B.C., Canada "},{"Title":"9/10- A great film for kids, adults, and video-game connoisseurs. (WARNING... May contain some spoilers)","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  Imagine, for a moment, if you will, the time when you were a child. Imagine your happiest dream. You're there, youth restored. A child again. As you soar through the air on a strangely floating bed frame and mattress, you see everything you've ever lost, everything you have, and everything that could be possible. Your high-school girlfriend/boyfriend is there. So is your pet from childhood. There is the mystical ruins of the Cloud City you may have heard of in childhood.This is the scenerio set up in Little Nemo, a tour de' force through the dream world as seen through the eyes of a ten year old boy in pre-civil war era New York. Based on the turn of the century comic strip serial- and more resently the wonderful video game classic for the NES- Nemo revolves around Nemo, who lives in a pre-World War era New York. Coinciding with the arrival of the World's Fair, Nemo's dreams begin to transcend reality, and one night he gets pulled into his own dreams-boy and mind.From there Nemo is brought to the reality-or unreality- that he now lives in Slumberland, a Renassaince-like world of perfect harmony. Everything goes great with his new adoptive father, the king, and his step-sister, the Princess, whom he is attracted to. Then he encounters Flip, voiced by the loveable Mickey Rooney, who is an ex-con on the run in Slumberland for his reckless gambling and black market trading of bizarre Kitsch. From here, Nemo's life becomes a somewhat perverse combination of mindless, Yellow-Submarine inspired romping with the princess and wreckless parading with Flip. Nemo's happy little wonderland is burst, however, when Flip finally convinces Nemo to do the ultimate crime, which consists of opening the gates to Dream Hell. With the century-sealed gates now open, Dream Demons- Nightmares- parade around, slaughtering the palace guards and making off with a girlishly screaming King as Nemo and the Princess watch in horror. From here, the Nightmares begin to screw around with the dream world as well as the real world, sending Nemo on a mind blowing journey, bouncing him between the real world and the dream world until he ends up marooned in the middle of the dream world ocean. From this point Nemo, Flip, the Princess, as well as some outcasted and slightly psychotic Nightmares must travel into the realm of Nightmare Land, rescue the king, and kill the Nightmare Lord before he can combine and twist the real and dream worlds into his own perverse fantasy. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite animated films from my childhood","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" This is an anime film I remember vaguely from my childhood. I do remember renting the VHS while visiting my Aunt Sharon, and after a few (I think) years later, I had taped it; I still have it. After watching it, I absolutely love it! With wonderful animation and songs by the award-winning Sherman Brothers, who wrote songs for Disney films like The Jungle Book, The AristoCats, Winnie the Pooh, etc. The film is based on Winsor McCay's comic strip, who was a pioneer of animation; McCay also created the first Little Nemo animated movie in 1911.The film starts when Nemo wakes up one night to an invitation to visit the wondrous world of Slumberland. There he becomes a playmate for King Morpheus' daughter Princess Camille and is dubbed a prince and heir to the throne. But soon finds that his new position involves the responsibility of protecting Slumberland. Nemo is warned never to open the door which holds the evil Nightmare King prisoner. Dared by a mischievous trickster named Flip, Nemo opens the door, and the Nightmare King slithers out and abducts King Morpheus on the night of Nemo's princely coronation. Assisted by his flying pet squirrel Icarus, Camille, the delicate Professor Genius, and Flip, Nemo travels to Nightmare Land to rescue the King.I love to watch the little Princess giving Flip a slug in the face, and sentencing him to NO CIGAR SMOKING! I wish there is a no-smoking law. I also love the lovable Boop goblins who help Nemo on his quest. So overall, I loved this film and it will always been one of my favorite animated films. And one note Little Nemo is the first anime film to receive a national wide U.S. theatrical release. "}{"Title":"Dreams vs nightmares= good vs evil in a beautifully animated and imaginative film","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" I saw Little Nemo Adeventures in Slumberland on YouTube last night, having vague memories of seeing it once as a child. I just want to say I loved it; it is such a beautiful imaginative movie, that is a must-see for everyone. There is so much to recommend this wonderful movie, and the rest of this review will aim to explain why the film was so good.The animation is stunning. Yes, I know some of the characters' faces were rather pale, but the backgrounds are colourful and lush, and the scenes in the sky were jaw-dropping. The songs by the Sherman Brothers, who brought us Mary Poppins, Jungle Book, Aristocats and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang are lovely and memorable. Some bring a subtle touch to scenes, while others are jolly and fun.The characters are a delight. Nemo is still a likable character, if a rather unlikely hero. Icarus is hilarious, Camille has her good moments, King Morpheus reminds me of Santa, Captain Genius is great fun but my favourite has be Flip. As for the vocal talents they were exceptional, the standout easily being Mickey Rooney in a fitfully amusing turn as Flip. The story is highly imaginative and beautifully told, with some subtle moments and some dark ones. I will admit what I remembered most about this movie as a child was the Nightmare King. Young children may find him frightening, but he is such an effective villain. Who cares if he looks a little like Chernabog from Fantasia, he is still a scary and great villain in my eyes.All in all, a beautiful, imaginative and underrated film. 10/10 of course! Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Could have been one of the best animated movies...","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" This movie is a good movie.. It had the potential to be one of the best animated movies of the 80s or early 90s had Miyazaki and Takahata stayed involved in the project... Apparently they only were able to work on the first few scenes from 1982 to 1983.. Watching it today i can see where the effort in the movie stops and it seems like it becomes just another kiddie movie.. I would love to see this movie made into a anime series.. I think it would be the anime series of the decade... It's a good movie and could have and would have been a hit had the studio left it's creative team alone to work on the project but i'm sure Miyazaki and Takahata got the last laugh when they saw the outcome of it. I gave it a 5 out of 10 because it's a nice film i enjoyed as a 11 or 12 y/o and that's pretty much that bottom line for this film.. Just something nice for kids to watch... "},{"Title":"The Best Film Ever!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  This movie transcends everything we know about dreams. This film changed all the rules. No longer must we see horrible films because now we can watch this one all day long. And Mickey Rooney, he's the man, come on er'body! Now has anyone ever seen such films as STAR WARS or ALIEN, well this is definitely on the same list, I shall go so far as to claim that it is almost as good as the ABYSS. I mean Spielberg is shaking' in his little boots which he purchased locally after mad-doggin' me while watching THE SALTON SEA because this film rivals ET and HOOK. But whatever, yall can think what you like cause I know that this movie is the shizneit!  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" It is ironic that I had such a difficult time staying awake during a movie that takes place in Slumberland. I realize that this is an animated flick for kids but geeeez if it can't keep me awake what hope do kids have? Most of the lethargy comes from the film's animation style, it's flat and uses basic pastel colors and the characters speak as if they are about to give us a warning about the dangers of cutting down trees. In the center is an annoying dimwit named Nemo a child who's bed flies out the window and into what looks like one of the neighboring suburbs from 'Yellow Submarine' and is badly in need of restoration.Along his journey through Slumberland and it's forbidding neighbor Nightmareland. Nemo encounters the usual gaggle of hokey-jokey supporting characters including a scientist, a pack of goblins and eventually runs across King Morpheus who provides one of those Don't Ever Open That Door warnings just before handing the kid the key.The problem is that the movie is at a loss to come up with anything new story-wise. A hero with no personality goes to a wonderland, meets the usual gaggle of quirky characters, is given a warning, disobeys that warning, meets the prime villain, all hell breaks loose and it's up to the brave little hero to fix it. I've seen this scenario over and over and over until I've grown . . . well . . . tired. "},{"Title":"This movie led me to a life of substance abuse","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" I remember watching this movie a few times as a child. I never really understood the plot loops of a dream within a dream that dreams of a dream to end all dreams, but i knew (from TV documentaries) that there were drugs that made waking life seem that way. I firmly believe that since my first known viewing in 1996 until the last time i had the VHS in 2000, I wondered what it would be like to feel like Nemo in real life. Having a golden rod with a brilliant blue head, commanding a ship, imaginary friends that actually helped make crucial decisions in an adventure setting... LSD seemed like what i would need to get my hands on. LSD didn't create the actual mind-fsck that is this movie, and the production quality (to a tween or under) is grade A... if you want to disturb your children or cause them to question existence based on the cartoon account of unknown origin, this is the film for you "},{"Title":"A very imaginative, very fun movie","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" Little Nemo is a very different kind of kid's movie. It take's place entirely in the dream's of a little boy named Nemo. Nemo is a very imaginative little boy who is known by his parents to have very complex dreams which is caused whenever he eats pie late at night. The movie's plot takes place in Nemo's most recent dream, where he is taken to Slumberland to become the royal heir to the throne and be a playmate to the King of Slumberland's daughter, Princess Camille. Nemo is entranced by all the wonders of Slumberland but he soon meets a trouble-making Flip who convinces him to open a door that the King(Morpheus) told him to never open. This causes great chaos in Slumberland and results in King Morpheus' abduction from the Nightmare King. Now Nemo has to set out and save the King from Nightmare Land and bring order back to the once peaceful Slumberland.This movie is an extremely fun watch. The animation is very nice and there's always something going on to never make you bored watching it. The songs that went into the movie are pretty mediocre, but not entirely terrible. It's a good movie to watch with your kids if you have them, but it's also a good enough movie to watch by yourself. "},{"Title":"An interesting animated film. Despite being flawed","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland, is an old animated film based on a comic book series by the same name.The movie follows a little boy named Nemo who goes on an adventure in a magical land in his dreams called Slumberland. Once there, Nemo and his friends try to save Slumberland from the evil Nightmare King.This film has some great animation and visuals because the movie was produced by TMS studios (They were known for producing the anime film, Akira). Some of the character's in the film were likable and the Nightmare King was a good villain. The movie also has some good voice acting.The problem's with this film is that the main character, Nemo, was boring and the story was pretty lame.Overall, Little Nemo, is not the best animated film ever made, but it's still a good animated film. "},{"Title":"Visually arresting and wildly imaginative.","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" I just finished watching it and I enjoyed it a lot. The animation is superb for a non-Disney film (after all, Disney is pretty hard to top), the characters are very interesting, though some could have been developed just a little bit further. The music is pretty good, I mean, it's the Sherman Brothers! The only problem I have with this film is the dialogue, which at times is GOD AWFUL. With the other elements of this film such as the story, characters, art direction, being as strong as they are, I can forgive the poorly written dialogue. This was a co-production between the US & Japan after all, so there was bound to be problems with the translation (Godzilla movies anyone?). Of all the characters, I found Flip to be the best. Mickey Rooney was perfectly cast in the part. I don't know if he was involved during the film's original production or just for the US redub, but he brings a great deal of wit and charm to the character. Altogether, this is a great film and I recommend it very highly, especially for budding animators. There's a lot in this film to get inspiration from. "},{"Title":"I was so happy!","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" I remembered this movie that I used to watch when I was little. There was a parade, a squirrel, a little boy, a big man and a big key. There was a lot of black goo at one point and an evil guy. I had no idea what the movie was called and I had no idea if it was actually real, because when I told people about it (which I did a lot because I wanted to find out what it was called so I could see it again) no one had heard about it. I started thinking that I had dreamt the whole thing. That it was one of those dreams that you have several times. I had tried googling it, I had asked my parents and my sibling, who should've known what I was talking about seeing as I probably couldn't just pick it out and put it on myself as a little kid. Years passed, yes, years. I just thought that it was a dream. I didn't really believe that it was, but maybe...? A year or so ago, I remembered it again; the squirrel, the little boy, the key, everything. I decided to google it again, but this time I used different search words and I found it. I was so happy. You have no idea! I had been thinking about this movie for years! I watched it again and it's a cute and sometimes scary movie. I was just happy I had a chance to find it again ( "},{"Title":"An utter embarrassment to surrealism.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" If you like this movie good for you, but I honestly hate this movie with a passion! When I first had the idea of watching this movie, I thought it was going to simply be a decent piece of entertainment. Little did I know that I was going to hate this film so much, that my blood would boil to the point of being considered lava. Before I continue on, I would like to note that I will be reviewing this film by the facts. I will hold off my opinion, until after the review.Story & Pacing- Little Nemo is the type of film where the adventure is the story and the story is the adventure. It's amazing how they took this really fun concept and botched it up. What adventure film has padding of all things in it? A lot of what happens in this 90 minute movie is more pointless than an unsharpened pencil. Some of the scenes start out whimsical, but soon the whimsy over stays its welcome. There are too many scenes where I feel as though I should end up learning something about the main characters, but instead I'm just watching characters do random things that don't add up to anything. If this movie wants to have creatively weird, funny, and random scenes for the heck of it, I'm completely alright with that. That's the movie I wanted to see. But in order to do that the scenes actually have to be entertaining all the way through. Since a majority of the scenes don't, they come off as useless filler. There's no excuse for that. Now let's talk about how this movie is supposed to be half fantasy and surrealism. The creators almost got rid of the surrealism entirely. There's only one point in the movie where the use the genre and it is the BEST SCENE IN THE MOVIE! No exaggeration. Lastly this movie pacing is pretty bad. It cuts to black so many times at unnecessary moments. Watching Little nemo honestly felt like watching a culmination of Saturday morning cartoons. Story score 3-5/10 Pacing 4/10Characters and Voice acting- There virtually are no characters in this film. I was never invested, nor did I learn anything about our so called main characters. These guys don't even deserve to be called tools, because, you know tools actually have a use. (I'm going to exclude Bonbon. You'll see later why.) Even our main protagonist Nemo is bland. He's an empty shell. I can only define him by his actions, and that's not a good thing. This boy can come off as rude, unlikable, boring, bratty, or even sexist at one point. The voice acting in the movie is weird to say the least. I understand that dubbing back then in the 1990s wasn't the best, but man are these voices mediocre. Some voices are okay, like Flip, Bonbon, and the king. But the other voice actor barely put up a fight. There can be some jarring inconsistencies too. Most noticeable is Princess Camille's on and off British accent. I wish I were joking. Characters score- 3- 5/10 VO score 4-6/10 Animation and Music- The music and sound effects are actually pretty good by themselves. Unfortunately the movie undermines them, making both the music and sound effects criminally underutilized, except for a couple of songs in the film. The animation is the most interesting part of the movie to me. The animation is nice and creative at small moments. I liked the style they were going for. A mixture of anime texture, combined with the shapes and designs from a comic strip. However there are two giant problems with it, first being the large amount of inconsistencies. You don't even have to nitpick to find them; they're always being blasted at you. Not seeing people have shadows on them when there should be is weird. Seeing Nemo's hair changes colors three times in the moves is glaring. The second problem would when the film's animation quality drops at random. I'm astonished how many times it happens. These problems are honestly embarrassing and unprofessional. Animation Score 6.9/10 Music and sound effects score 6/10Re-watch ability- Watched it a second time still didn't like it at all. I watched it a third time and I was less annoyed by it, but it still never grew on me. You're probably going to have mixed feeling on whether you want to come back to it. I watched this movie 3 times all because I just wanted to find other things to like about it. Unfortunately my search came up empty. Score- 3-5/10 Final Score- 7 years of work and 35 million dollars went into this movie. When I look at that, I don't think of what could've been. I think about the 2007 movie Nocturna, which had a budget over 4 times less than this one, and a production history of 10 years. I rest my case. FINAL SCORE- A score range of a 3 to a 5.5. My opinion &#x96; I really don't like this movie. My main problem with it is that it doesn't know what it wants to be. I did like somethings in the movie. I LOVED the scene where the house was flooding, because they were using surrealism. I liked the character Bonbon. The voice actor did Him or Her justice. His or hers design was always consistent. Bonbon's purpose in the story was clear. He or she at least had a reason to be there. The intro song is great! But even with all that, I still hate this film. In a way I feel bad for little nemo, it's a dated film. And with each installment in the surreal genre of animation it gets worse. My personal score is a 3/10. "}{"Title":"You're never too old to let a family feature charm you.","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" Even though I'm 16, Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland is actually one of my favourite kids' movies of all time. To tell you the truth, I first saw this at age 15, but luckily I have a soft spot for family features, as long as they've had actual effort put in.I have many reasons why I love this movie. For one thing, I love fantasy stuff so this was an instant chalk-up on my favourite films list, which also includes the Harry Potter films, Don Bluth films and Disney stuff as well.Secondly, I have quite a few favourite characters. Nemo (of course), but not just because he's the main character, his flying squirrel friend Icarus, because he's just so adorable and silly (Yes, I have a soft spot for cute stuff even though I'm a teenage boy), Princess Camille, Flip, and even the Boomps, because I know that even though the Boomps are goblins I strongly believe that not all trolls and goblins are bad.Thirdly, the animation quality was great. I was pleasantly surprised when I found out that both then-Disney animators, the director of Harry Potter, Ray Bradbury and even Japanese animators worked hard on this even though it was a flop later. It was pure eye candy for me.Seeing as Hemdale owned this before it folded for good, it's understandable why it flopped at the box office because said film company was only an independent film distributor, it's not as if film distributors ship reels off to the cinemas for free.I warn that it can get dark at parts, but it probably wouldn't hurt to watch this with children (either your own if you have any or kids you're babysitting).Great! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time.","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland (1989) ***** out of *****.Little Nemo Adventures in Slumberland is about a little boy named Nemo who has nightmares. One night, he is awoken and brought to Slumberland where he is to become heir to the throne. He is given a key and is told to never open a certain door, and upon meeting a troublemaker named Flip, is convinced to open said door. Upon doing so, he unleashes the Nightmare King, who has been locked away for generations. The Nightmare King kidnaps the king of Slumberland, and now Nemo must venture to Nightmare Land in order to destroy the Nightmare King and bring peace back to Slumberland.This movie is very personal to me. I used to watch a lot of movies as a kid, and this was one of them. I can't count how many times I used to watch it. I was around 8 or 9 years old, and from what I can remember, this movie frightened me. I had dreams of my own that were similar to Nemo's, and maybe that is why it frightened me so much. But somewhere along the line, this film became another part of my collection, sitting in a cabinet for 11 years, collecting dust. That is until, at work, I started reminiscing about this film. I remembered how some scenes that I could recall scared me so much, and some of the songs, and the overall reality that the movie made me feel back then, and I dug the old tape up and popped it in my VCR.I couldn't believe it.Everything I remembered from my childhood flashed before my eyes. It was like going back to a time when things were much more simple. No worrying about money, work, girlfriends, or the overall necessities of everyday life. This kid, Nemo, kind of embodied me as a child. A little bit different, but he had that same childhood curiosity and energy that I remember myself having. For the hour and a half that this movie goes for it feels like being a kid again. It's a very rare nostalgia, one I have never felt before, and I don't think that feeling will ever go away. I am 19 years old now. If I move, this movie will travel with me, even if I bring no more of my old VHS movies. It will be given to my children, if I ever have any, so they can experience the same feelings that I used to feel.That's my little part of the story when it comes to this film.But don't think I'm bias, giving this movie a 5 out of 5 just because of the nostalgia factor.Little Nemo is a great family film. For the amount of animated movies I used to like as a child, I'll be the first to admit that some of them were pretty painful to watch as an adult. If only I knew what my parents felt towards some of those old movies. However, they said out of some of the movies I used to watch, they enjoyed this one. But who couldn't? It's cute AND action-packed! Some of the voice acting is just awesome. I'm actually referring more so to Mickey Rooney's performance as Flip. He really gives it his all when all the other voice actors might not be. Flip's full of personality and he really embodies that friend that peer pressured you a lot when you were a kid, which is what I think they were going for. Some people might disagree, but I enjoyed Gabriel Damon's performance as Nemo, even though most of his lines include Shazama Pajama or Yippee!. I just can't stop thinking about the scene in the beginning where Nemo is running away from a train and is telling his mom that they need to get out of the house. Reminds me of a few dreams I used to have.The animation is very fluid. Whoever said that this movie wasn't very Disney-like at this movie's theatrical release is an idiot. I don't think it was meant to be. The whole movie looks and runs like a really good Anime. Considering it was animated in Japan, the whole Disney animation comparison really just doesn't make a heck of a lot of sense. But for a budget of $35 million, the animation better be good. It was, and still is. Just search the movie up on YouTube and you'll see what I mean.There is one thing I don't like in the film, although I'll tolerate them, and that is the Oomps. I probably just offended some fans of this movie. If so, sorry. Some may like them, but I don't. They were annoying as a kid, and are still pretty annoying now. Their song is dumb, some of their lines are stupid, and they are overall embarrassing to watch. Of course, in the end, they help Nemo out tremendously. But they still annoy me. Every time I watch the movie however, I like them a tiny bit more.I'm really happy this movie was made, and to find people on IMDb who share the same feelings about it as I do. I will treasure this movie forever, and I don't care who knows that my favorite movie of all time is a kid's movie. Out of all the movies I've watched in my life (I have watched so many), this movie stands out. It is one of my favorite possessions and will never be sold or given up to anyone. I love this movie! If you ever run across a copy, do yourself a favor and watch it, or do your child a favor, and let them watch it.Until next time, Shraylo "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorite of all time movies I have seen when I was a kid.","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS.I watched this movie again last night and it still never ceases to get old for me. I love this movie is simply is one of the best children's films.I figured Hayao Mayazaki helped in this because he is such a great director of anime movies.From the beginning seen to the end it it's amazing. I loved how his bed flew out his window. It makes me wish that it would happen to me one day. Just sleeping and then your off to Slumberland.This movie totally deserves recognition. So what if it's not Disney like. Have you seen Dumbo (warning contains Alchol use), Beauty and the Beast( Warning Frightening Images), and lastly The Little Mermaid (Warning Sexual Images.) Disney movies are full of hidden adult things.This movie is the probably one for all ages, the one that really fits the bill in amazement when it comes to imagery. It's like the Spirited Away of our generation. It was way ahead of it's time and had a great moral to teach us. Responsibility and Justice.Nemo is one of those unforgettable characters.I also Loved the whole Pajama thing with the incantation. It was simply great. This movie deserves to be rated in the top 5 on the best animated movie list. It may not be a Fantasia, but it is a Spirited Away. "},{"Title":"In Defense of Little Nemo","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  Little Nemo is not easy to watch, but then again neither are the original comics by Winsor McKay easy to read. He had a wild and unconstrained (sometimes nightmarish) imagination, and the movie mirrors that general feeling. However, the imagery of this film is a striking tribute to a master of imagery. I wonder if Miyazaki of Spirited Away and Castle in the Sky was influenced by McKay. His flying machines, architecture, lighting and characters remind me of those seen in the Little Nemo comics and his casual cross-disolves from fantasy to reality and back are highly reminiscent of McKay's work. The film's major failing is its attempt to maintain a coherent, disney-like story arch in the midst of the rampant near-madness of MkKay's imagined world. Also, the squirrel was a mistake. Over all though, if you're familiar with McKay's work, I recommend you see this film to get a feel for what a McKay movie might have been like if he had persisted beyond his fledgeling attempts at animation. To see his actual attempts, I recommend the DVD Animation Legend Winsor McCay. "},{"Title":"***.5,3,5 out of 5 stars,a truly charming story with an unfortunate mix of kiddie film korniness","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":"  A truly charming animated film based on the classic comic book strip & almost-a-classic NES video game(**** out of 5),the film has a definite amount of charm that'll keep the kids interested & hopefully rest of the age groups too,sadly my only problem with this film is that it those have a good amount of children's film charm but it also has a sufficent amount of kiddie film lameness true if they made into a PG film they'd probably palce a few to a good amount of worthless swearing,placing in some violence or thematic intensity would probably just be too frightening for the little ones,& if they made more like the game the filmmakers(probably unlike some of us) would not want to do that to prevent a large amount of bad ratings,(sorry that I couldn't think of a way to loosen the korny-ness of this film,perhaps some of you people out there can while you do your reviews)Overall a highly charming & allinout good kid's film. "},{"Title":"Wow...why do we show these movies to our children?","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" As I'm sure someone will disagree with me; I must say this. This movie is not something anyone should see.I remember seeing this movie when I was young, and it terrified me. I can even remember what I thought was the scariest part; some darkness thing grabbing the king of Slumberland. I believe I started screaming.Why do we show such terrifying things to our children? Interesting story, I'll admit, but just not enough to hold my concentration. I admire the fact that it's based on a very old comic strip and all, but even today, that film is very difficult to sit through without being scared...What happened...2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" This movie was great when I was a very young child. I watched it all the time. Now that I revisit this film, I can't even believe how insane it is. This film is best enjoyed if you are high or drunk because thats what this movie makes you feel like. The way the creator of this movie created this film is very interesting. If you are a child, this film seems to be perfect as if there are no mistakes at all. Once you see the film again, you start to question how you could have ever liked it. If you are stoned this movie would be perfect for you. So if you are over the age of 5,don't watch this movie unless you are on acid or something along those lines -). "},{"Title":"I waited 10 years...for this??!!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Animation, Adventure","Review":" I wanted to see this movie very badly when I was a pre-teen, maybe 10 or 11. It looked so cute, like a lot of the movies at that time. I remember Christopher Lloyd & his various guises in the voice acting world, and imagined this to be of a similar calibur. How sadly I was mistaken. Unlike Disney, whose calculated quality assures something you will enjoy, whether you like it or not, this is an animated feature with liitle charm & little to keep my interest. The characters felt like something snatched from Don Bluth, but with none of the individuality or charm. The half-hearted, unpleasant musical number (I only remember one when Nemo is being instructed in the proper way to conduct himself, reading books, standing up straight & such) is painful to watch, and I wished that Nemo had resisted the adult forces. He didn't. The plot in predictable & contrived. Think Pandora's box meets the standard let's go on a journey to find ____, meet new friends, learn something important about ourselves... type plot. As cool as the scene with the bed coming alive & leaping thru the rooftops looks, don't put yourself thru the torture that is this movie. "}]