[{"Title":"Spellbinding","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  One of my least favorite experiences is to find a movie I loved in my single-digits, rewatch it in wonder, then wait half an hour (at most) and finally concede that it was a real stinker. I may sentimentalize movies from my youth, but not the ones that really don't deserve my affection.This one does.Crysta, a simple, innocent, and at times flippant fairy, is an imperfect but funny heroine, and as genuine as they come. Batty gives Robin Williams another character perfectly suited to his talent -- I watched this movie at a party with highschoolers and he went down great (everyone liked the movie overall, but Batty stole my friends' hearts). He has the genie sassy-but-kind vibe going, and it's hard not to think of him as just as much a main character as Crysta (or more). Zach... well, okay, Zach was unforgivably dumb for awhile, but it was gratifying to see him finally get it. Magi Lune's character was fascinating, a powerful sorceress with just a hint of weakness and sadness (as when she admits of the coming darkness that she cannot heal it and cannot stop it). She delivers sappy lines and instead of losing the audience emotionally, they resonate deeply. I think this is because the usual sentimentality and condescension you see in kids' movie whenever there's a message is totally absent -- Magi speaks her lines with total respect and love for Crysta. It is a deeply spiritual moment.The animation is beautiful, visual joy; the script is full of entertaining flourishes, and Crysta's father is the most humorous roly-poly befuddled dad since the Sultan in Aladdin. I'm a huge Tim Curry fan, and he doesn't disappoint. But what makes this film stand out for me is how it handles its message.The entire film is built around it, but it doesn't seem heavy-handed at all. As a kid, I was inspired by Crysta's comeback, and the idea of there being magic in all of us. As a teenager, it reached me even more Crysta learns that, despite her youthful curiosity, real understanding and real power can come when she applies herself, and takes responsibility. In the beginning of the film, Crysta takes Magi for granted (and not too seriously), and there is a hint of rowdy teenager in the way she sneaks off to hang with a boy she likes. But she comes to understand that Magi is not infallible, and will not always be there to take care of her. She realizes that she loves Magi even though the woman can't always make everything alright, and eventually, Crysta learns that she, too, can take care of others. In short, Crysta matures, and it is insightfully handled and beautiful and affecting for me to watch. this, even more than the idea of conservation, is its message the inspiration to learn that others cannot always help you, and that sometimes other people even *need* you -- the rainforest is really just another charge, desperately in need of help.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was a kid I loved this movie, and I still enjoy it to this day. The colors and animation are wonderful. Anybody could enjoy this movie. I don't get the low rating. Robin Williams and Tim Curry have the greatest voices for the film. They both add a lot to the film. I would highly recommend this for a family film. Also just for the kids as well. It has catchy toons, nice animation, and a fun story to tell. Also, another addition is that it does have great morals. So, parents don't have to worry. Whenever I babysit my little cousins, this is a movie I'd let them watch on any day. I wish there was a possibility to get a higher rating. But sometimes you just have to deal with it. I feel like this movie deserves at least a 7.0. We can only hope, right?8/10 "},{"Title":"A delightful little animated adventure that takes us into the realm nature in a way we don't normally imagine.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie will always hold a special place in my heart. In my younger days, this is the movie that my sister and I watched over and over and over and over. We thought, and still think, it's a fantastic movie.So, the plot goes something like this. Deep in the heart of the last rainforest in the world, Fern Gully, live a society of fairies. Peaceful little creatures that spend all day helping things grow and protecting nature. Long ago, an evil force known as Hexxus tried to destroy Fern Gully. But the fairies sealed him in a tree for eternity. At least they thought it was for eternity.Humans have come back to Fern Gully, and they brought a huge machine with them known as the leveler. The leveler has one purpose. Chop down and process trees. Go figure, this doesn't bode well with the fairies who are trying to protect nature.Zak is a kid likely in his late teens working for this tree felling company as a summer job. And what a hard job. He walks around spray painting trees so the guys running the leveler know which ones to chop down. Really mentally pressing. Then he goes for a little stroll, and comes across a really eerie looking tree. The tree that, unknown to him, contains Hexxus. An insect starts buzzing around Zak, and he has the brilliant idea that he'll kill it with spray paint. Only in the process, he also paints a nice big red X across the Hexxus tree. In a little while, the leveler gets to the tree, chops it down, and Hexxus oozes out from the wood.Around this time, while Zak is walking around, he sees some little blue spark flying around. It's Crysta, his soon to be fairy friend. He catches her in his hands, and as a tree starts falling towards him, Crysta yells look out. He doesn't hear, so she says, Bless your heart with magic might I give the gift of fairy size! Er, sight! Apparently the first word spoken for a spell is the one that takes, and Zak is three inches tall, just like the fairies.Zak befriends Crysta, along with her bat friend, Batty (voiced by Robin Williams). The main focus of the movie is the relationship between Zak and Crysta, but also on the potential destruction of Fern Gully as per the wishes of Hexxus.It's a cartoon, so obviously the fairies are going to stop Hexxus. But it's still a fun little movie filled with some very funny lines, brightly colored animation, and great voice acting.Bottom Line 4 out of 4 (own this movie) "},{"Title":"A treasure with a message","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I remember loving this when it first came out and I was only about 10 years old. I recently came upon a couple of the books that I had saved of the movie and that got me thinking back on this. I haven't seen it in years, but I just bought it and can't help but love it. I love the visuals, colors and overall look of the film. And of course, Robin Williams as Batty Koda was hilarious. In describing humans, They walk around like 'Hi Helen!' I love the message most of all, and it does a good job of representing the greed and destruction of our times through images, actions and dialogue. I especially love how the fairy Crysta is so in touch with nature and its feelings that she can touch a tree and we literally see its energy flow into her. She shows this to the human, Zak, who, like every other human, is out of tune with nature and its feelings. Gradually, though, he too feels it, and all it took was for someone to wake him up to it. That's all it takes for us, too. We needed something like this movie to be made in order to wake some of us up to what we're doing. It may sound cliche or like a lecture, but it's one that needs to be said and for that I'm thankful to Ferngully and the people behind it who believed enough in the message they were attempting to get across. I read it loud and clear. "},{"Title":"A wonderful classic that is very overlooked","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I thought FernGully was just so lovable and cute, and I have always remembered enjoying the hell out of it every time I watched it. It was great fun from start to finish and it's rating is a drastic understatement of what impact this simple little film can have on you if you let it. All the characters were cute and likable, and the story is really different and fresh. I also thought that it was very hilarious at times, and just all around completely entertaining. It was so interesting and fun to watch, and in the end is that not what a film is supposed to do? In my opinion, it is a classic, that needs to be viewed by a lot more people, for how great it really is. Please see it really soon if you are any bit interested in it, because I swear you will not be let down by FernGully at all. "},{"Title":"A well executed ecologistic tale","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Ferngully is an example of how to do an educational movie without being boring. It is the story of an Australian rainforest endangered by human development. Zak, one of the worker of a team that is destroying the forest to build a road is shrunk by a fairy (Chrysta) and introduced to the magical world that he was destroying.The animation is good, with rich colors and gorgeous visuals of the forest. The characters are well designed and funny, the bat Batty being the most hilarious. The music is nice, too, with modern rhythms that mix well with the fast pace of the movie. The best song is the one performed by the bad guy, Hexxus, a literaly slimy demon, that perfectly represents the greed of modern society.This is a little gem in the Disney-dominated world of animation. Don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"Another Good Memory.","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this maybe three times at different ages.  I liked it alot, and KNEW I reconized Robin Williams.  At a young age I alway thought Dude, that guy Zak has the coolest haircut.  And untill this very moment, I didn't realise that Hexxus was a demon, or was voiced by Tim Curry.It's an interesting movie in a large rainforest inhabited by fairies. They think humans are dead, unti a bat named Batty (Robin Williams)shows up. It's two main characters, Zak the human surfer boy guy, and a fairy named Krysta, who shrinks him to her size.  The movie has a pretty cliche, but well said point I think, and good plot.  The music is great too, and the villan is great,Hexxus, and old demon, but perhapes a bit frightening at times.  (Villains are always the coolest)Basicly, the musics good, the characters are good, the voices are good, the bad guy is good (but frightening and the animation is good.  I see nothing wrong with this film, and I recommend it to those who like classics. "},{"Title":"Maltin-style review","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A band of fairies and their human allies must save a primeval rainforest from destruction by a conscienceless lumber company (not to mention a venomously evil entity voiced by Tim Curry). Though basically a Darwinian morality play dressed up in the more palatable medium of a kids' cartoon, FERNGULLY is actually an entertaining and thought-provoking animated masterpiece. Steeped in equal measures Australian mythology and modern-day politics, this movie proves that cartoons need not be about falling anvils and wascally wabbits. Watch out for Robin Williams, who is hilarious as always as a manic bat. "},{"Title":"A little dated but still has charm","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I hate getting a film you loved as a child and watching it as an adult only to find it's completely lost it's magic over time. Having pushed all my videos to the back of a dark cupboard, I hadn't actually watched the film in years until I bought it last week on DVD.Ferngully has it's problems, some of the songs were written with the days music heavily in the forefront so they haven't really stood the test of time. The overall message of taking care of the environment will seem heavy handed to an adult, although I remember feeling inspired by it as a child.That aside I cannot vault the voice acting, Tim Curry, Robin Williams, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, they all deliver great performances. The animation is terrific and looks very much like Disney movies of the time. The stories hero's are compelling to watch, you really do care about what happens to them as it progresses to the climax, all this is woven together with touching little moments in the animation and a clever and funny set of supporting characters.Will children today enjoy it? I'd say let them watch it, everyone has their own tastes and preferences and it's no different with children. They'll either like it or they won't.I'm not sure if an adult who missed it as a child will enjoy it, again I think it depends on the person, but if this was a part of your childhood, it might be worth seeing it again I think it still definitely has a place in my heart. "},{"Title":"Overall, an entertaining animated film - with its ups and downs of course...","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It may have a strong message, it may have slightly wobbly animation and it may not be your thing. Like it or loathe it, this film is Fern Gully The Last Rainforest.The ups are good humour from the one and only Robin Williams (who is a bat and sings a brilliant rap song), good thoughts about the environment (as in the way it is in this film), the setting (an Australian jungle - you would think if it was about fairies it would be set in Britain - wouldn't you?), good background animation (mainly jungle and trees), good songs (a mixture, including the beautiful and the not-so-beautiful) and a good message (to be good to the environment).The downs/flaws is the fact the main character is annoying (yet for some reason everybody likes her) and the film also drags on slightly. Another flaw is the fact that for one half of the film, everything is pretty cool, chilled and like a fun, normal kid's film, then in the second half of the film the tension becomes very heavy and suddenly everything is so precious and beautiful. Both phases of the film are good of course, but the change is too quick and too noticeable. It is like having balanced meals for a week and then suddenly the next week you are scoffing cakes like there is no tomorrow.The plot is Most of the characters are fairies and they live in the Australian rainforest. They are very kind to the environment and help things grow. Most of the fairies believe that humans do not exist, but when a bat who has been experimented in a lab tells the fairies of humans, there is one called Crysta (a girl fairy) who wants to see the humans for herself...Good for children, mainly, who do not care much about the environment, but also for people who like Robin Williams and animation in general. Enjoy Fern Gully The Last Rainforest! -) "}{"Title":"Blah","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Here we go again with yet another preachy left wing propaganda film disguised as a family friendly cartoon used to indoctrinate innocent young kids into their warped world of Marxist secular new age earth worshiping, humanity hating anti capitalist mindset. Like in all films of this genre, it starts off in a happy pristine village with happy playful little people who sing, play, dance and enjoy every second of their existence until the evil capitalists (aka You) invades and pillages their land and plunders their resources and leaves their once peaceful village into a smoldering pile of rubble and forces them to eat their children and drink their blood to survive. But one of the evil ones has a good heart and befriends the once happy little people and learns about their enlightened ways and tells off the other meanies.This movie was an obvious pot shot at the logging industry (and capitalism) yet I'd love to go to the mansions of the producers, directors, and cast and see how many wood products I can find in their homes and determine how many trees were cut down to supply them with their comfortable lifestyles. As usual, you're the bad guy who is polluting the earth and destroying the environment with your greedy capitalist ways but not them. "},{"Title":"Cute, lively, attractive animation, a bit heavy-handed environmental message.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As often the critic Ebert has a good and complete review. Simple story, the fairies live below the canopy of the rainforest, believing all humans have died. A precocious one flies above the canopy, sees smoke and a mountain in the distance, almost becomes an eagle's snack, then goes on a mission to find out what is going on. She discovers humans destroying an adjacent rainforest to make lumber, they are depicted as uncaring blue collar idiot slobs. Her rainforest, Ferngully is next and she must find a way to stop it. With the help of a few friends. The animation is very colorful and very good, and the vocal characterizations are fine. The DVD picture and sound are first-rate, but the only extras are trailers of other films. "},{"Title":"About as enjoyable as animated movies outside Disney get","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" FernGully is a non-Disney cartoon fairy tale about the importance of protecting forests. It is about a human male shrunk to fairy-size; he learns about fairies, their forest habitat, and soon finds a logging crew he was working with is now threatening their home.I remember watching FernGully as a kid, I really liked Batty (voiced by Robin Williams) and his song. Rewatching this now, Batty wasn't as hilarious as I remembered but he is one of the better characters of the movie. An insane bat with a radio wired into his head by human scientists, he is quite colourful. The other pretty good character is the villain Hexxus (Tim Curry), who also has a catchy song. He's a poisonous being who apparently thrives on destruction. A shape shifter, he too is well imagined.Beyond this the fairy characters Crysta and Pips (Christian Slater) and the human Zak are kind of flat. One thing that surprised me is how skimpy Crysta's clothes are (they reveal her hips and midriff)- but I'm not going to pass judgement on whether that's appropriate. Besides flat characters, at times watching this I longed for something more adult. The story was clearly aimed at children. At times this story isn't fully developed- why exactly did Magi disappear? Moreover, the animation is lacking compared to Disney films. Still, 18 years after it came out, families will likely continue to find FernGully enjoyable and its environmental message remains important. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favourites, it is just beautiful and very underrated, if a little short. The songs and score by Alan Silvestri,were very good, and some of the comments were unfair. Batty rap was wonderful, with great ad-libbing thrown into the mix. Toxic Love matched the character of Hexxus wonderfully. Hexxus is slimy and untrustworthy, shown perfectly in the song. A Dream Worth Keeping was my favourite song, and was essential for the relationship of Zak and Crysta. The lyrics were beautiful, and matched the animation surprisingly well. The animation was also beautiful, very colourful and vibrant. The forest was expertly animated like a fairytopia. I remember when I first saw it when I was 9 and being terrified of the villain. Speaking of Hexxus, the character was animated by Kathy Ziellinski, who also animated Frollo (The Hunchback of Notre Dame) and the Cobra (Aladdin). The voice talents were excellent too. Zak was a nice romantic interest, and Crysta-one spunky vivacious fairy- was excellently voiced by Samantha Mathis. Hexxus was chillingly voiced by the quintessential Tim Curry, and Robin Williams was hilarious as Batty Koda. As for Magi Lune, I mistook her for Angela Lansbury when I first saw the film, and she is a truly fascinating character. The ending was so powerful and poignant, and I love this movie so much, and I am 16. The film also has a good message and a nice story, that isn't at all preachy. The movie's only qualm is that it is too short, and I would've liked Hexxus to be developed a little more. Other than that, I strongly recommend FernGully, and Once Upon a Forest. 9/10. Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Fairies Wear Boots.","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A corporation is logging the Australian Ferngully rainforest - and the fairies don't like it! So... conserving rainforests is not to preserve the complex ecosystem and therefore the delicate balance of life on Earth itself. No - it's so FAIRIES will have a place to live.The film is dedicated to Our Children and Our Children's' Children.FERNGULLY THE LAST RAINFOREST follows sexy, half-naked, winged, tramp sprite Chrysta (voiced by Samantha Mathis), as she discovers humans in the forest, doing something unthinkable - wearing clothes. And cutting down trees. We are led to believe the humans are killing trees for no reason, but - without advocating senseless destruction - logging is done for a number of reasons, none of which is specifically so that fairies go homeless.That is the first un-brained message that our children and our children's' children can get confused over in this animated film. (Note that the industrial society that performs the logging is providing jobs and domestic product, which feed and clothe the very same children's' children this movie is preaching to.) Chrysta's magic old witch friend (voice of Grace Zabriskie) once entrapped an evil spirit called Hexus (Tim Curry) in one of the trees. The logging people unwittingly free Hexus by cutting down his imprisoning tree. (I really shouldn't go into the nonsense behind a metaphysical prison being breached by physical means.) Hexus then possesses the big logging machine, so it can be anthropomorphized into a snarling beast. And working for that beast, the representatives of humanity - two bucktoothed layabouts who drive the logger and a big blond American idiot, Zak (Jonathan Ward), with arms more muscle-bound than his brain even, whose menial job is to spraypaint the trees scheduled for the axe.And the headlines read BIG BLOND American IDIOT SHRUNK TO FAIRY SIZE. (Although film is made by Australian production companies, and although Zak's license says he lives in Byron Bay, Australia, Zak's accent, demeanor and provincial arrogance dub him unmistakably American.) Through a magic spell, Zak becomes as tiny as Chrysta and shares his ignorant human perspectives with the forest sprites, who teach him how to become more forest and less technology. Which is kinda futile, because Zak in no way represents humanity OR corporate interests - I shudder to think that this blond bell-end supposedly speaks for ME. Or anyone with more brain than brawn.Zak infuriates Chrysta's fairy boyfriend (Christian Slater) by trying to get naked with her, then makes us question how he could harbor those desires when he starts singing nature songs like a fairy, as he is gradually propagandized into a tree hugger. Very noble an' all, but even though he helps grind the Bad Machine to a stop, having his eyes opened to the ways of the woods won't stop deforestation. He is a bottom-rung day-laborer. He has no say in the corporation sending another Bad Machine to replace the one he wrecked. He'll be fired and the logging will continue unabated.Robin Williams voices Batty, a bat who escaped an experimental lab (forever burdened with an antenna stuck in his ear), who helps the fairies with his usual flap-yapping Williams shtick.And then the worst crime of all - magic. Final scenes of FERNGULLY show a denuded forest being regrown in minutes through the fairy witch's magic - which undermines the movie's entire message. If our children's' children see a rainforest grown from nothing in minutes, how are they ever going to appreciate it as something precious and rare and hard to regenerate? If a rainforest can be grown instantaneously through Magic, well, why the hell NOT tear it down for homes for the homeless and creating jobs for the economy and then re-grow another one like in the movie?And the headlines read FAIRIES MAGICALLY REGROW FOREST IN MINUTES. LOGGING CORP REJOICES - MORE TREES INSTANTANEOUSLY! MORE JOBS! MORE LOGGING! Moral As long as magic fairies are so militant about keeping their homes, we'll always have rainforests. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but a little bland.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A rather enjoyable non-Disney (I think) animated feature. The animation is a little flat, but still colorful. The character are likable, fortunately not in a forced way. The film is very easy to take, but it could have used more delirious comic scenes with the bat that's voiced by Wiliams and less of those bland songs. "},{"Title":"Probably The Most Heavy-Handed New Age/Eco Garbage Ever Put On A Kids Film","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It didn't take long to spot the heavy--handed New Age--Secular Humanistic-Environmental agenda of this animated film. Hey, indoctrinate the kids early on and they'll buy your propaganda. That's the plan, and the Left, for you. They have a long history of it in film, especially since the '60s.In just under the first seven minutes, this movie presented its theology about a supernatural (not God) power inside you, all life being connected with the web of life, the spirit of the trees or leaves or whatever is speaking to you, etc. etc. Unbelievable!I didn't get to the environmental barrage here yet. Hey, there's nothing wrong a decent message about helping then environment but this is absurd. I'm sorry but not everyone in the lumber business is a total moronic, homicidal slob! They are in this animated film! In this movie - I am NOT exaggerated, trees feel pain when they are cut! As I said....unbelievable!This is the most blatant and ludicrous propaganda piece for little kids I've ever seen and sadly, there was a lot of this crap for over a decade until things calmed down...until Happy Feet came along recently with an another example of liberalism gone loony. However, generally-- speaking, you don't see this kind of preaching much anymore which is why animated films are so much more popular today than this message garbage. "},{"Title":"FernGully The Last Rainforest","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I heard about this cartoon film purely because of the great talented actor who provided the wonderful voice of the Genie in Aladdin, and also because this film was meant to be not that great, so I watched it to see what I'd make of it. Basically a race of fairies live in the rain forest called FernGully, they have never seen humans, but they believe they exist from the stories told of time gone by. One day, curious fairy Crysta (Samantha Mathis) flies above the trees, and she notices smoke coming from Mount Warning, and she sees many tree being cut down and destroyed by humans. She uses her magic and accidentally shrinks human Zak Young (Jonathan Ward), one of those destroying the forest, and after discovering the world of the fairies he is trying his best to sway away from his involvement in the destruction. Besides many of the other fairies of the forest, mentally unstable and comical fruit bat Batty Koda (Robin Williams) is unsure what to make of the shrunk human, and fairy Pips (Christian Slater) is jealous that Crysta is closer to him. In the process of destroying FernGully, the humans have released the evil Hexxus (Tim Curry), an oil-like and then smoke driven creature who wants to unleash chaos, and taking over the leveler he works to destroy the forest. Of course Crysta and the other fairies discover that Zak was involved in helping to destroy FernGully, but having become fascinated with their world he is determined to help save their home. In the end, Hexxus is trapped inside a newly grown tree, Crysta uses her power to grow Zak back to normal size, and he ensures the fairies that he will stop any other humans coming to the forest to destroy it. Also starring Grace Zabriskie as Magi Lune, Cheech Marin as Stump, Tommy Chong as Root, Robert Pastorelli as Tony, Geoffrey Blake as Ralph and Ace Ventura Pet Detective's Tone Loc as Goanna. The voice acting is all fine, the most fun to listen to is obviously Williams who creates the laughs, the animation is alright, and the story has some okay ideas that obviously delve into the concept of saving the environment, and the Elton John song Some Other World at the end is good, overall it isn't something I would see again, a not terrible but also not great animated fantasy. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Don't worry, kids! Magic fairies will save us!","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This eco-friendly animated feature is a children's environmental fantasy about a tropical paradise protected by guardian fairies, one of whom (a cute Tinkerbell look-alike) develops a crush on the first human she ever sees, after helping him mend his ignorant, woodcutting ways. Of course she first has shrink him down to fairy size, in much the same way that the script likewise reduces its message to a basic cartoon conflict between good and evil, with plenty of post-George Lucas mysticism. Some of the animation is fine, if only the film paused show it off; the pace is set to match a TV-ruined attention span, which at least has one advantage none of the songs is more than 40 seconds long. Parents may feel obligated to drag their kids to see it, but don't be fooled Ferngully cheats on its ecology lesson by suggesting that the rainforest has magical powers of restoration, which it certainly doesn't, and if we teach our kids to start relying on fairies to save the Earth we're all in big trouble. The best voices are provided by toxic sludge monster Tim Curry and dingbat Robin Williams. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies ever made with an important message of protecting the Rainforest","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Here is another childhood favorite of mine, and still I love it now I am 24 years old. I love it's important message of protecting the rainforest and our environment, without being too 'in your face' obvious; I'm all for green too.The film starts somewhere in the Australian rainforest, lays a fairy world known as Ferngully. One day, a fairy named Crysta while flying up on the canopy, spies a smoke cloud by Mount Warning. And hearing from a brain-fried bat named Batty, that there are humans over there, the curious Crysta flew over see the humans. Well Batty was right, there are humans at Mount Warning, and they are logging in the forest! And we get to see the film's protagonist Zak, an ordinary teen working as a lumberjack's apprentice for a summer job. While trying to spray a fly that was buzzing around him with the spray paint to paint an 'X' on the trees, Zak had accidentally painted an X mark on an enchanted baobab tree that trapped Hexxus, the spirit of destruction and the film's main villain.Upon being discovered, Crysta flees from Zak, who spotted her blue glow. And seeing the monstrous lumber machine cutting a tree shocked Crysta that she forgot about fleeing from Zak, who caught her. Unaware that a tree is about to fall on Zak, Crysta accidentally shrinks him down to her size; because instead of saying fairy sight in her spell she said fairy size! Then after being thrown from the massive blow from the tree's impact to the ground, Zak gets stuck on a spiderweb on the tree that's just about to go through the machine's tree shredder. Crysta tries to get him off but she can't, until Batty swoops in, grabs them both off of the spiderweb.And now the adventure really for those two (Crysta & Zak), because once Zak sees the beauty and magic of Ferngully, he vows to save it. But it may be too late, because the logging machine had cut the enchanted tree and Hexxus is free! That's all I could tell you folks, you will have to see the film for yourself how it ends.So anyway I really love this film, and I love the film's musical soundtrack; truly one of the best animated movies ever made with plenty of fantasy, adventure and humor. "}{"Title":"100% Propaganda Film","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ferngully is a blatant environmentalist propaganda film. Blatant to the point that they make absolutely no effort to hide it.Beginning the movie, the fairies are unaware of the existence of humans - believing them to be only a myth. As they learn that humans do indeed exist, they determine that humans are an entirely destructive force, and decide that any and all wrong is caused by humans. The middle of the movie holds a constant theme of The HUMANS DID IT! The humans did it! (in reference to anything negative). The movie also entirely excludes humans from nature, as anything done by humans is directly stated to be a power outside of nature. The movie also puts a significant focus on a bat who's song number details his experience as a biology lab test subject for a cosmetics company. Long story short, the sole lesson to be taken away from this movie is - Humans are evil and the source of any and all bad things. "},{"Title":"Innocent nonsense?","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I suppose one could look at Ferngully as innocent guff for young viewers (except for a more adolescent sequence wherein Zak and Crysta get wet together), but looking at this 1992 flick from the perspective of 2005 it seems more like eco propaganda for children. We learn that technology (except for cassette tape players, which are fun) leads to death and destruction, the spirits of wise people are recycled into the living, trees feel pain when cut, research on animals is conducted by wanton brutes and logging companies are on the side of evil. These days, you can pay big money and be taught all theses things at a university. I guess I wasn't too surprised when I read that this movie was released on Earth-Worship Day (Nature good--humans bad.) Robin Williams is funny as Batty the Bat, better than the same routine on fast forward, which he did for the genie in Aladdin (also 1992). "},{"Title":"Lots of magic in this movie!","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ferngully is one of the best 20th Century Fox cartoons. Robin Williams made this movie fresh and hilarious as Batty, and Samantha Mathis is wonderful as Crysta. The story is about Crysta trying to save a man named Zack, who's about the get hit by a falling tree and later, Crysta and Zack become the best of friends! I'm glad that Zak was there to save Ferngully from Hexsus who wants to get rid of Ferngully. This movie is peaceful and funny at times. I've never seen the second Ferngully, and Zack wasn't even in it, and he wasn't there to save wildlife from poachers in the sequel. This movie is a classic, Robin Williams and Samantha Mathis were excellent! "},{"Title":"now really...","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" FernGully The Last Rainforest has good intentions but takes too much of a milquetoast approach to environmental issues. The obvious problem is the logging and mining companies, but this is compounded by the politicians who allow it, and the people who vote for these politicians because the politicians act all Christian.The best pairing of Samantha Mathis and Christian Slater was 1990's Pump Up the Volume. As for Australia - FernGully's setting - its history of forcing the Aborigines off their land to gain access to the resources makes it an odd setting for an environmental movie featuring fairies.Anyway, it's an OK movie, but there have been better ones. "},{"Title":"Traumatizing!","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was forced to watch this movie on the last day of school in 3rd grade. This movie was one of many things that I think messed me up in the head. I see It as piece of brain washing,This is what the humans are doing. They are hopelessly destroying the rain rain Forrest. All humans are evil sick things that love nothing more then to do just of the sort. Look at your self. This movie should be banned. I ended up being beside myself for the entire summer and fall because of this movie. I completely serious you people have no idea the agony. In reading the comments I have no idea how anyone could get joy out of this movie. I wish you could see it from my perspective. "},{"Title":"Might have been forgotten, but its message remains timeless and its substance underrated.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" 20th Century Fox's animated fantasy film might have been lost in the early/mid-1990s, but its message remains timeless and its substance underrated. Beautiful animation, fitting voice actors and well-thought musical numbers all weave a wonderful story about an Australian rainforest inhabited by fairies, one of which befriends lumberjack Ward who is unwittingly playing a part in destroying FernGully. Mathis is perfectly sweet as the curious fairy who tries to guide her new human friend into understanding the damage his kind is inflicting on the natural world, and what a great importance it is to preserve nature; Williams is hilarious as Batty Koda, though his role now seems sort of like an underwhelming version of Genie from ALADDIN; and Curry is chilling even as a cartoon character! ***½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Great Kids Movie","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ferngully is a great movie for kids. First of all the story is great for children and will keep them really entertained. Kids like the characters and the story. Of course the story obviously is not super engrossing for adults but who cares? It is a kids movie and they are almost never also meant to be entertaining for adults too so by that score this movie is better than most kids movies.Most important this movie has a good message about the environment and caring about the environment and kids really seem to respond to it because it is presented in this movie in an entertaining way that they will like. "},{"Title":"Great Family Film with a Positive Message","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie when I was a child because my mom saw it and decided it would be a good movie for me and my brother. And I loved it! It's colorful and fun with awesome songs...plus the voice talents of two amazing actors, Robin Williams and Tim Curry! Williams' character Batty is hilarious and full of jokes, and Curry's songs as the villain are so good! Some elements were kind of disturbing as a child, but no lasting nightmares bothered me. What I found scarier was the cameo by Tone Loc as a lizard about to eat one of the main characters! I believe this film still stands the test of time with it's message about deforestation and being true to yourself. I just watched it again and got nostalgic about it with several of my friends, and you should too! ) "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem from my childhood","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film at primary school, although I couldn't remember a great deal of it. Whilst watching the Nostalgia Critic's review of 'Legend of the Titanic,' I re-discovered this film when he mentioned that it stuck to the rainforest and didn't bring in the Hindenburg Disaster in contrast to 'Legend of the Titanic' incorporating a whaling storyline. In spite of the Nostalgia Critic saying FernGully was more to the point, he still found it an awful film that made no sense and had a hypocritical message. Contrary to this, I disagree with him because after having watched it on LoveFilm Instant, I found it really enjoyable.This film has beautiful backgrounds, clever writing (for example 'Human Tales' being the reversed version of 'fairy tales,' Zak's stereo being described as a stone that's hard on the outside but hollow on the inside and its headphones being described as a vine), some witty dialogue and catchy songs. My favourites were the opening song, 'Batty Rap (reminds me of Sir Mix-A-Lot's 'Baby Got Back'), 'A Dream Is Worth Keeping' and 'Land of A Thousand Dances' as well as Elton John's 'Some Other World' that plays during the end credits, although 'If I'm Gonna Eat Somebody (It Might As Well Be You)' is rather tuneless and is sung in a pointless scene since the lizard-like creature who sings it comes out of nowhere and is never seen again after the song, thus making this a Big Lipped Alligator Moment (as explained by the Nostalgia Chick when she reviewed this film alongside The Nostalgia Critic). I found the 'Toxic Love' scene almost as pointless, despite finding the song smooth and soulful. Robin Williams as Batty was hilarious and Tim Curry's voice for Hexxus was convincing. The scene where Zak and Christa walk on water and put their palms together is a little dark in terms of shading; however the animation in this sequence is stunning and is as pleasant as the song that accompanies it.All in all, this film was worth watching after having forgotten about it for several years. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Bad science, bad acting, bad movie.","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Children will watch just about anything if it's animated. Stop them from watching this one. It is full of so much bad science and outright falsehoods that you owe it to your progeny to protect their little minds.Not since Captain Planet has there been such a blatant effort to use cartoons to brainwash your little ones. The little bit of information that has any truth behind it is exaggerated so far that anyone who paid attention in 6th grade Science class knows it to be wrong.It's a rather cute story, and that is the problem. It is NOT okay to be wrong as long as you're cute. And it is NOT okay to lie to your children for a good cause. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this as I was growing up and I loved it. Most of the time,when I try and watch a movie I used to love, it sucks. But this one is different, I still Love it! ) And I've got my little siblings into it as well. Which isn't easy when you have as many little brothers as I do. It has a great story line and it's easy to understand. It's colorful and being made in 1992 it's amazing for that time. It's still amazing in this year of 2011, even with all of our 3D movies. It's also funny and magical, with well learned teachings. This is a great movie to show your children! "},{"Title":"One of the old favourites","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" FernGully, in my opinion, is one of the few great films that could easily rival some of Disney's work. I watched this film for the first time when I was a single digit in age, and now I'm 19 and can still clearly remember how much it inspired me, and still does inspire me.FernGully is a children's movie - with a very real, very serious issue not at all portrayed subtly. And I think that's what makes this movie so brilliant. As a child, I watched this film and then thought about it once it had finished. And then I thought some more. No matter that Krysta and Pips and the other fairy folk didn't actually exist, I came to realise that there really were rainforest's being destroyed in my world. That Hexus was portraying very real threats to nature and wildlife - the song he sings during the course of the film mentions some of this - oil, cyanide, poisons and toxic fumes. Towards the end of the film, he's almost frightening - a burning skeleton of smoke and fire, looking very hellish and evil. But it's essential. The fact that Hexus never actually dies sends a clear message - there is no ending. 'Hexus' (toxic waste and the like) could still destroy our planet. His role makes you appreciate that the threat he stands for is so normal for us, and yet spells the end for the world we don't really think about - the deepest rainforest's.Of course, this film also includes many laughs that will keep kids entertained. The character of Batty Koda, voiced by Robin Williams (always a hoot), was a fantastic addition. I laughed when I was a kid, and I even laugh now. Yet, even Batty has a darker side to his character. I've read some comments here stating that Batty 'had rabies or something'. This isn't the case at all. Batty is how he is because of Humans. The Batty Song - youtube it. It's the craziest part of the film, yet probably one of the most serious. Batty was a subject of science experiments, so he's totally messed up. He's a lovable character, and it's the humans he's scared of, the humans who damaged him. At the start of the film, the fairy's see 'the Humans' as this wonderful race who assisted them in the growth and protection of their home - yet they come to see that wasn't the case at all. Humans have lost touch with nature, and Zach, our hero of the story, goes through the process of realising what his race has become.I'm aware I've rambled a lot here, but this was a movie that really touched me, and I just hope that children nowadays can overlook the dated cartoon style and really see the messages behind the story. Compelling stuff - would recommend it. "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK. i have always loved this movie. it has amazing songs and memorable characters. my personal favorite is batty koda who is just as funny as can be and robin Williams was an amazing choice for this character.when i was little i couldn't wait till Friday nights when it was my turn to pick a movie and i always picked this one. it has amazing affects, catchy fun songs, a great plot, good lessons in doing the right thing and caring for nature and amazing character development. i can guarantee that if you watch this movie you will laugh, hold your breath and maybe even cry for a love that could never be. the combining of the human world and its affect on nature is true and i think its something we should let our kids watch because without the environment we will destroy our lives. some other title that re great are furn gully 2( 7/10.. if you see this movie rate it on its own context not in comparison to the first movie to which there can be no equal) so dear to my heart(10/10) and swan princess(9/10). i recommend these because they teach great morals and i guarantee that they will love them. for these reasons and many more i think this is the best movie EVER!!! "},{"Title":"Ferngully's great message","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ferngully is a great animated movie. It helped me realized that we need to help to preserve trees and rain forests to protect mother earth. Next, the film brought a point how pollution and toxic waste ravage our planet, if we let factories and machines destroy nature.The characters especially the fairies showed how compassion and care for nature help us humans to have healthy environment. Finally, this movie was significant and brought a new hope for everyone to understand how rain-forests were critically important in our survival. Ferngully deserved a 100/100. It represent respect and love for living thing. Plus, reminder to love and care for others not just ourselves. "},{"Title":"Incredible show,","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an unbelievable show; a true classic. I first watched this movie when I was a young child and thought it was great. Now, about 12 years later, I find myself enjoying the it even more. The story is fairly straight forward and the characters are lovable which makes it great for children. It's an excellent way to help them think about conserving the environment at a young age. However, there are so many deeper meanings in this movie, and I think adults and even teenagers can relate and understand what this movie is really about. At times, the humour is simple, and yet it varies enough to make anybody, no matter what age, laugh. Robin Williams does a great job as Batty.I feel the FERNGULLY is under-ratted and over-looked. If you haven't seen it and are looking for a creative, memorable movie, you should check this one out. You'll be surprised at the depth and beauty of FERNGULLY. "},{"Title":"Used to be one of my favorites","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I used to love this movie as a child, and this is obviously meant for children, so I guess kids will like it. However, re-watching it, this is a heavy handed kids movie with too many slow moments and animation too loose for it's own good.Ferngully tells the story of a rain forest full of sprite like creatures. Their habitat is being destroyed by man, who don't know how much harm they're causing. The villain in the film is Hexxus, a glob of goo who grows larger and larger and thrives off of waste. Tim Curry's performance as this very strange character is what makes the movie. Robin Williams has a real throwaway role as the comic relief bat, aptly named Batty. Though he is a comic relief character he's also there to be preachy, and was previously tested on by humans. Everything in this movie gives a message, and as a child I did not care or understand what the point of this was. Now, I realize how preachy this really is, so it doesn't work on any level.In the end, this was a short, preachy movie, with some inspired moments....but mostly it was too heavy on it's environmental message.My rating ** out of ****. 71 mins. Rated G. "},{"Title":"The Last Rainforest so so GREEN","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Of very late, I was shocked to learn that JC's Avatar got inspiration from this one. A good cartoon movie just above an hour long about a group of magical inhabitants. The message from this non-Disney movie is to save forests from extinction. The enemy (of course) is the environmental pollution is personified as a villain in the movie voiced by Tim Curry. The movie also features voices of Robin Williams, Slater, Samantha, Cheche martin etc. Few demerits in the movie includes the movie length which is too short and because of it there is no way the characters could be detailed. The soundtrack is good with Sir. Elton's voice at the credits. A treat for the children with a vital moral added. Imho, the movie deserved definitely about the IMDb's 6/10 rating and must be at least 7. "},{"Title":"Polution is a villain and it has Tim Curry's voice.","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie had a bit of a revival recently because more and more people started to notice and point out, the similarities between this movie and James Cameron's Avatar, to each other. And it is indeed similar in a lot of ways but to be fair, Avatar 'borrows' just as much from many other different movies as well.This movie actually made me realize how enjoyable and quite good most of the animated movies from the 20th Century Fox studios were. They had a very distinctive style to them and even while they obviously always wanted to be too much like a Disney movie, it still was the studio that produced some of the best and also more enjoyable movies, that tried to compete with the much bigger and far superior Disney studios.And this movie is quite good as well and definitely does have some great moments and good ideas in it. Unfortunately as a whole the movie is still really lacking.Part of the problem is that the movie is way too short. Because all of the action is already over after 70 minutes, neither the story or characters ever get developed properly and thoroughly enough. Because of this you also really never start to care for its story or any of its characters. A shame, since the movie definitely seemed to have some good ideas in it.The whole message of the movie also falls kind of short because of this. It's the sort of movie that tries to make kids aware of their environment and point out the importance of nature and how bad and evil it is that humans are destructing the rain forest. I already disliked these sort of movies as a young kid and it does still annoy me to see how the movie tries to force its message on its young audience, no matter how good and noble its intentions with it all were.Besides, it really isn't done in a very good or creative way. I mean, making pollution an actual villain, with a face and a singing voice? It was all a bit too weird and plain ridicules to me. It doesn't matter really that he is voiced by the great Tim Curry.The movie actually does have a great voice cast in it. Besides Tim Curry, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, Robin Williams, Cheech Marin, Tommy Chong and Brian Cummings are all doing some of the voices. And really, they also make some of the characters truly enjoyable but most of the characters get pushed far too much to the movie its background, simply because the movie itself is being far too short for each and everyone to have a big role in it. Even Tim Curry as the main villain is hardly in the movie at all. The animation of the movie itself is pretty good. Both the characters and the background and environments of the movie are pretty good looking. It's certainly not one of those cheap and simplistic animated movies. You could tell lots of time and effort got put in this movie, unfortunately it did not all work out that well. The story- and character development, the music, the songs, its overall message. It's all still really lacking, which makes this a movie you could easily do without.Really not a bad animated movie but it still has far too many weak points in it to considerer this a recommendable one.6/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Hi, i love fern gully so much.  It is the best movie I've ever seen.","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Hi, I love so much Fern Gully, it is the movie that I continue to cherish since I was a teener in 1992 and now a mother after 16 years of first watching the movie. I just love fern gully and now I am sharing it with my 5-year old daughter.It is the kind of movie that makes a person realize that nature is very important. It is something that made me realize that as a human creature, I need to take good care of the trees and plants around me. It makes me feel closer to nature through watching a fantasy movie. It appeals both to children and adults.In fact, I had also shared the movie with young children since 1992. I had been through a lot of cities in the Philippines and yet I brought with me my Fern Gully movie. I am don't feel tired of sharing a fantasy movie with a very good lesson to smaller kids who will become the adult citizens of my country. As a teacher I believe that it is my moral responsibility to teach kids of what is morally right especially that of taking good care the nature that our God has gifted us. "},{"Title":"THE most important movie of our time.","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK, so its a G rated cartoon, so what? lets get that behind us.OK....I am not an enviormentalist, but this movie is still strong with me, when I was younger I really didn't get it, but now, 10 years from when I last saw it, I dug this out of my old VHS pile, and after watching it, It has left an even more influence with me....now onto the movie itself- Characters are wonderful, story is great for it's time, and it has a very important message that was ahead of it's time. I wwish Zack would of stayed at the end, but he has to do something important, years from now I would love to make a live action verion of this film, to give the story the credit it deserves, because critics called it preachy, people gave this movie a low rating. But in this day and age where we need to pay attention to how we treat the earth, this movie is the best example of why. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I loved and still love this film. I remember this being one of my favorites as a child and I really get nostalgic watching it nowadays.I do agree with the critics though when they say it is a bit preachy. Seeing it now, the message is a little too obvious. They could have done better by sneaking in the message rather than BLAM slamming it into your face.But overall, the characters and what not were memorable. I LOVED Tim Curry as Hexxus. L-o-v-e-d Hexxus lol... My favorite scene was the one where Crysta makes an old tree grow. That was a really impressionable scene. I still remember seeing it in my Children's Center daycare as a kid... although I'm wondering if the Ah! My Goddess! film stole that scene or vice versa (a goddess sings in the film and makes a dead tree grow little sprouts).Great stuff! "},{"Title":"Delightful and charming but no great story","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I went and bought this tape after a lot of apprehension because I thought it would be childish and ridiculous but when I got down to seeing this movie, I was not disappointed at all. You don't get a good or complex storyline and all the events are pretty much straightforward with no detailed intro to any characters but thanks to some charming and delightful characters, nice animation and voice acting, this film is really something to treasure for a cartoon fan anywhere. I was really not taken in by the songs or the music and the villain comes, gets beaten and goes but even so, there are enough good things about this movie to keep one engrossed for the viewing period and it will not be easily forgotten either. "},{"Title":"one great movie","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK, i've seen this movie millions of times. i watched it when i was young n i still watch it. i love this movie it is so good. i love the drawings, the songs, the story, the characters, everything. this is a great movie to watch as a family and it doesn't grow old because it's just really great. one has to watch it, i cant describe it anymore. it's just really good. oh and plus, if you're a nature person or environmentalist, you would like to watch this movie. i'm also questioning why the ratings are so low. No, this is one good movie. When I'm bored and need something to do, i would fish this video out and plug it in. It's a movie you don't get bored watching. When you first watch it it's really good. By the time you get older, like me, you don't think of fairies anymore but then when you become a little older still this movie is one that you would love again.It's really good. trust me, i love it. D "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Crysta is a teenage fairy, full of spunk and energy. She's always looking for something new and interesting, but she's not really crazy about the lessons her teacher, Magi, gives her... You see Crysta is the daughter of the fairy-leader, and one day, she will become a leader herself... Seeing the way the fairy is in the beginning, you really pity the other fairies (for having such a future-leader). But everything changes one day, when Crysta meets a human. She never thought humans existed - they were just fairy-tale creatures!!! And she becomes friends with Zak (the human-boy), not knowing that he and his friends are responsible for destroying the forest she lives in; and freeing the evil spirit, Hexxus, who was once imprisoned by Magi and the other fairies in the group...I first saw this movie when I was three or four years old!!! And I remember loving every minute of it... The atmosphere is great, although the whole thing is pretty short.The music is fantastic. From the sensual Toxic Love tune to the rap song batty sings to the love song that we hear in the background in the cave scene! It's all fantastic, it... out of this world! The animation is spotless. There is so much life, both in the characters and the forest around them... Also, the ecological message is pretty strong, and I highly appreciate that. People need to do something to start protecting nature, or else we'll be left without a home!!! "},{"Title":"Political Magic","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I first watched Ferngully when I was about 8, and I remember loving it it bits. The characters were so fun to watch, sing-a-long with and interact with.Now 16, I found a copy of it in my cupboard while having a clear out and I just had to watch it again. This time though, I saw the inner story. This film is just so obviously a message from the American government YOYR RUINING OUR WORLD PEOPLE and aren't they just right. If this film was to be MORE political, there would have to be American Soccer style banners moving across the screen in the middle of the film advertising bins.The film was still enjoyable to watch, Tim Curry's Hexxus still not losing its s**t scary look and growling voice. Live On Ferngully "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ferngully boasts a fairly notable cast and an interesting premise. The film is predictable and the plot is somewhat terse, but the film is not horrid. (Robin Williams as Batty was the most quotable person in the second grade.) The film invokes fond memories of childhood, yet, looking back, it seems rather disturbing. One scene in particular strikes me as vaguely oedipal. Hexxis, a cloud of filth, rises from the smoke stacks of the factory and as he sucks on the smoke stack he grows exponentially and says somewhat sexually, Mommy's milk. He clearly derives pleasure from his mother, but he is past the stage where breast feeding is natural. The overt representation of satiation from one's mother, strikes me as shocking. In fact, it is downright unpleasant. Other than that disturbing image, the film is acceptable, and definitely pleasurable, for young children, bothersome for teenagers, and mildly annoying for adults. "},{"Title":"Terrifying film","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this in the theater when I was nine, and I can tell you it truly terrified me. I can't bring myself to watch it today. That black blob monster of oil/sap that fed on the exhaust from the logging truck was the most disturbing thing I'd ever seen. In general, the film is a bit of a one-sided propaganda piece on saving the environment, but it gets it's message across. Speaking from my reaction from the film, terrifying kids to get them to recycle or save the forest is not the way to go. It's okay for kids movies to be scary, like the slightly disturbing pink elephant dream sequence from Dumbo, but this one really crosses the line. "},{"Title":"An excellent example of environmentalism controlling children","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The only reason I'm giving this the extra three stars is because Robin Williams did a great voice job. Aside from that, anyone with a brain can easily see how this is just anti-pollution propaganda.You might want to take note on the fact that Crysta, the ever-optimistic environmentally friendly main character, is portrayed as this pretty and kind individual, whereas the polluters are portrayed as corrupt and ugly-looking. So, what will children who watch this think of the employees and owners of polluting factories? What if their parents work in polluting factories? I certainly wouldn't want my child thinking that industrialism and pollution is a bad thing, not to mention that employees and owners of factories are people like everyone else, with families of their own.Maybe I'm the wrong person to review this movie (I'm pro-pollution and enjoy polluting the environment on purpose). I'm sure my review will get many unhelpful votes, but if you're an intelligent person, don't show this to your own children! The plot follows a fairy-like creature, Crysta, and her environmentally aware friends, who try and rescue their home from the Hexxus, a polluting entity bent on destroying the rain forest forever.You might as well be showing your children a bunch of Nazi 1940's WW2 propaganda because this really isn't much different. Environmentalism is all about control, and movies like this are highly influential on kids. I saw this as a little kid and up until grade seven I believed it was a movie with values, and I believed in the environmental movement. In grade seven I learned a lot about the other side of the issue, the side often ignored. Since then I've been an intentional polluter, and I'm proud of it! My advice? Only watch FernGully for the voice talents of Tim Curry (Toxic Love song is so cool) and Robin Williams, or for nostalgic value, and keep it away from your kids. They deserve much better. And let's face it, little kids won't give a damn about the environmental message in it, they just want to see an entertaining movie and the only entertaining and cool character in it was Hexxus. "},{"Title":"Memories","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I got strep once when i was little and asked my dad to get me a movie at the Library. He brought back Fern Gully. I loved it. But as some ppl say it's easily forgettable. I requested it every time i got sick Just b/c it's such an awesome sick day movie. Funny(robin williams of course) and it's got morals. I couldn't help but laugh at Hexus too... About three weeks ago i saw it at a friends house and got an urge to relive some old memories. And well i of course had a blast. I recommend it to parents...your kids will have just as much fan as i did(get em some popsicles too ;))  "},{"Title":"A great film for children and enjoyable for higher ages too","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  **Spoilers**The fact that some people seem to dislike this film I find quite surprising. For children it's really great although really Batty is the only properly entertaining character the film in general is pretty good.The story is basically of Crysta the fairy she's been told that humans lived in the forests years upon years ago but now they're probably extinct due to being chased off by Hexxus. Of course humans have come back trying to cut down the forest and accidentally unleash Hexxus who was trapped in an enchanted tree. Zak a boy from the city is accidentally shrunk to fairy size and learns about how much the forest is needed. I really enjoyed the music to this film myself and I think it sends a fairly good message out to children although it does through all people into a fairly bad light. Hexxus himself is meant to represent sort of pollution and bad things in the environment. He looks like a brown toxic cloud, although fairly funny at first near the end of the film when he rises up and looks like a brown skeleton with fire inside him he gets pretty scary.I recommend this film to at least watch once, if you don't like it just don't watch it again. But I think it'd make a good film for children.  "}{"Title":"An animated masterpeice Spoilers","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This beautiful animated film earned the award it got. It focuses on how the rainforest is in danger but didn't try to be preachy. For example when Zach is carving Cristal's name in, she stoped him Can't you feel it's pain? The songs were quite enjoyable. The animation was great and with no offense to the reviewer who was scared by this movie (i no you didn't insult it) I say that you helped me relize something. This movie has a very good bad guy. The demon Hexxus who wiped put the humans out. this gets a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Classic, and a good lesson for your kids","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie helped my kids learn to have empathy for the world around us. It brings up points about irresponsible practices toward the environment and other living things in a way children can understand. The parallel villains of Pollution and Greed personified in Hexxus, as well as in the humans harvesting the rainforest, is an insightful twist to this animated feature. The personalities of the two lead characters are overshadowed by the vastness of the story, but I can't help but wonder if that is intentional. Don't we all feel ordinary? Don't we all think there is nothing we can do about it? Tim Curry is one of the best villain voices EVER, this is no exception to his work. Robin Williams has used his skills to tell many noble stories, and this is another. I love this movie. So do my kids. "},{"Title":"A genuinely meaningful and funny animated movie","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I love this film, and have ever since I was a child. It is so pure, with wonderfully drawn (and written) characters. The villain, voiced chillingly by Tim Curry is the most effective baddie I've encountered in recent memory. The songs are joyful and catchy, and always bring a smile to my face. Robin Williams is fantastic as the electric (literally) and zany fruit bat, bringing fun and humour to the film. There are some very important messages that are portrayed throughout this film, and this is done extremely well and in a way that is touching to children as well as adults. The animation is flawless, showing a rich and abundant rain forest, and adequately portraying the evil of pollution and logging with dark, seething colours. Hugely recommended to people of all ages, and the soundtrack is worth checking out too. A genuine 10/10 (and I don't hand them out often).  "},{"Title":"A Treasure, I Love It!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This one is 11 years old already?!! Fern Gully is easily one of the most powerful and meaningful animated features ever made. With a strong environmental message, beautiful artwork, and an all-star cast, this is really a classic. It is one of my favorite childhood memories.      Little Chrysta (Samantha Mathis), a fairy who lives in Fern Gully, is immensely interested in the folklore of humans, who are thought by the fairies to be extinct, destroyed by the wicked Hexxus (Tim Curry) an evil spirit of poison and death. But Batty Koda (the wonderful Robin Williams),a laboratory escapee comes crashing (literally) onto the scene and reveals the truth- humans are alive and kickin'- and also, apparently, torturing innocent creatures and levelling precious forest.      While flying through the rapidly diminishing rainforest with Batty, Chrysta sees- a human! Zak, a young man working for a demolition company, is out marking trees to be cut down by the heinous Leveler machine. When she sees a tree falling towards him she casts a spell that he will see it- but, not being too sharp in the magic department, she accidentally shrinks him! The two become fast friends, but the hysterical Batty is a bit distrustful- and no wonder, the human scientists shoved about six wires through his poor head, causing him to change mental tracks at the speed of light.   Zak finds himself falling for Chrysta (the bodacious babe hee hee, classic line) as she teaches him about her home, the rainforest, and he begins to see how horrible the demolition companies are for ruining such life and beauty. He's got to endure jealous rivalry from Pips (Christian Slater), too! Meanwhile, the leveller has released the terrifying Hexxus from his enchanted tree prison, and he's back, trying his hardest to wiggle his slimy self into the leveller to destroy the rainforest at a quicker rate than ever. It's soon up to Chrysta, Zak, and Batty to stop him before the rainforest is gone forever.      It sounds corny, but this movie really is very touching- it's a damn good wake-up call for people who have been ignoring the needs of our planet. How can one not feel something when seeing the horrifying leveller cut down gorgeous tropical flowers and trees, causing poor animals to scatter in fright? Fern Gully is a powerful warning- if we aren't careful, we really could lose the rainforests, throw off the entire ecosystem balance of the world, and perish, all of us. Call me a tree-hugger, but like Zak says to his bosses Ralph and Tony at the end, Guys, things have gotta change.This is a great one, sweet, fresh and funny. 10 stars. You should see it just once if you never have, and if it's a childhood favorite, give it another spin, you'll love seeing Batty Koda singing his Check-Up From the Neck-Up song again! "},{"Title":"Good, but a little too different","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was eleven, having been raised on animated films like THE BLACK CAULDRON, THE LITTLE MERMAID, BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, etc. My first reaction when I saw FERNGULLY was to go Huh? The subject matter just didn't seem appropriate for a kid's cartoon. I mean, this is basically a Darwinian morality play dressed up as something more palatable. But surprisingly, I enjoyed the film. It's steeped in Australian culture and a lot of other elements I won't spoil for you here. This was also one of the first animated films to address an important message, at least in my experience. It's a somewhat disturbing movie, though. Tim Curry is terrifying as the villain and a lot of the film's aspects will go right over kids' heads. But in the end it's a really entertaining and thought-provoking film that proves once again that cartoons don't all have to be about falling anvils and wascally wabbits.  "},{"Title":"A Conservationalist Little Mermaid","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This animated movie reminds me very much of Disney's Little Mermaid. It's main character, Krysta, has enough sex appeal and innocence to attract guys and it's heart warming enough to appeal to kids. The flying sequences are as dizzying as the swimming scenes in The Little Mermaid, and the bat is almost the same sort of sidekick as the crab. What this movie does have over that one is the fast furious one-liners that Robin Williams did so well in Aladdin. The movie's message though is forced, as is the over the top presence of Hexxus as some sort of demon or anti-faerie. Why faeries suddenly live in South America, Australia or wherever this film is set is beyond me. The movie is a joy and it does have a rather obvious message to it, but the ending does leave me hanging like a roller coaster ride that runs out of track. "},{"Title":"Great movie for all ages","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" One of the best animated films. My kids love this movie. I love it as well. Robin Williams is one of my favorite actors. He is so funny. Great story line with a great lesson in it for all. This movie shows how humans are destroying the rain forest. There should be more movies like this. Something to show people how we as people pollute and destroy things in our world. People throw trash and cigarette's out their vehicles all the time. They throw trash and such into oceans, lakes and rivers. If people don't stop this, we wont have water to drink. A clean place to live. Hell, if an area is dry, they can start a fire with those tossed cigarettes. Acres are carelessly burn down from cigarette's. OH i digress... The movie is a great one and good for kids. Family entertainment! "},{"Title":"beautiful!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" so i was a huge fern gully fan up to the age of six, and then never watched it again. after viewing it recently, the magic of the movie came back to me, as well as a few flaws. on the upside, the animation is lovely and the scenery is very colorful. the message of the movie is also very powerful, especially to a small child. no doubt, the highlight of the entire film is robin williams' character of batty, who is deliriously hysterical (i may even enjoy him more than williams' other animated alter ego, the genie). there are a zillion plot holes and it's a little bland, but overall, fern gully is more than worthwhile for any small child. i give it a 7 out of 10. see it for robin. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching this movie as a middle schooler. It was an excellent movie then and is an excellent movie now. My children love it. It raises many issues about pollution and toxic waste and the effects they have on society. It also places the blame for much destruction on humans, which is the truth as we destroy our own society by tearing down trees and dumping instead of recycling and saving and a few of those much needed trees and plants.Robin Williams adds a touch of humor as Bat E. Coda. The character lightens the scare of Hexus (played by Tim Curry). Hexus is a toxic waste (oil, smoke, whatever is harmful to the earth) and is portrayed as a rather frightening character. A welcome addition to my family and an eye-opener for anyone who watches. Very highly recommended "},{"Title":"people should take this seriously","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  While this is a childrens movie, it was also meant for the parents. It has an obvious message that young children won't understand. Adults should stop writing this movie off as a cute kiddie movie and really watch it for themselves.Don't get me wrong, children should definitely watch this movie! The animation is amazing, the characters are funny and likeable, and the story is full of magic. When I was a kid, maybe 7 years old, I saw this movie. Now I draw fantasy art. Whether the movie is what started that I don't know, but it certainly was a big influence. Fern Gully shows not only the magic in nature, but the magic that exists in every person. I'm not taking it literally, don't worry, but I think that each person does have power, in a sense, and we should use it carefully. That's really what the movie is trying to say. Don't abuse your power.People are out of touch with nature. Although the movie definitely shows an extremely negative view of humans, in some ways it is true. We are cutting down acres and acres of rainforest every minute. There's a Fern Gully somewhere that could be on the verge of destruction. Everyone lives in the same world and by destroying it we are only destroying ourselves.Back to the movie - don't worry, I just gave the message but not the actual story. Even though everything I've said is kind of deep, the movie isn't like that at all. It's just enchanting and fun. For anyone who didn't like this movie, you probably don't get it. Be open minded. But I respect your opinion. However, I would have to give this movie a ***9/10***Go Fern Gully!! "}{"Title":"glowing review ^_^","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  FernGully is a beautiful movie that offers us a lesson about the earth through fantasy, comedy and magik. It has fun (allbeit silly) voice acting from Robin Williams, and other cool people like Christian Slater. Every child should see this movie.  It's educational & fun! ^_^ "},{"Title":"This movie shows the importance of our forests!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The issue this movie brings up is very important right now. It is about the last rainforest and it is about to be chopped down by humans and an evil spirit named Hexus. Crysta and her friends do what they can to save their forest and it is a very interesting tale. I really enjoy it and I recommend it to anybody who has concerns on this issue or wants to watch a worthwhile movie. "},{"Title":"nice and cute","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a cute movie for kids. It's a fun way to teach children about the environment. The characters are hilarious, especially Batty. Parents with young kids should definitely check this out. Highly recommended for an evening of childish fun. "},{"Title":"A must see for all ages no matter WHO you are!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw Fern Gully a long time ago.  I fell in love with this movie.  I've seen it over and over again. I can't get enough of it! Robin Williams does an excellent job as Batty, and his song yo my name is batty.. has been rewound over and over. If you don't see it you are missing out on life.  "},{"Title":"Easily forgettable.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  At a time when Disney dominated, FERNGULLY was a small change of pace. Released around Earth Day, the movie was added to put in as many bucks as possible and it shows throughout the film. Many times FERNGULLY tries to portray forests as a 'cool, hip yet enchanting' thing and it stinks. The music is just as crummy and the characters are not likeable.Faerie girl Crysta longs to see humans. When a bat descends on FernGully and tells her they exist, she goes off to Warning Mountain to investigate. Meanwhile the humans who are clear cutting the forests and are on the verge of releasing an old demonThe whole ecological message is lost, and showing the devastation of forestation is emphasized more than the benefits of restoring it.  The characters are not too likeable. We have Crysta, whose curiosity outweighs her brains. Batty is completely obnoxious. Zak plays a typical blonde haired surfer boy who is also a liar! The animation is the only thing that saves FERNGULLY from being a disgrace. If you like a deadpan movie with forgettable music, then by all means enjoy. "},{"Title":"Humor mostly for the kids but a message in it for all","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I loved this movie when I was a kid, but I just watched this yesterday while babysitting my little sister. I'm a Robin Williams fan, looking forward to it's humor. Well, there wasn't too much I could relate to with the humor, but it was one of those movies where it had a message in a bottle. If you've seen this movie, then you already know what that message is. If your just watching this because it's a Robin Williams movie, maybe shouldn't watch it unless your a hardcore RW fan. Still a fun movie.But the kids who believe in Fairy tales or fairys (especially girls) will eat this movie up. "},{"Title":"Utterly confused.","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently watched FernGully for the first time, as an assignment for an AP Environmental Science Class. Even though I was a child of the nineties, I never saw FernGully and so look at the movie without the rose colored glasses of nostalgia. First off, I can forgive a movie for being made when it was, but this is definitely not a timeless piece, and should probably still be lost in the nineties with poundpuppies. What I don't understand is how I'm supposed to look at this on a serious level. Zak learns that he shouldn't cut down the rainforest because there are fairies around and trees can feel pain. The movie does not go into any detail about the plight of the non-fictional animals and doesn't even amp up the pathos with those huge-eyed creatures that were dancing in the one scene because they are never seen again. In fact, the forest was portrayed as a terrifying place with creatures that would quickly devour a person if they were small enough. I guess its supposed to be saying that the inhabitants of the forest will be harmed if their home is destroyed, but just the fact that fairies aren't even real kind of makes the story lose any power it had.Also, what exactly is the pollution goo supposed to be? I understand that he's some evil demon thing that feeds on pollutants and wants to destroy the forest, but I don't get how it can be looked at metaphorically if the pollution is in control of continuing itself, as it is during parts of the movie. Finally, if I had seen this movie as a young child, I probably would have had nightmares for weeks. Between Haxxus becoming a horrible skeleton poop monster and the comic relief Batty having terrifying bloodshot eyes and a raging case of rabies, this movie rivals Snow White for scariest children's movie ever. "},{"Title":"A terrifying movie not fit for anyone under 12.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was the age it was meant for... and it scared the crap out of me.  Recently I watched it again with a friend.  And even after watching horror flicks like 'The Thing,' 'The Exorcist' and bunch of other scary movies, this kid's animation still scared me a whole heck of a lot.  DO NOT let your kid's see this movie until they're at least 12, unless you like you're tots having nightmares. "}]