[{"Title":"The Nanny From Hell","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"46 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just the opening scene turns off a lot of people, but that's too because all of the film - all of it - is interesting with Rebecca DeMornay excelling at a vengeful, psychotic killer nanny. This nanny does about everything you could do to ruin a family. Yes, she's the nanny from Hell.I always thought Annabella Sciorra had an interesting face with a knockout smile, at least back in late '80s, early '90s, so I enjoy watching her. Here, she plays a good woman who is married to a good man (Matt McCoy) - wow, there's an oddity in modern films a happy and faithful husband and wife! This is an involving film. Once you are into it, you're hooked and the 100-plus minutes go by pretty fast. DeMornay is so effective in her role you just can't wait to see her exposed for who she is and justice done to her.I did think Sciorra's character would have needed more to go on to come to the right conclusion near the end, but, usually every film has some question marks regarding credibility. The violent, ending scene is very suspenseful and well- done. "},{"Title":"A Film That Rocks the Audience","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Long before the acclaim of L.A. Confidential, director Curtis Hansen offered up this trim, effectively manipulative and suspenseful film.  Sciorra is a pregnant woman whose doctor (magnificently slimy de Lancie) molests her during an office visit.  The ramifications of her subsequent charges bring about the entrance of De Mornay into her life.  De Mornay poses as a nanny and almost immediately wreaks havoc on Sciorra's household, taking charge of it and manipulating the family, all while smiling pleasantly.  The story is almost completely implausible and the credibility of the script is stretched further and further as it goes along.  However, it matters not because of the sure-handed, inventive direction and the dedicated performance of De Mornay.  Taking a cue from Hitchcock, much of the dirty business occurs in daylight among stark white walls and bright outdoor settings.  De Mornay insinuates herself into the household and into the minds of the viewer with an unsettling and fascinating malevolence.  No one is safe as she meticulously works her dread.  Aside from her plots against Sciorra, her shocking behavior includes calling a mentally challenged man a 'retard' and saying the 'F' word to a grade school child. This decidedly un-PC approach is at compelling odds with Sciorra and her yuppie husband who both represent everything annoying and stereotypical about their type and status ('talking' to their kids, 'processing' everything psychologically, et al)  They are well off and think they're 'on to' life, yet he's a dim bulb and she overreacts to everything possible.  This makes a certain faction of the audience delight in seeing them tormented.  Cutting a swath through all the bull is the stunning, fire-breathing, no-nonsense Moore as Sciorra's friend.  This is one of the greatest supporting turns of the '90's.  She owns every scene she's in, yet ultimately can't beat De Mornay, thus creating a terrific onscreen rivalry right from the start.  Moore has never looked this wonderful again, nor essayed this brittle a role, but at least it exists as a monument to her talents at playing a ball-breaking bitch goddess.  The excitement leading up to her confrontation with De Mornay is palpable (thanks in part to some great editing.)  The male cast is weak.  McCoy is often just plain bad and Hudson is embarrassing as a 'slow' handyman.  Sciorra does well in a part that does her no favors.  The film was a massive (surprise) hit, but she wasn't able to ride it to anything much afterwards.  At least De Mornay was briefly lifted to a higher position in the film industry.  Moore has fared the best.  Zima (in her film debut!) is exceptionally cute as the daughter and does a great job.  She later won a role on The Nanny.  The film inspired a raft of imitators featuring killer-sitters, killer-temps, etc... but none found the wide audience that this enjoyed.  It's a credit to De Mornay (and Hanson) that despite being petite and feminine, she comes across as chilling and dangerously strong and violent.   "},{"Title":"Rebecca de Mornay is the nanny from hell...scary thriller...","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You have to hand it to the makers of THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE--once the story starts to unravel, you have to stay tuned to find out how this manipulative bitch will get her comeuppance. It's as simple as that. We know from the start that she has evil intentions, but we never know how evil they are until she starts a series of manipulative acts that demonstrate how cunning and remorseless she is.REBECCA de MORNAY is so convincingly evil that you have to wonder why her career didn't skyrocket after this. It's a performance worthy of award consideration, but both she and the film itself have been largely forgotten. None of the supporting players, with the exception of JULIANNE MOORE, have become household names but they're all quite effective.The ending may be somewhat predictable--and most welcome when it finally comes--but it's still stylishly done and a satisfying conclusion to a tale of household terror when a nanny's rage goes amok because of an incident in her past involving a woman whom she perceives as ruining her husband's life. Sure, it's been done before, but never quite so cunningly presented. "},{"Title":"Will rock your world!","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a chilling movie to spend a day or night with. Mrs. Moss (Rebecca De Mornay) seeks revenge on Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) for reporting her husband Dr. Moss for sexual harassment, which lead to the doctor's suicide and precipitating Moss' miscarriage. She poses as nanny Peyton for the Bartel family, with the intention of raising hell. Rebecca De Mornay gave an outrageously evil performance. The plot is solid and fast-paced; the only problem I have is the method Claire used to interview Peyton for the nanny position. She only asked Peyton, How did you become to be a nanny? leaving out relevant questions like health, personal background, prior jobs, resumes, way with kids, etc. Other than that, I enjoyed watching this movie and especially liked Julianne Moore's character, with her making smart, acid wit remarks. I especially liked her line You have a Harvard education, make something up. Overall, a great mystery movie with some good action mixed in. Grade A "},{"Title":"Everything was fine until they hired that babysitter...","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand that Rocks the Cradle is the cornerstone of the trashy chick flick sub-genre. Many films since have used the same formula that makes this one a success, and most have failed. The reason this film is almost a resounding success has nothing to do with the plot or characters, however, it's the way that director Curtis Hanson handles it. The man who would go on to find acclaim with the astounding L.A. Confidential directs with the utmost still, and while there are few absolutely shocking sequences in this film; you would be forgiven for thinking otherwise due to the way that Hanson handles every scene. The movie leaves a lot of room for suspense, and every instant is made the best of by the director. The plot seems rather routine these days (and it probably did back in 1992), as we see a good all-American family hire the 'perfect' babysitter. She's not quite so perfect, however, and as we watch her pull down the family she's supposed to be helping from within, this becomes abundantly clear.One thing that makes this film hard to like for some people is the fact that almost every motivation in the film is extremely unlikely. Would you hire a babysitter who apparently 'just knew' you wanted one? Wouldn't you become suspicious when everything started going wrong after you hired her? The list goes on, it really does, and it would seem that writer Amanda Silver just wanted to portray certain plots and didn't care too much how the characters fit into them. It's also obvious that the script was written by a woman throughout, with many of the sequences being more aimed towards women. None of these bad points really harm it though, because it's so well handled that it's hard not to just sit back and enjoy yourself. The centrepiece when it comes to the stagy set pieces is definitely the one with the greenhouse, which is both psychologically pleasing and suspense filled. The acting is just fine, with Rebecca De Mornay slotting into the deranged psycho role nicely. The best thing about this film for me is definitely the way that the babysitter manipulates the children and engineers situations to her advantage. This may be trash at the end of the day, but it's fiendishly done! "},{"Title":"Put your Hand on the Cradle and Rock now!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a very solid thriller thanks to naturalism and realism. This is one of the best thrillers ever made, and it's just too bad it did not get the attention and praise it deserves. For one thing, we've seen many thrillers that lacked realism while some were not thrilling at all. HTRTC has it all. A solid story, solid cast, good directing and best of all, a high level of realism. The story can actually happen to any family in America, or anywhere in the world. The cast is great, and even though there's basically no big name phenomenon (well, Julian Moore's now very popular but not yet here) in this film, the performances are very good. In fact, great! Rebecca De Mornay, who's young and very beautiful in this film, has the best performance as the smart-beautiful-deadly Peyton. She's very convincing as both wife and nanny, as well as temptress and killer!Take note of some of the sinful scenes in this movie. Some scenes can be very disturbing (not disgusting) but if you're matured enough, then you'll get over this movie well. The sinful scenes do make a wake-up call in your family life. Heck, better watch out for those evil nannies!I highly recommend watching this movie, even though it does not have any big superstardom at all. No special effects, no high tech gimmicks, no big super stars, just a great story to watch. What are you waiting for? Put your Hand on the Cradle and Rock! "},{"Title":"One Heck of a Thriller.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rebecca De Mornay and Julianne Moore, is what Hollywood is all about-Stars who look like Stars and act like Stars. In fact Moore, went to fame and fortune after this movie. This is incredibly gripping movie with some fine acting by the cast including the actor playing the retarded handyman. The casting is superb and the direction by Hansen is near perfect But, it is Rebecca De Mornay (Peyton) with her ever conniving and double faced sweet talk that steals the show (even the red apple takes the brunt of her vengeance!) She thrives in her role and a role that is custom made for her. The Clair character does so well with her asthmatic attacks, that even a real patient could not have done better. This movie has it all, beautiful and glamorous actresses, suspense, thrill and one of the best movies that I had the pleasure to watch and watch I did eleven times!! "},{"Title":"good psychological thriller marred by a few cliches","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the hand that rocks the cradle was a very gripping psychological thriller, there is hardly any action or violence in the movie till the very end. the suspense and the thrills are at a very psychological level and this is what makes this movie rise above the ordinary, rebecca de mornay as the psychologically imbalanced nanny is terrific. the script was surprisingly good for a large part and the thrills were built up very convincingly.there is obviously a lot of situations that defy belief, but with a little suspension of disbelief, they can be accepted. the cast is ordinary, and the performances of the young couple was very amateurish, as also the performance of ernie hudson as the mentally challenged person.this movie would have been a lot more thrilling and dark and satisfying if it had not towards the end fallen in a whole deluge of cliches and predictable lame movie ending traps. call me sick, but i think the movie would have been far better with a darker ending.on the whole a thrilling 8! "},{"Title":"Great suspense, predictable plot","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Good thriller that tells the story of a vengeful woman who, by taking the position of nanny, seeks revenge on the family she holds responsible for the loss of her husband and her unborn child.Rebecca De Mornay is very convincing as Peyton, the widow whom we firmly believe is capable of anything, while Ernie Hudson is good as mentally disabled social worker Solomon. Graeme Revell's music is good too, even if it is reminiscent of Howard Shore's Silence of the Lambs.The plot is predictable from the outset, and relies solely on suspense. Director Curtis Hanson makes this work well though, and keeps us on the edge of our seats.Friday, May 22, 1992 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"An entertaining and suspenseful drama","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This domestic thriller was a box-office hit despite its mid-level marquee pull and is entertaining and delivers plenty of suspense and shocks along the way. A vengeful widow who has lost her husband to a suicide and suffers a miscarriage plans to get even with the woman who caused the trouble by filing a sexual molestation suit against her husband. Rebecca de Mornay is the evil nanny who plots her revenge with relish, her satisfaction obvious as her plans begin to bear fruit. The nanny is not swayed by the innocence of the young girl or the newborn baby she is hired to care for and intends to destroy the entire family. Naturally, the parents are clueless as to what is going on until much later, while de Mornay methodically turns the household into her own domain, holding it in a grip of fear. Annabella Sciorra is the wife and mother who confronts de Mornay in the final moments. Graeme Revell contributes a nice music score. "}{"Title":"sometimes, you gotta be gross to be scary","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Much like Rear Window, this movie brings up a serious question Whom can you trust? It all begins one day in Seattle, when Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) goes to her gynecologist. She gets the feeling that he's merely fondling her. After she reports this, several other women say the same thing, prompting the gynecologist to commit suicide. Soon afterward, his widow (Rebecca DeMornay) goes into labor. But the baby dies. Now she has only one thing on her mind revenge.That's where the movie gets really creepy. Assuming the name Peyton Flanders, she goes to work as a nanny for the Bartels. In the process, she not begins to act as a mother for the new baby, but she gets into everyone's confidence. And if anyone distrusts her...well, let's just say that she's way ahead of them.If The Hand That Rocks the Cradle makes you suspicious of your friends, then it's probably doing it's job. Director Curtis Hanson brings the same kind of intensity that he brought to LA Confidential and 8 Mile. You may never feel the same after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Predictable at times, but De Mornay gives it an edge","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks the Cradle was directed by Curtis Hanson. He is a man who's dabbled in quite a few genres. Passable psychological thrillers like this and The River Wild. Chick flicks like the above average In Her Shoes. And even crime capers like the superb LA Confidential. Hanson's finest hour.Hanson has clearly studied up on his Hitchcock. He knows all about crafting suspense. In fact THTRTC could almost be an exercise in how to make a thriller in the Hitchcock style. There are times when the plot seems a little bit mechanical. But thanks to a quietly sinister performance by Rebecca De Mornay, THTRTC is a film I'm proud to have in my film collection.Expectant mother Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) is sexually molested by her gynaecologist Dr Victor Mott (Star Trek's John De Lancie) during an exam. When she files a complaint, he commits suicide rather than face the consequences. Mott's widow Peyton (De Mornay) is also expecting. But the stress of losing her husband and than their house causes her to have a miscarriage. While recovering in hospital, she sees a news report of Claire's involvement in her husband's death (which is frankly a bit contrived), and plots revenge.Eight months later, Peyton infiltrates the Bartel household as the family babysitter. While there, she weaves a complex web of lies, deceits and murder to destroy Claire, and even steal her husband Michael (Matt McCoy) and children right out from under her.The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is quite the cautionary tale for the 90s. What a fear for any parent, that a trusted babysitter might be trying to steal your kids. And Rebecca De Mornay is perfectly cast in the part. With her angelic face, expressive eyes and modulated voice, she is perfectly evil.The film is most effective at setting up subtle sinister details that flower into disastrous excess. Like Peyton suggesting a party, and through a series of misunderstandings and innuendos left by Peyton like a trail of breadcrumbs, Claire ends up humiliating herself in front of her entire family and friends.Any scene with De Mornay is engrossing. Towards the end, she surrenders to the cliché of full psycho loony. She's more entertaining when she's quietly sowing the seeds of discord and discontent among the Bartel family. Playing Iago to the Bartel's Othello.The scene where she verbally abuses Solomon (Ernie Hudson), the Bartel's retarded handyman is shocking. Especially when she plants evidence to incriminate him as a paedophile.Annabella Sciorra and Matt McCoy give competent performances, even if the film requires a fair bit of stupidity on their part. Its hard to believe it takes them as long as it does for them to figure out that Peyton is the cause of all of their troubles.More engaging are Ernie Hudson and an early role for Julianne Moore as Marlene, an ex-girlfriend of Michael's. I've always thought Ernie Hudson is an underrated actor, and he's excellent in the part because he's the first to see Peyton for the evil woman she really is. Moore's brash performance becomes an impressive parallel versus the icy De Mornay. Their scenes together are wonderfully edgy. One wishes they were paired up together on screen more often. Moore comes to a tragic end when Peyton skillfully manipulates her into a deathtrap.In the final quarter, the film pretty much descends into a standard stalker/slasher movie, as De Mornay goes into full blown Psycho mode. That's a bit disappointing. Everything else beforehand is more entertaining. Even if the direction is a little too obvious. Catastrophes come at regularly timed intervals to the point that they become predictable.But still, thanks to Hanson's smooth direction and a creepy performance by the underrated Rebecca De Mornay The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is a real shocker, and its effective enough so that in the future, it may convince you to check your babysitter's references that much more thoroughly. "},{"Title":"Payton's Place.","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You can tell this was written by a woman. There's not a gun in the whole picture. (Well, a suicidal gun shot in another room doesn't count.) The plot is a fascinating web of deceit and intrigues built around having babies, holding onto a husband, maintaining an upper-middle-class lifestyle, surprise birthday parties, and sharing secrets.I enjoy watching it once in a while because it's so well plotted -- and I can handle a bit of violence even absent exploding heads and car chases and erupting fireballs. It's kind of soothing, really, when the worst death is (implausibly) caused by some falling glass from a greenhouse overhead.The guys are faithful but pretty much helpless to stop the goings on of the beautiful, young, but evil nanny (De Mornay). The black retarded housekeeper and the bearded husband of Annabella Sciora are both dutiful but dumb. Nobody is about to believe the big and brutish African-American handyman who can hardly get out a believable sentence when confronted by a clever manipulative blond little De Mornay. And Hubby, aside from looking a little wimpish, is thoroughly disabled by one whack in the face from De Mornay's shovel. (He falls off a staircase and breaks both legs, so he's unable to do anything during the final confrontation between the superhumanly bitter De Mornay and the terrified asthmatic wife.This is where the gender bifurcation is most obvious. There must, of course, be a final conflict between the villainous creep and the honest wife. In any movie of this kind written and directed by a man the climactic confrontation would involve exactly 112 Uzi automatic pistols. Not just the interior of the house but the surrounding landscape for miles around would be shredded by bullets.But what happens here? De Mornay has a poker and is trying to kidnap the baby. (In a man's movie it would be money or a woman.) Sciorra rushes at her with a knife, but is quickly disarmed. She falls to the floor, wheezing desperately as she is crippled by her asthma. And what does De Mornay do? Does she bash in Sciorra's head with that bad old poker she's carrying? Nope. She kneels down and begins to whisper to Sciorra -- When your husband makes love to you, it's my face he's thinking about. And then De Mornay continues trying to INSULT Sciorra TO DEATH!!! Would such a means of committing a murder even enter a man's head? It's a refreshing change from the ordinary thriller. (There's no mystery involved.) A nice genre piece, worth catching. "},{"Title":"Peyton's Place","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Even by 1992, the entire concept of a person from hell who looked angelic was old, dead, and begging to live a life of quiet retirement somewhere in La La Land. However, Curtis Hanson, a director who after this would move on to one more suspense movie, THE RIVER WILD, before cementing his status in Hollywood as a powerhouse director capable of telling acute stories in any genre, had in his hands an okay story. What he did with it, is something else.Two women are unknowingly at the heart of a tragedy when one of them, Claire, gets touched inappropriately by her gynecologist and suffers an asthma attack. She sues, he commits suicide, and his wife suffers a miscarriage. But she's decided not to let matters heal by themselves. No. Peyton Flanders has more up her sleeve than anyone will imagine. She's going to make Claire's life a living hell. And take over her life, her husband, and her little baby.So off she goes to the Bartel household in Perfect Suburbia, and manages to get herself hired as their nanny. Of course, she's so absolutely sweet; she basically is a walking ad for Stepford niceness. Anyone would have a go at her as a nanny, or anything else. Andrea Yates, move aside. Peyton is in the house.What Claire and Michael (Matt McCoy) don't know is that little by little, Peyton is taking over the house. (It's always like this the targets never know they're in danger until the water is up to their neck and rising quite rapidly.) And it's little things. The baby seems to be happier with Peyton than with Claire, but that's okay, apparently she has a good hand with babies. Then again, the nursery has been changed and looks surprisingly like another nursery. Of course, anyone who has seen through Peyton's charm might be well advised not to walk into the family greenhouse. Or leave aspirators unattended. Marlene (Julianne Moore, then unknown), a family friend, warns Michael on Peyton, but it leads to more confusion.Rebecca De Mornay never had a role as good as this one and never has had one since. With Peyton she could have even garnered an Oscar nod, but maybe it wasn't her time. All she could hope for is that audiences see her controlled features, always ready for a smile, hiding an insane rage that explodes in one spellbinding sequence as she destroys a bathroom -- such is the intensity of the hatred her character feels towards Claire who only reported an incident, not knowing it would lead to this.Annabella Sciorra has an equally difficult role to do because her character is the victim. There's an elegance in the way she reads her lines -- she comes across as very poised -- and her way of playing into the rising disquiet within Claire is pretty keen. It's the first of a short cycle of roles she would play where she would be the victim; here, however, she is first-rate, the camera loves showing her from different angles as if observing her go from calm to progressively worked up to all-out insane.Curtis Hanson has made an excellent, sharp thriller that rises well above the trashy material that it originates from. It's easy to forget the coincidence involving the two women, and as I've stated before, it would have been best not to explain or show the real meaning behind a person's rage, but have it exist, making that person even creepier. Even so, Hanson constructs his movie carefully, never allowing for any Boo! moments to come through until the moment when events lead to graphic violence make way for a couple of them, even then controlled. THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE manages, in this way, to be a compelling, clever watch even when there are times it shouldn't be. "},{"Title":"Revenge Of The Baby Sitter A Thriller Of The Early 90's","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks The Cradle (1992) Starring Rebecca De Mornay, Annabella Sciorra, Matt McCoy, Julianne Moore, Ernie Hudson, Madeline Zima, Jon De Lancie, Kevin Skousen, Mitchell Lawrence, Justin Zaremby, Director Curtis Hanson, Writer Amanda SilverWhen this domestic suspense thriller was released in 1992, I'm pretty sure dozens of middle-class parents conceived the idea of surveying their babysitters through nanny cameras and considering the possibility the babysitter might be a threat! Meet Peyton Mott Flanders (Rebecca De Mornay in a chilling performance). Her husband, an obstetrician, Dr. Victor Mott, has sexually molested the pregnant Mrs. Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) who reports him to the authorities. Turns out he had been sexually abusing his patients. Victor Mott eventually kills himself, which triggers his wife Peyton's miscarriage. Peyton really does have valid reasons to be angry. She has lost everything -her husband, her baby and her home. But she is so consumed with bitterness and by her desire for revenge that she is stripped of her humanity and becomes an authentic villain so perfect for this type of film. Rebecca De Mornay's non-threatening, beautiful and innocuous Caucasian features are a perfect disguise. She takes a job as babysitter to Claire's daughter Emma. Now safe in the family's trust, she conducts scheme after scheme to destroy Claire and to exact revenge. She is breastfeeding Claire's infant to mark the child as hers(Peyton proves that women can be just as territorial as men and just as ruthless, perhaps more so) she wins Emma's trust and affection by forging a false friendship, she frames the black help, who is a bit weak and slow but proves heroic in the finale, by making Claire believe he is sexually molesting Emma -she hides Emma's panties in a drawer in the storage room. She even tries to break up Claire and her husband by making Claire believe that he is having an affair with his old friend and sweetheart (played by Julian Moore in a minor role early in her career) and Peyton even attempts to seduce Claire's husband. There is no stopping her until her come-uppance comes just in time for the ending. The dangerous outsider coming into the safety of a perfectly happy family really works as a thriller in cinema. We cannot sympathize with Peyton, because she is a very corrupt and vicious woman. Although we would like to see Claire, Sciorra's character, be more defensive and try to protect her family and even eliminate the villain herself, we cannot help but worry how it will turn out for her since she is not a very strong woman and is in fact a victim of asthma. The real star of the show is Rebecca De Mornay anyways and so it was fitting that Claire is a weak contrast by comparison to Rebecca's powerfully evil performance. The location was shot in Southern California somewhere near the Hollywood Hills or perhaps a suburban community, is tailor-made for the ambiance of a dark film such as this one. Who'd ever guess that such intense crime could happen in a small town that looks blameless ? The music is effectively chilling, although the composer or music editor seems to have delighted in playing with the theme of innocence mingled with evil- the soprano aria Poor Wondering One from the Gilbert and Sullivan opera The Pirates Of Penzance is played repeatedly as it seems to be an album that Claire has in her house. At one point, the orchestral score twists the cheerful melody by using darker and menacing instrumental themes so that Poor Wondering One sounds more serious and visceral. The rest of the music is appropriately detached, shocking and like most other thriller movie scores.The Hand That Rocks The Cradle Is The Hand That Rules The World. "},{"Title":"Eerily rings true","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When people see horror movies that really effect them, they lock themselves away.  Now someone can pick the lock.  This is a fairly good movie that really hits home.  I admit it is extremely similar to Fatal Attraction but I like this movie better.  This time it seems Peyton is a little more evil than Alex and she has a better motive.  Peyton is a nanny, she is to take care of Emily and Joe, she has different plans in mind.  The acting is pretty good, the characters are well developed and it is a nice, cozy little horror you care rely on when nothing is on TV.  I have to say in a way, it reminds me of Rosemary's Baby.  This time though, it is the one who rocks the cradle that is corrupt. "},{"Title":"Reds, Picket Fences","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had to see this again to find why I had such problems with it when I first saw it.One thing I recall was the amazing decision to have all the women redheads (including the then rather ordinary Julianne), all down to the nurse. Its a risky thing and purely cinematic as the wheels grind on this ordinary story.The story is along the lines of Othello, characters that are quite to trust and equally quick to suspect. The problem is that it ends in no interesting way we get nothing as a reward for being manipulated, all tensed up. Everything ends well the bad guy is punished. I suppose I would have tolerated it, even recommended elements of it to you, were it not for the hackneyed bit at the end our villainess falls on a picket fence and spikes are driven through her. Is there a more hackneyed possibility? Yes. In this case the construction of that same picket fence (by a special person from a place with a revealing name) is what begins the movie.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"An Incident-Packed Tale Of Revenge","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This incident-packed home-invasion thriller features a psychopathic nanny and a gullible suburban couple in a disturbing tale of revenge, deception and gross professional misconduct by two people who abuse the trust of others for their own selfish purposes. It's also a drama that seems to have a momentum all of its own as every development follows on so naturally from whatever precedes it. This characteristic is tremendously effective in driving the action forward and building up the suspense that makes The Hand That Rocks The Cradle so gripping and enjoyable.Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) is a middle class housewife and an expectant mother who, after being molested during a routine examination by her gynaecologist, Dr Victor Mott (John de Lancie), files a complaint with the appropriate authority. Her action leads to a number of other patients making similar charges and the shamed doctor committing suicide. The circumstances surrounding Dr Mott's death leave his pregnant widow homeless and penniless and the trauma she experiences results in her suffering a miscarriage and having to undergo a hysterectomy. She regards Claire as being responsible for all the terrible things that have happened to her and becomes desperate for revenge.Some months later, the unhinged Mrs Mott, who now calls herself Peyton Flanders (Rebecca De Mornay) is hired by the Bartels as a nanny for their baby son Joe and this gives her the opportunity to put a plan into action to destroy Claire's comfortable life. She secretly breast-feeds Joe and causes Claire some concern when he refuses his mother's milk. Peyton also forms a strong bond with the Bartels' five-year-old daughter Emma (Madeline Zima) and turns her against her mother as well as pulling a few strings to give Claire the impression that her husband Michael (Matt McCoy) is having an affair with her closest friend Marlene (Julianne Moore).Peyton's mental state deteriorates steadily during her time at the Bartels' home as she tries to replace Claire in the family by setting a trap for her to have a fatal accident and attempting to seduce Michael. The Bartels take a long time to discover the cause of their problems and even when they do and dispense with Peyton's services, further violent developments follow.Peyton Flanders is a predatory and manipulative femme fatale who outwardly appears to be friendly and attractive but is actually very determined in pursuing her own evil agenda. Rebecca De Mornay, in a genuinely stunning performance, displays all these characteristics magnificently and is very subtle in the way that she displays Peyton's dangerous combination of sweetness and insanity. She also impresses in a couple of scenes where she threatens the Bartels' mentally challenged handyman, Solomon (Ernie Hudson) and a boy who'd been bullying Emma.In a movie of predominantly very good performances, Julianne Moore also stands out as Marlene, the tough, no-nonsense businesswoman who discovers Peyton's true identity and also gets some of the most memorable lines. She advises Claire to never ever let an attractive woman take a power position in your home and on another occasion remarks that the hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world.The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is exceptionally entertaining and was understandably a great commercial success. "},{"Title":"But I firmly believe, what goes around comes around.","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is directed by Curtis Hanson and written by Amanda Silver. It stars Annabella Sciorra, Rebecca De Mornay, Matt McCoy, Julianne Moore and Ernie Hudson. Plot sees De Mornay as Peyton Flanders, on the surface a seemingly perfect nanny, but below beats the heart of a revenge fuelled maniac. Something that the Bartel family are about to find out.It's the sort of thriller that arrived in the 1990's and got positive notices and thrilled many a cinema viewer. Yet you look at some of the internet ratings and you would be fooled into thinking that the film is not very good. Fact is is that these type of thrillers have, with the advent of time and a relaxation of censorship etc, not aged well to the point of not being able to satiate the current generation of thrill seeker. So it's most likely going to be hard for the unimpressed viewer of today to believe that Hanson's movie was once the subject of much media musings and talk show debates. Its theme of a terror within the family home, coupled with a beginning involving a less than honourable gynaecologist, really goes for the throat of the female viewer. The guys, meanwhile, just have to sit back and observe how man of the family Matt McCoy deals with the expanding problem in the home, while the shapely form of De Mornay, in spite of her seriously having a screw loose, is sure to be appealing to the red blooded male.True enough some of its silly, and naturally contrived, but it does tick many of the great thriller boxes. It's also boosted by two impressively strong lead female turns from Sciorra, who is dressed down plainly and perfectly gets to grips with the nuclear mom act, and De Mornay, who paces the onset of her terror campaign with some aplomb; a campaign dotted with icy cold bitch moments and sensual niceties. In support Hudson is very good, but the trajectory of his mentally challenged character is telegraphed very early on, while Moore works well with what (sadly) little screen time she gets. Hanson keeps the tension tight, slowly tightening the noose in little snatches, and the ending, that arguably holds no surprises if you watch many thrillers of this ilk, is handled skillfully and closes the film in a wave of fists, kicks, blood and broken bodies. Job done. Even if it did at the time set the nanny trade back a few years! 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Is This Movie So Feminine To Inordinate Extant ?!","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know is it a main theme of (Amanda Silver) the writer of the movie at almost of her work or not ? I can't decide that it's an intentional motif in here or not also ! However if you give it a bit of thinking then you'll grasp it easily ! Otherwise why in the world to make a fake cosmos (the whole environment and characters of the movie) to show all the types of the men whether as a rapist (The doctor), or as a retarded (The Garner), or as a weaker of finding out the truth or at facing the evil successfully (The husband who got his leg broken at the end while he was facing the nanny lousily) ! So it's a movie about a world which its women only who had all the good and bad abilities, powers and intelligence. Therefore (Rebecca De Mornay) is the loving wife who is clever swindler with a revenge to be fulfilled, (Julianne Moore) is a smart worker woman who has enough brightness to expose the plot, and (Annabella Sciorra) is the fine mom who can fight the climatic fight perfectly and win ! As they're all the positive copies of the previous all negative men !For me it surely could happen, and the stupidity or the weakness are in all of us (women or men) but in such a disparate degrees which differ also from time to time in one person, moreover it's quite natural too as a replay for so many movies with the masculine hero obtains the victory all by himself for the poor woman ! Despite what a lot of people (mostly men !) would see here that the equation (Good Women/Bad Men) was a bit extremist !At the end I can't hold my feelings about (Rebecca De Mornay) as a hotty ! she got such a unique body when it comes to seduction and I just can't forget the scene when she was in her transparent white nightgown opening the refrigerator late at night bending in a distinct curved condition to inflame the husband and us.. Greatly ! "}{"Title":"The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A rockin', shokin' thriller. Peyton(Rebecca de Mornay)is a psychotic nanny out to destroy the family of the woman that she thinks ended her family life. Seattle housewife Claire Bartel(Annabella Sciorra)lives happily with her husband Michael(Matt McCoy)and daughter Emma(Madeline Zima)and reports that her gynecologist (John de Lancie)took sexual liberties with her...others follow causing Dr. Mott to take his own life. The doctor's wife, Peyton, changes her name and becomes the nanny from hell seeking revenge by destroying the Bartel family. Without conscience; malicious and ruthless deeds are dealt. The beautiful de Mornay is excellent as the twisted nanny. Supporting cast features Julianne Moore, Ernie Hudson and Mitchell Laurance.Not surprisingly you will find reasons to watch this one more than once. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The acting was excellent! Everyone portrayed the characters greatly and accurately. Sciorra played a great waspy housewife who was a sort-of busy mom, Moore with the aggressive (and downright condescending at times) real estate mogul Marlene Craven, and hats off to De Mornay for that true psychopath lady. She was flawless! Ernie Hudson was spectacular has the slow gardener/groundskeeper and you truly felt sorry for him and in a way he saved the day! The husband was okay but I did not become particularly attached to him. And all of Peyton's schemes and traps were crazy! Like Marlene's greenhouse death, Claire's asthma attack (But that one didn't work), and the shovel hitting of Michael, breaking his legs. I love this movie and this is a 10 out of 10 for me! "},{"Title":"Great suspense movie","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the greatest thrillers ever made. A classic. Perfect script, superb acting, excellent execution. Curtis Hanson is a true master. Annabella Sciorra, Rebecca De Mornay, Ernie Hudson, Julianne Moore and others make this movie unforgettable. www.bestdvd.co.uk wrote A great performance from De Mornay who is truly convincing as the insane Nanny from hell. Likewise, Ernie Hudson who is the retarded Solomon, (a handyman helping out the family) hits the emotional nerve as he gets the sharp end of the stick from Mornay. The camera-work is superb too - reminiscent of the 80's horror style shots - and works to great dramatic effect. The suspense as the film nears it's finale is magnificent and you soon forget the 2 hour length of the film after a sluggish midsection. "},{"Title":"better late than never","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Rebecca was fabulous in this film.  It was a great thriller, IMHO, and the fit she threw in the bathroom ranks #1 in the history of fits.  It was sort of Hitchcockian in that the audience always knew what she was up to but the characters were in the dark.  Loved it. "},{"Title":"Flawless Execution of Genre Convention","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although not something English professors will study in depth several generations from now, The Hand that Rocks the Cradle is an extremely enjoyable movie that manages to build up great levels of suspense. The movie has great acting from Madeline Zima and Rebecca de Mornay. Like Fatal Attraction, this movie borrows genre conventions from slasher movies and executes them flawlessly. The most memorable scene occurs when the psycho woman moves up behind her victim in the kitchen with a spade!9/10The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world. "},{"Title":"The Hand that Rocks the Cradle (1992)","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *** out of **** (very good)Rebecca De Mornay is spine-tingling as the psychotic new nanny for a family whose woman of the house ended up making her husband commit suicide and making her lose her baby after fainting. Solid performances and excellent directing make this an amazing treat for all. Edge-of-your-seat suspense also join you with this special film that makes you think twice about leaving your children in the hands of strangers. I didn't give this four because of the rushed ending, as I felt that the suspense was building and kept building and then it all of a sudden stopped to make room for ending credits.Rated R for Violence, Profanity and Sexual Molestation "},{"Title":"Gripping, attention grabbing, but ultimately predictable!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Starts off fresh and original, keeps your interest throughout, though if you've seen PLAY MISTY FOR ME, FATAL ATTRACTION or any one of a dozen others, you could have written the last half hour.  The pure charisma of Annabella Sciorra is what really keeps this one going, especially after you've seen her on THE SOPRANOS, and realize that she could have added just as much spark to the other female lead. Actually, it might be intriguing to see this film remade, with Annabella and Rebecca De Mornay switching roles, Doubtlessly, both would be completely different, but equally effective characters.  Adorable little Madeline Zima as Annabella's daughter was quite good and endearing, as well.  And why doesn't Ernie Hudson ever look the same, in two films?  "},{"Title":"it was a really good thriller...","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Movie title The hand that rocks the cradle. My rating 10/10 Rated R for (violence, language, nudity Summary A gynecologist committs suicide when he is accused for having sexually molested 5 of his patients, and his wife loses her unborn baby as a result of stress. She then takes on another name and applies to the nanny position that the first woman to make the accusation has announced. She gets the job and she's up for revenge in her sly ways.  My review The hand that rocks the cradle started out really good, and ended great. Rebecca De Mornay played a really great psycho nanny. What can I say, the movie was well directed. You should say it if you haven't yet.   "},{"Title":"A Hyped-up Film","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I usually read comments in IMDb before deciding to watch/rent films. And it is only natural that I chose this film to watch during the weekend.I have great expectations about this film, having read that this is a thrilling, chilling film, with great actresses and a film filled with twists and turns.However, after I watched this film, I felt that maybe this film is a bit over-rated and hyped up by the reviewers. Please, I do not mean to belittle other reviewers, nor do I am implying that I do not think what was written as bulls or anything like it. And I do believe that everyone is to his/her own opinion.This film is a tad clichéd, and the twists and turns weren't surprising at all. The villain was known right from the start, whilst the other characters in the film were clueless as to what (or rather, whom) may be the cause of the problem in the family.As I said earlier, I have great expectation in this film, abut when I've finished watching it, I was feeling shortchanged.Not a very good film, clichéd, and fake dialogues. Not as surprising as I thought the film was going to be, either.Verdict A decent film to watch during week-ends, just to pass time. "},{"Title":"Girl-on-girl . . . psycho thriller.  (What did you THINK I was going to say?)","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand Rocks The Cradle is one of the best of what director Jonathan Kaplan (Unlawful Entry)describes as the From Hell genre. (In his case, it was Cop from Hell; in this case, it's Nanny From Hell.Claire (Annabella Sciorra), a happily married mother-to-be with one young daughter already, goes to her gynecologist and is taken advantage of on the examining table. With her husband's (Matt McCoy) encouragement, she speaks out and presses charges against the doctor. This leads several patients and former patients of his to come forward and make accusations of their own. Unable to handle the (highly likely) loss of his medical license and the public embarrassment, the not-so-good doctor shoots himself.But guess what? He had a pregnant wife of his own (Rebecca DeMornay, in the role of her lifetime), and said wife is driven to miscarriage by his suicide and the news that she will not have access to any of his estate due to the pending charges and lawsuits.Said wife then zeros in on Claire and her family, determined to take not only the children (Claire has had her baby boy in the interim) but the husband for herself. She gets herself hired on as a nanny for the new little one, and the manipulation starts almost immediately thereafter, when Peyton (as she now calls herself) deliberately ruins a dress that Claire plans to wear for an evening out with her husband and another couple after Claire confides to her that her husband bought her the dress and that she feels sexy when she wears it. Things quickly escalate, as the older daughter becomes more attached to Peyton than her own parents (due in no small part to Peyton's deliberate emotional manipulation of her) and the baby starts to become fussy when anyone other than Peyton tries to hold him and will not nurse from his own mother. As we already know, he is not hungry when his mother tries to feed him because Peyton has been secretly nursing him herself. The scene in which we first see this is quite chilling Peyton is alone in the nursery as the baby lies helpless in his crib. She approaches said crib holding a pillow, and knowing what we know about her . . . . well, we know where we THINK this is going. But no - she lays the pillow down in the crib, picks the baby up as gently as anyone could want, and begins nursing.Peyton then continues to pull emotional strings by planting evidence that the mentally challenged groundskeeper (Ernie Hudson)has been molesting the daughter, then convincing Claire that her husband has rekindled a romance with Marlene (Julianne Moore), his former flame and current friend and the wife in the other couple I mentioned earlier. This leads to a scene at a surprise party in which Claire ends up humiliating herself, not to mention her husband and Marlene, who are innocent of what Claire has been led to believe. Almost needless to say, Peyton tries to move in on Claire's hubby herself, but is shot down.It all leads up, of course, to Claire discovering the truth about the Nanny From Hell, and a final confrontation between the two women. (interestingly enough, while Claire's husband is there, he is incapacitated, leaving the film's resolution up to the two women. If I didn't know better, I might think that this was directed by as well as written by a woman.) This final showdown is, again, as much about emotional as physical brutality. What wife and mother wants to have a rival for her family's affections whisper in her ear, When your husband makes love to you, it's my face he sees, or, When your baby is hungry, it's my breast that feeds him? It ends the way such thrillers must end; the villain(ess) DIES.All in all, a fine example of, as Mr. Kaplan put it, the From Hell genre. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Thriller with a good cast.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Really interesting thriller with a sexy premise that many men would like to experience. Well, not that many but still.This is a mainstream movie with a plot that has been used several times on the b-industry (Friend Of The Family II for example).The plot is simple but works and it's very well covered by a great cast lead by Rebecca DE Mornay who delivers a psychotic but believable performance. The rest of the cast is also great and makes you care about them.Well, everything becomes really ugly when De Mornay's character feels left out of the family where she worked for; suddenly she starts killing everyone on her way and even gets a worker of trust fired because of her lies. He then become enemy with the children (yes including the baby) and that's when the mother takes action.This is an okay thriller that will keep you entertained with the occasional suspense sequences and minimal violence.Worths a watch if it airs on cable. It has generated somewhat a fan database. "},{"Title":"B-Movie","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an ordinary B movie. If you watch it with such expectations you won't be disappointed. Otherwise you will try to read something into this shallow film but find nothing there. Also, the music is bland and adds nothing. In a thriller the music should contribute more.DeMornay elevates above her usual B-actress talent and gives an adequate performance. Sciorra is not a great actress but has a sunny personality that is sufficient here. However, the husband role as written (and the actor portraying the husband) are awful, no better than worthless cardboard. The ending rescue scene featuring Ernie Hudson is completely predictable from the start of the movie. Hudson does a pretty good job here considering what he has to work with, but the role was written for a specific plot purpose and it is preposterous.The other supporting actors are simply outstanding, especially the mom's best friend and the little girl who portrays the daughter.First hour is dull, but there are a few exciting scenes toward the end. "},{"Title":"Solid Thriller","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After her humiliated husband kills himself, an embittered pregnant widow (Rebecca DeMornay) loses her child, and embarks on a mission of vengeance against a woman and her family.What bad can be said about this film? If anything, the role of Solomon could be complained about. Not Ernie Hudson's portrayal, which is pretty good, but the very idea of having a mentally challenged man played by someone who is not. It seems off, just a bit, and some may even find it offensive.What is most interesting is the role filled by Julianne Moore. Honestly, I did not even recognize her! And it is pretty incredible that she is not credited on the back of the DVD case, or on the front. One might think since her rise in stardom ,they would rebrand the film to showcase her... "},{"Title":"Nothing Fine about this Nanny ...","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sorry for the lousy pun but a nanny-themed movie starring Madeline Zima was asking for it, now, let the review start. You have a good typical American Family made of a handsome blue-eyed scientist with a sexy beard, played by an actor whose fame didn't rise much since the film, a frail devoted asthmatic housewife who looks like the twin sister of Talia Shire with a nicer hairdo, played by Annabella Sciorra, and a smart little girl (Zima), that's for the initial picture, and this happy family is looking for a nanny to take care of their newborn son and brother, so that Claire (the wife) can take care of a greenhouse project. Kind of a boring premise ... but there's more spicy elements about this family, and it's all wrapped up in the first 15 minutes, like a script school-case.During a visit, Claire was victim of sexual abuse from her gynecologist, she sued him, other mothers complained, he killed himself, his wife played by Rebecca De Mornay didn't inherit the money and what's more, she has a miscarriage in the process, and become permanently sterile. To call it a strike of 'bad luck' would be the understatement of the millennium. Still, in her bad luck, while watching the news, she could catch the name and face of that woman who was indirectly responsible for all the personal mayhem she went through. You gotta wonder what the TV and police were thinking. Anyway, now, guess who's gonna offer his services for the nanny job?Good thriller always rely on simple concept. The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is no exception, it was an unexpected hit in 1992, the same year of a similarly themed film Single White Female. Both are based on the same Stranger Within concept, when the lives of an ordinary family or group of persons are affected by the entrance of a next- door stranger, and it is a source of heart-pounding psychological thrills that was made started with Fatal Attraction and Misery. The Stranger Within thriller is almost a synonym of 'fatal attraction'... in fact, the film could have as a tag-line Fatal Attraction with a Nanny, just like Single White Female was Fatal Attraction with a Roommate.So, there are reasons though why this film wasn't as memorable as the one with Glenn Close, the surprise effect asked for more tricks and it's likely that the ones used in the film never really catch the audience off guard. Rewatching the film myself after 15 years, I realized that the realism, as used in Curtis Hanson's film, was made of the self- canceling effect between things happening too conveniently well for the villainess for the first three quarters, and then for the good guys in the last one. The evolution of the narrative is so schematically well-oiled that even the greatest effects are still attenuated by their predictability. It wows at times but hardly with a major 'w'.Just to give you an idea, my younger brother who has seen less movies than I (ten years younger) immediately guessed that the big black retarded guy (played by the only Ghostbuster whose name is hardly remembered) was gonna be the last-minute hero, needless to say that he harbored a triumphant smile when at the climax, the poor daddy broke his legs and was immediately disqualified from the final confrontation. Anyone could've guess that but he also predicted that the slutty evil baby sitter would frame him so that he can be expelled from the house, and that was impressive.He still enjoyed the film and I still did, but it is true that, suspension of disbelief was too demanding. So many things go totally wrong as soon as Peyton, the baby sitter makes her entrance that it's a wonder how Claire can't reassemble the pieces of he puzzle. She wants to wear a sexy dress, but she finds a last-minute stain and then puts the something that looks like extracted from the wall cover of a grandma's house. But let's say she's naive and at least, the character of the friend Marlene, played by sexy Julianne Moore never really trusted Peyton, but then how about a missing application letter, how about the sudden change of behavior of her daughter. But let's just say that, given how these tricks work, and how efficient they are in their frustrating effects, I accept them for the sake of what I expect from a B-movie thriller.Still, there are three things I can't really forgive and that could've been easily avoided, Peyton could have faked a resume, after all the troubles that affected Claire's family, they would take some precautions and not let any stranger entering their world, just like that. Secondly, I don't think a woman who didn't have a child, much more sterile, can breast-feed a baby, and last but not least, the depiction of asthma. Not only these wheezing noises were annoying because they were never matching Clair's chests' movements, but when you decide that your movie will have a main character suffering from asthma, is it too much asking some tutorial about the proper use of an inhaler. All she did was making a quick click, she never put the inhaler in her mouth and it didn't feel as if she was inhaling anything.If you care for realism, the film might not be your cup of tea, but that's not a reason to dismiss it, Fatal Attraction, as a milestone as it was (and it wasn't) had its more-or- less ridiculously unrealistic parts. So, Hanson's film is enjoyable for what it serves well, a solid villainous performance, and an eerie sometimes sexy atmosphere that creates a well-packaged average psychological thriller, that's all, but as far as realism is concerned, well, it's not a good sign when a film is an inspiration for these hilarious '100 THings I learned threads ... "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know how this movie has such good reviews. I found this movie to be really boring, and the characters really stupid. Maybe I'm just a suspicious person, but if some random person showed up at my house looking to be my nanny, I'd be a little creeped out, and I certainly would ask more than one question in the interview. Not to mention all the strange things that suddenly start happening after she shows up. Not to mention, if I was a little girl and I saw my nanny dragging a little boy around by the arm and swearing at him, I'd be scared, and I'd certainly two my parents. Beyond all that, I just found the pace to be really slow with not many thrills. "},{"Title":"De Mornay Carries The Film","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I may be sexist, but, at the time, Rebecca De Mornay was the hottest actress in Hollywood. Eventually, Roger Vadim got to her and her career slid due to gratuitous nudity in an awful, but unrelated, remake of 'And God Created Woman.' De Mornay is a fine actor, as is the entire cast.....and, Rebecca was drop-dead ten beautiful....the entire package.The script is excellent, as is the photography.....and, the film moves smoothly.I may be enthralled with De Mornay, who I consider to be in the top ten of alluring actresses of all time. This would rank her up there with Hedy Lamarr, Elizabeth Taylor, Nicole Kidman and Diane Lane, to name a few. "},{"Title":"straight forward psychological movie","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael (Matt McCoy) and Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) take on mentally handicapped Solomon (Ernie Hudson) to build the fence. They have a girl and she's pregnant with their second. She is molested by her new doctor Victor Mott (John de Lancie). She reports him along with other women and he shoots himself before the trial. Mott's pregnant wife (Rebecca De Mornay) loses her family wealth and her baby. Mrs. Mott vows revenge on Claire and becomes her nanny as Peyton Flanders. Claire's friend Marlene (Julianne Moore) warns her as Mrs. Mott wage a secret campaign against Claire.This is probably more scary for parents and especially mothers. This is simply geared more towards that demographic. For others, it needs something more than this straight forward thriller. I think it would be more compelling to start the movie with De Mornay as a mysterious woman. Claire can uncover her history along with the audience. De Mornay is pretty good with a restrained intensity and volcanic outbursts. This is a bit too slow but there is just enough tension. "},{"Title":"A gripping thriller with a killer lead in De Mornay!","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are some movies which are essentially 'made' by one star. The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a prime casing point; Rebecca De Mornay, as the 'nanny from hell' Peyton Flanders, is chilling, seductive, and simply stunning, as she manipulates her way through the Bartel household, as well as us, the audience.I think the the film is great for testing our allegiance to the family themselves; even though we constantly feel anxious for their safety, and are aligned as to the tragedies that befall them, for which we can only sit back and look on in horror, there's also an underlying morbid desire to see Peyton win, which is exemplified by De Mornay's bewitchingly sultry performance, and her unwavering determination to get revenge.As for the rest of the essentially B-list cast, there's winning performances all round, with special mention to Ernie Hudson as the family's intellectually disabled handyman, who displays great warmth and emotional depth to his role, and to the Bartel family (Annabella Sciorra, Matt McCoy, Madeline Zima) themselves; each actor delivering a compellingly real profoundness to their individual roles, which goes a long way in making them much more compassionate, and increasing our allegiance with them. Indeed, it's that allegiance to the family which helps in papering over any predictability or cheesiness in the film, as despite our initial morbid desire to see Peyton win, it's that sympathetic but not overtly sentimental view of the Bartels which means, in this movie at least, that the audience also naturally want the typical happy ending that we've come to expect from Hollywood.It's Hollywood's loss that they've never fully tapped into De Mornay's clear talent and charisma though! One hopes that her career will be revived in the future. She sure does make an impact here, and her performance etches itself into the memory.Going along at a good steady pace, which builds to an exciting climax, director Cliff Hanson (The River Edge, L.A Confidential, 8 Mile) has crafted yet another witty, thrilling, and inspired piece, which re-invents the whole 'never let strangers into your house' premise with real bite, so if it's a tense, unnerving, but very fun late-night thriller you're looking for, look no further! "},{"Title":"She's certainly not Mary Poppins!","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks The Cradle has elements of While the Children Sleep (2007) and The Babysitter (1980). It's a mystery/horror with a lot going for it, decent acting, an intriguing story and the ending was amazing.Here's a plot, I'll try not to give away the details Claire and Micheal are a happy couple expecting a baby (they have a daughter named Emma as well). Claire, during a gynecology appointment, is molested by the doctor, and after Claire reports him he kills himself. His wife decides to pretend to be a nanny to get at the family after Claire's baby is born, calling herself Peyton and slowly dismantling the whole family, from framing the very kind mentally challenged man working to build a fence in their yard to destroying the reputation of Claire's best friend, a real-estate agent named Marlene. The question is, how far will Peyton go to get her revenge, and who will survive? The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a great movie to pass the time, but what I liked most was the ending SPOILERS!!! Peyton tries to kill Claire's two children but Solomon, the man who Peyton framed for supposedly molesting Emma even though he didn't, and he helps the two children escape, risking his own life to save them. It's an extremely memorable scene.Some of the better actors/actresses in this movie were Julianne Moore and Ernie Hudson and Annabella Sciorra. The soundtrack wasn't bad and if you have a spare hour and a half it's a great movie to check out! It does have the off one or two sappy Lifetime Movie-type moments but those can be overlooked. "},{"Title":"A movie that rocks","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've only seen this movie once, and I remember just how good it was, one trademark scene, having Julianne Moore buy it in that glasshouse, where for some, you could be turned off for walking into one, ever again. The Hand That Rocks The Cradle (a great title) is another Fatal Attraction, Single White Female, etc, kind of film/thriller, but what's so good here, is the believable revenge scenario, that really follows through, with good planning in it's catalyst, and acting talent, De Mornay, our new revenge driven femme fatale, proves she can play bad, good. We can't help feel a bit sorry for her, in light of her very damaging tragedy, brought on by her lover's suicide. It was something, that came back to bite this late gynocologist, whatever, with his unlawful advances towards patient (Sciorra) who's character just happens to be asthmatic, but hey, it can happen top the best of us. Wait till you see who her gynocologist is (another familiar face, from another popular daytime soapie, who's always used in small roles. She was gonna report him to the police, so he took the easy way out. Now we have a new psycho nanny, under a smiling, loving facade of normalcy, that bellies a hate driven woman, determined to see Sciorra suffer, by taking what she has, because of what she herself, has been robbed of, which includes Sciorra's husband (Matt Mccoy, a very underrated actor). It was a surprise top see hi turn up in this. This whole retrieving angle, all makes sense, when you see it from our flip a switch character, Mornay, where we know, what her ultimate intention is, all too clearly. De Mornay, really has a a screw loose alright, and her character is fun to watch. She even gets physical with a little boy who's bullying Sciorra's little girl, and that dire and clear as crystal threat she gives to that retarded green keeper of Sciorra's (versatile Ernie Hudson) is dialogue I'll never forget. This is a solid driven thriller all the way. The movie sets out what it intends to do, it's intentions never clearer, though we really wonder what's playing around in the diabolical mind of De Mornay. But she's set a new score with her unforgettable and scary performance in a thriller, you must see at least once once. I would of seen this again, but this particular movie was actually copy protected. Them's the brakes. "}{"Title":"The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is a suspenseful and intense film.","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After her humiliated husband kills himself, an embittered pregnant widow loses her child, and embarks on a mission of vengeance against a woman and her family. Peyton Flanders seemed to be the perfect nanny, but secretly she was out to wreck the lives of the family she was supposed to be helping. Before becoming the nanny, Peyton had a miscarriage, and blamed it on Claire (the mother). Claire suspects nothing, having never met Peyton before. The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is a disturbing, suspenseful and intense film that is a gripping psychological thriller of a woman unhinged. In my opinion it is like a female version of Cape Fear starring Robert De Niro in terms of a person seeking vengeance on the person they perceive to have brought an injustice on them. I strongly recommend this film to anyone who likes tense suspenseful thrillers. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller!","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This 1992 thriller stars Annabella Sciorra, Rebecca De Mornay, Matt McCoy, Julianne Moore and Ernie Hudson. Sciorra plays Claire Bartel, a pregnant woman who becomes molested by a doctor, Victor Mott (John De Lancie). Soon, she reports him and he takes his own life. De Mornay (Risky Business) plays Victor's widow who has a miscarriage after her husband's death and she seeks revenge on Claire and her family by posing as her nanny, Peyton Flanders. Claire welcomes her into her home, but eventually discovers she's not who she seems. McCoy (Police Academy 5 & 6) plays Claire's husband, Michael, Moore (Nine Months) plays Marlene Craven, Claire & Michael's friend and Hudson (Ghostbusters 1 & 2) plays Solomon, The Bartel's friend & carpenter. This is a good thriller with a good cast, especially De Mornay because she's a great villain. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"The New Nanny","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Curtis Hanson directed this thriller that stars Annabella Sciorra as Claire Bartel, a seemingly happy wife and mother who welcomes into her home a new nanny/housekeeper named Peyton Flanders(played by Rebecca De Mornay) who is very helpful and beautiful, but is in reality a grieving mother and widow out for revenge against Claire because her testimony against her husband(a doctor) for criminal misconduct led to his death and her miscarriage, and Claire must be made to pay, so Peyton sets out to steal the affections of Claire's husband and children away from her, then destroy her... Rebecca De Mornay is a standout here, though it is a pity that it devolves into standard thriller clichés, with an increasingly unlikely plot. Still, this was a big hit at the time. "},{"Title":"This is my family....","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Victor Mott is a respected and successful gynaecologist, but it comes to a crashing halt when he is accused of sexually molesting his patients. When Claire Bartel accuses him of this, other women come forward to concur the story and also accuse the doctor. Stripped of his license and on the verge of being sent to prison, Dr. Mott commits suicide. Dr. Mott's widow suffers a miscarriage, and is on the verge of losing her home to civil judgements against her husband's estate. Broken, alone and now near-penniless, she learns that Claire is seeking a nanny for her own young children, and sees this as the perfect tool to exact a bloody revenge on Claire Bartel, and take Claire's family for her own...Released in a time when these sort of films were released every other week, the film has really weakened over the years, and if this was made today, it would probably be straight to Blu Ray fodder.But it's still a good psycho thriller, where everyone in their thirties looked mid forty. The cast are good, Sciorra gives the best performance of the females, and Hudson is magnificent as Solomon, but its unfortunate that his character is nothing more than a maguffin to make the finale more exciting.Seeing it twenty years later, and being more critical of film, there are plot holes every where, and to get maximum enjoyment from this, you really have to suspend belief, and disregard DeMornays robotic like performance.It has jump scares, and faux asthma attacks, but kudos for the writers not to have her come back when everyone thought she was dead.Good, but not as good as you'd remember. "},{"Title":"I'll get my baby and go","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This one hit a chord in the nineties and was a hit. It is a Women's Psycho-Thriller to be sure. It has a Husband who is a cardboard characterture of a Yuppie and is as vacant as any airhead leading Male character in modern Drama. He barely registers as a Husband or a protector, and thats the point. The Black handyman is handicapped and the only other major Male in the film is three months old.So its up to the two Female leads to duke it out over, you guessed it the Baby Boy. The Wife's Female friend is a sharp-tongued, successful Business Woman who wears pants. It is all rather clichéd and uninspiring but does have that Home invasion plot working for it. Is there anything more precious than Family and Home? We would all fight to the death for that. It is not a new concept but does manage to get the audience involved and the game is afoot.It is one of the Director's early efforts and is not wholly without its good look and some good acting. Although it moves quite slowly (another nod to the Female target audience) and deliberately, it does manage to keep you watching the evil events laid out by the Nanny as she builds her Dream House Family out of the rubble she creates from the Woman who done her wrong. "},{"Title":"The Hand That Rocks the Cradle","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A revenge thriller where an insane woman tries to take over another woman's family whom she think is responsible for the tragedy happens to her, a slightly less-creepy version of CAPE FEAR (1991, 5/10) or another FATAL ATTRACTION (1987, 6/10) if the adultery back story is supplanted by a medical dissension, orchestrated by the future Oscar-nominated director Curtis Hanson (for L.A. CONFIDENTIAL 1997, 9/10), this 20-year-old genre feature has not diminished too much traction thanks to a hysterically strong-armed performance from Rebecca De Mornay. The film begins with introducing a mentally-slow black man (a quite histrionic mimicry from Ernie Hudson) to the happy family, whom they hire (out of sympathy) as a gardener to do some fence-making, trim-painting work. Set a keystone of a well-intentioned stranger who is not the common analogy as a friend to the family (which later will be utilized as a sharp comparison to the young and white nanny image), but the message is quite obvious, don't judge people by the appearance (Handicapped people are always good!paraphrasing Penny from THE BIG BANG THEORY). Then after an uncanny molestation by a gynecologist, the mother files a complaint which eventually prompts his suicide, his pregnant wife loses her baby, which are all fast-forward in a perfunctory manner. Until then the film's main course unveils, from a conspicuous strangers to the live-in nanny, De Mornay's revengeful widow slowly but astutely erodes the harmony of the family, alienates the mother-children bond (by feeding the new-born baby with her own milk), seduces the patriarch (which doesn't work out owing to the father's credibility of marital loyalty, what a miracle!), murders her best friend who unluckily discovers her true identity, frames the devoted black man and sabotages the asthma medicine, until the climax comes, it's a dead-or-alive war between two women, everything is executed in a compelling dexterity. Rebecca De Mornay does outshine everyone else in the film (if Glenn Close can be nominated, so is she) Annabella Sciorra and Matt McCoy make an orthodox couple but their backdrop is too bleak to chew on. My goddess Moore has a rather efficient supporting role to act, her shrewdness is all over the place, but as the sidekick, her demise is predestined (the too smart to survive rule in the thriller genre). Last but not the least, a irresistibly adorable Madeline Zima is also worth mentioning, her smile could melt any cold heart, she definitely has the next-big-thing potential although her latest projects are all eluding me. "},{"Title":"If something happens to my mommy, would you take care of me?","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After being sexually molested by her gynecologist (who later commits suicide when others accuse him of the same thing), Claire Barton seems to have it all a few months later-a beautiful house, loving husband and two lovely children (including the new born baby). All she needs is a nanny to help around the house. And she finds the perfect person in the form of Peyton Flanders. But her perfect life soon begins to fall apart...is it the nanny's fault? I first saw The Hand That Rocks the Cradle on its initial theatrical release and loved it at that time. With several viewings since, my enjoyment of this film has not decreased. It is an excellent and disturbing thriller that holds my attention throughout its run time without ever becoming dull and that still leaves me with a deep sense of unease.The story is quite simple and there are not a lot of twists and turns, yet it is interesting. And the settings are nice and effective in helping set the mood of the picture.But it is the acting that really makes this movie stand out. Rebecca De Mornay is perfect as the psychotic nanny who tries to make the baby and the rest of the family (except Claire) her own. She is absolutely convincing in this role. There is a scene when Claire (Annabella Sciorra) is returning home from the hospital and Peyton (De Mornay) believes she has won and the family is here-De Mornay's acting is just completely convincing in her change of role from the nanny to the lady of the house. Just fantastic. Annabella Sciorra is also excellent as the desperate mother whose life is falling apart. And of course, I'm always a great Julianne Moore fan, who is great as Claire's best friend Marlene. Ernie Hudson is charming and likable, if not completely believable, as the mentally challenged handyman.Overall, this is a great movie that never gets dull and just improves with each viewing. "},{"Title":"A Killer Thriller!","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'The Hand That Rocks The Cradle'is one of the most effective thriller movies that I have ever seen.The cast was wonderful,the plot is unbeatable,and the suspense will have you holding on for dear life.The movie is about a woman whose husband committed suicide after he was charged with sexual molestation charges.And if you thought things could get worse,well they do.She was also pregnant but the baby died.So she is determined to find the woman who charged the man with molestation charges.Basically,she blames the victim for her child's death.Thats where the real story begins.Trust me,this movie will have suspense and excitement in your bloodstream and once the movie is over,you'll just want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"An excellent film that you must see!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I particularly liked this film, especially all the tensed bits which really leave you in suspense. My favourite character was Payten who was played by Rebbeca De Mornay. She reminds so much of our fat cooking teacher at school,(I don't mean because of her looks, but becasuse of her character in the film)!! I would encourage anyone who is interested in dramas to see this film and I can guarantee you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Chilly and disturbing movie.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite not being fond of that type of movies, The Hands That Rocks The Cradle is an exception. I like so much this movie, mainly Rebecca de Mornay's warped character. How she earns that family's respect and confidence and step by step she's tearing them apart. Fortunately (Or not, given what eventually happens to her) Marlene finds out (Good job, as always, by Julianne Moore, that is as beautiful as usual) and Peyton's plans are discovered.One of my favourite scenes is when Peyton goes to the little daughter's schoolyard and tells that bully off. She warns him not to f*** with her and the bully screams in pain.I believe this is one of the few positive things Peyton does in the whole movie. How tense is when she is breastfeeding the baby and Solomon cassually sees her. She notices his presence in the window and later scares him to death threatening him to accuse him of child abuse, which she finally does.If you are in the mood of spending almost two hours watching a chilly movie with good acting and a tense ending, pick this one. Ten out of ten. "}{"Title":"Suspend Belief","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***contains spoilerYou have to suspend belief quite a bit here to enjoy this movie. If you can get past the fact that this family situation did not call for a live-in nanny and that the parents were unbelievably naive in hiring this woman practically off the street without reference checks and follow-up interviews, then be prepared for a deliciously evil Rebecca De Mornay. I was ready to  plunge a knife at that bitch through the television set. Annabella Scorria was pretty and charming as the housewife, but I found Matt Mccoy's performance as the Dad rather bland. Julianne Moore in the minor role of the wife's friend was sexy and very polished, presaging her later successes. I found the performance of the handicapped man a bit awkward in the beginning but smoother toward the end. I would like to see this picture in black and white. The director builds suspense well. A standout scene is the wife stepping on the broken light bulb that is lying on the basement stairs at the end of the movie. You hear every crunch as suspense builds.  The movie was evocative but I am only giving it a 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Hands that Rocks the Bridals","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... Is the one that hold the family. A true smart thrilling movie.The casts are perfectly lovable and good. The story is even better, and very realistic. I mean, it actually can happened, right from the causes, the reactions, and even the strategies. Very smart indeed.And the story twists in it's fullest throttle to create a sleek and strong suspense movie.It is indeed a must see not only for those who love thriller and suspense movies, but any moviegoers. So much we can learn about story making and characters building in this movie.  "},{"Title":"A decent thriller","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember watching quite a few thrillers around the time this was released - Unlawful Entry, Single White Female, Deadbolt - all were fairly similar in theme.  This film I enjoyed the most though mainly due to menacing performance of Rebecca de Mornay.  Man, she's a nasty piece of work.The greenhouse bit is particularly tense especially when you know what's coming.A decent, top-notch thriller.  9/10.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good film.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well,  the film was good.  The main thing that made it work was Rebecca De Mornay as the crazed Nanny.  Her evil eyes were effective and her rage and mischief with Soloman,    Annabella's husband,   the glass house,  her secrets  Annabella's daughter were really cool.   The opening was quite effective and I can understand her need for revenge.   Rebecca was quite attractive and the scenes of breast feeding were very intimate. Julianne Moore was excellent in her minor role but she was so sexy,   intelligent, and memorable that I wished they showed more of her.  There is suspense in a few scenes and my only complaint is the way the ending for these thriller movies work like Fatal Attraction,  Single White Female.    I sometimes wish there was a better resolution to the problem and I don't really like it when cool people die.   The story is interesting because of the decepetionous way that Rebecca works but the ending in this type of movie is predictable and unfortunate.  The acting makes the film work and overall it was good,  not great.  2 1/2 out of 4.  "},{"Title":"This movie rocked my world!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Hand that rocks the cradle is a great thriller without all the guns. Its about a psychopathic nanny out for revenge on a family.Great acting by Rebecca DeMornay as the crazed nanny, and Anabella Scicorra who does a great asthma attack scene. The plot is simple, but the ending is fair predictable.Not an all time favourite, but still worth a few bucks to rent. "},{"Title":"...Cradles the world.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  God, Rebecca DeMornay as a real Bitch in this spectacular movie.She's the new babysitter of a child. But of course not everything is about roses. She wants the baby, even if she has to murder.....Great acting byRebecca DeMornay (Stephen King's The Shining)(9/10) "},{"Title":"trashy Lifetime movie premise handled with care and good acting by Hanson and company","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Somehow when Curtis Hanson gets a hold of something as a director he's able to make it work far better than it should (if not all the time then with a good average for him to keep getting work). Case in point, The Hand That Rocks the Cradle. He takes material that could, in lesser or just more hack-like hands, be a simple TV movie about a woman scorned badly getting her payback against the family that not-sorta-really did this to her. It's about what happens when a woman loses everything- this being a widow of a doctor-gynecologist who was a creep who took too much pleasure in his work and who killed himself when faced with harassment charges- including her child in a miscarriage. After the woman, Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) has her baby, a new nanny comes around. With her blond hair and cold blue eyes and perfect demeanor and posture, she's practically perfect to come in and take care of her new tot and the little girl sister of the house. What could go wrong here? The plot Peyton Flanders, nay Mrs. Mott, unravels is ingenious unravel the family by focusing the bad attention on the mother, make people in the house dislike her, and at some point after getting tons of love from everyone kill her off. It helps as well that she still has her breast milk and, you know, gets the baby hooked up with that. The script by Amanda Silver could slip into cliché at any time... and in ways it actual does, sometimes rather startlingly. She even puts in a supporting character that should be blatant (or back in the 1950's could have been a racist caricature), with mentally challenged Solomon (Ernie Hudson), who knows what's really going on but can't speak up due to how he is, and certainly can't defend himself when Peyton pulls her mind-game crap against him. It should be all win for her, with this happy family.Characters are drawn out in a believable way. We don't doubt that Peyton can do all of this since she's had time to prepare, like a mastermind constructing an intricate game, pitting sides against one another, a chess-master with an ignorant opponent. And director Curtis Hanson casts his film to a fine tune; this is a group of people that take these characters seriously (Hudson most surprising, as I felt for his character if only because of his performance). We feel the vulnerability that shows little by little from Claire from Sciorra's own ability to show it so well, and De Mornay has some of her best work of her whole career here. Supporting players get their teeth to sink in too Julianne Moore pops up for a few scenes as a tough career woman but not a bad one, and for her few moments she's kind of stunning, for how little she's given to do.Oh there are some big set-pieces, and the eventual climactic showdown in the house in a kind of last-ditch effort to get what she wants. But by this point Hanson has not cheapened too much of the drama, at least for the melodrama he's after. This isn't masterpiece theater, it's a tough little thriller in the guise of a suburbia, where underneath the warm front of happy children and happy mentally challenged workers, there's some nastiness that can't be gotten rid of (albeit it can come in handy when confronting the school-yard bully as Peyton does here). Good work all around, surprising even, and something Lifetime movie-makers should watch as a benchmark of high quality, if that means much. "},{"Title":"VERY early-'90s...","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes, a film is notable more for Zeitgeist than anything else. 'Hand that Rocks the Cradle' is a perfect exemplar of 1990s culture.Volvo-driving yuppie, check. Inappropriate touching leading to legal consequences, check. 'Differently-abled' Person of Colour in a sympathetic, heroic role, check. This was an era when middle-class moms availed themselves of nannies, en masse. Often, hubby banging the nanny was a common phobia. The grunge fashions of '90s youth culture were mirrored by the dreadful drabness of adult women's attire and makeup. Sciorra's heroine is such a plain-looking woman...quite the contrast to Peyton (De Mornay) and Clair's hubby's ex-girlfriend Marlene (a very leggy Julianne Moore). Despite all the 'feminist' subtext, Claire appears to be supported by her breadwinner husband. This is one big contradiction of '90s yuppie culture that feminist scholars try to overlook.As a suspense movie, 'Hand that Rocks the Cradle' works. However, it's real value is as a time capsule of early 1990s culture the birth of latte-sipping, Volvo-driving and political correctness. "},{"Title":"A fine dramatic piece of work with excellent De Mornay","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After her husband kills himself, Mrs Mott (De Mornay) has a miscarriage and works for the woman who sent her husband to his grave, planning her revenge.For those who have yet to see this film be prepared. Rebecca De Mornay (Risky Business) is brilliant. And not just good, she is so scary and so convincing that you will question every person you let into your house.De Mornay has created one of the finest female villains in cinematic history with her portrayal as Mrs Mott, a woman who has lost everything and has one thing on her mind, revenge. Wonderfully fake, De Mornay is simply brilliant to watch with her elegant falseness and vindictive planning, she is one of the finest female characters you will simply love, and secretly hope for.Sciorra, McCoy and Hudson are also exceptional, particularly Hudson who creates a very sentimental character in Solomon.As good as De Mornay is, she is helped along by a marvellous scripted plot. The thinking behind Mott's actions is remarkable, and very precise. Her thinking and execution of the future is tremendously accurate with no room to think otherwise. Ultimately this wouldn't have been possible without the realistic mind of Amanda Silver who has written one of the most realistic drama thrillers you will ever see. No clichés, hardly any predictability, it is simply a well thought out piece of work that is also finally directed.Curtis Hanson (In her shoes) has cemented the realism down to the ground in this 1992 picture. No fancy art stuff, simple but very effective. The basic opening of Solomon riding his bicycle towards the house is beautiful, a calm opening that misleads the viewer as we are soon involved in high drama throughout.Reviews claim it as a thriller but apart from the fast and action packed finale, it is more of a drama, with its focuses upon real life situations. Parenthood, revenge, bullying, marriage, family all fall into the drama genre and is beautiful realism. Realism sadly in majority of films can be thrown away in favour of clichés and don't portray the film as it really is. Not here as the writing and direction, though not original, is set firmly on the ground. There are a couple of scenes which are questionable but the majority is dramatic excellence cemented firmly to the genre.Slightly controversial with its issues regarding doctors and upbringing, 'Hand that rocks the cradle' is far from entertainment.This is a finally directed film with excitement and drama running all the way through and one of the finest female villains in the drama. "},{"Title":"It's cool how the story goes","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would make the same thing up. Instead it would be a story about a girl who wanted to take over the guy she has a crush on's girlfriend's life. And she's mad that they're together and she want to replace the girlfriend with herself. "}{"Title":"Excellent thriller. One of Rebecca DeMornay's best roles.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of film that you usually expect to have some goofy premise that leads to one person or family being terrorized and ultimately have some wholly predictable ending. But thanks to some excellent performances and a very interesting and original story, The Hand That Rocks The Cradle definitely stands apart from the average thriller.  (spoilers) Clearly, Rebecca DeMornay gives the best performance in the film as Peyton, the newly widowed wife who takes it upon herself to manipulate her way into a family, having suffered tremendous losses herself. It seems that Peyton's husband, Victor Mott, is a gynecologist and has a bad habit of molesting his patients. Claire, played very well by Annabella Sciorra, suspects that she has been molested in a visit with Dr. Mott, although from the events that occurred during that visit, it is ridiculous that Claire had even the slightest doubt in her mind about it. Once Dr. Mott's scandalous behavior is reported on the news, having been reported by several different women, he shoots himself, and then to make matters worse, Peyton loses her own child, with whom she was pregnant at the time of her husband's suicide.Clearly, this is not your average bonehead thriller plot &#150; there is actually some substance to this one. Peyton's flailing maternal instincts as well as her rage directed toward Claire for being the first woman to report her husband lead her to seek a nanny position with Claire's family, with two motives. First, she obviously wants revenge for Claire opening the floodgates of women pressing charges against her husband, but she also plans to make Claire'e young daughter as well as her newborn baby replace her own baby, that she lost after her husband's suicide.  The thing that makes this premise work so well is that it is so BELIEVABLE. Sure, some of things that Peyton manages to pull off are pretty far-fetched (like the way she rigged the green house, somehow knowing that Marlene would be the next one to come over, having just discovered her secret), but if something happened to someone like what happened to Peyton, her whole life being basically destroyed, it's not hard to imagine that that person would want to do something like what Peyton set out to do. The difference, of course, is that in real life, things would not likely go as far as they did in this film.  Julianne Moore is perfectly cast in her role, and this is made most clear when she discovers Peyton's secret and her rough, intimidating side is put to good use. This role, by the way, probably played a significant role in winning her the part of Clarice Starling in Hannibal several years later, a role which she also fulfilled very nicely. Matt McCoy also makes a very believable husband, and Ernie Hudson, who is probably most remembered as one of the Ghostbusters, delivers a strangely adorable performance as Solomon, the mentally challenged man assigned by the Better Days Foundation to work on the Bartel's (Claire and Michael) yard. Not only does he win the audience's heart with his first spoken dialogue, but he also earns a significant place in the family.  All of this forms the foundation of the story for The Hand That Rocks The Cradle, and not only is it notable because it opens up so many opportunities for the film, but virtually all of those opportunities are explored throughout the film. It is a terrible thing when there are countless things that could have been done in a film that just aren't realized or are ignored (see Hollow Man), and it's good to see that this wasn't the case in this movie. The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is an aptly titled suspense thriller that really delivers like very few films in its genre do, and is a must see not only for the involving story and excellent performances, but also for the skilled direction from Curtis Hanson. Don't miss this one.  "},{"Title":"Tedious","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to believe the director of this faltering addition to Hollywood's yuppies-in-peril cycle of the early 1990s has gone on to make such outstanding films as 'L.A. Confidential' and 'Wonder Boys.'  To be fair, the fault lies mainly with the screenplay &#150; a textbook working of an elaborate revenge plot which tries to exploit a whole range of middle-class anxieties molesting doctors, black burglars, lurking pedophiles, old friends who want to steal your husband and, of course, nannies who want to take over your life.  The plot is predictable and the ending &#150; which has the distinct smell of a post-preview rewrite about it &#150; is deplorably contrived.  Ultimately, though, it's Rebecca De Mornay who makes this thing endurable.  She's so chillingly good as the vengeful Peyton that you're cheering when Annbella Sciorra finally gets to punch her in the face.  Other performances are merely adequate, with the notable exception of Julianne Moore she steals the few scenes she's given and shows why she, like director Hanson, has gone on to much bigger and better things. "},{"Title":"Rather lame movie with some interesting moments","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story San Francisco mother Claire (Sciorra) accuses her OB/GYN Dr. Mott of raping her and he ends up killing himself. Doc's widow seeks revenge by applying to be Claire's nanny. Suddenly, bad stuff starts happening!The utter suspensions of reality The audience is expected to believe that first, Claire's name would be released to the public as the accuser. Then we're supposed to believe that Claire and her husband have never seen a photo of Mrs. Mott, even at the funeral. And believe that none of her FRIENDS saw a photo of her either. The final blow to our common sense is that Claire never does a background check on Nanny Peyton either. HELLO???Glimmers amid the dross De Mornay, despite the lame plot, really makes you believe she's pure evil disguised in demure nanny clothes. You almost enjoy disliking her. I especially enjoyed when she's eating sliced apples off a knife after one brutal episode she orchestrates. Sciorra also does a pretty decent job with what lousy material she's given. Julianne Moore get some of the best lines and delivers 'em with punch.The utterly awful acting award Hands down, the award goes to Matt McCoy as the father. True, he has a pretty lame script to work with. But geez, he even makes Keanau Reeves' wooden acting look slightly life-like in comparison. My favorite worst line of his is when he tells De Mornay, Claire's right, Peyton. You should leave! When Nanny Claire turns her evil sights on Dad, I almost clapped. This movie isn't an utter disaster. For some reason, I find myself drawn in by it when it comes on TBS. But it's nothing to get excited about.  "},{"Title":"With Parents Like These the Kids Would be Better Off as Orphans","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand that Rocks the Cradle looks good and was well produced. Rebecca DeMornay's and Julianne Moore's performances were excellent; and the rest of the cast is decent. The cinematography was ambitious and included many visual and audio elements that both denote and connote meaning in support of the story.It's logical to pay attention to all these subtle details because you expect that things like shot selection, framing, minor objects in a set, and background details were intentional-part of a master design. Unfortunately, all that is right is ultimately wasted because the basic story structure is inexplicably out of alignment. The basic story is a lot like Sam Peckinpah's Straw Dogs, where the sanctuary of a household is threatened by invasion from outside. And like Straw Dogs a lot of energy is utilized to create moral ambiguity between the household and the invaders. The Hand that Rocks the Cradle actually creates a greater ambiguity as the invader (Peyton) has even more reason for her actions (and our sympathy) than the father in Straw Dogs.Plus the director takes great pains to portray Claire and her husband unsympathetically. Claire is shown to be selfish, reactionary, and self-congratulatory. She acts without regard to the consequences of her actions, unconcerned about the wreckage she creates. To her everything is black and white, and she is a crusader for right. It was a conscious decision to portray her in this way and it is natural to assume that it was done for a reason.Normally the reason to expend a lot of energy in this direction is that it opens up a host of opportunities for giving the film an unconventional treatment. For example, it would be great irony if the same irresponsible over-reaction by Claire that led to Payton's husband's suicide came back to destroy Claire. The story was set up for this when Payton was able to exploit Claire's character defects and manipulate her into banishing Soloman from the house. It would have been a much more satisfying resolution to have Claire die because Soloman was not present to rescue her, leaving Payton to inherit the family. If the moral tone of that ending was too negative they could have just killed each other.Watching this film one wonders if the director and screenwriter shot a more interesting ending but were forced to go back and re-shoot the final sequence using this lame conventional resolution. That would at least explain the huge disconnection between story and ending; leaving everyone disappointed and puzzled by something so inconsistent with the earlier elements in the film.Bottom line-with parents like these the kids would be better off in foster care and with endings like this film viewers are better off paying attention to production technique and ignoring the actual story. "},{"Title":"The Hand that rocks the cradle rules the world","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The hand that rocks the cradle from 1992 and by Hollywood pictures was a great movie. i remembered it did create a buzz when it came out. the performances were good, but what really got it attention was this vile and almost mesmerizing character of peyton flanders (rebecca mornay). an over the edge psycho who wants to get revenge on one family because of a miscarriage she suffered over the fact that her husband , dr. mott (john de lancie) has been found guilty of sexually foundling his own patients.Of course dr. mott has dr. mott has had a long history of doing this and his wife knows about it. however his dark secret is exposed by claire bartel (annabella sciorra) who while pregnant gets some unwanted sexually advances by the good old dr. Bartel then is pointed as the first woman to come out as one of the dr. victim's and this causes a domino effect where other victims come of the closet to talk about the dr. the dr's games are over , however he can't deal with the fact that he has been exposed and going to prison, so he commits suicide (via a gunshot). peyton (mornay) loses their baby in the process and when she finds out miss bartel was the first victim to speak out she does what any typical psycho would do, she targets her for her revenge. the expression hell on wheels definitely applies here. peyton's character is quite a sight for sore eyes, i haven't seen a psychotic character like this since glenn close's alex character in fatal attraction. however, peyton doesn't launch an obvious assault on claire. no she's schemes to get into the family and then killing clare by posing as a nanny for hire in the family. She then sets up the situation to get hired by making it look like the baby of the Bartel's is choking and thus saving her life. Pathetic. However the Bartels, Clare and Michael (Matt Mccoy) laughingly fall for the lies of Peyton despite the fact that she isn't whom she claims to be but then again the Bartel family is such a naive family that they are easily pluckings for Peyton's revenge.For instance, Peyton is hired to be the nanny even though, she admits she wasn't sent by a nanny agency , she doesn't have clear cut references, and Marlena Craven (Clare's friend) doesn't like her one bit.That about sums the movie itself in a way. It seems several characters are either too dumb or too naive to see what's going and this in turn leads to the disastrous things that happen at the hands of Peyton. For example it seems that Clare has a sort of asthma problem and she must take her pills. Well one day, Michael (Matt Mccoy) must turn in an important proposal to his company. Clare volunteers to do it, but when her back is turned, Peyton hides the proposal thus ensuring some problems in the marriage of the Bartels. The stress caused on Clare causes her to have several asthma attacks yet she doesn't see that Peyton is responsible despite the warnings from Marlena or the obvious advances Peyton is making toward Michael. Yes that's right Peyton ever the home-wrecker tries to make sexual advances toward this gullible guy to break up the family. Add further insult the other person who doesn't believe Peyton's nanny character is who she claims is Solomon (Ernie Hudson from Ghostbusters and Oz). Solomon is a black man who is mentally challenged, yet despite this Solomon has the intelligence to realize Peyton is a psycho. However, Peyton before Solomon has a chance to discuss his suspicions of her, gets rid of Solomon, thus leaving the Bartel family once again an easy target for her. LOL I made it sound like a soap opera. But all kidding aside The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is a very intense psychological thriller. Probably the best that came after Fatal Attraction and was then followed by another thriller about a psycho woman in Single White Female with Bridget Fonda.  "},{"Title":"All the suspense is sucked out","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A thriller with no thrills? There is absolutely no tension in this movie. There are terror situations, like the greenhouse, but all suspense gets sucked out of it. The scenes where we are supposed to see De Mornay as coldly manipulative are actually manipulative themselves. Someone is trying to tell us that the people around her are so stupid that they can't see what she is doing. I didn't buy it. I like Rebecca De Mornay as an actress, but she has chosen some turkey movies. "},{"Title":"All filler, no thriller","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a reason there are almost no links/reviews to this movie most critics don't bother with B-movies. Well, except for maybe B-critics, and the ones on here have applauded this cinematic crap with such enthusiasm that I feel the need to set the record straight.Thriller my ass. NOTHING is scary; most of the film is spent watching Girl A be a bitch to Girl B, who's too dumb to figure out she's being had. The first 95 minutes feel like an unnecessary drag, mostly because of repetition. Every trick the sinister babysitter pulls on the family (most of which were borrowed from better movies) feels at the same level as the last one, giving a feeling of beating around the bush, and predictability.The rate at which our hero catches on is artificially slow -- gee, it sure is baffling how all my asthma sprays could suddenly be depleted simultaneously! Nor are characters immune to the lack of realism. The child's lines and emotional responses are laughably fake, and by the way, this film isn't any less shy about black caricatures than it is about female nudity. There's not much reward to watching the final 15 minutes either, unless a catfight and cheap BOO! scares are your thing.Skip this and go for another Fatal Attraction rental. "},{"Title":"Boring and Shouldn't be Considered a Thriller,","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks Cradle is a very mediocre movie with a promising storyline that just ends up not being very interesting and an uninspired cast.The movie is considered a thriller,but there wasn't one time in this film that I felt in anyway thrilled or excited by what was going on,at times when things did get dramatic,it was just too predictable to feel any thrills.Rebecca De Mornay delivers an interesting performance and she is certainly the movies highlight,but it would have been more enjoyable if there was a bit of mystery behind her character instead of spoon feeding the audience every single thing she does.The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is undeniably boring and filled with plot holes,I think everyone would be better off avoiding this one. A doctors wife goes looking for revenge after her husband commits suicide amid accusations of abuse from some of his patients.Best Performance Rebecca De Mornay Worst Performance Annabella Sciorra "},{"Title":"Nothing that original, but it's an entertaining thriller","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Claire Bartel is inappropriately molested by perverted doctor Victor Mott during a routine check-up on her pregnancy. She reports the incident, Victor is humiliated publicly on the news. He can't bear it, offs himself with a gun. Mrs. Mott learns of the suicide and has a miscarriage. Wanting revenge on the Bartels, she applies for the Nanny position of Claire's, getting the job. Claire has no clue what Peyton has in mind. I wouldn't call this a standout thriller. It's fairly derivative, it isn't anything overly original. But, I had a good time with it. It packs a wallop from a psychological standpoint at times. Peyton's diabolical plan in this movie is so smart and sinister, I couldn't help but admire it in ways. As clever as it was, I did question something. How does Claire's character let Peyton be the nanny when Peyton went such an unconventional route by not having an appointment? Wouldn't you be immediately suspicious, regardless of the story? There is some really nasty things in this movie. A doctor molesting a pregnant woman? The wife losing a child because of it? Talk about harsh. This movie had a mean streak and I loved it. My only major complaint is that the finale turns into your standard finale that you would see in a slasher movie. It felt very lazy. The acting is excellent. Rebecca DeMornay's sinister performance is very memorable. She oozes sex appeal, but you fear her instability at the same time. The mind games she plays and the tricky stunts she does to fool the Bartel family was riveting to watch. The scary thing is, I would probably fall for many of her tactics too. Annabella Sciorra is solid as our female heroine. I got right into her emotional plight. Her difficulties with asthma made her even more sympathetic. She was great. Matt McCoy was OK. It was hard to take him seriously at times. He's a bit of a dimwit and played it far too cool at times. Plus, I couldn't help but keep picturing Lloyd Braun from Seinfeld when watching him. Ernie Hudson is outstanding as the mentally challenged friend of the Bartel's. I didn't feel he was acting, he really seemed like a mentally challenged person. I'd have him on my side any day. Julianne Moore is good in one of her early roles. I loved her sassy performance. Overall, I really enjoyed this movie for the most part. It's derivative, but what thriller isn't these days? Entertainment is all that counts for me. 7.3/10 "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when I was very young and it creeped the hell out of me.After seeing it a few times as an adult, I have to say the creepiness is still there.For the storyline I gave this movie a 6. The portrayal of what a woman will do for a child has been uniquely presented in this film. There were many dark moments in this film and what makes it scary above all, is this kind of thing can happen in real life. From what happens to the woman in the doctors room, to having a nanny who is not what she appears to be.It also touches on other sensitive subjects such as suicide.The film incorporates many issues and conveys them in a chilling and creepy way. I would definitely watch this movie if you haven't already. "}{"Title":"Really good","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks The Cradle (1992) I seen this movie few times, I saw this movie about month ago or maybe more. I really liked the plot this movie and it was not a let down at all. I found that the movie flowed really well from start to end and I did not find it boring at all. I found some scenes really tense to watch, as your on the edge of your seats.That was really good movie, it had a slow start to the movie but when it gets going, it dose not stop!The only down side for me, as the build up the story was fine, middle part of the movie was really good but the end of the movie that lets' it down. I thought the movie way to fast after the story ended, I wanted bit more of the aftermath of what happened. The acting was outstanding from the whole cast! 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"the nanny","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rebecca Demornay who would have thought she could play someone so creepy,, I really liked her performance in this movie,, she plays a nanny who has a lot of deep dark secrets that she doesn't want getting out of her closet any time soon,, Annabella Sciori plays the little miss innocent wife in the picture,, our nanny goes after her with a vengeance. then there's Julianne Moore's character some kind of real estate agent who knows something about our mysterious nanny's past and tries to stop her.. I ll let you watch and see what happens with that one. to me the one thing I didn't' like was how long it took the Bartel's to catch on to what the nanny who doing ,, I mean wouldn't the average person be very suspicious if all of a sudden things weren't going right and stuff went missing out of your home,, well I know that I would be.. but a pretty good creepy movie if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Perfect thriller","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a very solid thriller thanks to naturalism and realism. This is one of the best thrillers ever made, and it's just too bad it did not get the attention and praise it deserves. For one thing, we've seen many thrillers that lacked realism while some were not thrilling at all. HTRTC has it all. A solid story, solid cast, good directing and best of all, a high level of realism. The story can actually happen to any family in America, or anywhere in the world. The cast is great, and even though there's basically no big name phenomenon (well, Julian Moore's now very popular but not yet here) in this film, the performances are very good. In fact, great! Rebecca De Mornay, who's young and very beautiful in this film, has the best performance as the smart-beautiful-deadly Peyton. She's very convincing as both wife and nanny, as well as temptress and killer!Take note of some of the sinful scenes in this movie. Some scenes can be very disturbing (not disgusting) but if you're matured enough, then you'll get over this movie well. The sinful scenes do make a wake-up call in your family life. Heck, better watch out for those evil nannies! "},{"Title":"The Most Realistic Portrayal of Developmental Disabilities on Film","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Annabella Sciorra, Matt McCoy, & a pre-star Julianne Moore are good, but Rebecca De Mornay & Ernie Hudson steal the show. Hudson gives the best on-screen performance I've ever seen of a Mentally Retarded man, & I avoid all films with MR/Developmental Disabilities in them (because I've worked in that field for 35 years & I know that Hollywood portrayals are terribly unrealistic). It's maddening to see online reviewers (& some critics) downgrade this film because they don't like Hudson's performance (they say it's unrealistic!). These viewers are apparently used to seeing the Hollywood version of Mental Retardation & believe that's accurate. Then when they see a highly realistic portrayal, they think it's fake! Incredible! I've also seen where reviewers downgrade the film because they say Why didn't Sciorra do so & so...? Well, she has a bad case of asthma. And when you can't breathe, there is nothing else in the world you are thinking about except being able to take one more breath; that's all the explanation that's needed to understand her actions. Again, viewers are so Hollywoodized that they think a person who literally can't breathe (& therefore has 2-3 minutes of life left in them) can just do a couple of things first...! Even if you don't like this film, there are some very authentic parts, like Hudson & Sciorra's portrayals. I like De Mornay & this is her best role. In my opinion, she's an underrated actress, who suffers from the typical viewer reaction of she's too pretty to be a good actress syndrome.  Hand That Rocks... is a suspenseful film is several ways, not the least of which is the viewer's concern for the safety of children. Sciorra's portrayal is one of a not particularly good parent (realistic, like it or not). McCoy is a brainy guy (a Genetic Engineer), & although he loves his wife & kids, he's not particularly adept at communicating with his wife (& vice versa). De Mornay plays a devious character who gets away with a lot because her motivation is unknown to the central characters, & she's able to take advantage of a series of open- pocketbook situations which allows her to play one unsuspecting character against another. It's all been done before (except the outstanding Hudson portrayal), but it's a lot of fun nonetheless, & worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal and uninspired","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the epitome of mediocre movies. The cast, who should have been brilliant, somehow just fell short, but that might only be because the script was so poor. It never gave you a chance to care about the characters before putting them in danger. But at the same time, it seemed to drag. The cinematography was poor, and most of the time, it was too dark to see what was going on most of the time. The score was too foreshadowing and too loud.Having said that, it still wasn't a bad movie. There were some genuinely good scares in it. And Rebecca De Mornay does a good job at being creepy. I would like to see this remade with Gore Verbinski as the director, and a better script. "},{"Title":"One of the best psychotic thrillers I have ever seen!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE is one of the best psychotic thrillers I have ever seen. It really kept me on the edge of my seat. I thought that Rebecca De Mornay and Annabella Sciorra gave dazzling performances as a psychotic nanny and an asthmatic housewife. Also, I thought that Claire (Annabella Sciorra) looked beautiful in the fancy red dress that she had on momentarily and that Marlene (Julianne Moore) looked beautiful in all her dressy clothing, especially the fancy black dress she wore when she went out to dinner with Claire, Michael (Matt McCoy), and Marty (Kevin Skousen). One of my favorite quotes of this film is, What is this, a parade? Let's go! THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE has it all. Mainly, it has suspense. The ending was my favorite part. It was my favorite part for many reasons. I got a little scared by it, though. I'd like to close by saying, Parents, if you have young children, do not subject them to this film. They will get scared. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but uninspired thriller.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie for the 1st time in years, I had liked it the 1st time that I saw it. But seeing it again, it doesn't hold up as well on a second viewing. Rebecca De Mornay plays a crazed nanny with a bone to pick with her employers. I don't give spoilers so read on. De Mornay's performance is good, at times she seems that she is doing a Glenn Close impression from Fatal Attraction, but she is good. The problem is that in comparison to Fatal Attraction, this movie seems to calculated, no real suspense. Clichés abound, one can picked the out rather simply. The movie is too neat, everything is telegraphed. One thing that this movie has that bothers me, the stupidest most innocuous male character ever put on film. Anneballa Sciorra does a good job as the mother.A diverting but average thriller! Grade B- "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When the lady said that the Hand that rocks the cradle, rules the world, was truly a great statement. This picture had me at the edge of my seats many, many times, I do wish that we had pictures like this one made a lot, the actors were superb, especially Ernie Hudson, who played the mentally retarded maintenance man. This picture has all the qualities of being one of the great motion pictures of all times, "},{"Title":"Your everyday run-of-the-mill standard 90's thriller","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts off being regular, and ends with no real surprises. This doesn't necessarily mean that it's bad; it's good if you just want to see that typical type of 90's thriller, in fact it's pretty much the very definition of regular. Nothing out of the ordinary, it even has it's share of clichés; the psycho, the stereotypically(and unrealistically) perfect family, etc. The ending itself is so rigged with clichés that it will definitely bring back memories(if they are of superior films or not, I leave up to them to reveal... I've only been following the genre much, much more recently) for some old fans of the slasher genre, and may or may not cause them to laugh at the sheer stupidity of the scene. That still isn't necessarily a bad thing; you can always have some fun playing Count The Clichés, especially around the last 30 minutes. Apart from the corny scenes, it's pretty entertaining, it's well-paced, there isn't really any point in the movie when it's boring, or slow; the plot moves along nicely, every scene has some point, either in bringing the story a little further or in developing one or more of the characters. The acting is pretty good, mostly very believable. Not very good, but not really bad either; pretty entertaining, worth a watch for fans of the genre. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this movie I liked it so much. I think the characters did a great job, and Rebecca Demornay (I know I spelled that wrong) did a superior job. Very evil. I agree, at some point you would think this family would realize this woman was a bad apple, but the suspense of things kept me from downing the movie. I still watch it occasionally today...I wish there would be more movies this good. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked This movie. It seems however there are certain people that hate it. This film has full of cliches and is indeed sometimes slow. The acting was good and the film sometimes looked as it was this made for television thrillers. One reviewer said this film is missing an audience and it appeals to very few people. I disagree and it s a thriller that many people have seen and admitted that they liked and did okay at the box-office. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Natal Attraction","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This thriller's got most all the requirements to keep you on the edge of your seat.  A Northwestern American family hire a deranged nanny who, despite her initial agenda, falls in love with her employer, and plots to become the new wife.  Watch this one with those you love, so they'll be willing to pitch in for a day-care center.  "},{"Title":"Marred by cliches, but an undeniable guilty pleasure","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *POSSIBLE MINOR SPOILERS*This film is memorable for Rebecca DeMornay's incomparable evil bitch performance.  But other than that, it's another by-the-numbers thriller.  I caught this movie on TV earlier today, and I had fun playing Count the Cliches.  First of all, it surprises me how people in these movies can be so gullible.  I would think after Annabella Sciorra's friend dies in her greenhouse and her asthma inhaler is suddenly drained out, putting her in the hospital, she would've booted that bitch out the house in an instant.  Come on, we've all seen characters like Peyton (DeMornay) in our lives.  Nice, friendly, never hesitant to offer assistance--but all in all, too good to be true.  And when things are too good to be true...that's right, they usually aren't.  So I'm pretty sure Sciorra and her husband would've noticed something fishy way earlier in the film.  But, oh, it's too early for the climactic scene.  So the screenwriter tries to play it off, like the characters fall for all of Peyton's lies until some revealing information comes out at the end. There are several moments that are completely preposterous and made me want to yell at the two characters, What the hell is wrong with you???  The signs are right there!!!  And who's going to believe that a big, black guy like Ernie Hudson is going to be intimidated by a skinny white woman like Rebecca DeMornay?  And, like in all these movies, the little girl is completely naive, until the very end when she suddenly turns into MacGuyver.OK, so I've insulted this movie a lot.  And quite frankly, movies like this give me hope as an aspiring screenwriter/director.  But The Hand That Rocks the Cradle is a guilty pleasure.  The kind of film that keeps your eyes locked to the screen and really lures you in.  Ir has its flaws, but it's entertainment.  Sheer entertainment.  And it delivers! My score  7 (out of 10)            "},{"Title":"One of the best psychotic thrillers I have ever seen!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE is one of the best psychotic thrillers I have ever seen. It REALLY kept me on the edge of my seat. I thought that Rebecca (De Mornay) and Annabella (Sciorra) gave dazzling performances as Peyton Flanders/Mrs. Mott and Claire Bartel. Also, I thought that Claire (Annabella Sciorra) looked beautiful in the fancy red dress that she had on momentarily and that Marlene (Julianne Moore) looked beautiful in all her dressy clothing -- Especially the fancy black dress she wore when she went out to dinner with Claire, Michael (Matt McCoy), and Marty (Kevin Skousen). One of my favorite quotes of this film is, What is this, a parade?! Let's go! THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE has it all. Mainly, it has suspense. The ending was my favorite part. It was my favorite part for many reasons. I got a LITTLE scared by it, though. I'd like to close by saying, Parents, if you have young children, do NOT subject them to this film. They will get scared.  "},{"Title":"Routine psycho-thriller is lifted above average by the cast.  (VERY MINOR SPOILER)","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"     All the people involved transcend the quality of the script with their believable performances.  Perhaps the one exception to this is Matt McCoy, who seems a bit bland.  De Mornay makes a great bit*h, which is probably unfair to her, since I'm sure she's a nice person!   The nice thing about this film is that all of the actors imbue their performances with a certain level of dignity.  Sciorra excels as the matriarch figure, primarily because she seems so ordinary.  Also great is Ernie Hudson as Solomon, portraying the role of a mentally handicapped person with a lot of humility.   It is the cast that save the film, since really the script and direction are nothing more than average.  The cast kept me and most cinema audiences in 1992 watching, so it's a fair bet they'll do the same for you.  To rent it on a rainy night when there's nothing much on TV is to get the best out of it.  "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As many of people have pointed out, the fact that the Bartel's hired Flanders with no information on her, is a bit crooked. But that's okay because the movie still had great actors, a nice plot, and some intelligent writing. Sciorra does a very nice job as Claire Bartel. I can't really describe what I liked about her, but she just did a phenomenal job. Even though her asthma attacks may need some work on, everything else she did really seemed to bring a lot to the film. McCoy who is kind of in the background for the majority of the film, gives a decent performance when he is brought to the screen. Zima, who isn't considered a whole lot of when I think about this movie, was fun to watch. Moore was awful. I'm not too much of a fan of her anyway, but this performance was terrible. She didn't have that many lines, despite what most viewers think, and even when she did have them, she couldn't recite them correctly. Maybe the greenhouse was a good idea. I don't know about a lot of people, but I enjoyed the character of Soloman. The idea to have him work for the Bartel family was good, and the actor did such a good job at playing the mentally challenged worker. Finally, the wicked Peyton Flanders A.K.A Rebecca De Mornay was excellent. At times it might have been a little hard to handle her because of the such evilness, but it was good to see this nanny-gone-wrong character.I liked the plot very much. Yeah, yeah, it isn't so original, but it was written out good. I especially liked how everything was so carefully plotted together. The writing was great and especially on Peyton's part. Although according to IMDB and common sense telling you that it is impossible to breast feed six months after a miscarriage, this idea was still good.Here are two problems that I had with 'The Hand that Rocks the Cradle.' A lot of people have complained that this film was done poorly because of the hiring method of the Bartels. Now I don't want to go and ruin this because I did like the film very much, but I'm going to have to agree that this was done terribly. A couple of other viewers pointed out that there was a mistake when the film showed Claire's identity to the public after her encounter with the doctor. That's the thing that got me! I was disappointed to see that. (Anybody notice that in one scene, Peyton drops ice on the floor and then puts it back in the freezer? Another blooper.)The ending was great. I was so glad to see how it actually ended. Other than those few mistakes, I am pleased to say that this is a very well written movie. Not the most, but one of the reasons I enjoyed it so much was because Rebecca De Mornay was the lead character. If there had been different casting, it would have changed the film a whole lot.   "},{"Title":"An excellent thriller with a lot of suspense and a great villain!","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Next to Fatal Attraction, The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is one of my favorite thrillers. It has a great director, a great cast, and a great revenge plot.Claire Bartel and her husband Michael have a wonderful life with their daughter Emma and her baby brother Joey. Claire decides to hire a nanny so she can take care of her other business. None of the women interviewed are good enough for the job, until a woman named Peyton Flanders approaches Claire about the job. Right from the start, Claire, Michael and Emma think Peyton is an awesome nanny. But then, things start to go wrong. This nanny does several things behind Claire's back, horrible things. Peyton has other plans for the Bartel family, and she is going to use all of her power to make sure that those plans work. Unless the Bartel's can find out who she really is.I love revenge thrillers, and this is one of the best you're ever going to find. The Hand That Rocks The Cradle has you on the edge of your seat, wondering what Peyton was going to do next. I'm not going to spoil the twist, I'll leave that up to the viewer. But it's a great revenge.The cast is perfect, with Annabella Sciorra as Claire, Matt McCoy as Michael, Rebecca De Mornay as Peyton, Julianne Moore as Marlene, and a great Madeline Zima as Emma.You want a great thriller about a nanny from hell? Look no further.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Not The Best Movie I've Seen, But Not The Worst, Either","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not an R rated movie person, but, I have to admit, my sister and I had gotten into this movie when we were younger. However, shortly after I had reached high school, it was played on the TV a *little* too much (about four times in one year). The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is an interesting movie, about a woman who has it going for her- a good husband and two great kids (despite the fact she has asthma), and another woman who is basically a boldfaced liar. I mean, Rebecca DeMornay's character, Peyton (if that is her name), loses her husband, a doctor who supposedly treats Annabella Sciorra's character, Claire (the one with the kids and the hubby) the wrong way. Shortly after, she loses her baby, so she goes through a lot of pain (and I mean, pain). She poses as a nanny, and while the other characters think she's great, she really is going through her plan to kill Claire because of her husband's suicide after Claire accused him of being improper to her. She also plans to steal Emma and Joe (the kids). Peyton lies throughout the movie about everything-from her last name to her job as a nanny to worrying about Claire when she has gone to see Peyton's old house. This is an interesting movie, but it would have been a lot better if it weren't for all the adult-related scenes and some of the profanity. "},{"Title":"The hand that rocks","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A married, pregnant woman's accusations of molestation against a doctor lead him to take his own life. When the guy's widower loses her own baby due to the stress and then is driven to financial ruin, she hits on a plan to get her own back. One that involves becoming the nanny of the couple who she thinks destroyed her life six months later, and slowly turning their existence upside down..This is an average thriller which was a surprise hit at the box office. For most of the length it entertains (albeit in a slightly predictable fashion) until an overblown and melodramatic ending spoils things slightly. Rebecca De Mornay isn't really that scary in the role of the babysitter from hell, mainly because she isn't given that much to do. One killing and a bit of covert breast-feeding.. that's yer lot.A special shout out must also go to Ernie Hudson, who has possibly the least convincing mentally challenged performance I've ever seen. Fortunately, after the first half he's barely glimpsed, though in an obvious nod to political correctness he pops up later on to save the day. HURRAY!It certainly isn't no 'Fatal Attraction', but 'The Hand That Rocks The Crable' is probably worth watching once. It's your typical Hollywood cookie-cutter thriller which won't test your IQ to its limits but will pass the time relatively painlessly. Just don't expect to remember it for very long afterwards. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Chick-flick? No. Action-flick? No. Drama? No. Comedy? No.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As you can see, the film doesn't fall into any of these standard genres. That is a major downfall because there is virtually no audience that it would appeal to. Either way, `The Hand That Rocks the Cradle' isn't much to write home about anyway. It is as bland, watchable and instantly forgettable as films come. The acting is standard but doesn't compensate for the genuine lack of a lot of other things. Rebecca DeMornay is good as a psycho nanny, but not quite as intimidating as her character sets out to be. Annabella Sciorra is your average TV mom. Matt McCoy is your average TV dad. Ernie Hudson is good as the handicapped handyman, even if he does overact in some parts. Julianne Moore shows colour as the feisty, bitchy, Marlene. The film falls into any plot-hole wherever possible. It tries to mix suburban drama with stab thriller but fails both ways. It's too dark for your average `chick-flick-of-the-week' and it's too domestic for a mindless thriller. It isn't a disaster, but it certainly isn't anything to remember until the next morning either. `The Hand That Rocks the Cradle' ranks at below average for me. 4.6/10.  "}{"Title":"The movie is like my friend","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I never blamed Peyton for doing something she did in the movie to break her way through something to get what she wanted. I get the same way too,especially with a fantasy crush and his girlfriend. I would do the same thing Peyton tried to do to Claire to the girlfriend. A phrase like one in the movie like It's ok Emma,mommy's here. I'm going to take you & Joe and we're going to have a REAL family now! You won't have to see those people again! Instead of that it would be It's ok to the man I have a crush on. Your new girlfriend's here, I'm going to take you and we're going to have a REAL relationship now! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Thriller!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a brilliant psychological thriller that is highly entertaining and keeps you on the edge of your seat. Annabella Sciorra, Rebecca DeMornay, and Julianne Moore were all great. Curtis Hanson has done a good job on this movie. I give The Hand That Rocks The Cradle a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Indecent...","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" People complain in most reviews calling this film predictable. Well, you can't really expect a movie with this title to be filled with suspense. It will obviously play out as some chick trying to rule over a family by being the nanny.As a kid, this film was a classic for me. Now that I'm 22 years old, I can now see the flaws and faults off this film.The Hand That Rocks the Cradle starts off with asthma-stricken Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) who gets molested by her obstetrician 12 weeks into her pregnancy. After filing a complaint, the doctor commits suicide and his wife Mrs. Mott (Rebecca De Mornay) is left homeless and penniless after a miscarriage. Afterward, Claire has her son, Joe, and the family starts to look for a nanny and eventually finds Peyton Flanders (aka Mrs. Mott).First thing that bothers me is Claire's asthma sound effects. It doesn't quite sync up with Sciorra's visual performance and it continuously sounds like the attacks were pre-recorded. Secondly, Claire is oblivious to every thing that Mrs. Mott does. She can't seem to come the realization that all the things started going wrong when she showed up.Mrs. Mott is caught breast-feeding Joe by Solomon (Ernie Hudson), who is doing odd jobs around the house. But Mrs. Mott plants Claire's daughter's underwear inside Solomon's toolbox and he is immediately fired. Everything just works out too conveniently for Mrs. Mott.Julianne Moore plays Marlene Craven, who is an ex-lover of Claire'e husband and a friend of Claire's. In order to give some credibility to Mrs. Mott as the antagonist, Marlene gets killed by a trap setup by Mrs. Mott which was meant for Claire. What bothers me about this, is that Marlene has some glass fall on her...and it somehow is so deadly that it kills her within minutes. It's ludicrous.Finally, Solomon helps the family kill off Mrs. Mott and the family live happily ever after. Of course, it's going to end with the antagonist being killed. Why in God's name would any producer think that a parent or a child watching this would want the bad guy (girl, in this case) to win? It's simply a horrid film, but it was enjoyable when I was younger and I didn't mind most of the film overall. But the little things like I mentioned are what make it subpar and thus, I cannot give it any higher rating than 4 and I do not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Stick with Fran","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ordinarily, I love these Stranger Within thrillers. Some good examples are Fatal Attraction, Single White Female, and Audition. Done well, they can be a lot of fun, and worth an hour or two of solid shocks and scares. Of course, the opposite can be true done poorly, they can be tedious and stupid. The Hand that Rocks the Cradle is one of the latter.The Bartels, Claire (Annabella Sciorra) and Michael (Matt McCoy) are welcoming another member to their family. But busy Claire is persuaded by Michael to hire a nanny. One day, a woman named Peyton Flanders (Rebecca DeMornay) shows up, and because she seems perfect, the Bartels hire her. Of course, once she shows up, their idyllic life is slowly unraveling...This film suffers from a plethora of problems, but the biggest one is the handling of the villain. Peyton is never believable. Part of this has to do with how she's written, and how she's acted. The things that she does that are supposed to put us on edge are so contrived that they're laughable. De Mornay doesn't help much. She portrays Peyton as two different people. While it's true she's supposed to be the perfect nanny while hiding her psychotic tendencies, De Mornay's performance creates a divide between the two facets of her character.The other actors are good, however. Annabella Sciorrra is terrific as the asthmatic Claire. Sciorra is very natural in the role, but unfortunately, the script lets her down. Matt McCoy is almost invisible. However, Julianne Moore is delightful as Claire's friend Marlene. Moore is a firecracker, but unfortunately she's only on screen for a total of five minutes.Curtis Hanson is a good director, but you wouldn't know it from watching this dud. The film has a few decent shocks, but it's poorly paced, and the climax, while generating some tension, is actually kind of laughable. That being said, he's working with a script that at best, could charitably be called pathetic.Trust me, when it comes to nannies, stick with Fran Drescher. This one should have gone to the direct-to-video bin. "},{"Title":"Silly but quite fun","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This came out at the time when there was something of a plethora of 'home invasion' thrillers, presumably as a result of the phenomenal success of Fatal Attraction. There we had the mistress from hell, closely followed by the tenant from hell in Pacific Heights; the policeman from hell in Unlawful Entry; the roommate from hell in Single White Female and the husband from hell in Deceived. All followed a similar formula including the predictable thrill-a-minute denouement, which clearly ruined Fatal Attraction. The Hand that rocks the Cradle was a sizeable hit at the time and certainly featured a pretty unnerving performance from DeMornay, who it appeared would go on to have the kind of box office pull that the likes of Julia Roberts, Meg Ryan and Geena Davies were having at the time. It never really happened and I believe she's stuck on some American TV show like ER - poor thing. This thriller does have quite a neat little screenplay even though it is more involving earlier on when DeMornay's more subtle methods of undermining the nuclear family's stability are quite cleverly done. However it soon degenerates into bog standard American thriller territory and less face it, any film whose principle message is don't mess with the nuclear family, deserves some scorn. There is a dreadful supporting character of a black retard who you know will somehow save the day as soon as you see him in the opening shot. A dreadful stereotype. Also the husband is quite faintly ridiculous. Have you ever seen a more sensitive and sickly sweet husband in cinema history? When he gets knocked down towards the end of the film and states 'I can't move my legs are broken' and yet appears to be in no agony at all, you realise his role is barely perfunctory. Obviously the whole thing is very unbelievable - how she was able to become a nanny within just 6 months of losing her husband and the baby is extraordinary, and at no point in the film was she aware that the husband occasionally smoked and yet she used the friends' lighter as a plant to cause havoc at the surprise party. So yes, plenty of holes in it but hey, its' an American film so no European will watch it expecting intelligence I guess. "},{"Title":"A TOTAL RIPOFF OF FATAL ATTRACTION","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh boy. You know a movie is in trouble when your already looking at your watch within 20 minutes. How this movie was a hit at the theaters was beyond me. And how exceptionally stupid and unbelievable the story gets is what really makes this film so bad. For example When Claire (Annabella Sciorra) goes to the police to report that she has been sexually molested by the doctor her full name and picture is shown on the news-something that would never happen.  After Mr. Pervert Doc blows his brains out, his estranged wife (Rebecca Demornay) moves in with Claire to take care of her newborn baby.  Wouldn't it be wise to check out her resume and background before letting her move in??? WOW how junk like this gets made is beyond me............  "},{"Title":"Ohhh-that nasty Peyton!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS THROUGHOUT!!Hand that rocks the cradle is about a couple who hire a nanny(Rebecca De Mornay). Of coarse, in true original thriller fashion the nanny,Peyton Flanders is a raving lunatick who's got big plans for the family who employs her.Hand that rocks the cradle is perhaps one of the most unoriginal movies ever made. Basicaly, this is Fatal Attraction revisited except the the crazy lady actually moves in with the family she terrorizes.(a few other minor differences-she doesn't actually have an affair with the husband though he's attracted to her) but the central theme remains the same.Now with that said, I also have to admit that I liked this movie. I do not know the reason why I did. The movie is not a good one. I've seen many other thrillers similiar to this one, in both unoriginality and scare tactics and hated them. So what makes Hand that rocks the cradle different?I've thought about that and I think the answer is Rebecca De Mornay's portrayel as the nanny with issues. She is truely chilling as the sinister Peyton. De Mornay plays her as a soft spoken almost robot like woman who any viewer could see is problematic within 5 minutes of looking at her. And yet there is a child like appealing quality to Peyton that also comes through and watching her you can't help but be interested in the story as it unfolds.I think Peyton is maybe even more chilling then another havek wreaker Glen Cloe's Alex from Fatal Attraction.  Where Alex has to her, a kind of whiny hysterical quality that's apparent quite soon, with Peyton there is an almost blank montoneus quality and that's somehow even more frightening then Cloe's character.So I watched Hand that rocks the cradle but because this movie is what it is-which is your typical Fatl Attraction like thriller, I just can't bring myself to recomend it or call it a good movie. Instead, I'll say if you haven't seen it you might want to just for DeMornay's performance which is really welldone.And lastly, Ill make mention of the fact that this WHOLE crazy nanny scenario has been done before, there was a movie from a long time ago, that had an almost duplicate story, think it might have been made for tv. I can't remember the name of it, it might have been the nanny, oh well-guess I'll have to look it up on imdb...  "},{"Title":"Never underestimate the wrath of a mother when you try to steal her children.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS - Four main characters. Claire (Annabella Sciorra) is the mother who is pregnant for her second. Peyton (Rebecca DeMornay) is the wife of Claire's OBGYN. Marl (Julianne Moore) is a real estate agent and Claire's friend. Solomon (Ernie Hudson) is a mentally-challenged handyman who can build a 'mean' white picket fence.Movie starts with Claire having her checkup, and realizes the doctor is actually molesting her. She complains, 4 others come forward, doctor kills himself, and Peyton is distraught and has a miscarriage, plus an emergency hysterectomy. No husband, no kids, and can't have any. Drives her crazy.She targets Claire's family for revenge. She takes the name Peyton and becomes the nanny. She systematically plans to get rid of Claire and take over her husband and children. She turns them against Solomon, claiming he mistreated the kids. She rigs the greenhouse to kill Claire.Marl, meanwhile, notices a feature in the unsold OBGYN's house that leads her to believe Peyton may be the widow. She goes to the library and confirms it in an old newspaper photo at the funeral. She confronts Peyton, who tells her Clair is in the greenhouse, where Marl goes, and dies in the roof collapse. However, Clair eventually retraces Marl's last steps, finds the house, realizes who Peyton is, they order her out of the house. However, she gets back in, crazy, wanting her husband and children, injures the husband with a shovel, Solomon shows up to help, and finally Claire attacks Peyton, pushing her through the attic window, and she falls onto the picket fence below, daid!!Good suspense movie, good acting, especially by DeMornay and Hudson.  "},{"Title":"A fine Thriller","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Claire (Annabella Sciorra) and her husband (Matt McCoy) hire Peyton Flanders (Rebecca De Mornay) as their new nanny; she settles in quickly and gains the couples trust; and that's when she begins to act out her hidden agenda, becoming the nanny from hell.Rebecca De Mourney has to take tremendous acclaim for her performance in this movie, she captures the evil intent of her character superbly; selling her persona to the audience with relative ease. Everyone else in the movie performs well enough without ever excelling, although Ernie Hudson (Soloman) does play the simple minded handyman with a nice degree of innocence and frailty.The tension is sustained well throughout, and the direction is effective without trying to be flashy or over-complex.This is definitely worth a viewing, it's a very good thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Psychological Thriller.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When Claire and Michael Bartel meet Peyton Flanders, she seems like the perfect woman to look after there child, Emma, but secretly Peyton is out to ruin the family, especially Claire, who claimed Peytons husband molested her, which led to his suicide and to Peytons miscarriage.The lead actress' in the movie are, Rebecca De Mornay and Annabella Sciorra who both play there roles really well, especially De Mornay who does a great job at playing the psycho b*tch Peyton.The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a very well made psychological thriller which even though there is not loads of suspense, is exciting all the way through. Of course, it's strange to think that why would a mother like Claire would employ Peyton, without knowing that much about her. Unfortunately, in many movies you will get some small flaws like this, but considering The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is brilliant, we can just forget about that and get on with watching. Like I've already said this is a brilliant movie and I give it a 9/10. "}{"Title":"Frighteningly Predictable","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hand is a movie that holds so rigidly to the Suspense-Thriller formula that I was able to tell what was going to happen in 90% of the film's scenes from the first 10 seconds.  The director gave away a lot - telegraphing hints as to what was to happen in upcoming scenes.The most joy I derived from the movie was leaning over to a buddy of mine in the theatre and calling the occasional scene.  He knew I had never seen the movie before, so I probably frightened him more than the movie did.The predictability of the script and direction ruined the show so badly that I didn't even notice the acting.  My disbelief was never suspended, and no actor could have saved this movie for me. "},{"Title":"The Hand That Rocked the Cradle","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" From director Curtis Hanson (L.A. Confidential, 8 Mile, In Her Shoes), this is a very stylistic psychological thriller. Basically Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra) is pregnant with her second child, and is molested during a routine checkup by Dr. Victor Mott (John De Lancie), and after many other women admit he may have molested them, he feels his career is over, and may be imprisoned, he commits suicide. His wife (Risky Business's Rebecca De Mornay) not only stressed by this incident, but she loses her baby after a hemorrhage and emergency hysterectomy, and knowing Claire was the first to report about her husband, six months pass, and she plans her revenge. Claire and her husband Michael (Matt McCoy) are happy with daughter Emma Bartel (Madeline Zima) and new baby boy Joey (twins Eric, Jennifer and Ashley Melander), and they have hired mentally handicapped Solomon (Ghostbusters' Ernie Hudson) from the Better Day Society to do some handiwork. Mrs. Mott, with alias Peyton Flanders manages to meet Claire, who is currently looking for a nanny for the kids, they interview on the spot, and she turns out to be the perfect candidate, especially after looking like she saved the baby from choking. Peyton planned to smother baby Joey with a pillow, but thinking of the child she lost, she instead breast feeds him, making him less interested in his own mother's milk! Going on a dinner date with friends Marlene (the less known Julianne Moore) and Marty Craven (Kevin Skousen), Claire changes her stained sexy red dress to less attractive one, and there Marlene utters a line that sums up Peyton The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world, part of the poem by William Ross Wallace. Peyton does many other evil things, like tearing up an important proposal by Michael, using Claire's asthma attacks as an advantage, getting Soloman for looking like an abuser of Emma (after he caught her breast feeding), making Michael and Marlene look like they were having an affair and making Claire shout at a surprise birthday party. But Peyton grows to be more psychotic, planning to murder Claire with the greenhouse roof glass dropping, after overhearing that she wants a break with just the family, but instead, Marlene, who found out Peyton's real identity is victim to the glass shattering, and Claire suffers an asthma attack (with no inhalers available) seeing her corpse, going unconscious. After recovering, Claire manages to find out Peyton's real identity too, gives her a good punch in the face, and she and Michael order her to leave. Of course Peyton secretly re-entered the house, hits Michael with a shovel causing him to fall and break his legs, thankfully Emma sees all and protects herself and the baby from harm, till they reach the attic, where Soloman is also waiting, and Claire coming up fakes an asthma attack, and gives Peyton the fatal push out the window, where she is impaled by the fence Soloman put up. All performances are well done, especially distressed Sciorra, and of course, the fantastic malevolence from De Mornay, this is similar to the Shannon Tweed film A Woman Scorned. I can see what the critics mean about the last thirty minutes having plot going a bit downhill, but then again, you can't see it going any other way. This is what I like to refer to as the nut-case film, like Falling Down, Fatal Attraction, One Hour Photo and Misery. Very good! "},{"Title":"Give me a break (small one line spoiler)","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh my goodness...this movie was incredibly lame. I can't see how anyone can see this as thrilling. It wasn't the least bit suspensful or scary until they threw in a few jumpers near the end. Claire, I can't move, my legs are broken...oh please. The acting was awful by Claire...it was choppy and forced. There is no way I would recommend this movie to anyone...unless I really didn't like them. (1/10) "},{"Title":"It Might Have Made A Lot Of Money But....","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" .... That doesn't mean it's a great thriller THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE was produced in the early 1990s when every single studio was churning out  people from hell  thrillers , and this one revolves around a nanny from hell . The problem I have with it is that more than half the movie is set up with introducing the plot and characters . Claire Bartel is indecently assaulted by a doctor , several other victims come forward ( There's little feeling that the doctor is innocent ) the doctor commits suicide , his widow ends up with nothing in life and then plans her revenge against the Bartels who in the meantime have had a baby with a higher IQ than the gardener they've employed . I could go on but I've already explained almost 60 minutes running time and if I say anymore I might give away the entire movie . As with every other single movie in the genre it's clichéd and full of plot holes and I can't understand why the producers didn't come up with a better developed plot . Try this Claire Bartel makes totally unfounded allegations against the doctor who is totally innocent . We'd then have a more morally ambiguous movie but a far better one . Hopefully this might have led to a tighter script "},{"Title":"Creepy Thriller with Questionable Subject Matter","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hand That Rocks the Cradle, The (1992) *** (out of 4) A well-made but at times very unsettling thriller about a woman (Rebecca DeMornay) who poses as a nanny so that she can seek revenge against the woman (Annabella Sciorra) who turned her doctor-husband in for sexual misconduct, which led to his suicide and her miscarriage. When the new nanny moves in she plans on not only destroying the other woman but making sure she takes away her husband (Matt McCoy) and her two kids. THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE was just one of many thrillers that took certain small titles and turned them into psychos. I guess the entire genre started with FATAL ATTRACTION but then we got films like SINGLE WHITE FEMALE, THE TIE THAT BINDS and countless others and I think it's fair to say that this here is without question one of the best. Director Curtis Hanson does a very good job with the material but at times I think he almost does too good of a job. The reason I say that is there are many moments here, which are just too creepy for their own good. The entire subject matter walks a fine line in terms of taste and I think many people are going to be turned off after the opening few minutes when the pregnant Sciorra character is molested by the doctor and then this is followed with an even harder scene where the DeMornay character suffers a miscarriage. Neither of these scenes are very pleasant and even the most jaded and hardcore films shouldn't cross a certain line and both of these scenes come close simply because they aren't very entertaining no matter how well-made they are. Things get even creepier as the nanny slowly starts to destroy the other woman and this leads to some pretty wild scenes ranging from her beating up one of the daughter's bullies to her accusing a retarded man (Ernie Hudson) of molesting the same girl. The screenplay goes too far at times because this nanny just does so many things that the viewer finally starts to wonder why no one is catching onto her. I mean, there are a dozen things that happen before the Scoirra characters becomes suspicious and we get nearly a dozen more before the husband finally wakes up. I think some of the smaller items that the nanny does could have been left out and this would have helped by cutting down the 110-minute running time, which goes on a bit too long. With that said, there's no question that the performances are a major plus with DeMornay doing a remarkable job in the role of the psycho. She was quite believable playing the good nanny as you really are able to believe that she's this caring, wonderful woman. She's also terrific at changing over to the evil woman at the drop of a hat. Sciorra doesn't get enough credit but she too is very strong in her role. McCoy, Hudson and Julianne Moore are also extremely good in their parts, although there's still no question that the film belongs to the two leading ladies. The strong direction and great performances really push this thriller over the edge but the subject matter is one that's going to turn a lot of people off. If you're able to overlook some of the flaws and put up with the subject then you should find yourself entertained. "},{"Title":"Numbskull thriller...","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The pretentious title aside, you know the filmmakers are going to put the squeeze on you right from the beginning when Annabella Sciorra goes to her male doctor for an examination, the nurse just has to leave the room, and the doctor gets that sneaky 'movie look' on his face--practically signaling to the audience that this the beginning of the end (we're primed to yell, uh oh!). Preposterous thriller comes right off a melodramatic assembly line, a cable-TV styled shocker with a bigger budget. Rebecca De Mornay (as the doctor's widow) assumes a squeaky-clean persona and effortlessly gets a job in Sciorra and hubby Matt McCoy's home as nanny to their new baby. Anyone who suspects she might be up to something besides diapering is efficiently eliminated. There's nothing to respond to in a picture this mechanically processed it's coolly adroit, and presses all our buttons (cheaply) for the sake of easy viewer involvement. McCoy is the most sensitive, sympathetic movie-husband in recent memory, so HE can't be counted on to take this psycho-nanny out. It all falls in Sciorra's lap, and the rest is easy to guess. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The hand that maliciously props the shovel against the window crank in the greenhouse in order to kill the woman who was molested by her dead husband","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A complete psychological analysis of the key characters Rebecca De Mornay plays a vicious robot with big boobs (Mrs. Mott).Annabella Sciorra plays an asthmatic with bushy eyebrows (Claire Bartel).Julianne Moore plays a real estate agent with yellow teeth (Marlene Craven).Dr. Mott is an obstetrician and Claire is 12 weeks pregnant visiting his office for the first time (why go at all Claire?). During the visit Claire becomes uncomfortable with the doctors digital examination. Apparently Mott was going too slow, or too fast --- we don't know, she never says.Claire returns home to take a cold shower and let her husband know that she felt uncomfortable with her new doctor. The husband's very concerned and insists that Claire call the CIA immediately.One week later the local news is chatting about how four other women came forward to complain about the good Doctor. Upset by this news, he shoots himself.Later, his widow (De Mornay) trips at her attorney's office.Even later, we find that the only job the widow Mott could find was as a nanny for the woman who made her husband kill himself.Making the best of things, Mrs. Mott (who Claire INSISTS on calling Peyton Flanders - how rude!) does her best to make the family happy.*** SPOILER ALERT - DON'T READ ANY FURTHER *** Anyway, the movie ends with Claire killing poor Mrs. Mott. Great flick. "},{"Title":"Dangerously Ignorant","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As always, you've a freedom to your own opinion about any movie.This film has horrible representations of suburban life and mentality, African-Americans, victims of molestation, victims of suicide, victims of mental illness and children.Is it thrilling? Yes. It is chilling? Of course! Is it hilarious, ridiculous and horrifying all at once? Yes!If you want to study sources of and reactions to white flight, gentrification, the death of the local community (as documented by authors like Robert Putnam) and any mainstream stereotype we use against one another, check out this film. The plot is brilliantly convoluted and completely unbelievable, which makes for an exciting movie-going experience but a dangerously ignorant audience, since once you've accepted that something this can never happen you're in danger of subconsciously accepting the rest of the film, i.e. its insulting, one-dimensional representations and its insistence upon traditional family and racial hierarchies.Something should be said for the strength of the female protagonist (Annabella Sciorra). She fights for her right to her family, and fights well. Fantastic. Now if only audiences could find a film that dealt with the real threats to family life sexual, physical and verbal abuse, emotional and spiritual deprivation brought on by the cheapening of religion and self-esteem by major media, the lack of gender and racial equality, the failure of government to support families through childcare, health care and school funding.Now that would be a film worth seeing and thinking about. To thrill and to chill are fantastic rationales for making and seeing a movie; everyone loves a good adrenaline rush! But a film like this perverts the very serious debate of family health and living (not to mention female rights, equality and social status) into an exploitative exercise in shock, gore and stupidity.Why did I watch it? I study film. "}]