[{"Title":"Give the guy a gun and he's superman, give him two and he's God.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"90 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun Fat, toothpick in mouth, a gun in each hand.  That's all of the plot you need to know.  Hard Boiled was my first John Woo movie and, in my opinion, his best.  No other action movie comes close to this.  In fact, this is THE best pure action epic ever filmed.  Upon viewing it, I immediately fell in love with Woo's style and his star.  It's full of the most stylized gunfights ever seen and Chow Yun Fat is the definition of cool.  The full blown finale defies description.  Someone once called it an action fan's wet dream.  There's not much more I can say because actions speak louder than words.  So go see the movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"64 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hey! Chow Yun Fat says, covering a baby's eyes. X-Rated action! He's not wrong Hard Boiled is a film clearly not afraid to embrace its genre's excesses. While most modern action films (Smokin' Aces for one) aspire to some sort of grand intelligence while providing shoot-outs and explosions, this film is a reminder of times when action films suffered no such pretensions. Crowds of people are gunned down without explanation and the smallest things explode for little or no reason. The bad guys are massively exaggerated cutthroat caricatures and the good guys never miss. Scenes of Fat and Leung running down corridors are inexplicably shot in slow motion. And, for all of these reasons, it is amazing. It's fast, it's exciting, and it never lets up.Hard Boiled is loud, exciting, and, thanks to quite terrible dubbing and a ludicrous early 90's soundtrack, often unintentionally hilarious. It is a film that places entertainment firmly ahead of plausibility and logic, and is quite frankly awesome for it. "},{"Title":"the gunplay fanatic's dream, and that's enough","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"68 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're the average IMDB reader, you probably enjoy a good action movie every now and then, but you approach action films with a certain caution and skepticism (I can't blame you, even though I am an action junkie myself). If you're that kind of viewer, the score I would give (for you) for Hard-boiled is a 6.5. To you, this is a prototypical good action movie -- intense, perfectly executed, original action, shown to the tune of a forgettable and occasionally insulting story.To action junkies, this movie is an easy 9, because the only thing that really matters is that the action is superb and the other elements, if not stellar, don't detract enough from the action to really make a difference.Splitting the difference, we get an 8/10 -- an outstanding score.Hard-boiled is the ultimate John Woo / Chow-Yun Fat collaboration. Chow plays an uncompromising Hong-Kong cop who works together with an undercover cop (an EXCELLENT Tony Leung) in the triad gun-running organization. Now, when I say works, I mean launches thousands of bullets, slugs, and explosive projectiles into HUNDREDS of mafioso baddies. This film has a RIDICULOUS amount of gunplay. Pretty much everyone you see on screen dies at some point. Those that don't die often come perilously close to dying, before getting up and moving on as if nothing had happened. The gunmen in this film have magical powers that enable them to fire about 100 rounds from a Beretta clip without having to reload. And the top good guys seem only vaguely concerned about the loss of innocent life -- at a teahouse, or a large hospital -- except for tiny baby life, of course --  as long as they get to kill the top triad guy. And the story... well... not incoherent, but completely implausible at many points.Realistic? NO. Is the story good? NO. Is this relevant? Not particularly. You see, one watches a John Woo movie for two things Strong lead characters; strong lead characters shooting their way to success in surreally choreographed gunplay scenes. But what if I don't want to watch a movie just for that? Well, this one forces you to! If you can stand action at all, you'll be glued to the screen the entire time. Chow is a good actor, and Tony Leung is probably even better here -- they make the obligatory story sequences compelling, and when they start firing their weapons, you can't take your eyes away. Slow-motion highlights bullets, explosions, and plaster and sparks flying every which way, even as the actors and stunt men acrobatically move through the air while evading enemy fire. It's a little hard to describe how great this really is, so you just have to take my word for it. Suffice it to say that no one does gunplay like Woo, although everyone and their mother tries. (James Cameron's technique with heavy weapons and muscular guys is the other way to do gunplay, and is great in its own, more limited right.) If you're a fan of Face/Off, an American John Woo movie that actually does not suck, you know what to expect -- but multiply that by 100.The story and realism are not good, but this makes no difference. Suspend disbelief, and go with the flow, and you're treated to prime-quality action. There ARE however, elements of this film that drag it down quite a bit. Most of them, to me, concern Woo's depictions of violence. It's obvious the man revels in blood. Several times, you see blood spurt copiously and unnaturally -- onto a wall, a desk, even a man's or baby's face. While the action is generally frantic and quick, these shots are slow, deliberate, and in-your-face. Why? To cater to our basest instincts, like a cheap slasher film. With action scenes and character acting done so well, it's embarrassing to watch such gratuitous gore added into the mix. But that's not all! The script's good characters are not morally corrupt You can see them actively trying to avoid other cops or innocent bystanders. This is superficial. The characters aren't corrupt; the final script is. At least 50 innocent people, including patients at a hospital, die violently. The film doesn't display this as a horrific event, but rather as part of the scenery, cannon fodder; the film even gets pretty despicable amusement from this, particularly in one scene involving a baby (don't worry! the baby is not hurt).Technically speaking, the movie is perfect. Aesthetically speaking, the same is true, with the exception of the music, which is extremely cheesy at times (the sax that suddenly kicks in during emotional moments is unbearable -- is that some kind of HK movie thing, or what?).Such negatives are distracting. Your ability to ignore such distractions will ultimately determine if you give this a 5 or a 9. Were it a little more humane, I'd give it a 9. As it stands, I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Puts most action movies to shame.","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When someone mentions, action movie, the first thing that gets in their minds is guns, fighting, blood, and so on. The people who they instantly think are the likes of Schwarzenegger, Stallone, Willis, even the hammy Seagal, Snipes and Van Damme! Not until recently, I found myself confused about which action movie is the greatest. For me, the ultimate action hero is Arnold Schwarzenegger, but I cannot seem to find a perfect action movie.Until I began checking up films of John Woo, and stumbled upon this baby...Only a handful of action movies can compare to this, but most fail to be better. This movie IS the epitome of an action movie, it has never-ending thrill-a-minute stylish action sequences that just make your jaw drop in amazement. It has a body count that can be compared to most epic movies, and it has an excellent atmosphere to further enhance the story. The action sequences are a combination of outrageous, unreal and cool at the same time.The story is weak, but not very. It provides the basis for the action to unfold. And boy, when it does, you'll have a blast! I mean, they took the premise of a basic cops and robbers tale and highly jazzed it up somehow to deliver this truly authentic and unique piece of movie making. This is not just a movie which action fans alone should see, this movie deserves to be sought and recognized by other highly-ranked film critics.The director, John Woo, ups the ante on this one. After glorifying the gangsters in his Better Tomorrow movies and The Killer (which almost is as good as Hard Boiled), he decides to glorify the cops, and he does that, but with bigger elements. He doesn't show realism and humanism in this film, because he wanted to emphasize and slightly exaggerate on how big the elements can go. The criminals would kill lots of innocent people to complete their nefarious deeds, and the violence is hyper-stylized to the point where it becomes necessary to subdue the criminals using that technique. He combines unique Chinese Opera dancing techniques and dramatic shootouts to create stylistically significant and exhilarating gunfights for the eyes and ears to behold. The pace is hyper kinetic as Woo relentlessly dishes out whatever tricks he has up his sleeve, much to our delight.Chow Yun-Fat's status as an action hero is immortalized here in his performance as super cop Tequila, who dodges bullets and shoot crooks while cooing a baby to sleep and covering his eyes from the ensuing violence. This scene also signifies the violence in Hong Kong back in the days, but highly stylized to create a superb action experience. Tony Leung is also splendid as the disillusioned undercover cop, who seeks to regain his humanity and reputation. The rest of the cast gave good performances, with kudos to Anthony Wong as the sadistic villain who will do anything to get what he wants (fully exampled during the film's climax), and Cheng Jue-Luh as one of the most badassed villains ever, Mad Dog.The atmosphere of the movie further improves its credibility. John Woo's interests are shown through Tequila's passion of jazz and the beautiful and dark cinematography of Hong Kong, which, when combined together, gives an effect that signifies two different worlds, that is, the life of a cop and the life of a criminal. Also, the music score by Michael Gibbs is great, with a perfect melodramatic jazz score during dramatic scenes, and to pumping synthesizers, gritty and haunting scores during the majority of the action sequences. All of these add up to the amazing elements of the movie to make it even better.Overall, I cannot think of any other action movie than this. This is THE action movie for film-goers, critics, and action junkies alike. This perfectly shot ballet of blood and bullets is an example of how great and reliable Asian movies can be, when we are finally tired of cliché elements from Hollywood. Mr. Woo, Your Midas Touch has its full effect here. This movie is one of the greatest action movies ever made. And I will stand by that decision for as long as I live.A must see.9/10Delton "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"52 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. No movie has ever had this level of stylishly directed action, NOT EVEN CLOSE. This movie has the 3 best action sequences in the history of cinema, PERIOD.The story is about a cop named Tequila who, at the beginning of the film, loses his good friend and fellow cop, in a teahouse shoot-out. He goes against all orders in trying to bring down the Triad that caused his friends death. In doing so, he inadvertantly finds out that there is an undercover cop, Tony, in the Triad he is trying to bring down, and eventually teams up with him. This isn't your standard buddy cop fair like Lethal Weapon with tons of cheesey lines, dorky action and sappy side stories. The dialogue is insightful the action is the best ever and the side stories are well thought out, if a bit abbreviated (due to lack of time to shoot John Woo admits).Tequila is trying to deal with a failed relationship and the death of his partner, Tony is torn against blowing his cover and defending his honor and the Lieutenant insists on playing it by the book even though it isn't fair.John Woo said he made this film in honor of the men and women of the Hong Kong police force and the good work they do. He wanted to make a movie about the good guys winning. What he has done is made one of the most pivitol action films ever made, influencing every action movie since.  "},{"Title":"The mother, father, brother, and third cousin of all action films.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"49 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So what if Chow Yun Fat fires a hundred rounds apiece from his pistols without reloading? Who cares whether shotgun rounds explode when they impact? Hard Boiled isn't about the reality, it's about the action--which is so over-the-top that reality takes a back seat. HB is like Tequila's toothpick It's all about the Cool.  "},{"Title":"Relentless and explosive","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An action film at heart. The story of gun smuggling is just a backing just big enough to support the relentless action scenes.Motorcycles exploding in mid-air, cars blowing up, shotguns, pistols, submachine guns, bombs...it's all here.They all make for some of the best action sequences ever filmed. A good mix of the gritty and realistic with the improbable and totally fake. Though I think that the ending is bit too much. But what can you expect from Woo aside from a molotov cocktail of intense explosive action and violence?Action and cult movie fans are advised to watch this film, however others might be turned off by it. 7/10Rated R intense strong violence "},{"Title":"Truly mind-blowing action flick.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director John Woo has a powerful and explosive style that will leave you breathless after watching this extremely violent action flick.The camera is everywhere flying from place to place.And there are people everywhere.All of them firing a gun or two.I have never seen such energy before.The violence in Hardboiled is very brutal and well directed.The last half hour of this film,which take place in the hospital is full of inventive action sequences.Chow Yun-Fat is really good as a tough policeman and it's also very nice to see Anthony Wong(BunmanHuman Meat Pies,Dr Lamb,Bullet in the Head)-what a great performance!I like Hong Kong-action films by John Woo.Anyway, if you're tired of Hollywood's action trash,then this one is a must-see.Recommended! "},{"Title":"Classic Hong Kong action film","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ever since John Woo came to America he seems to have lost the ability to crack the stylish violence up to 10. Only Face/Off has really come close to the type of style that he displayed in Hong Kong - Hard Boiled being a perfect example.Hard Boiled sees cop Tequila Yuen (Chow Yun Fat) lose his partner in a violent shoot out in a tea-house and aims to bring revenge on the gangs causing chaos on the streets. During the film he come across a deadly assassin Tony (Tony Leung) who may or may not be an undercover police officer.The film's plot is pretty good considering with several double crosses, good twists and the bonding relationship of Leung and Fat. However this is all about the action scenes and these are spectacular. Full of highly stylish violence, double handed gunplay and exciting near misses. Fat and Leung are both excellent in their roles but the stars here are the action scenes.The only problem with this is that it is very violent and may be a turn off for some. That said if you're watching a John Woo Hong Kong film then you're probably not that bothered about a bit of stylish killing. "},{"Title":"Mr. Action Delivers Again","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	Master of Action John Woo delivers once again with his hard-hitting, action-packed thriller `Hard Boiled,' starring Chow Yun-Fat as a veteran cop known as `Tequila,' Hong Kong's answer to San Francisco's own `Dirty Harry.'  In this one, an undercover officer infiltrates a gangland Triad dealing arms, and when a rival gang threatens to take over, Tequila joins in the melee, and once it begins the action never stops until the last of the credits have rolled off into the recesses of the darkened screen.  Along the way there are tests of loyalty, mistaken identities and a staggering display of superbly choreographed violence.   	There's a couple of plot twists, but it's a rather straightforward story, and as usual, Woo melds it with the action with his trademark style and perfection.  The action sequences are incredibly well staged and delivered, but so exceedingly violent that it passes beyond reality at times (especially during the climax) into a somewhat surreal state of being, only to be ultimately drawn back in again by the grounded core of the story.  It's a fine line that Woo treads successfully time after time in an arena in which many other `action' directors have foundered.  A consummate professional, Woo knows exactly what he wants and what works, and he doesn't quit until he gets it.  Among the directors of the `action' genre, he is quite simply the best there has ever been. 	As the somewhat jaded and `hard Boiled' cop, the charismatic Chow Yun-Fat demonstrates that if Jackie Chan can team up with Chris Tucker, he most certainly could find a place at Eastwood or Gibson's side.  He has the attitude and the look that make his character credible, which helps anchor Woo's art in reality, albeit a rather violent one.  As with the `Dirty Harry' or `Lethal Weapon' movies, it gives the audience someone to whom they can relate and root for.  And it's all buoyed with symbolism and metaphor and Woo's impeccable sense of timing and deft and sparing use of slow motion, which in his hands becomes an extremely effective tool. 	The supporting cast includes Tony Leung Chiu Wai (Alan),Teresa Mo (Teresa Chang), Philip Chan (Superintendent Pang), Hoi-Shan Kwan (Mr. Hui) and Philip Kwok (Mad Dog).  The true brilliance of Woo's films lies in the fact that he never sacrifices story for action, but instead blends the two together to create a whole that is artistically rendered (his action sequences are something akin to visual poetry) and  substantial, rather than having an action film that-- like so many others of the genre-- is hollow inside.  Like his earlier film, `The Killer,' which also starred Yun-Fat, `Hard Boiled' pushes the envelope and will keep you on the edge, right along with the characters in the film, right until the very end.  As with all of Woo's movies, this one is a satisfying foray into the intense, cutting edge `Action' world of one of Cinema's Master directors, and a must-see for any true film buff.  I rate this one 9/10.       	 	   	   "}{"Title":"One of the most impressive slices of actionentertainment ever made!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled was the first Hong-Kong-movie that I saw. The movie blew me away.  I had never seen so much action, so much violence, so many cool characters and above all perfectly coreographed action. Excellent actor Chow Yun-Fat plays Tequila, a cop who is determined to crush the biggest syndicate in Hong-Kong, after his partner and friend was killed in a shoot-out at a teahouse. The action in this movie is so intense, that you will not believe it untill you`ve actually seen this classic movie. This movie is better and a lot more violent than anything Hollywood has ever made.   I thought that this was the best actionmovie ever made, until I saw The Killer(also directed by John Woo and starring Yun-Fat). American actionmovies like Face/Off are kindergarten, when compared to the likes of Hard Boiled and The Killer.10/10  "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite Woo movie (some spoilers)","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Basically Woo's version of a Hollywood action picture in here you'll find elements of 48 HOURS, LETHAL WEAPON, and DIE HARD, among others. Tequila (Chow Yun-Fat), one of those rebellious cops who get the job done, just not by the book that you meet often in the movies, is investigating a violent group of gun runners. He doesn't know, though, that one of them (Tony Leung) is an undercover cop. There's not much by way of plot -- those elements that aren't formulaic (tough rebellious cop, neglected girlfriend, irascible superior) don't make much sense (guns in a hospital? In a secret James Bond-like cellar under the morgue?) If you can turn that part of your brain off, though, and just approach the movie as pure imagery, you will see some of the most creative action sequences ever caught on film. Guns seem to fire an infinite number of rounds, endless numbers of bad guys meet their reward, our heroes take ridiculous amounts of damage and still keep swinging -- and it's all choreographed with a balletic grace reminiscent of Gene Kelly. Add to that Woo's moody, Melville-like camera work and the shadowy, somber cinematography and you have a true action spectacle, one that's even more effective if you're lucky enough to see it on the big screen.A classic, one of the greatest action movies ever made. Anyone seriously interested in the genre should check it out. Yun-Fat is his usual stylish self as Tequila, but the real star of the show is Tony Leung, who's very effective as the tormented undercover cop unsure of his identity. Woo made better movies, but he never made a better action movie.  "},{"Title":"Among the best","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When people start thinking that the United States is the only country with the directors that can make the great action flicks, they can think again. John Woo is basically the James Cameron of China. And Woo's film-making skill is on the same level as Cameron's since he can make films that have great eye-candy action and a film that makes us identify and care about its characters.After seeing Hard Boiled, I was completely blown away by the awesome gun fight scenes that were among the best my eyes ever witnessed. And there's plenty of it. The opening scene with the shoot-out at the teahouse is remembered for when Tequila (Yun Fat Chow) does a bunch of insane stunts like firing while jumping in mid-air and when he slides down the staircase handle and shoots the bad guys without getting hit. The warehouse betrayal will be known for the bad guys on the motorcycles shooting at the other bad guys, and then, Tony, who is really an informant for the police, betrays his gun-runner boss. And then that's when Tequila shows up and kicks a ton of @$$! There's even some shots of him shooting at the motorcycle engines and exploding them, which is some of the coolest stuff I've ever seen. And last but not the least, the climatic action scene at the hospital that lasts for over a half-hour, and it displays a long continued shot that lasts for almost 3 minutes. And in that shot Tequila and Tony shoot every bad guy in sight and while talking some emotional lines, I've never seen such a masterful shot like that until Children of Men. This movie has EVERYTHING, grenades, shotguns, machine pistols and an entire arsenal of weapons that is shown in the hospital part. And we also have some suspense and emotional to along with the action since the hospital scene is very tense with all the babies in danger when Tequila tries to save them all while narrowly dodging bullets.And also, the American audience probably liked the action because the setting was very different. We didn't see an American background or an American city like L.A, but what we see is Hong Kong. And in the action sequences we see Chinese stuff getting blown up, like in the teahouse for instance. We saw a bunch of Chinese pasta and tea (of course) getting smashed to bits. And it also works cause it's very unique compared to the same old American films that we get here in America.The acting also works, Yung-Fat Chow, who is basically the Chinese Schwarzenegger due to his position as an action superstar is absolutely terrific as Tequila. Tequila is basically a maverick cop whose partner is killed during the teahouse shootout and seeks revenge against the Triad gang. However his boss is constantly pushing him over the edge and he has to deal with while disobeying orders to get to the Triads. And his character also delivers one of the most recognizable quotes in film history (You're full of $h!t, you know that? There's a toilet over there.) I bet that if it was an American film, every person in the United States would be saying that in everyday situations, next to Hasta la Vista, baby and Yippie-ki-yay, motherf**ker.And Tony Leung, another Hong Kong superstar, totally shines as the undercover cop who is infiltrating the gang of weapon smugglers. And his loyalty is tested on whether or not he'll be loyal to the Triads or to the cops. And also, I'll remember his character for his face-off with that bad guy with eye patch in the hospital (forgot his name), and then one scene, they realize there are a bunch of innocent patients and they BOTH choose to let them go so they could finish their fight. But unfortunately the gang leader shows up and decides to kill them all and the eye-patch guy basically dies while standing up for what he believes is right that only the violent people should die. Very touching moment.If you're looking for a great foreign action film and if you're tired of watching too many Hollywood stuff, then Hard Boiled is the film for you. The action is so insane that you'll probably see this over a hundred times before you die. "},{"Title":"Bullets, ballet and bloodletting. Oh, and Bonkers!","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There can be few cop movies which can boast a body count higher than Spielberg's entire Omaha Beach Landing in the first 5 minutes. Possibly no cop film except, of course, Hard Boiled.Hard Boiled is John Woo's Hong Kong swansong, and many regard it as his finest film. It stars young Chow Yun-Fat and Tony Leung Chiu Wai, two of the finest actors in Hong Kong; the usual maverick cop hunts big boss bad guy routine; oh, and lots and lots of blood. Imagine a slightly more realistic version of the Arnie midi-gun sequence in T2 &#150; more realistic in that when someone starts firing a midi-gun and blowing up cars, the cops get killed. That, in a nutshell, is the plot of Hardboiled. All two hours and six minutes of it.The plot &#150; well that makes about as much sense as a wolverine in a fruit salad, but I'm not sure addicts of HK Cinema care too much about that. Tequila (maverick cop and certified nutcase with a heart of gold - Chow Yun Fat) shouts and swears at his boss, shoots up bad guys, gets drunk and ends up (implausibly, if iconically) in a hospital, holding a baby in one hand and a shot gun in the other. Tony Leung lives Miami Vice-Style on a boat (alas, no Alligator) while committing murder, getting paid by the HK Police, and wearing loose tee-shirts with white jackets.If all this sounds like style over substance &#150; erm&#133; that's 'cos it is.The film definitely has its moments. In fact, like most John Woo films, it seems mostly to be a series of moments strung together to feature length. It also has some real grit. I appreciated the scene where a regular cop kills an undercover cop by mistake in a raid. Realistic, and not something that Hollywood would ever broach (the closest to this is in a truly class film like The Reservoir Dogs).However, while this is a true Hong Kong bullets and ballet classic, Western audiences are likely to feel slightly cheated by its totally bonkers story. Less bonkers than many, perhaps, but that's not really saying much.I enjoyed it. It was a guilty pleasure, but I'm man enough to admit I enjoyed it. John Woo has yet to make a better film. And has never yet made a sensible one, so don't blame him or me if you find it a bit daft. 5/10 (but watchable). "},{"Title":"Best Action Movie in the world","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like movies with guns and action, more guns and action, this is your movie. Hard Boiled is simply the Best Action movie of all time. Hard Boiled is given the name Most Violent Movie by many critics, when it first released. If you see this movie, you'll know exactly why. John Woo is in my opinion the Best Action Movie director. If you see this movie carefully, he does many Action Scenes in one camera take. One spectacular scene is the ending where the Hospital is hijacked and The Two Heroes are shooting there way out. Its like a computer game, a shoot em up that reminds you of Virtual Cop. The scene shows both actors Shooting a dozen guys each and moving one place to another on the same floor of the hospital. This is a 2 minutes scene that was recorded in one take. This is one example of his great directions. Chow Yun Fat is brilliant as the hard boiled cop. Tony Leung is superb as the undercover cop and Hit man. This is a roller coaster ride of Violence and Entertains to the max. "},{"Title":"An amazing action film which has influenced many national cinemas all over the world","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled-a top notch action film from Hong Kong must be hailed as a true role model for all action films.It is one of the best action films of its kind where speedy action mixes freely with dramatic sequences.This is something which creates a feeling in the minds of viewers that they are not being taken for granted as everything that is being depicted is serving some kind of purpose.One of most amazing things about John Woo's film Lat sau san taam is that its actions scenes are truly unbelievable.They have been filmed with such an accurate precision that they would easily put to shame some of the most accomplished artists whose every stroke is the result of immense patience and concise concentration.Hard Boiled is also a film with a bizarre twist as we get to see some hardworking cops mixing freely with hardened criminals.Although gang violence is a core issue of the film John Woo has not deceived fans of melodrama by showing how difficult it is to lead a life of a cop.The best part of this film comes in the form of John Woo appearing every now and then à la Alfred Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"the real deal","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Killer was one of the few films in American cinema history to receive an X rating for violence alone on its original release; this at a time when Director Woo was seriously considering moving to America.This film is both a farewell to Hong Kong, and a bite-back at the critics of The Killer. It is about why Hong Kong is no longer a decent place to live (from Woo's point of view) and also a tongue-in-cheek celebration of the very violence that his critics so abhorred.It is the best written of Woo's Hong Kong films, the best edited, the best acted, and, yes, the best directed. It is unabashedly 'take-no-prisoners' in its attitude to action - Chow Yun Fat's non-James-Bond performance as an unstoppable cop pretty much out-does every other action Hero in film, except, maybe, Sean Connery's Bond in Doctor No. The film starts with an over-the-top gun battle in a Hong Kong eatery, and ends with a WAY-over-the-top all out war between cops and robbers in a hospital - all with smart attitude, smart looks, smart direction. Believe me, the bodies can't be counted, but you never have time to worry about it.Yeah, there is the usual Woo sentimentalism, and Tony Leung's performance is a bit heavy-handed; but the positives are so positive - for gun-play action film fans, anyway - that the negatives are easily discounted and forgotten.Put your brain on hold and get ready for a wild ride - Woo knows we want the real deal, and he delivers. "},{"Title":"Action Movie Review Hard Boiled","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Introduction Released in 1992, Hard Boiled was in fact John Woo's last effort at action before he came to Hollywood, and it is arguably his best film, along with with The Killer and A Better Tomorrow. It is my personal favorite of his movies, along with being one of my all time favorite action movies, and one of my favorite movies in general. It's truly an awesome film to watch, with enough action and suspense to fill 10 action movies, and is a must see for any true action movie fan.The Story The story follows Tequila Yuen, a hard boiled cop (See, just like the title!) whose partner is killed in the opening shootout of the movie. He has become obsessed with taking down Hong Kong's biggest gun smuggling gang, led by Johnny Wong. Along the way he meets up with an undercover cop, and the two must team up to take down Johnny's gang. The story is altogether pretty simple, but it really works for this movie, which focuses more on character development and action than on having a complex story.The Characters Chow Yun Fat's character Tequila is by far one of the most bad-ass characters to ever come on screen in action cinema. He is an awesome character, who is nearly invincible in a gunfight, and never hesitates to pull the trigger when necessary. Chow Yun Fat proves himself yet again to be a great actor, and plays Tequila perfectly, and he alone makes Tequila one of my all time favorite action heroes. It also serves to remind me about how much I miss Chow Yun Fat making action movies, for he is by far one of the best action stars out there.Tony Leung's character, the undercover cop known only throughout the movie as Alan, is also a great character, proving himself to be almost as bulletproof and bad ass as Tequila. He also adds a lot of drama to the story, as his reluctance to kill people in order to infiltrate the gang makes for a couple of excellent scenes.Also, I feel I should mention Johnny Wong, who is played really well by Anthony Wong Chau-Sang, who makes the character a ruthless and evil as villains come in action movies, willing to murder dozens of innocent people to keep his gun smuggling operation from failing. I really hated the guy by the end of the movie, which is a good sign that he is played well.The Action Ahh, the action. This movie's strongest point is it's action scenes, which are incredibly well shot and as awesome as they can get. The shootouts in the tea house at the beginning and the hospital at the end should be recognized as some of the best action scenes ever shot in the history of cinema. This is also the movie that features the legendary hallway tracking shot, which is one of the most well choreographed shootouts of all time. And considering that it was all done in one take, I'd say it was pretty damn impressive. John Woo also held no punches when it came to making this film, allowing it to be fast, brutal and bloody as hell, a style that I greatly missed when it came to his later films. The action can switch between being ultra-cool to almost disturbingly brutal in parts, especially when it comes to the enormous death toll of innocent people in the various scenes. It should also be noted that this movie has one of the highest action movie body counts of all time, with a grand total of 289 deaths in the film. Tequila himself takes out 76 criminal scumbags, and Alan takes out somewhere around 45 himself. John Woo really outdoes himself in the action scenes in this movie, and does nothing but prove himself to be the greatest action director of all time.The Overview Altogether, this truly is one of the greatest action movies of all time, and John Woo proves himself to be not one of but the greatest action director ever. Chow Yun Fat is at his best, and this was probably in my opinion his last great action movie. Hard boiled is an action classic, and should be viewed by any action movie fan, who I guarantee will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"action, guns, bullets, flying, tracking shots, guns, toothpicks, Chow Yun Fat, did I mention guns?","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is an action movie any self-respecting genre fan has to see at least once. Even if they're not a big fan of John Woo's work (though how any action fan can escape the wonder of The Killer or A Better Tomorrow is hard to see), this could provide a good kick in the ass for those jaded on CGI effects and drab story lines. It's a good indicator what kind of thriller it will be from the opening scenes and the action set-piece. I thought to myself, 'I can't tell anymore who is the cop and who is the usual Woo gangster', but that's part of the point here. It's a twist-and-turn pretzel machine of a movie where you can't really be sure when a double-cross will take place (especially with the character Tony played by Tony Leung, who early in the film is called Alan), but at the end of it who really remembers the plot to this? I can just about remember The Killer, but only because it's ripped-off from Le Samourai.In this case Hard Boiled is about cops on the trail of gun runners. Simple enough, except that the plot keeps thickening as traitors are discovered, bodies keep piling up, and the head lieutenant or whomever keeps calling out Tequila (Chow Yun Fat in one of his coolest performances) for being so reckless and a loner on the job. But when you're like Tequila, who can come blazing down a staircase or flying through a roof or just about anywhere with two guns firing precisely at all times (and always with that toothpick held on for dear life), can you blame him for being suspicious of both the cops and the gangsters? After a while, perhaps Woo means for us to see, the 'glamorization' of the police here- as opposed to his sort of glamorization of quintessential Hong Kong gangsters in his 80's films- is really not all that much to take in. Except for those little nice moments, like humming American songs to get codes for messages passed along the enemy.Woo at his best takes a beat that should be familiar to anyone who has ever seen a SUPER shoot-em-up. I don't mean just a regular shoot-em-up, but the kind of deal that more than likely inspired Michael Bay. Except the difference between Bay and Woo is a sense of modulating excess with cinema style. Bay doesn't know when to quit and is too relentless, while Woo's action set pieces are like endless rivers of guns and blood and bullets and bodies that becomes exhilarating. Some may find it too much, or that it becomes repetitive despite it being so well-shot and choreographed. But if you can key into Woo's aesthetic from the start, which should in any other movie be the climax, you're good to go all the way through that almost half hour climax at the hospital.And it does become so relentless and reckless in that hospital finale. It's like Woo and his effects people and stunt coordinators decided at one point to just keep going and to not stop, to see how far they could take it (ultimately the body count of the movie is about 300, more than most war movies). Thankfully Chow Yun Fat and a young Tony Leung are more than game for it, they have fun with their roles as a bad-ass take-no-s*** cop and an undercover rat against a guy in an eye-patch and other psycho killers. And when they're put into the mayhem of Woo's carnage it becomes a lot of fun. Nothing is taken exactly TOO seriously, thankfully, and that's another sign of its brilliance. When it comes time to get to all of those babies left behind after everyone else gets out of the hospital or is laid to waste, you'll see what I mean (and how it's later ripped off, lovingly, in Shoot em Up with Clive Owen).It's a take no prisoners buddy-cop movie that can stand tall with some of the best in American film for humor and pathos (i.e. Lethal Weapon) while standing on its own as a quintessential HK flick of its time. This means some of it is a bit dated (you'll think listening to the music that Don Johnson is missing somewhere in the action), but only in a shallow sort of way. Hard Boiled can kick you in the face with a ton of bullets and shrapnel, and the kick some more, and in the right place and time it hits just the spot. "},{"Title":"Mindless Violence Hits a Peak","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard-Boiled(Lashou Shentan) is its name, and bodycount is its game. Excessively violent story about the somewhat implausible relationship between an on the edge cop and mafia hitman. The Hong Kong streets are teeming and make for great action scenery, and it's not an entirely bad movie. However, the graphically violent scenes that rain down upon you every thirty seconds (or so it seems), can leave the senses a tad dulled. Strictly for fans of John Woo. Not a good date movie, unless they're an NRA groupie.  "}{"Title":"John Woo","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is the earliest John Woo film that I have seen,, so now I can see where he got some of his ideas from,, this is a great action picture, lot's of gunplay,, great camera choreography,, the stunts are mindblowing,, hand to hand combat you name it this film has it all. Chow Yun Fat, plays our lead character,, a policeman in Hong Kong,, his partner get's killed and he is out for vengeance. Thru diligent policework he find out that the bad guys that killed his partner are working for the Triads. little does he know tho that one of the Triads is really an underdcover cop , and folks that's when things really start to get good, I like watching films made in other countries,, especially , Chineese , or Japanese, I get tired of some of the same ole American schlock sometimes,, and John Woo delivers once again . "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece by John woo","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whilst 'The Killer' may overshadow 'Hard Boiled', the film still punches its audience right in the chest, pulls them by the lapels into the story, and then doesn't let go until the very end.Powerful and punchy, whilst 'The Killer' is the best of action films, the title for best action sequences ever, with extremely close competition from 'Seven Samurai' must go to this wonderful piece of cinema.Chow Yun Fat returns with Woo, this time as a cop, who following the death of his partner, wants revenge on the Triad gang who killed him. He teams up with Tony Leung, in his best screen role, apart from 'Bullet in the Head', an undercover cop who is more in tune with the Triads than his police allegiance.'Hard Boiled' doesn't pretend to be a deep journey into certain themes, or a mysterious suspense story. It is an action film through and through with all the usual heroic bloodshed ideas and tone. But it still explodes like fireworks and is a great film to watch.Hollywood should sulk in shame at their level of action, compared to this import from the Hong Kong masters John Woo and Chow Yun Fat. Brilliant, stylised as always, brutal as always, honest as always, 'Hard Boiled' is a racing and bold affair. "},{"Title":"best action next to die hard","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the greatest action movies ever made. A very stylish, pulse-pounding, unstoppable and unforgettable movie. Director, John Woo's action movie masterpiece. A bullet riddled classic in it's own right. The action sequences are spectacular, explosive, wild, outrageous and energetic. Chow Yun-fat is one of the greatest action movie hero's of all time, he plays with bullets as if they were candy and gives a sensational and terrific performance. Tony Leung gives a breakout performance, he is slick, stylish and very impressive in the role. They have great chemistry. Woo knows how to craft the story with characters that matter and make you compelled to follow them all the way through. An awesome adrenaline rush from start to finish. It's nothing but a good time from stat to finish. It's a two-hour roller-coaster ride that has your pulse-racing and heart-pounding all the way to to the end. "},{"Title":"A 10/10 action movie","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is awesome. When something gets shot in this movie, it has a 80% chance of exploding or at least sparks flying off of it. Birdcages explode and it's cool as hell for some reason. It's not trying to be realistic I guess it why it's cool. There's drinking, smoking, babies pissing on people, a guy that claims to have a house in Guam (you don't get to see it though), dudes getting shot up, hookers, dudes getting shot in the head at point blank range. You see, that's what separates this movie from other action movies. When someone has a gun pointed at their head in American action films, they normally don't get shot, the gun is grabbed, or the hero arrests them, something else happens. But not this bad ass movie. People get shot in their faces on a regular basis. Everyone should watch this movie every morning to start their day off right. "},{"Title":"Fast, Furious and utterly awesome","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo is hands down one of the best action directors of the eighties and nineties, from A better tomorrow to The Killer his use of action was the relief of action movies in the eighties and carried it on through to the nineties. His insane use of over the top action may not appeal to some but to anyone who is a fan of films like The Terminator, RoboCop or Mad Max 2 (aka The Road Warrior) this is a no brainer. Although John Woo's recent films have been more caught up in the world of Hollywood where you see he doesn't have the same sort of control over his pictures he is starting to move his films back to China, creating a more Auter film. Hard Boiled is one film that I garantee you wont regret if you're looking for a no holds bar action film but if you're a fan of realism then this film is not for your. The editing of the film sometimes doesn't stand up to the test of time and may look a bit cheesy to more modern cinema goers but the blasting action might be enough to keep your eyes off the editing, (keep your eyes open during the hospital shootout for what it one of the best long takes in action cinema history). This film will definitely give you something to talk about but I cannot describe the insane action to you beyond saying that it's insane, to get a better idea of it, go onto youtube and look at the trailer for this film and The Killer. "},{"Title":"A True Action Classic from the great John Woo!","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this and this was one of the greatest action movies ever and it starred Chow Yun Fat who is awesome as Inspector 'Tequila' Yuen a gun-fighting cop with pretty reflexes to match his gun skills and attitude! This was a great action cop movie! The action scenes are nothing short of thrilling which is what I expect of John Woo films and the story was pretty decent.Also Chow Yun Fat has other actors backing him up not just the interesting villains of this movie but also Tequila's colleagues who are shown including his boss Superintendent Pang! This is among my personal top 20 of greatest ever action movies! This is a true action classic! "},{"Title":"The final statement on big dumb action--everyone since 1992 has been a pretender","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If a work of art takes it over the top, so to speak, and suddenly that strata becomes the new norm, authenticity can become a murky issue. Is Hard Boiled just another brainless action movie, or is it THE brainless action movie, something that should have stood alone as the final statement of that sort of thing? A lot of conventions are introduced here the role of the police officer is distilled into the good guy with a gun, sort of a modern lone ranger. Even in Dirty Harry, there were hints that Callahan might have occasionally made arrests and done various policey things from time to time--but not here, oh no. It's all just metaphor, a gloriously black and white blood opera that hooks you on a sense of righteousness you'd balk at in a more sensible state of mind. In many ways it's more a continuation of martial arts and chivalrous swordplay movies than anything crime related. Think about it--teahouse battles, people shooting (stabbing) through themselves to hit someone holding them, etc... all Shaw Bros and Golden Harvest stuff.After hundreds of inferior copycats, Hard Boiled begs to be understood in terms of its initial cultural context. However, something about its execution is clearly authentic.The plot is a tad less purposeful than Woo's previous films, actually stitched together and made up out of thin air from various stages of shooting; it shows, but the spontaneity often works in its favor. Why does the bad guy have an impossible secret armoury beneath the hospital? Why not? Patients make good potential hostages. Woo logic. What was the likelihood of those doctors successfully resuscitating that little girl during a Mexican standoff in The Killer? Well, they did, and that's what matters. If you have to ask these questions, you're watching these movies for the wrong reasons.Woo's cloying, ultra-melodramatic, but somehow effective and charming sentimentalism is dialled down a bit, though still present. Typical themes of honor and conflicted loyalties inform the action, but this is more a movie about moments than anything Chow Yun-fat sliding through a table of flour at the end of the birdcage teahouse shootout, appearing next to his victim like a ghost and exacting immediate revenge for a fallen comrade; several minute hallway shootouts without cuts; Tony Leung assassinating his target with a gun hidden in a Shakespeare anthology; Chow Yun-fat on his trail, matching books with the rectangular clean spot in the blood splatter, etc.There was always a certain physicality to Woo's otherwise flagrantly unrealistic gun ballet acts that imitators never quite captured. Weaponry has a sense of weight; explosions, ballistics and broken glass seem to pose an actual threat; even real babies (as manipulative of a metaphor as that might be) are thrown in harm's way.Basically, if it all seems a little stupid to you, that's because this is the first movie to really take it to this level, nitwit! Sadly, they'll never make them like this again, so you might as well realize Hollywood blockbusters are a waste of time, hire a hypnotist who can make you forget about Hard Boiled, and rewatch it 100 times. By the way, at least heart-on-sleeve implies that the sleeve in question isn't blocked by a limp wrist. "},{"Title":"Non-stop Action - Hong Kong Style","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some guy quoted on the back of the cover to this movie John Woo is God. Well, he's not God, and he's not even a god, he is just a human being like the rest of us, fallible. This movie though is extraordinary and leaves many Hollywood movies for dead. Even John Woo's Hollywood productions come no where near to this movie. Not only is it almost non-stop action, but the characters in this movie are real, breathing, and in some ways, very tragic. The tragic nature of Tony is something that one very rarely sees in a Hollywood movie, but is very relevant in Hong Kong.This movie is about a cop named Tequila (Chow-Yun-Fat) who is caught in a gun fight in a tea house when he attempts to stop an illegal gun deal going down. This fight is fast, furious, has a huge body-count, and stabs you in the heart as Tequila's partner is gunned down. This is no ordinary Hollywood gunfight, this is one with guts. One of the themes of this movie is loneliness. Tequilla is a major character but the movie deals more with Tony, an undercover cop who is trying to bust open a triad gang's gunrunning scheme. Tony is a lonely man whom nobody really knows. He has no identity and only one person knows his birthday and that is his commanding officer. Tony wanted to be a police officer but he never thought that he would be placed in such a situation. He has to kill for if he does not his cover will be blown, and with this killing he must also betray close friends. He is told by Mr Hoi not to trust Johnny Wong and it is Johnny Wong who he throws his lot in with in the end.Johnny Wong is also a very interesting character. He goes beyond being a bad guy to being outright sadistic. John Woo is known to make his characters all bad, Tequilla is one such character that even though he is a cop, he has a very nasty, annoying streak through him. The only truly honourable man in this movie is Tony. Johnny Wong though is far more evil than most bad guys that I have seen. This comes to the point of where you draw the line, and I think Woo is trying to help us think of where this line is, or if there is any. Wong goes to the point where his loyal henchmen begin to question his actions because he is doing things that not even they would do.Hard Boiled is seriously nothing short of brilliant. It has the longest gunfight that I have seen in any movie, and there isn't even a pause for breath. Unlike movies like the Killer and Face Off where there is a slow bit and then the action takes off, Hard Boiled just seems speed by yet giving enough time to develop the characters brilliantly. The only problem is that the subtitles suck. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of action films","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, John Woo is terrific director. At my opinion he was at his best in this mind blowing, kicked-ass action package. Everything that he has done before, and I mean particularly on A Better Tomorrow and The Killer reached its culmination in Hard Boiled. In fact, when John Woo completed this film, he went in U.S, later directed Hard Target, Face Off, which were a little bit disappointing compared to his Hong-Kong work.Yes, there is massive amount of shootouts, graphic violence, explosions doves(symbol of piece), gun play(Mexican stand-off). Everything in John Woo's style. But the shooting is amazingly choreographed. Strongly stylized. Lots of special effects, explosions, glass shattering. Looks and sounds so real. I never have seen it so in an action film.Bad things are choppy and ludicrous story, terrible dubbing and soundtrack as well the thing that irritated me most(but not enough to hate the movie). It is like a video game where some people get shot several times and then walk and shoot like nothing happened. Those guys(especially villains) sometimes looks so invulnerable.At the end, Hard Boiled is masterpiece for action films. Loud, exciting, amazing, but with few oversights. i strongly recommended the movie for all action fans if they had not see it, to see. And enjoy! "},{"Title":"Incredibly Stylish Gun-Toting Cantonese Triads Thriller","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A maverick Hong Kong detective is on the trail of some gun-running Triads, and gets mixed up with a dangerously unstable undercover cop who has infiltrated the mobsters.This is a love-it-or-loathe-it type of picture. Whilst the plot may be a little thin and the visuals occasionally veer wildly into pretension, this is undoubtedly the most stylish bullet-festival ever committed to celluloid. It has three stunning set-pieces; a shootout in a dim-sum restaurant, a shootout in a warehouse and an, er, shootout in a hospital. The hospital sequence, which lasts nearly an hour, is simply an amazing piece of action choreography, which tops anything done before or since. In one single two-and-a-half-minute tracking shot alone, Yun-Fat and Leung race down endless corridors, take a ride in an elevator, waste twenty-eight different bad guys along the way and act out a dramatic scene whilst doing it !! Stunning. Woo (who has an unbilled bit as a bartender) has an incredible eye for action, aided by top-notch stuntwork from Kwok, who also plays the aptly-named chief henchman, Mad Dog. Wang Wing-Heng's zippy, fluid camera-work and the groovy keyboard score by Michael Gibbs round off the perfect Cantonese gangster movie. Somehow, amid all the chaos, Yun-Fat and particularly Leung manage to lend some dramatic pathos to their roles. It's asking a lot of an actor, surrounded by villainous henchman in a burning hospital, to hold a shotgun in one hand and a baby in the other and sing it a rap lullaby, but Yun-Fat pulls it off !! "}{"Title":"Awesome! Banned video games have less violence!","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For some reason John Woo takes good old fashioned gun violence films and fills them full of things that don't belong jazz music, blinded victims who fall in love, white doves. Call it juxtaposition all you want, I call it making a good film longer for no good reason.I didn't read the back of the DVD cover despite it being my own personal copy that I have owned for near 10 years. I don't need to as I've seen the film a dozen times.But if I had to come up with it myself it would go something like this; John Woo films three of the most epic gun-battles featuring some of the highest body counts in cinematic history.Chow Yun Fat is cool as hell and practically revives the old Western standard of firing two pistols while jumping over, skidding under or sliding down various things that seem purpose built for jumping over, skidding under or sliding down, (and he never seems to run out of bullets).Tony Leung is the good looking other guy that will keep you wondering Just who is that good looking other guy that keeps showing up near Chow Yun Fat? The whole thing is about hard working cops and undercover cops, and bad guys trying to steal each other's turf&#x85; Or something. Just rent this and watch the f*cking thing! If I read that back cover blurb and it said that I would rent it with no hesitation. And you should too.Vital stats Tequila = Chow Yun Fat Guns - Usually 2 Alan = Tony Leung Guns &#x96; Usually 1 Big Stunts &#x96; Lots Explosions &#x96; Countless Massive over-the-top shootouts &#x96; Three 1st Shootout &#x96; The Teahouse Battle Body Count - 31 (1 cop, maybe 10 bad guys, 20 civilian) 2nd Shootout &#x96; The Raid on the Workshop &#x96; 1st Wave 38 &#x96; 2nd Wave 13 &#x96; 3rd Wave Tequila Shows up 22 &#x96; 3.2 Wave Tequila & Alan chat 6 3rd Shootout &#x96; Big Finale at the hospital &#x96; Pre Shootout warm-up killings 3 &#x96; 1st Wave 25 &#x96; 2nd Wave Alan & Tequila join in 43 &#x96; 3rd Wave 64 Total Bodycount (By my reckoning) 250 Final Rating &#x96; 8.5 / 10. 4 minutes of realistic battles repeated ad-nauseum for about 60 minutes, with another 60 minutes of filler thrown in. That's not bad, that's AWESOME! Video games have less killing. "},{"Title":"When it comes to action, it doesn't get any better than this","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is not just a movie. It is an experience.This 1992 Hong Kong action movie just might be the best action movie of the 90s.The story is typical action movie fare. It is about a tough as nails cop and his partner taking down a group of mobsters. But what makes this movie are the action sequences. The action sequences in Hard Boiled are perhaps the most intense action scenes you will find in any movie. The highlight of the movie would have to be the teahouse shooting at the start of the film.Every action movie fan, even a casual one, should own this movie. It is a masterpiece of action. "},{"Title":"With Two, He's God","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What is this movie? How on earth did John Woo develop this idea? What was he thinking? I'm not entirely sure he knew what he was thinking. Like the brilliant Sam Peckinpah before him, John Woo makes auteur action films, and like Sam Peckinpah, those movies are unhinged masterpieces. Hard Boiled is the only non-English language Woo film that I've seen, so, on that level, I have nothing to which I can compare it. However, having seen most of his American pictures, I can call it his best. Do his other non-English films rival it? Probably, but I couldn't tell you that for sure. In any event, Hard Boiled opens with a great action sequence and never lets up. It's bloody, loud, and entirely unreal, but it's a complete gas too. The whole movie is like that--just plain fun. That first gun-battle opened my eyes to what John Woo can accomplish. Face/Off and MI 2 had some great action sequence, but nothing prepared me for the confusing barrage contained within the first ten-minutes of this film. Who was good or bad--I sure didn't know. Within the first hour I still wasn't sure for whom I should root. What's stupendous about this film, though, is that it manages to top itself. The first action sequence is great, as is the one that occurs later in the arms warehouse, but neither of those hold a candle to the gratuitous and endless segment at the film's end. The hospital sequence, I think, lasts about 40 minutes. Maybe I'm exaggerating, but I thought it went on and on and on, and that's great because it never slowed down. Woo kept throwing in bits to ratchet up the tension a few clicks and keep things interesting. It also helped that he never completely resolved what side Tony Leung was on before that point. In conjunction with Mad Dog finally becoming more than an ominous henchman, this extended sequence is, like the first, disorienting. And when Johnny Wong and his men start killing hospital patients? I was completely thrown. I don't know that I've ever seen anything quite like it in an American action movie. I've seen innocents die, but never in such numbers and never in such an unexpected way. I remember wondering if Johnny and his boys would do it. I figured not and therefore figured wrong. And, as the cherries on top of this bloody sundae, are Chow Yun Fat and your favorite Asian actor and mine Tony Leung (okay, maybe he's only my favorite Asian actor). In any event, Tony proves that he's more than a dramatic actor here and Chow Yun Fat, as opposed to his performance in Crouching Tiger, shows that he has more emotion and humor than you're likely to believe. He's not some stoic gentleman, but a real live person! Oh my!This movie is great fun and much better Asian fare than I'm used to. This is a better movie than Hero or Crouching Tiger or Shaolin Soccer or anything Woo-Ping has had a hand in. The action's better and the story more interesting. It's intelligent and exciting film-making--an action movie at its best. "},{"Title":"After a while, this becomes a very dull film,....I mean how many senseless murders can you watch until you simply don't care anymore?!","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love Asian films. However, after seeing this film, I have no desire to see any more films like this one. While the film generally has very positive reviews and a very good overall rating of 7.8, this is probably very deceiving, as I ONLY think die-hard ultra-violent/ultra-action loving people would enjoy this type of film and they traditionally flock to John Woo films. The average non-violence junkie has probably never heard of Woo or if they have, have no interest in such extremely graphic and violent fare.The first twenty or so minutes of the film, I actually enjoyed, though, of course, the film WAS mega-violent. At least there was some style and some sense of purpose to the killing. However, after about 50% of the movie was past, the rest of the film was one long, long, long extended scene of carnage. It was as if you took EVERY Rambo, Die-Hard, Death Wish and Steven Segal movie AS WELL AS THE KOREAN WAR AND WWII and combined them into one movie! There is no possible way to keep count, but the number of good guys, bad guys and assorted innocent bystanders killed in the movie seems like it must top 1000 (and this is NOT an exaggeration). Initially, this had a big impact on me, however, after a while it became downright boring. After all, how many dead people, fake blood and slow-motion death scenes can any NORMAL person take before they either turn off the film, get sick or become bored.The bottom line is this is a wonderful film if you really could care less about plot and just want 100% carnage. Period. Oh, and the plot device of having all the babies in the middle of the firefight near the end just seemed like a cheap way to build excitement. I mean, think about it, one minute the hero is cuddling a baby and the next he blows away a few bad guys, then he nuzzles the little tyke. Is this meant to be tender or poignant?! Gimme a break. This movie is dumb and I really do wonder about the type of person who wants a steady diet of this. Okay, now feel free to hit me with all your NOT HELPFUL comments--I am STILL right about this film!By the way, although I hated the movie, I really want to get a gun like the heroes had. You know, the semiautomatic pistol that can fire 10, 20 or even 30 times without needing to be reloaded!! And I want to find out where they got the hand grenades that when they blow up, they only injure bad guys--even though the heroes might only be a couple feet away from the blast!! "},{"Title":"Still holds up as best action movie of all time!","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled in my opinion still has no equal in the action genre. There are no shortage of movies with a ton of action throughout the years(with The Raid Redemption films and The Expendables series as recent examples), but I digress, Hard Boiled is still in a class of its own. While Hard Boiled has some of the most intense, balls to the wall action scenes, high body counts, stunning action choreography(by Philip Kwok) and gigantic explosions. There is also excellent character development, intense melodrama and some of the best acting performances you will find in a movie with this amount of action in it. Chow Yun Fat is inspector Tequila, a serious tough cop and one man army who is working on a case involving gun running triad gangsters. Chow Yun Fat is very tough in this film.(like a Hong Kong Dirty Harry) Yun Fat is a very versatile and talented actor and brings a very naturalistic approach to his character, making his job look easy. Tony Leung, also a very talented and charismatic plays a deep undercover cop and one of the only actors in Hong Kong that can come close to matching Chow Yun Fat in both acting ability and screen presence. Both icons of Hong Kong cinema share great chemistry and work great together in this. Also from Hong Kong's A list of amazing actors and top stars is Anthony Wong as main villain, gun runner and all around amoral psychopath. Philip Kwok of Five Deadly Venoms fame is his sidekick Mad Dog, a loyal triad and hard as nails heavy with a code of honor. Philip is also action choreographer and stuntman as well. Philip Chan is Sup. Pang, Tequila's boss and former HK police officer for 15 years. Hard Boiled is the final collaboration between Chow Yun Fat and director John Woo. Woo is in top form here as director and collaborated well with his incredible cast. The dramatic scenes are as well done and interesting as the action. It is hard to pick a favorite John Woo film when you have A Better Tomorrow, Bullet In The Head, The Killer and this. Hard Boiled is every bit as good as the films I just mentioned, but kicked up a notch or two and it works. As Woo's swansong to the HK action film, he certainly went out with a bang before he made films in the US and returning to China with the awesome Chinese period epic Red Cliff. "},{"Title":"With a body count over 300 it is impossible not to call this one of the best action films of all time","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chow Yun Fat and John Woo have to be the best action team, put these two together and there is sure possibility to be an amazing action film in the works. This film has some of the best choreographed gun fights ever put to any screen, and obviously with a body count rising over 300 there is no way to not hail this as one of the best action films of all time.Another thing that sticks out in this film (but probably isn't paid attention to as much as the action) is the story. It is pretty simple to follow but yet it is still pretty thick and interesting for a balls to the wall action film. The acting isn't bad but isn't really worthy of mentioning but one thing I can guarantee for action fans is that after seeing this film you wont be as hungry. "},{"Title":"This movie is elite","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this by far has to be chow yun fat's best film. the action scenes are absolutely mental, the explosions, the blood squid effects used are amazing.not to forget the kill count of 307 is amazing, it makes die hard look like a Disney film. the movie is brilliantly shot especially the shootout scene in the tea where chow yun fat is sliding down a stair banister whilst firing two pistols. chow yun fat also acts brilliantly unlike 70% of todays overrated Hollywood action movie stars. the stunts are superb no doubles are used probably cause it Hong Kong unlike Hollywood they do their own stunts. the music is superb, usual iconic early cinematic 90s music. the audio is amazing, sound effectis is amazing as well. overall its a 10 out of 10 probably the best action movie from asia next to seven samurai "},{"Title":"Tequilla","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. No movie has ever had this level of stylishly directed action, NOT EVEN CLOSE. This movie has the 3 best action sequences in the history of cinema, PERIOD.The story is about a cop named Tequila who, at the beginning of the film, loses his good friend and fellow cop, in a teahouse shoot-out. He goes against all orders in trying to bring down the Triad that caused his friends death. In doing so, he inadvertently finds out that there is an undercover cop, Tony, in the Triad he is trying to bring down, and eventually teams up with him.This isn't your standard buddy cop fair like Lethal Weapon with tons of cheesy lines, dorky action and sappy side stories. The dialogue is insightful the action is the best ever and the side stories are well thought out, if a bit abbreviated (due to lack of time to shoot John Woo admits).Tequila is trying to deal with a failed relationship and the death of his partner, Tony is torn against blowing his cover and defending his honor and the Lieutenant insists on playing it by the book even though it isn't fair.John Woo said he made this film in honor of the men and women of the Hong Kong police force and the good work they do. He wanted to make a movie about the good guys winning. What he has done is made one of the most pivitol action films ever made, influencing every action movie since. "},{"Title":"Chow yun fat is unstoppable!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chow Yun-fat plays Inspector Tequila Yuen, who turns gunplay into a form of ballet, with everyday objects exploding in a hail of bullets as he single-handedly takes down a criminal empire. While it may seem old hat to have a hero (or villain) firing away with two guns or coolly sliding down a banister to blow someone away, in 1992 John Woo was literally writing that stylistic playbook. There are in fact too many cool sequences to even mention here, although three set-pieces (the opening teahouse shootout, the warehouse showdown and the epic finale at the hospital) will undoubtedly go down in history as some of the greatest gunfight choreography ever executed on screen. Many of the film's trademark cues may strain plausibility to the near breaking point, but Hard Boiled is exhilarating to watch as an exercise in style that also happens to possess substance. "},{"Title":"probably the best action movie ever","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably not only the best john woo movie but the best action movie i have ever seen with a kill count of 306!!! it does not get any better than this. chow yun fat is unstoppable as inspector tequila yuen who has unlimited ammo and is pretty much invincible turning gun play into a form of ballet as he single-handedly takes down a criminal empire. I am pretty much devastated that chow yun fat was never picked to star in the expendables. I highly recommend this film especially action film lovers who enjoyed the Die hard films, terminator 2 judgement day or Rambo. you will not be disappointed , 126 minutes of utter madness bullets flying and blood staining the walls. "}{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever made....","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a hard-core action film by John Woo about a dirty harry type cop, tequila (Chow Yun-Fat) who's partner is killed in action during the exposition, and has a vendetta by taking down the Chinese mob with help from one of the mob's highest ranking assassins who is secretly a troubled undercover cop. The action scenes really blew my mind away, I mean completely. Especially the teahouse and the hospital scenes. It's gun-fu basically. This movie has a very high body count due to the lengthy action scenes. The hospital action scene actually lasts more than a half hour. This is not JUST your typical action movie. This movie truly is a epitome of bloodshed and glorification of violence. The action scenes are actually the main emphasis of the film because the action is pure art. The story is pretty generic and straightforward, but performances by the actors are actually very good because you sympathize with the characters and their problems in life. In general, this is one of the best action films ever made and deserves equal recognition with movies, such as face/off and die hard. "},{"Title":"Best Action Movie Ever","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I say best action movie, I mean THE best action movie, period. What isn't there to like about this movie? Incredible action sequences, intense gunfights, and a ridiculous amount of bodies getting impaled with bullets. This makes Die Hard look like a child's book. The explosions are way exaggerated, in a good way though. Pretty much in every gunfight every single person and near the end pretty much everything explodes. This film wasn't worthless action or there was too much, but this film in my books is easily considered one of the greatest action-features of all time. Hong Kong can sure make some good films, but to add onto the great movies from there you have Hard-Boiled. The film is currently ranked as the 9th highest body count in a single movie. The characters cause so much mayhem it practically crosses the line of either thinking What's happening right now? and This is totally amazing. Both of these thoughts live up to what happens in this film. I could watch this movie over and over again but it is always the same, always pure amazing. "},{"Title":"This movie should be in the top 250 !","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Where i should start ? This is simply the best action movie ever, one of the best of John Woo (i can't say it's the best John Woo movie ever, because it's hard to choose between The Killer, Bullet in the head and A Better tomorrow). The cast is awesome Chow Yun-fat, Tony Leung and Anthony Wong, also there is a small performance of John Woo himself. The action scenes are awesome, i loved the stylized gun fights or also called gun-fu and the violence is bloody. The final confrontation in the hospital is the best scene in history of cinema (not just in the action genre). Unfortunately, John Woo moved to America and he didn't made a movie like this (or similar to another of his Hong Kong movies). Recommended to everyone, even if you are not a John Woo fan ;) "},{"Title":"Action Unhinged! Tragedy! Terror!","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have yet to make a body count, but estimate the death toll to be just under that of 300. The action sequences of Hard Boiled dominate the action genre. No director in good conscience allows for the gunning down of dozens of helpless hospital patients, and the jumping, diving, rolling, slamming into walls, and frequent defenestration of both heroes and villains alike - all during furious and often close-range gun battles that give Hard Boiled an edge especially over current CGI dominated action films due to its authentic on-scene stunts, and its ultra-violent intensity. Hard Boiled was made in 1992, and the main way one can tell is, besides the costume design and the lack of CGI, is the Beverly Hills Cop-type music that occasional bursts forth. The jazz music that highlights Tequila's few reflective moments create certain sincere suffering in the heart of our rebel detective, and which sets a heavy mood on a light wind on a summer night. Give the guy a gun and he's superman; give him two and he's God! -Superintendent Pang speaking to and a/b TequilaHard Boiled features a bad cop, Tequila, the film's hero, and the undercover and more morally responsive cop, Tony Leung (played by Tony Leung), as well as many other interesting characters. Tequila (played by veteran actor Chow Yun-Fat) is a rebel detective who plays a significant, though indirect, role in the mayhem and tragedy that is enacted by the sadistic, power hungry gangsters that he is vehemently and single mindedly hellbent on taking down with extreme prejudice. Why is Tequila a crazed and insubordinate cop hero? It has to do with art.The drummer in Tequila's Jazz band, who is also a cop, is killed by gangsterz in the film's first gun fight, in the teahouse scene. It is Tequila's loss of a great jazz drummer that is the primary reason for his single minded thirst for vengeance against the gangsters, and I can prove this. After the tea house massacre, Tequila returns to The Jazz Club (The Jazz Club being the name of the jazz club) and the audience gets to see Tequila's reminiscing his lost drummer, not his lost cop. The deceased friend as artist was more important than he was as a cop, and this may point to the fact that Tequila's friend was killed in a gun fight as a cop, rather than as a drummer. Drummers don't get killed in gun fights. Tequila has a deep love for jazz and for the bond of band members that is created through the playing of music, and this loss of his drummer signals an end to the best part of his life. All that is left is vengeance, but Tequila doesn't give up his human side, even when his life or the lives of others are at stake.Director John Woo draws morbid comedy out of the interplay between action and dialogue, in which excessive dialogue between characters leads to the death or near death of other characters. Woo uses the dialogue\action interplay to parody the time consuming dialogue that often takes place in action films at the point in such films when the audience is asking, What i/t/f are they doing talking and being sentimental in the midst of this obviously dire situation? In a hospital room, after Tequila and Tony kill a few gangsters, they talk sentimentally about themselves while a guy they are supposed to be protecting from yet more gangster, who has hidden in another room, is being murdered the the gangsters' top killer, Bull Dog. After they are talking with each other for a while, they seem to suddenly remember that they are in an action movie, and that their witness is probably dead. A similar event occurs later, near the conclusion of Hard Boiled when Tequila is rescuing a baby from the hospital (that is being blown up by C-4 charges placed throughout the hospital by the gangsters) and stops amidst the onslaught of explosions and flames to offer some sentimental words to the little squirt in his arms. Only when a huge flame-spurting explosion almost incinerates him and the lil' munchkin is he jolted back into the broader diagesis (the reality in the world of the film). What is significant and funny is Tequila's persistent need to stop in the middle of a deadly situation and, shall we say, smell the flowers, to talk of fluffy things and good times, to take time out of the entire madness of the situation and completely forget about it. But Woo, the director, doesn't forget about the surroundings, and he allows the surroundings to sneak up on our all too human hero. Tequila is not a Schwarzeneggerian killing machine, even if he does kill more guys in Hard-Boiled than the Schwarzenegger-as-Terminator does in all of the Terminator movies combined. Tequila is a very human cop - both driven and considerate for the little things in life that matter, even in the midst of death and destruction. This shows the fun Woo had in being realistic with respect to the time-action-dialogue that was happening in certain spaces in time. Woo, in his literalistic humour, outdoes the one-layered absolutist temporality of the storytelling dynamics that tend to dominate the action genre. Whether he intentional or not, in Hard Boiled director John Woo plays with this dramatic element of film fiction, absurdizes it, just as he does with the level of violence. "},{"Title":"Maximum action satisfaction","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a true masterpiece that no action fan should miss. Made in the best period for action movies (1985-1995), it delivers the goods big time in the action department. It doesn't try to be anything but a completely kick-ass action film loaded with explosions, gunfights, explosions, action, action, action, people getting killed, total mayhem....need I go on? The action is superbly done. I don't know the body count in this movie, but I guess you could take Rambo 4 and multiply it with about 1000. It's pure entertainment all the way through, the heroes kick ass big time, most of the bad guys are completely bad to the bone, every action scene is a masterpiece in itself and you simply don't find many so over the top action movies out there with this kind of quality.They certainly don't make them like this anymore. If you like action and haven't watched this yet, do it now! "},{"Title":"Is there any movie that has more gunshots involved than this?","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Like seriously, there's a gunshot every second of the film! Then again, its John Woo..no one could do it any better. Add to that two Asian superstars, we get John Woo+Chow Yun-fat+Tony Leung=plsletitrain drooling and writing a review! Bwahahahahahaha!!! I don't know which part of my review could differentiate mine from the others because a lot of people loved this movie and same goes for me. The action..well if you want action at its finest, John Woo never fails to deliver. If you want superb acting, well there's the two leads who doesn't need any introduction(and let's not forget Anthony Wong). If you want a story, well there's your above-average cop story. Here we have two cops, one an undercover, who joins forces against the bad guys. This movie reminds me of Infernal Affairs(although this one was released first). The only part where I couldn't really find myself applauding is in the warehouse shoot-out scene where some people found fantastic. For me, it was over-the-top and too unrealistic. But all in all, I loved this movie! I don't have a favorite director(either because I'm hard to please or I just haven't watched many films from the same director) but I think John Woo will make it first on my list. "},{"Title":"The quintessential B shoot 'em up.","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What do you want? A fairly interesting action thriller with over the top shootouts? Hard Boiled is your movie.Chow Yun Fat plays Tequila, a double pistol wielding cop in a quest to take down a gang in Hong Kong. Woo directs the action scenes with real energy and realism and the story ain't so bad either. No doubt there are about 6 trillion plot holes but to be frank, who cares? Suspend your disbelief way above your head, grab a beer, sit back and enjoy some no-nonsense killing.The film is totally honest and ridiculously fun. Well worth watching for John Woo fans or action film fans altogether. "},{"Title":"Wild gore-filled ride","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is no subtlety whatsoever to John Woo's Hard Boiled the follow-up to his action melodrama The Killer. Hard Boiled strips away much of the previous film's labored sentiment and replaces it with insane action set-pieces involving babies in peril, motorcycles exploding in midair, and hundreds of thugs and cops flying through glass windows. So many glass windows. Yet Hard Boiled is also insanely fun in its ludicrousness. There is not one shred of realism in this go for broke, surprisingly gory, action extravaganza, and we are thankfully spared much of Woo's heavy handed take on the duality of man, nature of evil, and spiritual concerns. There are also blessedly no doves whatsoever in this film. Woo's films are better when he keeps his rote, superficial philosophizing to a minimum and lets his flair for berserko action take center stage.The plot is simple if not always coherent. Rogue super cop Tequila (Chow Yun-Fat) is out to avenge the death of his partner at the hands of Triad gun smugglers. While gunning down mob thugs, Tequila comes face-to-face with an undercover cop, played by Tony Leung, who is continually forced to compromise his own values in order to remain undercover. In Leung, Woo is able to examine his favorite theme of man being neither completely good nor wholly evil, but unlike in The Killer, Hard Boiled doesn't dwell on this theme interminably and the film is the film is stronger for it.John Woo, a Christian, displays substantial gore in this film with many highly stylized shots of arteries being severed followed by blood splattering onto faces, glass windows, and white walls. The heroes and villains also possess an insane tendency to create mayhem in the midst of crowded restaurants and hospitals where innocent bystanders are picked off quickly and by the hundreds. Had the film been a mainstream US release, its gory action scenes would have assuredly caught the attention of congress persons displaying election year what about the children concerns about media violence. The berserk violence of Hard Boiled is not an afterthought, though. It is, instead, the point of the whole bloody exercise. Remove the film's stylized bloodletting and it would lose its pulse.Maybe it says something about this viewer that Woo's restrained by comparison and morally concerned The Killer came off as lackluster, while the more bloody, less talky cut to the chase Hard Boiled struck me as a wildly successful genre exercise. The Killer had a classical tragic story arc while the story of Hard Boiled is mostly a device to deliver mayhem. But The Killer was frequently heavy handed and Woo spends much of his film developing his hero's thin personalities. Character development does not play to Woo's strengths. He is at his best when choreographing death and destruction.Woo makes several appearances in Hard Boiled as the owner of The Jazz Bar where Tequila plays tenor sax after hours. He is the film's moral voice and offers meta-commentary on the action, but never overstays his welcome. These are light mostly insubstantial moments that clue you in to the fact that Hard Boiled is more concerned with obliterating man than examining his soul. "},{"Title":"Action Galore","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" that's what this movie is it's action, not only is it action it's well done action, it's stylized and well choreographed by the master himself John Woo. The action sequences take up the whole movie and it's not a bad thing, it's hard to even call this a movie, Woo could of took out all the lines in the movie and the film would still tell it's story. the pro's of this movie is obviously the action sequences, the sequences are almost non stop and are well done, the acting is not bad but I highly recommend watching the movie on subtitles not dubbed. But the Con's of the movie is the music and the story. I was more upset over the music of the movie then the story, i knew the story wouldn't be that smart but that's OK, when i want to see a non stop action movie i don't expect a great story, but what stopped me from giving this movie it's highest honors is the music. Most of the music sounded like it belonged in the Amityville horror then this movie, it was allot of creepy instrumental for some reason and i don't think that worked at all. So overall i recommend this action galore film but watch it on Subtitles and don't let the music annoy you. "},{"Title":"Sensational action from the ingenious Woo himself","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ingenious John Woo has always been one of my number one directors in the whole wide world and he has directed couple of my all time favorite films, some of the most stunning and very greatest cinematic experiences ever created. No matter how you measure it it's hard to get any better from masterpieces like The Killer or Bullet in the head. It's safe to say he is the ultimate god of action movies - wherever he goes everyone should bow.Unfortunately people who have seen only his latest achievements in Hollywood (Hard target, Broken arrow, Mission Impossible II, Windtalkers...and so on) tend to wonder why all this endless fuss and what the hell actually is so special about the guy. I can understand why. They would have to see only one real Woo (Hard boiled for example) to get it. Half (if not over the half) of this movie is just pure, sensational action and not just any kind of action - the divine kind - the coolest action you can possibly think of.Like the trailer of Hard boiled so rightfully says John Woo is to action what Hitchcock was to suspense. Well put. When I look at the marvellous larger-than-life action sequences at the end of magnificent Hard boiled I feel both good and sad. Naturally good because there's only one man in this whole planet who can direct spectacular, wonderful and incredibly balletic shoot-out's like we have in here. Sad because in Hard boiled these terrific scenes are probably last of their kind.This film was Woo's final ticket to Hollywood and if all of his movies would still be as excellent as Face/Off which is certainly the closest he ever came to his Hong Kong days I would be thrilled but it seems to me his films are just getting worse and worse every time we get something new. It's a huge shame because there's no reason why he possibly couldn't direct a movie like this nowadays, he has done it many times before. It's just that he can't do it as long as they keep him in US. Please do a favor to the world of cinema and let the man go... "}{"Title":"Go back to China! Woo","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled's stark cinematography of the nicotine stained Hong Kong night scene portrays the toughness and rawness of probably the greatest computer unaided action film made. As well, the cinematography supports the toughness of our hard boiled hero. Articulately directed, the care Woo shows is astounding. Every frame is some sort of slow mo, odd angle or intense bout of testosterone. Fueled by this pace the file contradicts a dream. Lasting hours but feeling like only seconds. Being so enthralled in the action I did not pay too much attention to the acting other than that to say it wasn't bad enough for me to notice nor great enough for me to be in awe. Scene by scene the action progresses hardly letting up during its long (about)30 minute end siege. You can never get too much of good thing, would be an unfitting quote here. This constant, endless seeming, action sequence becomes redundant. As over and over people are getting shot or huge explosions are happening. Eventually it loses its adrenaline rushing touch.My favorite part of the film was the fact that the grisly, one eyed, psycho did not fit the stereotype. He cared for the innocent people. I was blown away by this never seeing it coming. First time I ever seen a character as such not fit his blood hungry stereotype. Too bad Woo ever came here. Hollywood has made him suck and looks like ruined what talent he had back during this film and the Killer's production. After watching Windtalkers im weary of anymore of his new films. In a nonracist way Woo should go back to China. 9/10   "},{"Title":"The last real John Woo-movie..!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the last movie action-mastermind John Woo directed in Hong-Kong before he started to waste his talent in Hollywood. The photography in Hard Boiled is stylish, there are unusual and interesting camera angles and the bombastic action will blow you away explosions, gunfights, martial arts-performances - this flick contains all elements a really good action movie´s got to have! But there´s even more than that the character are more developed and credible than in those one-dimensional and stereotype Hollywood productions! John Woo makes it possible to tell an interesting story and combines it with breathtaking action!! Unfortunately this was his last film before he started to follow the trial of money to America... His only acceptable film Face/Off didn´t reach the standard he once defined with gems like The Killer, Bullet in the Head or this one. Come on and find back to your roots, John!!! "},{"Title":"If you like it, also see...","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What an amazing film! Proof that to produce a stylish action film thriller doesn't need tens of millions of bucks. Just a vivid imagination about the human psyche, cop morals and a sick perverted lust for violence!People who liked this film would be well advised to watch 'Face/Off' (IMDb no 0119094). 'Lashou Shentan' strongly demonstrates many of the action techniques Woo used for it. Some of the most significant are - Catch 22 situation when two oponants are holding guns to each others temples; - Music to a child during violence (when Tequila sings to the baby in the nursery; Castor Troy's kid on the glass pane floor during the raid on his house); - Slow motion shots behind people during pauses when firing guns.As pointed out by other IMDb users, the film would mean more to someone who spoke Cantonese given the significance of many cultural details. Still, it was a memorable watch. For some reason, John Woo always seems to make better films when he isn't holding the production company's credit card! If you don't believe me, see 'Broken Arrow' or 'MI2'. "},{"Title":"This is what action SHOULD be","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a firm believer in action films should have a strong plot, good character development and awesome action sequences that don't detract from the first two.  Hollywood films seem to rely on the action sequences, and whilst that gets bums on seats it leaves the viewer so disappointed or unsatisfied.Although now the tend is starting to change (with thanks to the Matrix!), and hopefully we will get the films that we want to see - ie. intelligent and fun to watch.This is where Hong Kong action films have such a fan base, they are extremly satisfying.  And this film is one of the most action packed story-lead films I've seen in a LONG time.This is actually the first John Woo movie I saw - it blew me away, the story, the action, everything was perfect.  Chow Yun Fat is an amazing actor, why he isn't doing the films that Paccino or the heavyweights of Hollywood are doing is beyond me.There is nothing really I can say about this film that hasn't already been said.  It is a classic, and is what action SHOULD be.My Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"A ballet of carnage.","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo's final Hong Kong film before he went to Hollywood to direct box-office hits such as Face/Off (1997) and Mission Impossible II (2000), and disappointing misses such as Windtalkers (2002) and Paycheck (2003), Hard Boiled represents everything that is wholesome about Woo's unique brand of action cinema. His trademark action style plasters all over the film as if it is as brutally wounded as any of the hundred-odd bodies that lie dead in a teahouse, warehouse, and hospital &#x96; three locations that set the scene for three incredible action set-pieces that are probably still unmatched in its audacity and body count.Hard Boiled stars Chow Yun-Fat and Tony Leung as cops working for the local police department. Chow plays Tequila, a Dirty Harry-type cop who has no qualms about shooting anyone dead. He challenges his superior, takes life-and-death matters into his own hands, and understands that attack is the best form of defence. In the film, he investigates a case of weapon smuggling by a sinister gangster and his crew, of which Leung's character, Tony, belongs to. But oblivious to Tequila, Tony is actually an undercover cop. This raises the stakes and tension in what is arguably the purest Asian action film of the nineties.Hard Boiled is not plot-driven, and it is fairly clear that story takes a backseat in most of Woo's films. Despite this, Woo still successfully engages viewers with impeccably choreographed gunfight battles that are violent and stylistic enough to demand comparisons to ballet. A ballet of carnage that is. Woo, in many of his Hong Kong actioners, and especially so in this one, has elevated gunfights into an art form, with his signature multiple angles, slow-motion shots and freeze frames. A suspension of belief is necessary to fully appreciate the artistry of violence on show because the characters empty bullets as if there is no tomorrow, and they don't often stop to reload.Hard Boiled also features a stunning long take sequence that ranks technically as one of the best ever shot. It occurs in the final third in the aforementioned hospital, and runs for nearly three minutes. In this long take, we see Tequila and Tony battle the bad guys in a long mazy corridor. They later get into a lift to reload, only to come out with guns blazing again in another corridor. Everything is done in one entire shot, and mind you, in a single take too because of time and budgeting issues.What is most unbelievable is that the same corridor is used in this entire take. That means the crew had to clear the destruction and change the arrangement of props in just half-a-minute i.e. the time Tequila, Tony and the camera spent waiting in a (non-moving) lift. If one could forgive its incredulous execution of action and its thin plot, Hard Boiled is definitely a must-watch for all fans of action cinema. The quality of action alone is enough to justify a recommendation for this film. Film critic Mark Salisbury from Empire mentioned that Hard Boiled is more exciting than a dozen Die Hards. While that is exaggerating, it is also not far away from the truth.GRADE A- (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved! "},{"Title":"An old movie that's still great!","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently watched Hard Boiled for the second time in my life. The first time I watched it was about ten years ago. I was about 15 years old so I don't remember too much about it back then, but watching it now, and having it fresh in my mind, I have to say that this is one of the best action movies I've ever seen. The only reason to watch this movie is to see a lot of shooting and people dying. This movie was made in 1992 and it shows its age. The action sequences are not as polished as today's movies. The choreography is a little off, but that's how it was 15 years ago. John Woo is known for adding a lot of slow motion and flying doves in his movies and this movie is no exception. It adds a little drama to an action filled movie. This movie is not just another dumb action movie. Although it's filled with a lot of action scenes, the plot is above average. Chow Yun-Fat plays Inspector 'Tequila' Yuen, a cop who plays by his own rules to get the job done. The first scene is in a restaurant where a deal is going down and the cops and bad guys shoot up the place trying to kill each other. Yuen eventually runs down the last guy and kills him. When the dust settles, he finds out that the last guy he killed was actually an undercover cop. The next day, he finds a dead guy in a library, and it turns out that he was part of the Chinese triad. He finds another guy who is part of the triad and eventually finds out that he's also an undercover cop. They work together to stop the triad from smuggling weapons. The final scene takes place in a hospital where the triad and cops shoot and kill each other as well as innocent civilians. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes action movies. It might be old and the cinematography might be raw, but it is very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Extreme use of firearms","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This isn't a film with gunfights, this is a gunfight with a bit of film thrown in. If this sounds bad or uninteresting to you, then so be it, but if your into head cracking shoot-em up carnage and crazy OTT gun play then rock on.The plot is familiar (cops, undercover double-crossing cops, triads) and not terribly well played out, the character interaction is a little confusing and sometimes stays into weird, but this is made up for 10 fold in the high octane gun battles, of which there are many.Whether its Tequila descending on a wire into a warehouse full of armed thugs with a shotgun and grenades, or a load of motorcyclist gunmen spraying a drug factory with Uzi fire, or even 2 guys with an endless supply of bullets shooting their way out of a hospital leaving a trail of bodies which could fill a morgue, this film does not disappoint on the violence front. Grittily shot and low budget, this is still John Woo's finest film, and nothing else has come close in terms of sheer blast for blast action.To be watched when you think YOUR country's cops are heavy handed!! "},{"Title":"Was a gun firing for 50% of this movie?","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hardboiled. I just don't know where to begin, except with that I just finished it. And all I can say is waaaaaaaa! Action!. Seriously, the protagonist kills not one, not two, not three, but eight people while holding a baby, and that's shortly after rapping to it. The baby never cries, but instead repays the favor later on it a most ridiculous way. At the rate people were dying in that movie I'm forced to conclude China simply has people to throw away. It pretty much hit every cliché, and all the characters were at least twice as accurate while involved in one of the million combat rolls that occurred.... even in the scenes without gun violence. It was the most actiony action movie to ever have action. Oh, and the subtitles are pretty amusing in parts, like when they conqueror the bad guys. Of the hundreds and hundreds of people slain in this movie, the cops sustain the heaviest casualties rescuing babies! It didn't look like any of the seemingly limitless stockpile of babies was injured though. ACTION!!! So was it good? No, not really, but ACTION! I didn't even really enjoy the silliness until the second half, but once I thought about it damn that would have been a fun movie to have been making fun of from the start. Maybe it's because it's early, maybe it's because I just watched possibly more Chinese people gunned down than there were minutes in the film (squared) but my god I think you'll have fun watching this movie in the right mindset. After all, what's better than grenade launchers acting like pump action shotguns? Or what about pump action shotguns that make whatever they hit explode? How about motorcyclists with uzis? Eye shooting? Blood splatter on babies getting mopped off in a tender moment?!?!?! Action. So... much... action... I won't believe people have to reload a gun (unless they're shooting at good guys!) for at least a week. On a website dedicated to movie body counts it's ranked #3, losing to two of the three lord of the rings-es, but I assure you Hard Boiled has none of that epic battle nonsense where kill count rains from the sky. Bullets fly, people die, especially if they come into contact with babies. "},{"Title":"There is no room for failure now. The innocent must die!","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like it loud, then this is the film for you. If you like blood, then you will love this film. If you want action, you won't find any more anywhere else.John Woo is the master of hard hitting, loud, bloody action flicks.You think the first 20 minutes of Saving Private Ryan was loud and bloody? It is nothing compared to the last 20 minutes of this film.The bad guys come out of the wall like cockroaches, and Supercop (Yun-Fat Chow) is there to blow them away. Yes, he's the same Captain Sao Feng from Pirates of the Caribbean At World's End.He is working with another superstar of Chinese film Tony Leung Chiu Wai (Hero, 2046, Infernal Affairs).You will not believe the action at the end. The battle takes place in the most unlikely of places. The bad guy is so bad that one of his own men tries to kill him for crossing the line. I guarantee that no Mel Gibson, or even John McClain film can match this action.Action not enough? There is even full frontal nudity - in the hospital nursery. -) "},{"Title":"'HARD-BOILED' provides fast and furious set pieces with unstopped action","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This noisy action film deals about a dedicated cop(Chow Yun Fat)who join forces with a strange murderer(Tony Leung)working as a mob enforcer to chase a ring of weapons dealers.The gang is ruled by a vicious killer.The only answer to stop the ominous assassin seems to be death in cold blood.Besides a romantic touches when his girlfriend(Terese Mo) ask him insistently marry themselves.The picture contains frenetic action,spectacular explosions ,emotions,incredible gun-down and lots of explicit and grisly violence.Exciting and bloody action thriller which became one of Hong Kong's grossers ever and gained international reputation with success in all the world although sometimes the violence could be deemed excessive. Fairly awesome vehicle Chow Yun Fat as two-fisted police inspector in which Tony Leung goes undercover to infiltrate an organized crime ring.Chow gets to play splendidly a heavy and Tony Leung makes a terrific tough hit man.Film displays an overlong showdown in the hospital with ultra-violent confrontation and explosives set pieces.John Woo who also wrote the screenplay appears as employee in a Jazz club where Chow plays music.Taut ,suspenseful direction by Woo but delivers the extreme action required of the genre though is not as assured as his later American work(Mission impossible 2,Face off).Followed by inferior sequels.Rating  Better than average.It's a fun,surprise-filled entertainment for the cinema action lovers "}{"Title":"Stunning dramatic and kinetic masterpiece handicapped slightly by redundant climax","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Prior to the extended hospital sequence, which plays like an unofficial 'Die Hard' sequel, John Woo creates a stunning eighty minutes of sensual, brutal, beautiful action combined with stunningly understated drama. Tony Leung's first meeting with arms dealer Johnny (Anthony Wong) is exceptionally well staged and scored (by Michael Gibbs), as is an earlier scene where Leung meets the older arms dealer who has become a surrogate father to him and his colleagues. These are incredibly moving sequences in which not a single shot is fired. This side of Woo's talent has never been seen in any of his disappointing American films. When Leung is forced to kill his surrogate father after Chow's spectacular warehouse ambush, we can only marvel at Leung's performance as he conveys his inner turmoil. The film makes a tonal adjustment once the action moves to the hospital and Woo serves up a number of brilliantly staged action set pieces. The sheer volume of gunfire does become wallpaper after a while, but fans of hardcore action will not be disappointed. If Hard-Boiled had continued along the same stylistic and thematic lines as its first eighty minutes, I'd probably like it as much as Bullet in the Head, but, for mine, it sits just below The Killer and above the more obscure Just Heroes. Fatt is his usual stalwart self, while Anthony Wong and Philip Kwok (who steals the show as Mad Dog) are sublime. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Definitely one of the true 'must see' films of the nineties, not only because it was the first to fully establish John Woo as the master of action movies and Chow Yun Fat as a superstar, but because it has had a massive influence on every action movie made since, and is easily one of, if not the best action movies ever. Slick, stylish, violent, funny, clever, with interesting characters, a superior plot which will keep you guessing, and filled with set pieces, explosions and chases, Hard-Boiled is a genuine classic, at least of its genre.Chow Yun Fat stars as Tequilla, a cop with a love of Jazz, a man whose skills are never questioned, but whose methods are sometimes checked as it usually ends up in death and demolition. He also enjoys the odd bit of existential musing, and is always trying to win back his love, who happens to be a superior. The film opens with a fight between cops and arms dealers which ends in the death of Tequilla's partner. Tequilla kills all possible subjects so they are left with no evidence as to who the boss is. We meet Tony, played by Leung who is one the arms dealers lead men. He does his job flawlessly, and at all costs, but doesn't want to see his boss harmed. However, when a rival with greater ambition wants to recruit him, Tony double-crosses his old boss. Tequilla intervenes and many more are killed. Tony and Tequilla continue to come into contact with each other, and we learn that Tony isn't who he appeared to be. Soon Tequilla works out where the massive armoury is, and a massive gunfight ensues, taking up the last 40 minutes of the film. Will Tequilla get revenge, will any more twists enter into the story, who will make it out alive? The film is incredibly clever for an action film, with many twists, but this is all the more astounding when you witness the level of action which takes place. The set-pieces are almost overwhelming, with so much going on at one time they beg to be re-watched repeatedly. Each actor is convincing, and it seems Fat and Leung were born for these roles. Everyone else is good as well. The final hospital scene has some of the best, most exhilarating action ever filmed, and no-one is safe as patients, doctors, kids, cops, and bad guys are all slaughtered. Almost every window is smashed, all manner of guns are fired, and Woo is on top form. His slow motion style, balletic gun play have never been better, and the one steadicam shot which goes into a lift, between floors and features many deaths and explosions, plus dialogue, is awesome, and must have been a nightmare to film. Few action movies can suck the viewer in like this does, so that we care about the characters and are not just watching vacantly. Hard-boiled succeeds on all levels, and must be seen by all action fans. It is the benchmark of the genre.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"when an action movie was a good idea","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo s Hard Boiled is just plain simple, the greatest action movie ever made. Sure you can name T2, Die Hard, Face-Off, all amazing pieces btw, but Hard boiled shows not only awesome visuals and Woo s talent when it comes to handle a camera, but also a cool storyline that works like a charm to justify action sequences, even if it is a little clichéd.Rent Face-Off, The Killer, Once a Thief...even the John Woo production The Big Hit, but if you are really an action flick lover, you ll watch n love Hard Boiled, and you ll realize what stealing losers the Wachowskys are. 9.9 out of 10. Enjoy  "},{"Title":"Boiling","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hell-bent on revenge after his partner is killed by firearm smugglers, a maverick detective forms an uneasy alliance with an undercover cop to take down the smugglers in this popular Hong Kong action movie. The film has received much praise over the years for its creatively choreographed action sequences and the large degree of imagination placed into the action does not disappoint, but the film is never quite the cohesive whole that it could have been. The plot comes second to the action every step of the way. 'In the Mood for Love''s Tony Leung is solid as the internally divided undercover cop who dreams of going to Antarctica where it is always light to escape the darkness of never quite knowing for sure which side of the law he is on. Chow Yun-Fat is less impressive though as the loose cannon cop and the whole revenge motivation is very formulaic. The two leads also learn to get along very quickly given all the initial tension between them. John Woo's directing style is, however, more detrimental than any arguable gaps in the screenplay. The energy that Woo exhibits behind the camera is undeniable with slow motion shots, dreamy dissolves and 'wipe' scene transitions in the mix, but through relying on so many unsubtle techniques, Woo's directing style constantly calls attention to itself, which at times makes it hard to become immersed in the action. If one takes a greater interest in action sequences than narrative elements, this is not likely to be a problem, but those who prefer traditional filmic storytelling may be best advised to proceed here with caution. "},{"Title":"A John Woo's HK masterpiece and one of the greatest action movies ever made!","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled (1992) is literally John Woo's best Hong Kong action films ever made of all time! The movie is a hard-core action, I have ever seen. Hard Boiled is my third John Woo favorite action film that I love to death! I don't get why people do not call Hard Boiled John Woo's Masterpiece?! In my opinion Hard Boiled is John Woo's one of the best HK action movies from the 90's and a true masterpiece along with The Killer (1989) and Hard Target (1993) his first American movie with Jean-Claude Van Damme in the main role. Hard Boiled and The Killer are mine favorite John Woo's HK action movies. The Action Sequences in this movie are among the greatest ever filmed. This Action astonish film in my opinion is in a Die Hard Style, Die Hard was released in 1988, this film was released 2 years later after Die Hard 2 come out , beside Die Hard, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Hard Target is Hard Boiled the fourth favorite best Action movie of mine! I love this movie to death, I love it so much. , those two HK movies are mine John Woo's favorite movies! This is the real cinema, Hollywood can not make any good action this days, movie without involving CGI in the movie. The Hong Kong Cinema Hard Boiled has everything in it, no CGI, the stunts are real, the explosions are bigger and the plot of the film is amazing you can get in to the story without guessing what is going to happened and what the plot is about. The acting in this movie is superb and very outstanding, realistic, the character developments are awesome! Mobsters are smuggling guns into Hong Kong. The police orchestrate a raid at a teahouse where an ace detective loses his partner. Meanwhile, the two main gun smugglers are having a war over territory, and a young new gun is enlisted to wipe out informants and overcome barriers to growth. The detective, acting from inside sources, gets closer to the ring leaders and eventually must work with the inside man directly. That's your basic plot. It does involve a lot of gun play, awesome shootouts, rescuing the hostages in the Hospital and realistic acting. I don't know why people are saying the acting in this movie wasn't realistic? I don't get it--sorry. I did like the gun-fight between Philip Kwok and Tony Leung. I remember Philip starts it after confirming all the innocent by-standers are completely out of their way. The shoot-out sequences are some of the best put to screen and the characters were awesome especially Mad Dog. I think the entire Hospital sequence is about 40 minutes long. And it does have Fantastic Action Scenes. I enjoy Hard Boiled, it's a solid flick. Not only is there a ton of gun action in that one take, but also some serious dramatic acting after Tony Leung kills the cop. When they get in the elevator they didn't go to a different floor. 30 or 40 art department people came out and reset the scene while they were chatting. Before people relied so heavily on special effects and stuff they had to make this stuff happen in real life and it is amazing. Too bad they don't make movies with balls anymore, now everything is PG-13﻿. There's A lot of blood and violence with awesome characters and dialogue, and John Woo being a director that makes a lot of sweet, long and awesome action sequences (do not get confused with Michael Bay or I swear to god) with smart plot developments.Chow Yun-Fat and Tony Leung are a great duo who constantly bicker and kick ass throughout the movie. The whole warehouse raid is amazing as we have nothing but gunfire and explosions left and right. And the whole hospital sequence at the end just tops it. This is the essential action movie. The last scenes in the hospital were very realistic, when Tequila is running down the exploding hallway with the baby, John Woo wasn't satisfied that the explosions were big and frightening enough in the scene. So the special effects technicians did reset the explosives and give him the trigger. When he pull the trigger, he almost killed Chow Yun Fat running down the hall the scenes were amazing and only in Hong Kong movies you can see that. The gunplay is delivered in perfect slo-mo John Woo-style -- you'll see lots of heavy automatic and explosive weapons, and you'll see them used well. This movie is a perfect 10, because it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth and I love this movie to death! Hard Boiled is a 1992 action crime film co-written and directed by John Woo. The film stars Chow Yun-Fat as Tequila, a veteran Hong Kong Police Force inspector who takes on a crime syndicate that is smuggling arms through the city. Tony Leung Chiu Wai co-stars as Alan, a gangster on his way up in the syndicate whom Tequila cross paths with and discovers has more to his past than is seen on the surface. John Woo and Chow Yun-Fat would continue the story of Tequila in the video game Stranglehold. 10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Golden Princess Film Production Limited, Milestone Pictures, Pioneer LDC Starring Chow Yun-fat, Tony Leung Chiu-wai, Teresa Mo, Philip Chan, Philip Kwok, Anthony Wong Director John Woo Producers Linda Kuk, Terence Chang Screenplay Barry Wong Story by John Woo Rated R Running Time 2 Hr. 8 Mins. Budget $4.500.000 Box Office HKD 19,711,048 (Hong Kong) "},{"Title":"John Woo bombastic masterpiece","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hong Kong police detective Tequila Yuen (Chow Yun-fat) raids a triad gunrunning scheme from China into HK. His partner is killed in the shootout. He executes a gangster and is ordered off the case. Alan (Tony Leung Chiu-wai) is an expert assassin hired by the gang to kill off its rivals.Director John Woo has an unique overblown action style. It is massive, bombastic with the prerequisite slow motion replay and Mexican standoffs. For fans of his style, this is heaven. For me, it gets a bit repetitive. It's big but not necessarily intense. The story is a bit messy. The lead actors are great and the movie keeps my interest throughout. "},{"Title":"Hong Kong Action","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A tough-as-nails cop (Chow Yun-fat) teams up with an undercover agent (Tony Leung Chiu-Wai) to shut down a sinister mobster (Anthony Wong) and his crew.When you think about great action films, the decade you probably think about is the 1980s. For whatever reason, that decade made some of the finest action films (and horror films), which have not yet been matched. And the company responsible for them was often Cannon.Somehow, Hong Kong and Golden Princess did not get the memo. With John Woo at the helm, he makes what may be his best film. Apparently Asian audiences prefer The Killer and American audiences like Hard Boiled. They are each good in their own way, but this one is above and beyond when it comes to the action department. "},{"Title":"A must-watch for action fans","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie contains perhaps the most exhilarating and chaotic shootouts I've ever seen in film. It's just crazily over the top with characters making frequent dives to avoid or shoot bullets and gunshots causing destruction around the interiors. They make the film worth watching alone.But the movie isn't totally weak in other areas either. The characters certainly don't lack personality and the overall direction is stylish and cool. Some say it has a weak plot, but I personally found it to be quite compelling. It nicely balances the perspective from different factions and it's not entirely pointless though it deals in a lot of themes familiar from many other crime/cop films. And sometimes it felt like the movie didn't do the best job at explaining the characters' motivations. In a lot of ways(especially when it comes to the action) it's a silly film, but an incredibly entertaining one. "},{"Title":"The ultimate kickass over the top action flick, assuming your in the mood for it.","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this film 2 times 2 days in a row. The first time I watched the English dubbed version and I hated every minute of it. Too over the top, too much slow motion (way too much!!!!!), and god awful acting. The next day I watched the English subtitles version and loved it. Now while I still thought there was too much slow motion, I wasn't over analysing the film like I did the day before. I just watched the film for what it was. All in all this film is just mindless fun, and it's not trying to be any more and you should have fun with it as long as you are in the mood for that kind of thing. And for the love of god STAY AWAY from the English dubbed version. It SUCKS ASS and the voice actors either sound like robots, or more over the top than Woo himself. "},{"Title":"Bullets. Bodies. Explosions. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat. Enjoy.","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We can start the review by stating one fact about this movie the body count is 307. That is over two bodies a minute.To sum it up, this action film is pound for pound, inch for inch one of the biggest, baddest, most intense, and most insane action movies in the entire spectrum of cinema----not just China but the entire planet. This movie nearly immediately starts off with a bang (Well, a medley of bangs) and then interweaves action sequences with a plot full of betrayal, undercover work and slight double-crossing (Yea, technically there is a plot) before leading up to a finale that ranks up there as among the best you'll ever see.Hard Boiled is 90s action cinema plain and simple takes no prisoners, the plot comes second, and its main focus is to satisfy the audience by any means necessary. But the biggest difference between this bloody gem and your old-school 90s Michael Bay and James Cameron is that Hard Boiled was far, far riskier in terms of stuntwork and far, far less restricted with rules, regulations, and insurance companies. Not to knock the safe techniques of Hollywood, but the extremely dedicated staff behind this dangerously destructive movie paved the way more stunts, explosions, and utter mayhem that just wouldn't be humanely possible in a film made in the American borders.John Woo (and Chow Yun-Fat) is at his prime here, cut down by age and Hollywood limits shortly after his peak in 1992. Unlike your rapid-fire editing, extreme close-ups, shaky camera-work, and over-abundance of CGI of your modern, easier-to-make action movies, Hard Boiled was layers of stuntwork, lack of trickery, exquisite long shots of just egregious shootouts---and so much action you might feel like having to clean the television set once the credits start rolling. The final showdown alone takes up about half an hour and has more broken glass than a mirror maze overrun by black cats.Physics and continuity are stretched to the limit as the gun fu style of action allows for thousands of bullets to fly out of the hundreds of guns at such an intense and entertaining pace you don't realize how impossible the entire sequence is. Picture high-energy martial arts except instead of punches and kicks you'll see bullets fly at each other and hundreds of near-misses from our heroes and some of the enemies. You are going to see years of action, violence, blood and guts compacted into a two-hour chunk of pure exhilaration.Non-action moviegoers would probably see this as mundane and repetitive, devoid of good dialogue and a deep plot. Action fans will see this as a sweet dream come true as you'll see fights of gunfire in multiple angles, multiple speeds, and plenty of creativity to keep it all engaging--while telling a tale about good cops going up against really bad men. This is John Woo at his best, Chinese cinema at its finest, and a violently beautiful example of what happens when you rely solely on real life stuntwork and good ol' actual explosives. And most impressive that with a $5 million budget it feels like a bigger and better experience than your modern $150-$200 million summer blockbusters.Loud, uncut, and out of control, Hard Boiled is as tough as nails, and deserves your full attention. "}{"Title":"The Most Action-Packed Film of All Time.","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An absolutely ballistic, no-holds-barred, over-the-top yet purely unadulterated action extravaganza to come out from Hong Kong during the the early 90s, Hard Boiled takes action in cinema to a whole new level with its heart-pounding & jaw-dropping sequences and cements John Woo's reputation as the most influential director when it comes to action filmmaking.The story of Hard Boiled concerns two ace cops; one is a tough-as-nails detective in his department while the other one is working as an undercover agent & has risen sharply in the underworld over the years. The plot covers their initial friction with each other followed by a mutual partnership as the two eventually team up to take down & wipe out Hong Kong's most ruthless mobster & his crime syndicate.Directed by John Woo, the film is action-packed from start to finish & features some of the most breathtaking stunts ever captured on camera. The story is equally gripping & never really gets discarded during the moments of action. Cinematography makes heavy use of slow-motions & clever angles during the action sequences yet every detail is firmly captured. Editing keeps the story explosively paced, and the background score makes effective use of jazz tracks to go with the plot.Coming to the performances, the two most impressive work comes from Chow Yun-fat & Tony Leung as the ace detective & undercover agent respectively and both exhibit a charismatic screen presence throughout the film's runtime. Anthony Wong also chips in with a brilliant contribution as the head of the Triad while his henchman Mad Dog, played by Philip Kwok, effortlessly steals every moment he is in.On an overall scale, Hard Boiled is a viciously potent, highly influential, perfectly choreographed, wildly entertaining & immensely satisfying cinema that delivers everything an action junkie can ask for. A top-gear, full-throttled action spectacle & an instant classic in every way, John Woo's Hard Boiled is a must for every film lover out there & is a template for any filmmaker looking to make a quality action entertainer.Although there are moments in the film that completely defy logic, I honestly didn't even care if the rounds in those guns never seem to go empty for the gunfights are so exquisitely filmed & fabulously shot that even after two decades, it remains in a league of its own. If you still haven't seen this genre-defining masterpiece of mayhem & destruction, then get your hands on it as soon as possible. You can thank me later. "},{"Title":"Expect action, action, action, very little drama and the most surprising ingredient of all - Action!","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay the one main reason why I wanted to sit down and watch this is because I have heard Hong Kong Action cinema has got a pretty good reputation and because this was directed by John Woo I thought this might have been a pretty good movie along with the almost glowing reviews for this movie.The plot of this is a tough-as-nails cop during a shootout in an arms deal gone wrong, he loses his partner. He decides to pretty much stop the gang who did it single-handedly. However along the way he finds out the cops already sent someone undercover to do this and after a while they decide to take them down together.The one main reason to watch this movie is the action. If you want to see this movie for something else then it would be lacking. Seriously, some of these action scenes are pretty well directed. If there was any complaint with them - they go on too long Some go for 20 minutes and in other cases even longer than that.My biggest complaint with this movie is the subtitling that I watched this on. Subtitles sometimes barely flash on screen for more than a second or so and there are some lines of dialogue being said and there are no subtitles at all. To make matters even worse (yeah try to imagine) instead of clearly indicating another person talking like every other subtitled film ever made, here they make no indication to that... This probably makes it the worst subtitling I have ever seen in a movie.So the appeal for this movie is certainly in the action. You get your standard crazy obsessed cop as your lead and a villain with the writing, directing and acting in such a way that they believe evil people do and say evil things just for the sake of being evil. I guess if you like seeing well directed action then you'll probably like this. However it does get a little tiring to see action scenes about half an hour long and if you watch the same version as I did then the subtitles for this movie will be a nightmare to watch. "},{"Title":"Two hours of ludicrous, heart-pounding action-porn","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before he was whisked off to Hollywood where his talent seemed to stagnate and eventually fade into obscurity, John Woo conquered the world of action cinema with bullet-ridden delights such as A Better Tomorrow (1986) and The Killer (1989). His Hollywood career would consist of sub-standard genre movies such as the Jean-Claude Van Damme vehicle Hard Target (1993) and blockbuster pap like Mission Impossible II (2000). But he had one more balletic, hyper-kinetic Eastern thriller left in him before he left Hong Kong, and with Hard Boiled, he not only topped his previous films, but made one of the finest action movies in history; a non-stop orgy of explosions, slow-motion, and homoerotic undertones of brotherhood and honour.After accidentally killing an undercover police officer in a bloody shoot-out, loose-canon cop Tequila (Chow Yun-Fat) vows to get revenge on the gangsters involved. Meanwhile, Triad boss Uncle Hoi (Hoi-Shan Kwan) has unwittingly employed undercover cop Alan (Tony Leung Chiu Wai) as a hit-man, using him to bump off a gang member who has been secretly working for rival boss Johnny Wong (Anthony Wong Chau-Sang). Impressed with Alan's skills, Wong tries to recruit him, causing him to turn on his former employer in an effort to move up in the criminal underworld. Learning of Alan's undercover role, Tequila seeks him out so that they may take down Wong together. But the shooting of a police informant leads the two cops to the hospital, where Wong keeps his secret stash of weaponry.The film ticks off the genre cliché's at a rapid rate, even playing it dead serious in the quiet moments between the carnage. But all the wailing saxophone music and loose-fitting shirts that were so prevalent in the 1990's make the film even more likable, and a nice little time capsule for an era that seems not so far gone yet is shockingly over 20 years ago. It would be silly to dwell on the simplistic story, as it only really plays the role of McGuffin so that John Woo may deliver two hours of ludicrous, heart-pounding action-porn. The extended climax is a barrage of slow-motion gun-fire, leading to a shockingly high body count, but Woo squeezes everything he can out of the hospital setting, naturally leaving it in ruins. It's a exhausting and cheesy two hours, featuring some of the best action scenes ever filmed, yet it soberly reminds you of what could have been if Woo had resisted the glamour of Hollywood and stayed in Hong Kong.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Over-the-top action flick","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Another Hong Kong action film that pits a gritty detective who seem to have been borrowed from the SWAT team against a comic-book villain who appears to be mostly intent on showing just how much of a bad guy he really can be.There's also a police chief who only seems to get in the way of our hero until he eventually does something useful late in the day, a gang member who isn't as bad as he seems, an evil henchman with a penchant for grenades, and a female character with no personality whatsoever who also manages to help save the day in a stereotypically female way in the end.Pure cliché then.There's a little plot development in here, which is unimportant because the story - cop trying to stop a gun smuggling gang after they kill his partner - is basically an excuse for huge amounts of shooting and a whole lot of explosions.This is one of those movies where all kinds of things blow up whenever someone shoots them as if each bullet were a miniature bomb, and people only ever need to reload when the director wants to add a little twist to a fight scene.Towards the end, Hard Boiled almost seems to slide into parody, and I was half expecting to see a helicopter emerge from behind a panel in the rubble of the villain's lair to carry the him away, laughing evilly while machine gunning a children's birthday party, or something.If you're looking for an over-the-top action film that has no time for nonsense like making much sense, this is a reasonably entertaining two hours that you might as well experience. It's not one of the better action movies I've seen though. "},{"Title":"More Woo Fun","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Another crime drama from writer-director John Woo, Hard Boiled has the same formula, with lots of violent and bloody action. Back to the usual Hong Kong setting, as officer Yuen, and his partner, Benny, get into a shootout with a bunch of gun smugglers in which Benny is killed. Yuen wants revenge on the gangster who killed his coworker, but his commander removes him from the case.An undercover cop named Tony is working for a mobster, Hoi, who he turns against when seeking a better deal. A gang war unfolds and Yuen finds out that Tony is crooked. The climax occurs when Yuen tracks down a large cache of weapons to a hospital. Of course, Woo uses the long corridors of the hospital to his advantage, when the police and the bad guys get into an extended shootout. The result looks like a video game, with the camera following the cops up and down the hallways in an uber kill mode. Once again, Woo has created a top notch thriller with walk to wall adventures. "},{"Title":"John Woo's best action sequences","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is really no need to discuss plot. Plot isn't a device that Woo uses particularly well and that is actually a positive attribute of a film like this. The story is serviceable enough but it isn't overly complicated to get in the way of the action. And let's not mince words, the action is the real star of this show. Chow Yun Fat oozes cool and he is given some incredible action set pieces to look cool on.I prefer A Better Tomorrow over this film but don't think that is anything more than subjective opinion - this is an amazing action film that most any fan of gun fights and explosions will enjoy to the fullest. You essentially get two hours of some of the greatest action sequences ever filmed. The opening scene in the Chinese tea house has to be seen to be believed and I won't even mention the finale. Just know that it defies description.Watch this film soon, might become a new favorite. And you will most likely develop a man crush on Chow Yun Fat. "},{"Title":"An entertaining and bloody action film","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo is of course a legend for the Hong Kong film industry and one of the great action directors because of his heroic bloodshed genre he created. Hard Boiled is considered one of his best and it is certainly a very entertaining film just for its action scenes.Officer Tequlia Yuen (Chow Yun-Fat) is a Hong Kong police detective whom partner gets killed in a restaurant shoot out and he sets out to get the Triad leader that was responsible, Johnny Wong (Anthony Wong Chau-Sang). But when his boss Superintendent Pang (Philip Chan) orders Tequlia to stop his investigation, so he goes on a one man war against the Triads. Johnny has also recruited a top assassin and enforcer, Tony (Tony Leung). But it turns out he has his own secret and Tequlia and Tony ends up working to together bring down Johnny.Hard Boiled is around three major action set pieces, each getting bigger then the previous one. They were inventive and bloody. The restaurant had a tense had a tense build up with the boiling kettles, the police on there stake out and it became a big shoot out in a tight location and many innocent people get killed. It was almost like a Bruce Lee film, particularly with the score. The warehouse was just fun seeing men riding around on motorbikes, shooting people and also shows how one man could take on a small army. And the hospital set piece is just a massive pitch battle between the police and Triads, it was almost epic in scale because of the amounts of explosions, blood and bullets flying about. Whilst Woo does overuse slow motion and bullet sparks sometimes he does know how to craft an action scene, knowing where to focus, how to edit so you could follow what happens. I particularly like the long tracking shots in the hospital as all the action and carnage goes on all round, focusing on our two heroes. It is also very refreshing to see a film that does not need CGI, a film that actually uses stunt work and real special effects and it was shot very much like other action films from the 80s and 90s using a rather dark filter to it and most of the action takes place at night. Woo knows how to move the camera and does bring to live his own sense of hyper-realism. Hong Kong detectives seem to be very trigger happy.The plot itself is simply but Woo does not treat the audience like idiots. It is simply a tough cop going by his own rules and sets out to bring down a Triad boss any way possible. Chow Yun-Fat plays the role very well and his character is shown to be tough, ruthless cop who does have guilt about the lost of partner. He is also shown to have good with Teresa Mo as they sing pop songs together as they decode a message from a undercover police officer. The whole undercover police officer subplot who has to do violence acts reminded me of Infernal Affairs but it possibly because that film was also set in Hong Kong.Hard Boiled does suffers from some cop film clichés, particularly the police chief telling his rouge officer but this is a very well made, entertaining action film. This is a film that has a lot of John Woo's traits like slow-mo, reflections, gun-fu especially using two guns at once and playing soft music over a bloody action scene (a trick he used in Face/Off). "},{"Title":"John Woo and Chow Yun-Fat.........greatest action movie director/star combo ever!!","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me apologize to all the action movies that try to hopelessly add a plot to make their movie more watchable. Woo and Fat have done this many times together, yet none better than this film.The action is fast and loud (really loud)its got the right amount of story that is fluid enough to keep the movie from slowing down, and they did a great job with the shootout scenes throughout the movie. There are some over the top scenes in the film but seriously, what action film doesn't have some?Long story short, if you love (not like) action films, watch this! Just don't expect a complicated story line. After all, it's an action film! "},{"Title":"john woo's masterpiece","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" with a body count of 307 in two hours you pretty much know whats coming you way. but amongst all of the action there is actually some pretty good acting.this is one hell of a lot better than john woo's broken arrow which must have been his own personal embarrassment, with a score of just 5.8 i don't recommend you watch it.the action in this masterpiece is unbeatable, bodies dropping, bullets soaring, it is all incredibly well stylised.in my opinion hard boiled is even better that face/off and might just overtake the killer.if i could mark higher than 10/10 i would but unfortunately thats just not possible.thanks for reading "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time after a friend of mine rented it at the cult cinema. The movie simply blasts you away! Okay the story/plot are not that great, but hey, it's an action movie.Chow Yun Fat plays a hard-boiled maverick cop named Tequila. He is not into arresting people, shooting them is less paper work I guess. The movie basically has 3 gunfights. Well, they last about 75% of the movie! It sets off in a fast pace introducing Tequila as the cop that would make Dirty Harry look like a rookie! In the 2nd shooting scene he discovers he is not alone in hunting a bunch of gun-runners. But the biggest thrill is the last action scene (it seems like it lasts half the movie hehe). It also involves one of the coolest bad guys ever, and a scene lasting 2 and a half minute recorded with 1 camera in one take were the good guys and the bad guy shoot and jump around like crazy. Unbelievable action takes place there! This makes movies like 'Rambo' or 'Die Hard' looks like kids stuff! This is one of the best heroic bloodshed movies, together with 'The Killer' and 'A better Tomorrow 1/2'. "}{"Title":"One of the best action flicks of all times.","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like your movies with none stop violence from start to finish then this movie is for you. Loud gun fire, lots of dead bodies flying around the set, terrorist taking over a hospital and a gun fight that lasts over 30 mins this movie has it all apart from sex sences but who cares about that when the only aspect of love for the cop is killing as many bad guys as possible. Most of this movie is in Cantonese with very few spoken English words. It did not bother me as watching it dubbed does not have the effect. Chow Yun Fat does what he done best in the nighties which was gave every Amercian action hero a run for their money in Hong Kong it's just a shame he did not make it big in Hollywood. If you like die hard then this movie is for you as the Director John woo once said this movie is better then a dozen Die Hards, Once you watch this you may notice that a lot of the action Camera work is copied in Woo's later films. Face Off, Hard Target etc. Please watch this movie and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Someone said it right OUTRAGEOUS!","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Insp. Tequila Yeun (Yun Fat Chow) is the best the HK Police Force has to offer. Tough, uncompromising and deadly when needs be (and in this movies needs be a lot). Your Asian version of John McClane. Hot on the trail of weapon smugglers he is a one man army. On the other side of the law is Tony (Tony Leung), the Triads hit-man. Sooner or later the lives of these two collide with explosive and extremely bloody consequences.However the plot really isn't that important and it's more of a vehicle to forward the fighting, shooting and filming some outrageous action sequences. It's best not even to focus on the script, because some of the stuff done by the baddies as well as the coppers reeks of stupidity and incompetence. Human emotions and reasoning are serviced us few and far between and the end sequence entailing a no-holds-barred shoot 'em up at a hospital involving kids, babies and crippled doesn't seem to realistic.Nonetheless it's a real entertaining watch and the two leads are a very likable duo. Maybe not as classic and great as many would like to hold this movie, but it certainly was breakthrough in the intensity of action put forth on the screen. If you don't mind movies in which you can seemingly shoot hundreds of times from one gun without reloading and love over-the-top action you will be enthralled. I just couldn't throat down some of the script, hence my stubborn vote. "},{"Title":"Dirty Hari.","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Body count a kajillion.Chow Yun-Fat is Inspector Tequila Yuen. He's a cop who's been in hot water so long, he's HARD BOILED. Or maybe it's cos his face is egg-shaped.He's on the trail of a gun smuggler crime boss, Johnny Wong (Anthony Wong Chau-Sang, who has the misfortune to look like Jonathan Silverman), but Wong is careful not to get busted doing anything wrong (except looking like Jonathan Silverman - and God knows, that's its own punishment).Before he moved to America and became Ang Lee without the gravitas, John Woo directed HARD BOILED, the last of his Chinese gangster flicks and the pinnacle of what made John Woo John Woo; an homage to samurai, cops, westerns, and Pretty Orange Explosions. He also co-writes (with Barry Wong and Gordon Chan) and makes a cameo as club-owner Mr. Woo (ha!).HARD BOILED's first scene, the teahouse shootout, is like an explosion in a fireworks factory. Staging gun battles like this is Woo's forte, and there are probably way too many gun battles like this in this film alone - bullets and blood and mayhem and Chinese stuntmen overacting. Tequila's partner is killed in this fracas. So Tequila is also out for payback. His methods remind us of one Mr. Callahan from San Francisco.A complex, touching story is interwoven with Tequila's, that of young undercover cop Tony (Tony Leung Chiu Wai) in Silverman's gang, who must betray his old boss to serve Silverman. Both decisions are wrong and his head would explode in ethical overload if it weren't for being able to bitch to Tequila like a high maintenance girlfriend when they're both trapped in a hospital basement full of - what else? - illegal guns.The action scenes are staged with the frenetic creativity that has come to define Woo, and some of the standoffs are magnificent. We can see the samurai influences - except with guns instead of katanas - in the scene where the hardest of Silverman's cop-killers, who is against the killing of innocent hospital patients, confronts Tony with hospital patients between them. Both the killer and Tony lower their weapons, eyes locked on each other while the patients scurry for cover. Then the gunfight continues.But a note to Chinese stuntmen it would look a lot more authentic if you would stop flailing around like salmon being electrocuted when you're being shot. Just die. And remember how the stars of the movie dodge bullets duck and roll in slow motion - even if you're ducking and rolling in slow motion across the line of fire.There is a stupid scene in the hospital where babies are being taken out of the nursery by hand when they could easily be wheeled out in their little cots; then another stupid scene where Tequila and his girlfriend (Teresa Mo) are putting cotton in all the babies' ears to block the shootout noise.The payoff for this idiotic scene is an iconic scene - Tequila with a babe in arms, shooting his way out of the hospital; emulated ten years later by Clive Owen in SHOOT EM UP (2002).Every time I chide John Woo, it pertains to his post-Chinese period, where he simultaneously glossied and sullied his style with overwrought Hollywood glambusters like BROKEN ARROW, FACE/OFF and MISSION IMPOSSIBLE II; merely copycatting American bombast rather than honing his own raw thunder. HARD BOILED's insane body count and outlandish action may be an indication that Woo was chomping at the bit to BE Americanized all along. "},{"Title":"Hard Boiled","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has to be by far one of the best foreign action, if not the best action film I've seen. The shoot outs, explosions, chases coupled with some somber moments come together to make for a great movie. The scene where Tony drives the red convertible on the expressway reeked of coolness. The music just made it even better. But the following scene when he stalks into the library was even better. The lighting and the music just added to his character's persona. The scenes with the Tequila playing in the jazz band adds some depth to his character. It's something you don't see in an action flick. And with the level of violence in this movie. The added depth makes the characters more realistic. "},{"Title":"The Best Action Movie - Ever !!","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the most awesome Hong Kong movie ever produced, and possibly the best action film ever made, Hard Boiled has all the right talent where they're supposed to be. Chow Yun Fat looks great in this movie as he usually does in all of his John Woo movies. Supporting casts are great and the visuals are beautiful. What more can you ask from a movie ? But wait 'till you see the action ! You've got to see this movie to believe it, but this probably is the best action movie ever made, all the way to its fantastic ending.Possibly the best movie John Woo has ever made. The story, the characters, and the details that went into this movie all works, and you're treated to the greatest action sequences to grace the silver screen.If you never seen this movie, you owe it to yourself to see it. "},{"Title":"John Woo turns it up to eleven.","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you want action then this is the film for you. John Woo is at his peak before moving to Hollywood and toning things down.Chow Yun Fat plays inspector Tequila Yuen of the Royal Hong Kong Police Force who is investigated gun smuggling amongst the local Triads. His partner is killed in an opening gunfight in a tea house when they interrupt a gun deal. This opening scene is just a taster of what is to come, each gun fight is bigger than the one before; the final confrontation is more of a battle than a mere gun fight as Tequila and Tony, an undercover cop, battle against the psychopathic Johnny and his henchmen.Like most action films one has to suspend one's disbelief as people shot accurately while driving motor bikes or diving through the air, and guns don't run our of ammunition as often as they should. Unlike most western action films our heroes aren't bullet proof and the largest death toll isn't amongst evil henchmen but is instead innocent bystanders either caught in the crossfire or killed in cold blood by Johnny and his men. Another difference is that our hero seems to be an ordinary man neither a muscle-bound hulk nor a martial arts expert.The action is all brilliantly choreographed as one would expect from a John Woo film and the acting seemed good through out, especially from Chow Yun Fat and Tony Leung in the two lead roles. This review was based on watching the film in Cantonese with English subtitles. "},{"Title":"Awesome action film","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is one of the many John Woo/Chow Yun Fat collaboration movies.The other ones are Better Tomorrow 1 & 2 and The Killer.These movies are harder to find on DVD than Hard Boiled.I saw Hard Boiled on youtube a few months ago and bought the DVD a few days ago.This movie is awesome! While I liked The Killer a bit more because that film mixed awesome action scenes with drama and a better storyline.I thought Hard Boiled got a bit confusing at times and the plot could have been a bit better.But as an action movie, this film is spectacular.The shootouts are just amazing, the slow-motion works very well.It's also fairly violent and bloody.This film has influenced other works such as the video game Max Payne and plenty of other action films.The film itself had a video game sequel entitled Stranglehold.Overall an excellent action movie that is worth watching if you have not seen it.Hopefully they will re-release the other Woo films on DVD such as The Killer and Bullet In The Head. "},{"Title":"Bodycountastic stylised action thriller","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very violent movie but if you can cope with that it's also rather wonderful. An undercover cop thriller, the movie's greatest asset are the five or so grand-scale, meticulously choreographed and beautifully filmed action sequences - the last being the most preposterous but most affecting, bringing apocalypse to a working hospital. John Woo casts his signature in bronze here wistful slo-mo, romantic overlay which borders on magic realism and melodramatic music. James Leung's production design is modern and exciting and makes the glossy most of a considerable budget.Yun-Fat Chow moved on to become a Hollywood star on the back of his association with John Woo, a passage in which Hard Boiled (its western title) was instrumental. He's terrific in this film, slightly laconic compared with the rest of the cast, setting him apart and making him cool. Tony Leung Chiu Wai (Tony) is arguably the better actor of the two male leads and has gone on to make better films but works perfectly with Yun-Fat. One to see on its own terms. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best action film of all time","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard-Boiled is without a doubt one of the top 10 best action films of all times with it's slow motion, over-the-top violence and the unlimited ammo that the characters get. Though it's not John woo's best film it does lack in a couple of minor areas and unlike most of John Woo flicks his films always has subplots and twist in his films but in this film it's straight-forward and not all the characters are well-developed. but never less with it's action pack sets, A breakneck pacing, and solid acting just sit back and enjoy.The film is about A cop name Tequila a honest, hard-boiled cop who witness his partner get killed in a teahouse shootout started by triads and wants nothing but to bring justice to avenge his' partner's death.he gets closer and closer into bringing the triads down but finds out that an undercover cop name Alan, who is working as hit-man for the triads is in his way and is afraid that Tequila might bust his cover as a triad.Eventually Tequila and Alan finally become friends and work together to bust down Johnny Wong, A psychotic triad boss who trusts Alan and starting to have his doubts about him.eventually Tequila and Alan are in middle of a gun-battle inside a hospital where Johnny has a stash of guns hidden and now Tequila and Alan must work together in order to bring Johnny down.Overall, the plot is straight-forward and far from confusion as it starts off from the teahouse shootout, to the warehouse shootout and a climatic 30 minute hospital shootout that has some of the most insane shootout you'll ever see in a film from Tequila sliding down a stairail to shoot down a couple of guys.or in the warehouse where tequila explodes a motorcycle in mid-air to be honest the's so much stuff I don't even know it might fit in this review.though the film lacks in character development.Tequila is your straight-forward, hard-boiled, dirty harry type of cop who only wants to bring justice but not much is known about though it would have been nice if he was a bit developed.To be honest Alan is the most developed of the two.He has regrets of what he does as a cop and a killer.the fact he's lonely and isolated from the world and has to kill people just not to blow his cover and it's people he cares about and it makes him crazy and angry inside as well.as for the acting it's solid and enjoyable to watch as everyone does a great job of the roles there given.Chow-Yun Fat gives a solid performance as Tequila usually he would play charming, charisma characters, but he does well playing the hard-boiled cop.But when it's all said and done Tony Leung steals the show as Alan.He plays the character with a charm and always on point with the role.But what makes him stand out is his range of emotion.At one point he could smiling, two seconds later he has a mean look on his face that makes it so realistic overall I give Kudos to Tony Leung as Alan.past the leads Anthony Wong as Johnny Wong is not bad but if his character wasn't so cartoonist he would of gave a better performance.Overall Great film I recommend to anyone out there go get it. "},{"Title":"John Woo proved the Asians can stick it to any Hollywood action auteur","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning Loose cannon, unorthodox Insp. Yeun (Chow Yun Fat) goes on the trail of the criminal who killed his partner in a Hong Kong tea house. As he does, an un-named Triad killer has arrived in the city and has taken out a top mob boss. But as Yeun goes on his trail, bumping heads with key gang figures and official bureaucracy on the way, he finds everything is not quite as it seems.At just over two hours, Woo has taken, in one of his more renowned Hong Kong efforts, a rather lengthy amount of time to tell such a simple and formulaic story, but he's truly made his mark with Hard Boiled.Dubbed in the English release, giving it the feel of one of Bruce Lee's movies from the 1970s, this is still a prime piece of Oriental action cinema, which makes it clear why Woo got noticed in Hollywood. He has staged some absolutely mesmerizing gun battle sequences, including a mind blowing final showdown in a hospital which is so wild, action packed and crazy it's unlike anything you've ever seen before. Woo's niche seems to be with guns, an eccentric style that got carried over to Hollywood with what looks more like missiles than bullets firing out the chambers. Surprisingly, for a Hong Kong director, not so much with martial arts but with this wild gunplay on display who cares about that? He has an affable hero in Fat, who toddles along delivering the requisite action hero goods.Before the big studio heads of California maybe started to mess with his style a little, here's a prime slice of Woo in his native land, comfortable with the style that suits him best and served him well. **** "}{"Title":"Bullet Dodging Fun","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Inspector Yuen is truly one of the most remarkable cops in the history of film. His job is to kill bad guys, not arrest or attempt to arrest, but to kill, preferably while diving through the air dodging bullets and firing two guns. The movie is pure fantasy, and I'm okay with that. If you want exciting action, look no further.His partner Alan has the same qualities as Yuen, and together they are a force to be reckoned with. In the climatic battle, which takes place in a hospital, they eliminate scores of bad guys, who have trouble shooting moving targets, unless they are unarmed (like hospital staff and patients).John Woo, who has directed such gems as The Killer, Face/Off and Mission Impossible 2, really has mastered the action movie and is one of my top 75 directors of all time. Hard Boiled is one of his early Hong Kong flicks, so it is subtitled, but the plot is good and easy to follow. But it is refreshing to watch a cop movie without all that police procedure and jurisdiction B.S. "},{"Title":"Guns, grenades, blood and bullets!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chock full of John Woo's trademark shootouts, OTT action sequences and morally ambiguous characters, Hard Boiled is a wet-dream-come-true for fans of heroic bloodshed movies. Starting off with a crazy bullet riddled teahouse sequence in which innocent bystanders are filled with holes by kill-crazy gangsters, Woo quickly shows that he is out to up the ante on previous efforts, The Killer and A Better Tomorrow. By the squib-tastic blood-drenched and very explosive finale, there are hundreds laying dead or wounded amongst the debris.Tequila (Woo regular Chow Yun Fat) is a tough cop on the trail of evil gun-runner Johnny Wong (the brilliant Anthony Wong), who keeps his stash of weapons hidden in a secret fortified location. In order to discover the whereabouts of this well guarded armoury, and successfully infiltrate it, Tequila teams up with an undercover agent who has been so long in the field that he is almost indistinguishable, morally, from those he seeks to bring to justice.Well staged, albeit incredibly unrealistic (due to the hero's incredible kill rate and inexhaustible supply of bullets), action scenes proliferate the film until the inevitable showdown between the good guys and the baddies (which takes place in a hospital); here, Woo pulls out all the stops, employing every trick in his book to wow his audience. Sure, things get a bit silly at times (Tequila's jump from a window, holding on to a piece of cable whilst cradling a newborn baby is particularly daft) but for sheer spectacle, you can't go wrong.I've been following Woo's work since the late-80s and, although I feel that he occasionally overuses his trademark style a tad (I think an action scene can work just as effectively when played out at normal speed, and that slo-mo can sometimes interrupt the flow of a sequence rather than enhance it), I recognise the huge impact and influence he has had on the action genre, and recommend Hard Boiled wholeheartedly to those who like their movies loud, relentlessly violent and completely bonkers. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" HARD-BOILED is another action packed film from the worlds most popular action director, John Woo. From beginning to end, it's filled with a lot of energy, explosions, slow motion, bullets and a higher body count than THE KILLER and ROBOCOP put together.Instead of casting Chow Yun-Fat as a gangster, John Woo casts him as a 'hard boiled' undercover cop who teams up with another undercover cop who must both take down a gang of Triad gun smugglers.HARD-BOILED is great fun. After watching this film, you'll be thinking no wonder why John Woo and Chow Yun-Fat are idled by so many action film lovers.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"polyphonic action","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Undoubtedly this film is diamond .Action of the movie is clear rhythm with shots like drum (Robert Rodrigues can had the rest EL MARIACHI).Stunts looks is very dangerous .Shotguns take turns to explosions then to pure fire. But mister Woo knows poetry and philosophy not less than simply action formula .There is total fight inside of main characters.Love triangle (Fat-Mo-Leung) and especially ending of the movie realized at Film Noir style.This film of course about friendship.But honor is more higher.To been killed is the only way for the cop(to stay the honest).The personal file will be burned and paper birds will set free .Remain the after-taste of bitter and beautiful white sailing ship for the last trip to the Pole where always Day and no Night. Must see! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unfortunately when I went to buy this I accidentally picked up a dubbed version. And the dubbing was terrible. But it didn't matter. You would not be watching this film for the dialogue. But for the shoot outs.And the shoot outs are brilliant and what make this film. Like most John Woo films they are very balletic and very violent. And everyone is great. But its the last hour that makes this so brilliant. As there is a very long shoot out in a hospital which puts patients and even babies in the line of fire.Also it was great to see Chow Yun Fat playing a good guy and not a anti-hero. And for John Woo to make a Hong Kong film where the Police are the heroes. "},{"Title":"Gun Porn","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three years ago I saw a film called The Matrix, and I was blown away, I thought it was the greatest action movie of all time.Two years later, and I was browsing around my local video store, and I came across the world cinema section, this area was in the dark corner of the store and I'd never really been into this section so I didn't now what to expect. As I flicked through the DVDs on the shelf, I saw films that I never knew existed, then I came across a film that kind of stood out to me.On the cover to this film was a oriental guy, clad in army or police gear and with one arm is clutching a huge shotgun and the other arm a half naked baby.I didn't have a clue what this film was or about, I didn't know who Chow Yun-Fat or John Woo was. I couldn't have let this film slip, I was compelled to see what this film was all about.So in one hand is The Matrix Revolutions and the other this crazy action film I'd never heard of, I only had enough money for one DVD, do I made the brave, but hugely smart decision in getting Hard-Boiled.Two years later and Hard-boiled is one of my all time favourite films, and now when I watch The Matrix, the action scenes don't impress me, when I want to see action, I go for Hard-Boiled every time.The film opens with a shoot out so daring, so dramatic, that most western action movie directors would have used this kind of action for the climatic end scene.And it just gets better.The drugs factory scene is also equally amazing, but on a larger scale.But nothing, not anything compares to the hospital shootout, its truly the greatest scene of action the cinema has ever scene, one word - mayhem.What John Woo does is take the forever old shootout, and make it poetic, ballet like and artistic - but still brutally violent, he, like Sam Peckinpah, is the greatest action movie directer, period. He and Chow Yun-Fat need to reunite and make more amazing films.What this film has also done is introduce me to the daring but brilliant world cinema and after I took this DVD back to the rental store, I took out La Haine, The Killer and The Eye, which are all great as well.This film does not get half of the credit it truly deserves, the only film that rivals this in action stakes is The Killer, You can keep The Matrix. Forget about John Mclane and Neo, I'm fighting alongside Tequila and Mr Woo. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Movie","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is by far my favorite John Woo film. Chow Yun-Fat gives an excellent performance as hard-boiled Tequila. This movie has better, more explosive gun battles than any other action film! While the storyline isn't that creative, and the relationship between Tequila and Teresa Chang is not developed, it is one hell of an action film. The special effects are great, and the actions sequences can only be described in one word - art. Chow is a beautiful man, but this is nicely complemented by Tony Leung Chiu Wai, who plays Alan. Mad Dog, played by Philip Kwok, is a great and evil-looking villain. As with most of John Woo's films, there is a gratuitous amount of explosions and violence, enough to satisfy even the most voracious of appetites! "},{"Title":"this is what i mean by action!!!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is an absolutely bloodthirsty action cinematic that will blow you away the first 5 minutes sees one cop take on 2 gangs of arms dealers at a teahouse. There's plates being smashed, tables being collapsed, people shooting each other (even the cooks get shot!) Then that action sequence finishes only to be bettered by the next, and when that one finishes, prepare for the half hours worth of gun-crazy destruction for the finale that tops the violence and lunacy of the 2 previous shootouts. Those easily offended beware even though it is Japanese, the film contains very strong language. The best ever action film! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A true fan favorite, and must-see for action fans","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is not John Woo's best work. But it was never meant to be. It is, however, the ultimate embodiment of John Woo's style of film-making. What more could you ask for in a cop story? Officers face off with criminals in massive gunfights, fellow cops are killed on the jobs, undercover cops tread through dangerous waters, with double-crossing abound, and a final, bloody climax with bullets and bodies flying. Not only that, but strong performances from the lead actors that give us the kind of characters we want.The main appeal of this movie is its front man, the legendary Chow Yun-Fat. He's in top form in this movie. You can't help but love it when he's got two guns in his hands, and he's jumping all over the place while blowing away goons. He's the master when it comes to this. And, not only is he in top action form, but he also finds time to throw in a joke or two, giving us the Martin Riggs-of-Lethal Weapon character feel, if only for a few scenes. His character is a musician on the side, with everyday problems of his own, like staying in a bar while trying to find a place to live, and struggling with his current love life. He looks like a normal guy off the job. But on the job, he's Supercop. Whether he's sliding down the rail of a stairwell while blazing two pistols, blowing away baddies with a 12-guage as they fly in on motorcycles, or standing face-to-face with his adversary in the traditional Mexican standoff, he's a joy to watch for the action fan.The other actors give decent performances at least. Tony Leung, however, gives a performance equal to, if not better than, that of Yun-Fat. Being in his character's position takes enormous tolls on ones' personality. He's great as the undercover cop trying to get his man. Also, it's very appealing to see the star of In the Mood for Love, which won him a Best Actor award at Cannes, leap through the air with two guns blazing. This is by far one of Leung's more enjoyable films.The film, as I said earlier, is not flawless. Some elements of the story were not played out right. The script is average at best, and some parts of it happened to fast without things being fully played out (to go into more detail would make this a spoiler). But all that aside, there's nothing wrong with this movie. Some people have made the enormous mistake of believing that Woo portrays a lack of respect for human life, since innocent civilians are gunned down in an action-style fashion. They obviously haven't heard Woo's commentary on the DVD, or know much about how he thinks. Why do you think every single on-screen death is filmed in slow-motion? Because every man is given a hero's death! When innocent people are killed in the film, it is portrayed utter contempt for human life by the criminals. This film was made as an enormous tribute to the Hong Kong police, who have dealt with similar situations as in this film many times. Hong Kong was, for a long time, the crime capital of the world. After living there for fifty-plus years, Woo knows what he's doing. For instance, when you watch the film, you may ask yourself, Why did those criminals just kill all those innocent people? That's exactly what Woo is asking.Overall, we get a great action film. Not in the ranks of masterpieces like Die Hard, Aliens, The Matrix, or even Woo's The Killer. But it defines the term Fan Favorite, and is one hell of a time if you're an action fan. It wasn't meant to be Woo's best; it was his farewell to Hong Kong before heading overseas. Not as much focus went into it as with The Killer or Bullet in the Head. He just wanted to give his fans one more feature in his trademark style to enjoy. And he succeeded greatly. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had wanted to see this for ages, when I finally saw it I was amazed!Some of the best action scenes ever! Non stop, original and explosive! That's the thing that will probably stand out the most. But that's not all! It's not all action, there is a smart story as well, which is not commonplace in a lot of action movies. The actors do a good job as well.Once you've seen this movie you'll probably agree with me that it's one of the best action movies you've seen. John Woo does a fantastic job here as he usually does in his other movies. Make sure you see it!Some other similar John Woo movies are A Better Tomorrow and The Killer which you are bound to enjoy if liked this. "}{"Title":"Infernal Affairs, with more guns!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has got to be John Woo's finest film. Chow Yun Fat and Tony Leung are at their best. The storyline of the film itself is great (a cross between Infernal Affairs and Bad Boys 2) but the most excitement comes from the adrenalin filled 'set-pieces' if you can call them that - they make up most of the film! Usually guns and explosions just mask a rubbish film, but this is not the case for Hard Boiled. OK, it may not be entirely accurate when it comes to shootouts (endless bullets, unbelievable inaccurate aim and jumping through windows, etc), but it is a joy to watch. This is definitely a film that you can watch again and again without ever getting bored. Think of Mission Impossible, with a better storyline and far more pyrotechnics. "},{"Title":"Best action","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love Hard Boiled, the developing of the characters scenes (mostly Tony's) are very powerful and a great trait of John Woo's Hong Kong action movies. Those scenes are good, however, the action scenes are what give this a 10. John Woo is the master of gun-play. My favourite parts are Chow's classic stair slide and the hospital gun fight where Tequila and Tony face off with Mad Dog. When Mad Dog rides into the warehouse and dismounts his bike (and kills) is also stylish and noteworthy. Out of the three John Woo movies I have (A Better Tomorrow-excellent; Once A Thief-meh and Hard Boiled), I'd have to put ABT slightly ahead of this one because of the storyline and Mark's restaurant assassination is my all time favourite gun scene. This may change though, because I have ordered the The Killer/Bullet In The Head set and am waiting for it to arrive (it went out of stock 2 days after I ordered it, so I have to wait until they restock (fu ckers). However, for pure action, Hard Boiled is the king. "},{"Title":"One of Woo's best films","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo's 'Hard Boiled' is an amazing movie to say the least. His gunfights are incredibly well-paced and are extremely breathtaking with ingenious multiple camera angles and cinematography. The storyline is a little simplistic, but fun and realistic in a streamlined fashion. Tony Leung Chiu Wai and Chow Yun-Fat give some of their best performances as well. Especially Tony Leung who had been acting since around 1982 (mostly in TV series) gives superb acting and emotion in strongest scenes in the movie. And Chow Yun-Fat who has been in many of John Woo's films found himself in a starring role once again and he as always does a great job and shows it once again in this film.One problem though and it isn't the movie itself... is the fact that many of John Woo's films have been going out of print in the last year or so. Criterion Collection and normal versions of films are disappearing and it is hard to tell why. Find yourself a good copy of the Criterion Collection of Hard Boiled on Ebay, it is worth it, believe me. Also look for John Woo's 'A Better Tomorrow.' (Avoid it's sequels though) John Woo was a great director with a knack for some of the best action sequences this world has ever seen. Much of what is now considered action is based on his work and John Woo's work is based highly on Sam Peckinpah from the sixties. Discover what was John Woo before he sold out to the American Film Industry and you'll be very pleased. Take my word for it. "},{"Title":"The consummate action movie","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo knows how to make action movies. In this, we get treated to such extreme levels of violence and firepower, that no action fan could complain that they were shortchanged. I have never seen a film with anywhere near as many guns going off left, right and centre. Hard Boiled is a cinematic tour-de-force. The story is fine, the acting OK and the production values not bad, but what makes this such a good film is the action. The end of the film consists of a staggering display of shooting, a must for any true action fan. I'm sure that if I spoke Chinese I'd enjoy the film more, but even with the appallingly poor English dubbing on the DVD, this is still a great film. Woo needs to get back to this level of quality for his future movies. The killjoys who advocate censorship would have a field day with this picture, so it ain't for everyone. If you wanna see plenty of cops and gangsters doing battle, this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Action as it should be","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, this movie is my favorite gunplay movie. To me, Hard-Boiled represents action as it should be (I mean, when you look up the dictionary and find 'ACTION', there should be picture of Hard-boiled there). No stupid drama (well, there's some, but not much), no CGI (gosh, I hate CGI), and MASSIVE on-screen body count (about 250)! I mean, this movie is 100% slaughter from beginning to end! You need to see the action to believe it! This movie is unique when it comes to action, the finale nearly 45 minutes long! Needless to say, this movie isn't for children. This is one of the most violent movies in history, though the shootings are not very graphic. By graphic, I mean no heads explode or guts spread all over. But the missing gore is replaced with huge amounts of cannon-fodder and blood. The plot is about cops and baddies and.... blah blah blah, you don't watch this movie, because of the plot! So, it is really unnecessary to explain it. Though, I must mention that Chow Yun Fat stars this one (surprise surprise!!), and he, as always, is great. The coolest man in the universe. Anthony Wong plays the bad guy here. The bad guy character is so over-the-top, that no other actor could play that part, than the greatest psychopath of them all (you understand this if you have seen Ebola Syndrome or Untold Story). I found out that my friends didn't like this movie at all, so i'm gonna put up a little FAQ 1) Nitpickers STAY AWAY!! In this movie, unlimited ammo is a normal thing and one out of thousand bullets hits the target. 2) It is very important to turn of your brains for this one. This is pure fun, no brain function needed! 3) Some kind of 'Violence Toleration' is necessary. So, if you think that Face/off was bad, then.... uh.. this is not for you.So, if you enjoy REAL action (Jerry Bruckheimer-fans get lost) then this one is worth the buy. So hunt it down and ENJOY the greatest action movie ever filmed!!!! "},{"Title":"Unbeatable","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Undeniably the coolest and most elaborate action film of all time. This is the kind of movie that I as a movie buff could talk about for hours. There is so much to this film that makes it great, it's hard to begin. One reason why this is such a great movie is the drama. John Woo and Chow Yun Fat do great collaborations and we get some of the best action drama the genre has to offer. Chow Un Fat and the co-star (whose name I can't spell) both play cops that walk a very thin line between good and evil. Sometimes they lose sight of what it is they are doing on the force but have a compassion to make society a better place and to do so, they'll do whatever they have to do. The movie has one great action scene after another. The movie is non-stop for if it's not an action scene, it's a great character scene. And action movies aren't made like this anymore. In the film's climax we get an amazing sequence in which the two heroes must save a maternity ward of new borns while engaged in a heavy gun fight with the enemy. It's a scene that is timeless and breathe taking. Hard Boiled is one of the best movies of it's kind and no one should be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Yes yes yes yes!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film shortly after i saw John Woo's 'The Killer'and all of his other bloodshed movies thinking nothing could ever top 'killer'. Then i notice this on the shelf in HMV and could not believe i had not seen it yet, i go home i watch it and oh my god! is this the most violent and coolest movie ever made or what!i mean the scenes at the hospital towards the end and the warehouse scene where Chow Yun- Fat comes down on the skylight and all the guys on the motorbikes come in! those have to be the greatest action shoot em up moments ever put on screen. This has to be Woo's finest work to date, i also heard this was his last film in china before going of to America. Well thank god Woo and Chow left their 'De Niro and Scorsese' relationship with something as beautiful as this. An easy 11 out of 10!!! shame Hard Boiled 2 did not work out so well! "},{"Title":"The Best Action Film Of All Time","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not one to hype so take my words seriously. This is clearly one of John Woos best films. The action and directing are flawless and the performances are right on the mark. But then again when is Chow Yun Fat not the coolest man on earth. The story and characters is OK not as complex as his other masterpiece The Killer.Also if your not familiar with John Woo. There is quite a few moments of melodrama but other than that. There's no denying the incredible Bullet Ballet at the end in the infamous hospital shootout. Ranking up there with Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch as the greatest shootouts of all time. I said it to a lot of people John Woo ruined American action cinema for me. Movies like T2 The Rock every Die Hard even The Matrix(which Hardboiled is a heavy influence on). All pale in comparison to the sheer white knuckle adrenaline-pumping action that follows in Hardboiled. So if you had the rest and ready for the best action fans pickup Hardboiled I guarantee you won't regret it. Also Although its not very graphic so don't get scared off you really only see squibs. It holds the record for the highest on screen body count at 230. Some say its excessive other say its just great Woo.  "},{"Title":"Ballet for Bullets","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is John Woo's second best film, next to The Killer.  Chow Yun-Fat exudes charisma as Tequila, the jazz playing cop.  But nobody pays any attention to that.  They just talk about the violence of the HK film scene of the early nineties.  They say the violence is senseless. I couldn't disagree more.  AMERICAN movie violence is senseless. John Woo's violence is merited.  For instance, in the last sequencein Hard-Boiled, the villain takes over a hospital, shooting innocent staff and patients.  He plans to blow the building up, even with babies still packing the maternity ward.  I WANTED Tequila to blow his headoff.  When he picks up the last baby to carry him out of the window, there's a sweet shot of tenderness amidst the brutality that Woo executes like a master.  Few American action movie directors can dothat.  "},{"Title":"An action flick that definitely needs a look...","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This John Woo directed film is one of the best action movies I have seen in a long time. Back in 1997, I saw this movie in bits in pieces on HBO and I longed to get the DVD. A couple of years later and I stumbled across it and since, I have been showing it off to all of my friends in search of an adrenaline rush of a movie. One of Woo's best, a supreme shoot-um-up, and definitely a movie that needs recongniton from action movie fans everywhere! Oh, and in Terminator II, when Arnold walks into the mall with the shotgun in the rose box...James Cameron (director) stole that from this movie, as well as many other scenes. Just site back, relax, tell the kids to go to bed, and get all of your boyz together to take a look at this movie, they will thank you for it! "}{"Title":"Great, great movie","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest Hong Kong action movies I've seen, only surpassed by the Killer because Hard-Boiled lacks a convincing storyline.It makes for great action though, as John Woo will take you on a two-hour rollercoaster ride to an explosive ending.Also note the great long shot about 3/4 through the movie, showing that Woo isn't just an action specialist but also a gifted film-maker.8/10 "},{"Title":"Thoughts on Hard-Boiled - Insanely Violent, Well Made","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's amazing how much sheer violence John Woo managed to pack into this rough and quickpaced gangster film. And how many squibs, explosives and blanks the production must have consumed. I don't think I've ever seen a film before that more successfully wades through such a gratuitous amount of carnage without batting an eye. I didn't keep track, but I'm sure that at least 200 gangsters, cops, innocent bystanders, SWAT team members, doctors and hospital patients were gunned down mercilessly in the film. And yet none of them really matter, except for Chow Yun Fat's slain cop partner and the head villain in the end. Perhaps the silliest/most awful moment was when Fat's character was mowing down goons while carrying a baby in his arms (two cotton balls in the ears make the infant oblivious to the awful bloodshed of course) - the renegade cop apologizes to his child ward and wipes the spattered blood off of his gurgling sweet face. All in all, a fairly engaging action movie and despite the wanton destruction and lack of interest in the value of human life, Hard-Boiled is well written and directed. However, it doesn't have the soul or wit of Woo's earlier film The Killer, which I highly recommend.  "},{"Title":"bullet city 2","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just like woo's previous films the killer and a better tomorrow.  Just as much action. The movie is violent as they can get. They don't stop until the end as usual. This one has the most impressive shootout I've ever seen in a movie (Chinese and America combined). This movie is like a bomb under your toilet. It will blow your s(%t away! "},{"Title":"Just brilliant.","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alright, so there's not much plot or story to it - but then Hong Kong movies are famous for that shortcoming. Who needs them?Chow Yun Fat is brilliant, easily as good as 'The Killer'. The action is relentless, noisy, gripping and exciting. It must be good because Hollywood has stolen virtually every scene for later films. How many scenes have been recreated in Bruce Willis films?Shame is that John Woo's Hollywood efforts are very disappointing against the best of his Hong Kong films, the dire 'Hard Target' being a good case in point. 'Face/Off' is the exception.I love the film, especially the climax in the hospital - it has everything - and Tequila certainly has every character trait you want your hero to have.Brilliant. In a class of its own. "},{"Title":"Pure craziness","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I gave this film an 8 for the sheer nutsness factor.It's insane.If you like guns, explosions and mad deaths happening to millions of extras, watch this film, it cannot ever be boring because there's a death in practically every scene. It's great! "},{"Title":"Gung ho action in typical Woo style. Enough said.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not surprisingly, this John Woo Hong Kong hit has an instantly disposable plot and dialogue to match, but what it lacks in script it makes up for in action. These scenes are well choreographed and have a balletic feel to them, with Chow Yun Fat sliding down a banister while simultaneously firing the twin pistols being just one example. The cinematography is excellent, especially one steadicam shot in the hospital following our heroes from behind as they stalk the corridors shooting triads, which has a true arcade videogame shoot 'em up essence about it. Much of the gun play is over the top (Could Chow Yun Fat really take out a warehouse full of crooks with 3 gas grenades and a shotgun?) but that's what makes Hard Boiled so much more entertaining than western action films of the same era. "},{"Title":"Kudos...","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again, proof that you don't need a super polished script for a great movie.  I admit that the storyline wasn't the greatest, or existant, but the action more than made up for it.  This movie proof why John Woo is hailed as the best at creating action scenes.Although there are some things in the movie that just don't make sense, for example, random slow motion while advancing down the hall, this movie is definitely worth a rent.  8/10 "},{"Title":"another woo classic","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film is about a undercover police officer who is trying to take down a mobster with help from tequlia (yun fat)they try to him down. another classic from woo this was his last hong kong movie and his last real hardcore action movie woo has tryed to be good in hollywood but mi2 was just a bore it took a hour to get into it while this film took 5 minutes to get to the shootouts johns woos last best but face off was great too 10/10 "},{"Title":"Damn...what a movie!!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well theres notin much else to really say about this movie. Everything has already been said. Its my #1 favourite action movie. This is definately the best gun-fight movie you will ever see. If you haven't seen it, i suggest you go and buy or rent the DVD/Video now coz you will not be disappointed if youre an action fan. This one gets a perfect 10 out of 10 and it deserves notin less. Excellent movie!!  "},{"Title":"* * * *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat stars as Tequila a renegade cop who joins forces with an undercover cop (Tony Leung) to take down a mobster who has taken over a hospital. Hard Boiled is a dynamic action movie that has actionscenes so intense that even the best American action movies can't compare with the intensity. Indeed CYF and Tony Leung make an engaging pair and Hard Boiled makes for an excellent treat. "}{"Title":"Best pure action movie ever","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best pure action movie I have ever seen.  It doesn't fool around with excess characters or plot, it gets right to the point.  The gun battles are what made John Woo legendary.  If you think you have seen Woo at his best with his American films think again!  Nothing in action comes close to the hospital shootout at the end of this movie, nothing.  There isn't much comedy in the movie, which fans of the action genre often appreciate, but it's more then made up for in the hyper kinetic gun fights.  If you have seen the Replacement Killers or The Corrupter and wondered what all the hype about Chow Yun Fat was about, see this!  It is better then the Killer, but you might want to start with the Killer and advance to Hard-Boiled, which I feel is superior.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"The greatest action movie ever made","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo's HARD BOILED is by far the best action movie ever made. Forget the stuff he did here (BROKEN ARROW, HARD TARGET, FACE OFF, etc.) This movie makes DIE HARD look like a walk through Disney Land.The first time I saw this was on VHS and it was dubbed; clearly the wrong way to go. The DVD has the English subtitles and its the best way to see this movie. In addition to being John Woo's best film, this is also Chow Yun Fat's best movie (with A BETTER TOMORROW a close second.)HARD BOILED is a must see for all action fans. "},{"Title":"THE definitive action film","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just a load of Orientals shooting each other in spectacular real-time and slow motion, only the locations change. Oh, and why is freeze-fame used so often? The dubbing is atrocious, the choice of vocabulary and delivery verge on the comical.Perhaps action films should only involve Pierce Brosnan performing inane stunts with his pretty Aston Martin?  Personally, any HK Chow Yun Flat film is superior to a James Bond film.  (Ahem...Die Another Day? WTF?)If you have not seen this movie, WATCH IT NOW.  It is worth seeing just for the 2 minute continuous no-cut action scene in the hospital.  Chow Yun Fat gives one of the best performances of his career and Tony Leung Chiu Wai is excellent as the triad/undercover cop.  There isn't much of a story to talk about but if your looking for an award winning storyline, you are watching the wrong movie buddy; the final 45 minutes of action more than make up for it.  I have not seen a movie that has come close to Hard-Boiled's intensity and action in terms of gunplay;  if you have, let me know.  Unfortunately, ever since Chow Yun Fat and John Woo came to America, they have turned sterile.  MI2 and Bulletproof monk does not a good movie make.  Feel good watching a film that won't be equaled anytime soon.0.38's...ha...Give a man a gun, he thinks he's Superman, give him two, and hes God. "},{"Title":"An absolute MASTERPIECE","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You cannot comment this movie. It's the perfect John Woo 100% concentrate hyper-paced action and without all the pathetic scenes of his earlier movies. Slow motion dominates and is brought to the highest levels. Chow Yun Fat is excellent Terminator is a sissy compared to him! And wait for the final mess... wow... "},{"Title":"a simple question?","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  why doesn't John Woo make good films anymore? after the pathetic tripe that was Windtalkers i have given up on the man...... money is the route to all evil and in John Woo's case it has been the route to his talent. Hollywood is corrupt. Case for the prosecution, his American movie career. exhibit A, best English language film hard target, and this is P#*s poor. i rest my case. Defence if you will.    "},{"Title":"Spectacular gunplay and violence","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Without a doubt John Woo's most spectacular of his Hong Kong films, this is the one that got him noticed by Hollywood. Personally I think he's done better (The Killer, Bullet in the Head) but there's something incredibly ballsy about the film. It's probably the steadicam shots that following our two heroes as they blaze their way through the hospital which seem to go on forever. Who else would do such a thing? Let's hope Woo gets back to doing what he does best sometime.  "},{"Title":"Only Woo film I like","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the only John Woo film that I like.  Personally I think that John Woo is responsible for the decline of western cinema, he is the pioneer of style over substance.  But for some reason, I actually like this film.  Yes, there is an obscene amount of bullets flying that don't kill anyone or destroy anything as in all Woo movies, but in this one, it seems okay.  The ending is a little thin, but what do you expect coming from Woo.  Chow Yun Fat is always a treat to watch, because he is such a great actor, I just wish he would stop doing films for Woo.  Anyway, this is definatly for any Woo fan, and if you are, I question your judgement, and even for those who don't like Woo (I can't stand him , could you guess) try this one out, you might like it. "},{"Title":"A milestone","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard as it might be considering his lackluster stateside output, there was a time when the name John Woo would drive action fans out of their minds the Honk Kong bad boy was synonymous with ultra-violence, bullet blizzards and strangely inserted doves. Hard Boiled is the culmination of his, for lack of a better word, art.After The Killers, are more highly regarded film and his mainstream international breakthrough, Woo raised the stakes to impossible levels with this tale of a cop and infiltrated gangster racing to destroy a hyper-violent drug-running gang, the chase building up to an epic hospital siege. Chow Yun Fat is back, and is this time joined by frequent Wong Kar Wai collaborator Tony Leung. They and the whole cast are in on the joke, and tackle their cliché roles with conviction and gusto, saving the entire ridiculous enterprise for parody.The point of a John Woo film is the action, violence choreographed and devised like a modern dance, something nobody anywhere else - or Woo himself after relocating to Hollywood for that matter - has quite managed to replicate since. Seeing this unique skill and vision applied to this quintessential buddy-crime movie is a real treat, and makes it a just as important an action milestone as Die Hard a few years earlier. "},{"Title":"Mad as a Hatter!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  23rd April 1992, the first day of my long awaited holiday to Hong Kong. I'm alone, 1000's of miles from home, very tired after the long flight. What should I do, go to my nice huge hotel bed, heck no, Cinema here I come. Hard Boiled is the movie I choose to see, I enjoyed The Killer so why not. Two hours later I was wide awake! What a MAD film, I need more! The bed won the arguement this time, but I'm glad that this was the first movie I ever saw in a Hong Kong cinema, it was everything I expected and more. This is another MUST SEE movie. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films to come out of Hong Kong","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HARD BOILED.  To many action fans, those words are the name of one oft the best action films of all time.  To me, HARD BOILED (originally titled Kwong Sau San Taam) is one of the greatest films of all time. One of the world's greatest living directors, John Woo (who also directed the masterpieces A BETTER TOMORROW and THE KILLER), has given us a marvelously crafted piece of work that, when taken a look at, is much like a painted masterpiece or a sewed work; it fits perfectly together.  From a great opening to the action-packed hospital finale, Hard Boiled will pick you up and only for a breath put you down.  The cast is also superb; especially Chow Yun Fat in one of his greatest roles as a die-hard cop teaming with an undercover cop (Tony Leung).  Everything here is superb. Without a doubt one of the greatest films to come out of Hong Kong and possibly one of the greatest films of all time. ********8.0/10.0 "}{"Title":"The Daddy of action films","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Note - this is a review of the original subtitled version).If you're a fan of Hong Kong action films, you know what this belated review is going to say. If you're not, and you're looking for an introduction to the genre, watch something else. Why? Because apart from one or two contenders, this one leaves all other action films for dead, and if you watch it first, all the others you watch after it will be a disappointment.In fact, the uninitiated may find it too much to take at first viewing. The ludicrous body count in the first ten minutes is indicative of what is to follow, and the whole in-yer-face bulletfest ends in a shootout that occupies over half an hour of screen time. In the hands of lesser film-makers this would be too much of a good thing, but not here.Chow Yun Fat, apart from being a brilliant actor, is simply the coolest packer of guns on celluloid. Tony Leung, so far (criminally) hardly known outside HK, is an even better actor, and the two make one hell of a team. And though you wouldn't know it from the mainstream tat he's churning out now, John Woo used to be the foremost action director in Hong Kong before he packed his bags and legged it to Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"hugely influential, entertaining, but too much at a time","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo is a true artist, and he lets it show in this movie.  More than any other contemporary action director, he paid real attention to the style of gun battles.  And that's what this movie is lots and lots of gun battles. There is nothing else.  Just bullets flying, people dying.  So after you get over how massively influential and incredibly cool this movie was and is, you might feel a little hollow from the relentless nature of the violence. It wasn't quite as bad as Natural Born Killers in this respect, but I still felt slightly queasy after two hours.  But maybe it's good that extreme violence can still shock me... "},{"Title":"Simply the best action film ever made","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This ultra speed violence film is my favourite. Just perfect! There is not another director with the talent to make an action film like John Woo. But, even John woo won´t can make a movie like this another time. Everything works perfect. I have seen the film twenty times at least, and I´m not tired! The first scene in the birds in cage place is really incredible. And the last half hour goes upper and upper every time and you can´t believe it. The rhythm is like a symphony with an incredible tour de force end. You can see in this movie the best of Sergio Leone, Sam Peckimpah or Jean Pierre Melville. I know that many people prefer The Killer, but I think this is because it was first. Lashou shentan is better than this very good film. I repeat the best violence film in the history. I have no doubt to vote with 10. "},{"Title":"The best action movie ever made.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. This is heaven for an action movie fan. From start to finish, bullets flying everywhere, bodies dropping everywhere, nobody ever reloads, and there is almost no plot.Of course this wouldn't work except the action scenes that chew up the majority of the screen time are so brilliantly choreographed and filmed that you forget all about silly things like plot and realism. John Woo is a genius, and this film shows the true extent of that. Hollywood action directors think that someone walking into a room and shooting someone else is a throwaway scene that's barely worth the time to capture on film. They only give their attention to the big special effects scenes. John Woo sees the potential in EVERY scene and films to bring the maximum amount of excitement from everything. "},{"Title":"This is the greatest","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the greatest action film ever made.  I have been reading other people comments, and most agree, although some people don't seem to understand.  They say it is bad because the dubbing is bad (that is the crappy American company that sold you the movies fault, not the movie) or the transfer was bad.  Some say it is too violent.  Some say the acting is bad.  Some said there is not plot.  Maybe you watched the wrong movie. No plot?  An arms dealer housing his arsenal in a hospital.  That is a plot. Maybe you should go back to school.This isn't the greatest action movie ever simply because every action seen tops the other and they are so superbly choreographed.  It is cinematically beautiful, Philip Kwok of Five Deadly Venoms fames choreography and role is superb.  The Production Design is great, it blends so seemlessly with the lighting.  And it features the greatest shot in action cinema history, hands down.  The 3 minute shot to Chow and Tony traversing the halls, going up the elevator and killing numerous bad guys along the way is incredible. There has never been anything like it.To all those non believers out there, if you like action movies, you will love this.  IF you don't like it, they you are fooling yourself into thinking you are an action movie fan.  Now, if only John Woo could make another movie like this instead of the godawful Windtalkers. "},{"Title":"Wicked movie","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though, I did not have the pleasure of watch this movie with the sound on because it was 3am, I was able to follow along with the subtitles.I only watched about 3/4 of this movie but that was enough to blow me away!!!Not only was the idea in this movie unique, but it had lots of great action. Not really that gory though.  The best part was that it was pretty hilarious.  There is pretty much swearing in this movie, but it's mostly not directed at people.This is a great movie...You should really go see it!!! "},{"Title":"Wicked movie","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though, I did not have the pleasure of watch this movie with the sound on because it was 3am, I was able to follow along with the subtitles. I only watched about 3/4 of this movie but that was enough to blow me away!!! Not only was the idea in this movie unique, but it had lots of great action. Not really that gory though.  The best part was that it was pretty hilarious.  There is pretty much swearing in this movie, but it's mostly not directed at people. This is a great movie...You should really go see it!!! "},{"Title":"An Amazing Action Flick.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A comment on the front cover of the DVD case for Hard Boiled says that it is 'more exciting than a dozen Die Hards'. A dozen may be an over statement but this exciting balletic action from genre maestro John Woo does its best to blow you away! This is easily Woo's best film along with The Killer and is a mile apart from any of his mediocre Hollywood efforts. He manages to take the classic elements of the cop movie, including plot devices, typical inciting incidents and characterisation and overload it with as much action you can fire a gun at, creating two hours of pure adrenaline rush. The superb action sequences are split up by good plot detail and a bit of humour thrown in for good measure, a lot of it completely incongruous to the often violent scenario (the sequence with Yun-Fat dodging bullets while holding a baby for example). In this sense it doesn't take itself too seriously and the respectable, if basic storyline helps to make this not jut another pointless action workout. If your not a fan of subtitles then watch it for the action sequences and any conosseuir of all things violent would lap this up. The amount of bullets fired is staggering and the gunplay and stuntwork is some of the best you will ever see! The last 40 minutes in particular is pretty jaw-dropping, with explosions and bullets gallore, amidst the frenetic camera-work and stylish visuals. Hard Boiled must be near to the record for having the highest on-screen body-count in a film and this is a statistic that hints at what to expect. Amazing.8/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing can top this movie.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing. This movie is an action masterpiece. Watch this movie, The Killer, and Bullet in the Head, and then cry when all the mediocre action movies and pale imitations you've been subjected to throughout the years get ruthlessly bitch-slapped across the room and forced to beg for forgiveness. "},{"Title":"Best Action Movie Ever","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for culture, this isn't for you!  On the other hand, if you love gun-filled action films with over-the-top scenes and a mad plot, then this is the best one ever.  Great late-night viewing with a chinese takeaway, a six pack and your Glock BB gun!  Yeah, the guns never get re-loaded and most of the population of Hong Kong get topped, but it isn't trying to be realistic, it's a comic book caper.  Warning!  Even if you hate dubbed movies, do not attempt, as I did, to watch the subtitled version in a cinema.  I sat too close to the screen and got neck ache trying to keep up! Oh yeah and the subtitling is all up the left, Alan has become Paul (still Alan in the closing credits though) and other stuff like that.  'Let's make a paper toad for Johnny Wong!' "}{"Title":"****1/2 out of 5","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo is without a doubt the best action director out there. Although his attempts to make movies in America like Face Off, Broken Arrow, Mission Impossible 2 and Hard Target were great examples of his talent but none compare to his import titles. The fact that this movie is not in english doesn't effect it one bit in fact I think that it lets you focus more on the action at hand than what is going on around it. This is typical Woo where everyone has about 10 guns each and thers is one guys taking out about 50 villians with tons of huge explosions. Chow Yun Fat, Woo's regular has not exactly made a huge splash in American film, his only worth while performance was the Replacement Killers, is a one man army of an action star in this movie. The story is that fo a typical action movie you know one rouge cop goes beyond his call of dutey and orders to save the day and as one person do what twenty cops can't seem to do. The thing that is greatest about Woo's style is that even though it is very very violent and the shooting never stops all the action scenes are more like dance numbers than shoot outs. This along with almost all of Woo's films is an action masterpeice that is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"GREAT action movie!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE most amazing action movie i've seen! The Matrix dims in comparison to this amazing, AMAZINGly done movie. The action is perfect (although i admit, the guns never run out of ammo), Chow Yun-Fat will be the greatest new action star in the WORLD! I hope. And hopefully John Woo's new movies will go back to these kind of roots. "},{"Title":"My favourite actor, director AND film!!!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow!  Chow Yun Fat IS the man when it comes to action and the director, John Woo, when combined with Chow Yun Fat makes a perfect movie. Starting with a spectacular shoot-out at the beginning, Chow Yun Fat loses his best friend and partner and seeks revenge on the group responsible. His boss doesn't like him, his girlfriend gives the same impression but all he really needs is a gun...or ten!!! The shoot-outs are amazing and the camera angles are just dazzling.  The car storage scene where cameras are placed in the cars and characters dive through cars as bullets shred the seats inches behind them is just simply amazing to watch.  The final scene is filled with enough firepower to put Die Hard to shame!!! If you love action and don't want martial arts in it, try this film because it is the most stylish, gun crazy film around and I haven't seen a film which comes close to it yet.  "},{"Title":"the best action film ever made","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love movies and one genre in particular that I have a sweet-spot for is Action.  I think that the only real reason why I have a taste for action flicks is because of the impressions they left on me as a child.  Even if the movie is terrible you can still love it as a child.This brings me to Mr. John Woo.  I first saw his film HARD TARGET with Jean-Claude Van Damme in 1993 or so.  I was twelve and I had been a fan of Jean-Claude since I saw Bloodsport when I was seven.  So I watched Hard Target and it introduced me to John Woo.  I really liked the movie, but what impressed me the most was the directing.  Anyway, long story short I started locating John Woo films and without a doubt HARD-BOILED (LASHOU SHENTAN) is his best.On a side note, and an incredibly sad note, John Woo's films have gotten worse lately.  I was disappointed with 1996's BROKEN ARROW, but 1997's FACE-OFF was really good.  However, MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2 was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  I'll just stop there and get back to HARD-BOILED.I saw this movie in 1998 when I was seventeen and loved it.  I think what primarily impressed me the most was the style of the film.  I was already familiar with John Woo's style, but it was more stylish in this film.  What I mean is, I feel like John Woo's style (ever since he started making American movies) has gone down the toilet.  His early films are the best.  And I do love THE KILLER, but it can't touch HARD-BOILED.This particular movie basically introduced me to Hong Kong action films.  And it made me hate American action movies even more.  The Chinese genre is lightyears ahead of us slow Americans.  And it looks like we are finally catching up (DESPERADO, BLADE, THE MATRIX, etc.) or just trying to be like them.I can't say enough how great this movie was.  It is without a doubt the best action movie ever made!  And I don't see how Woo could ever beat it.  If you have not seen it then watch it.  I can't tell you anything else about it. "},{"Title":"possible the best action flick ever?","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Im not too sure about the best action flick, but it is one of the best. Chow Yun Fat plays the part of the psycho cop perfectly and adds his own coolness to the part, perhaps why John Woo chose him. i have to say, this contains one of my all time favourite shoot outs, the one when Chow jumps through the roof and goes crazy with his shotgun.This film is a must see for all action fans, and if you are a John Woo fan or a Chow Yun Fat fan and you haven't seen this film yet...what's your excuse?? go and rent it...no scrap that, go and BUY IT now!!! "},{"Title":"Give a guy a gun, he thinks he's Superman. Give him two, he thinks he's God.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best action movie of all time made by the action master himself. Woo put on screen caracters who are (as usual for him) very deep and who can say intelligent lines. Yes, there's a lot of blood, but it is important. All the people who dies there without a name represent the people living in Hong Kong who suffers a certain anonymity of living in the most populous city of the world. Directing this movie, Woo plays God, killing all those people like in this famous line from the movie Give a guy a gun, he thinks he's Superman. Give him two, he thinks he's God. "},{"Title":"Oh My God!!!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here is a list of my favourite things to do with films.My favourite director is John Woo My favourite actor is Chow Yun-Fat. I like films with artfully choreographed gunplay. I like long action sequences. I like a slight bit of martial arts but not too much. Good photography. The sense that the director gave a damn about the film. The sense that the actors are just as hard as the characters. Exciting editing. but not too over the top.To name but a few. The conclusion is HARD BOILED KICKS ASS!!!It features all of the above and more. Chow Yun-Fat matchstick gritted between teeth. 2 9mms and carving his way through hordes of badguys. who truly deserve to die. Is it just me or is he the coolest guy ever to walk the planet. It is tricky to go through all the things that make this film great, every second was mind blowing and it is near impossible to put into words how good this film is. Normally when I see a film I'm dissapointed. Oh I would have done it like that or I would have missed that bit out Often I'll go not expecting much and not get much. sometimes I'll go expecting alot and get nothing, Rarely I'll see a film expecting it to be awful and it's not that bad. But this, I had such high expectations from this film, I didn't think a film could be as good as what I expected. I was amazed that it was better. A masterpiece. go get it now. 10/10. Can't you see what I'm saying it's brilliant. However there was one minor flaw Chow Yun-Fat should have worn a big black trenchcoat. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie.  John Woo stages awesome gun sequences and the action never stops. Chow Yun-Fat plays Tequila, a hard boiled Hong Kong cop who is on the trail of a gangster.  He discovers that one member of the gangsters entourage is an undercover cop who has been undercover for so long that everyone on the force forgets about him.  The two cops team up and try to defeat the bad guys in probably one of the best action scenes I've ever seen.  **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"My word","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Second Best Action Film EverHard Boiled is very nearly the best action film of all time, and if The Killer had never been made then it would be. But no matter how many how many times Chow Yun-Fat's rouge cop Tequila slides down a banister firing two pistols, or jumps over flaming motorbikes whilst firing a shotgun, or jumps out of an exploding building holding a cable and a baby, the film just doesn't have the gut-renching emotional kick of The Killer.This said, it is better than anything to ever come out of Hollywood. The film has a comic streak to it (not helped by the poor dubbing, i wonder if it would be harder to take The Killer as seriously if it was not subtitled) that makes the excess easy to swallow, and it delivers from start to end.Woo-hoo 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo directs the greatest action film of all time, with Chow Yun-Fat shooting dead hundreds of evil minions. This has all the Woo classics long gun fights, slow motion action scenes, two different hero types banding together to shoot everything that moves, invulnerable heroes/main villain. You must also see 'The Killer' which is similar in its quality. "}{"Title":"John Woo, in his glory days.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most action fans will know of the chinese director John Woo.  His most recent released project being MI2 was pretty awful(this probably wasn't his fault, really), but if you look back about 8 or 9 years, you'll see a masterpiece of an action movie.Hard Boiled, staring the bad-ass Mr.Fat, is my favorite action movie, EVER. Back before there was The Matrix, with crazy special effects and intense heavy metal in the back ground, there was Hard Boiled.  It doesn't rely on special effects like movies today, it relies on good old fashioned intense gunfights, filled with flame, debris, death, blood, and chaos.  The action scenes in Hard Boiled are very long, especially the last action scene in the hospital, lasting more than 30 minutes.There are some truly awesome moments in the movie, including the great hallway rampages of Tequila and his partner, where they kill what seems like hundreds of bad guys.  People jump through hostpital windows to evade bullets as test tubes and walls explode into a hail of debris.  And who could forget Tequilas lullabye as he pops a few bad guys in the face while holding a baby (who looks strangely like baby John Woo).GO HARD BOILED! 9/10, 1 off because the dubbed version has some bad dubbing. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a fan of John Woo based on his reputation, and after seeing his American films, Broken Arrow, Face/Off, and Hard Target. From these films I could tell why he was one of the best-known action film directors in the world. But this was the first of the original Hong-Kong action flicks of his that I'd seen, and it beats out the American films by far. Two hours of non-stop shoot-'em-up action a la stylized and overly elaborate gunfight sequences that left me breathless. I had to put a few scenes in slow motion to catch everything that was going on. The plot seems like a typical cop-out-for-revenge/buddy-cop movie, but there are some intracacies that play on the viewer's ability to pay attention to the story while also being stimulated by seemingly endless showers of bullets. But let's not kid ourselves...the action is the star here. Woo even manages to pit some humor in the middle of some excessive violence, in the scene where Chow Yun-Fat holds a baby in his arms while simulatenously killing off the bad guys, and then saying to the child, X-Rated Action! Indeed...and it's all so spectacular to watch. If you're a fan of non-stop edge-of-your-seat action, if you like your action served up hot and bloody, this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Hardboiled Gunplay action at its best.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay so the stunts are stupid, the guns have almost infinite ammunition and the violence is extreme, but that's what this film is all about. If you don't like mindless action and would prefer something with, well, a plot, then steer well clear. If you do like mindless action then this film puts most Hollywood efforts to shame.In the opening gunfight director John Woo starts as he means to go on. The slow motion shots as the characters dive from cover to cover exchanging fire and wrecking the walls behind them are spectacular. Bullets fly, plaster flies, casings fly, and people fall. The action sequences seem to flow with an energy most films just can't summon up.The body count hits the stratosphere very early on and the plot is cleverly used as a device to move from gunfight to gunfight. This film never tries to take itself too seriously, and it never tries to be clever. It simply delivers a superb show. You could argue that the actors don't exactly have very much to go on, but Chow Yun Fat suits his soft-on-the-inside-tough-on-the-outside character very well (and also gets to deliver some amusing lines, such as saying 'Don't look! X-rated action' to the child he is holding in one of the gunfights). The other characters are portrayed with equal relish, with my favourite character being the hit man with morals called 'Mad dog'.John Woo truly delivers a masterpiece of style over substance, and his slow motion shots are now so copied in American films it hurts. But only John Woo can do it this well. The lobby scene? What's that then? "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best Action movie ever made. Period. Chow Yun-Fat is unbelievable. Tony Leung is cool. John Woo is the Man. Do you get that i liked this movie? American action movies don't come close to this. John Woo's direction is superb and basically the inspiration for almost every other action movie since this one. Chow is THE Action Star now. The best since Clint Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Simple the most amazing action film ever","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dizzying stunts.  Dazzling gun shoot-outs.  Breathtaking violence.  John Woo's HK films, especially Hard Boiled have the kinetic, raw energy American action films only can dream of.Chow Yun-Fat plays a tough cop looking to avenge the death of his partner.  Sure, the script has been done before but that ain't the reason you're watching a John Woo masterpiece like this.  It's flaws- it tends to drag here and there in spots, but man oh man the scenes of stylish non-stop action really make you forgive the occasional lapses in plot or goofy English dub.  The climax of the film is without a doubt the most amazing setpiece of action ever put on celluloid.  Your eyes will be glued to the screen as Yun-Fat dodges bullets and fires round after round of ammunition.  It's a bloodsoaked masterpiece.  Arterial blood spraying, punctured eyeballs, sliced throats, and numerous people are shot into a pulp. Besides, why would you watch latter day Woo garbage like MI2 when you can watch Hard Boiled.  His last greatest action epic before coming to America.   "},{"Title":"Simply breath-taking","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the first Hong Kong- movie I saw back in 1993, and as I didn't know what to expect, it simply blew me away (since, John Woo has managed to blow me away with his H/K-movies even though I KNOW what to expect). I quickly adapted to the dubbed dialogue, since it didn't take much time for the movie to get to the business- literally hard-boiled action. Basically the storyline provides nothing fresh (buddy-cops against a huge gun-smuggling ring) but it tells the movie in the best traditions of the h/k trademark beautiful bloody ballet, with lots of gunfights, slo- mo- action and bloodletting aplenty. Comes short of the Killer on the 'plot'-side, but comes to a tie with it having an attitude as mean and providing even more in the 'kinetic action'- section; when Chow Yun-Fat takes that toothpick on the corner of his mouth and two berettas in his hands, you knows there's nothing short of a WW to stop him... Kick ASS!! "},{"Title":"A perfect film!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first i heard about this film,i wanted to see it because of John Woo(my favorite director).So i watched it on TV.They were speaking with a bad English that i laughed it.But it was pure action.And a good drama inside.I just loved it.It was the best action film ever.This is one of my favorites.Then i watched again on TV.I can watch it again and again.The actors,the scenario,the director and the action of this film are really really the best. Lets see it again. "},{"Title":"Monotonous bloodshed","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of John Woo's masterpiece of heroic bloodshed genre. The dramatic aspect is good like usual, but I wonder how come so many comments praised the final action scenes. They're indeed brutal and never appear in any Hollywood movies before. However, one word is enough to describe it MONOTONOUS. Chow Yun Fat and Tony Leung only run from floor to floor, shooting the gangsters 2 or three persons per floor then move to next room/floor, shoot again and again. Such a pity. Anyway, in general this movie is recommended. "},{"Title":"Stallone, Arnold and Dirty Harry are school boys","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Compared to this. If you like action movies, and haven't seen this, well...what can I say? you've just been wasting your time. Hollywood has spent the last ten years trying to catch up with this film. This is the mother, the four horsemen of action films. Split-second, gem-like perfection.  After making this film, (this PERFECT! film) John Woo retired to Hollywood...Why go on? He already done it all he directedH A R D  B O I L E D!!! "},{"Title":"Stallone, Arnold and Dirty Harry are school boys","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Compared to this. If you like action movies, and haven't seen this, well...what can I say? you've just been wasting your time. Hollywood has spent the last ten years trying to catch up with this film. This is the mother, the four horsemen of action films. Split-second, gem-like perfection.  After making this film, (this PERFECT! film) John Woo retired to Hollywood...Why go on? He already done it all he directedH A R D  B O I L E D!!! "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A few years ago, a friend of mine borrowed me his copy of Hard Boiled. He found out that I really hadn't seen any John Woo movies besides his American films, and since I had expressed my liking of those movies, he knew this one would blow me away.Well, he was right. From the introductory Tea House fight to the incredible Hospital scenes, this movie really represents some of the finest stuff Woo has to offer. Great acting all around, incredible gunplay and more double-guns than you can shake a stick at. If you like Hong Kong action flicks, or just action movies in general, and you haven't seen Hard Boiled yet, you owe it to yourself to check it out. My Personal Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"tiny details about the movie","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a chinese,I feel there are several details cannot be translated in english subtitles,so I write them out 1 The undercover cop's name is lang, in chinese it means wave, and the godfather he shot is uncle Hai which means sea or ocean. 2 The open fight scene set is a cantonese teahouse not a bird market, where people have breakfast and chat,some people like take their pat birds with them.  3 the screenwriter died before the movie was released.  "},{"Title":"Guns, motion and blood","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is possibly one of the best films to come out of the HK action cinema. From the first scene in the diner (ending with the flour!), you know that you've hit upon something new. Chow is extremely likeable and comes across somewhat like an earlier version of Clint Eastwood. Watch the movie and just enjoy... the first time. Watch it again and keep a sharp eye on the background during the shootouts. "},{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat is brilliant","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best action movies ever made, this is a fast paced movie right till the end. Some of the best action sequences seen in any movie, the sheer chaos in each scene adds to the excitement and feel of the movie. One of the very best asian action movies, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"my personal favorite movie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this was john woo's last present to hk-cinema before he left for the states to make weak blockbusters ( except face off )almost all of john's favorite themes are in this corrosive moviethe gunfights choregraphy is unbelievable ( the 40 min showdown in the hospital , a longshot of about 3 min ...)if you haven't yet , VIEW ITvote 10/10 "},{"Title":"Poetry In Motion","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tony Leung and Chow Yun-Fat are great as two cops with totally different methods who must work together to bring down a gun cartel.Many before me have said it, but I'll say it again. Hard Boiled is one of the best action movies ever. It features some of the most sadistic, violent images in a movie, yet, paradoxically it has a heart. It's mainly found in scenes featuring Tequila, such as when he's comforting the informer Fox, saving Willy, or when he's bantering with his girlfriend.All the gun fights are cool to watch. Gunmen jump sideways in slow motion as they fire endless rounds and dodge bullets at the same time. It's only near the end, during the hospital shoot-out, that the movie seems to lose me. Some of the images of hospital patients being gunned down tended to grate after awhile. And just how many badguys were hiding in the hospital when the battle began? Close to a hundred, it seems. It almost seems like a video game. But these are minor nitpicks... Some great images include the floating paper swans, the tracking shot that follows Tequila and Alan through two hospital floors, and the offscreen death of Fox-effectively done with just a spray of blood hitting a nearby window. Great movie; a must see.  "},{"Title":"Best action film ever?","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The tape is slipped into the machine, and an image comes on, all of the legals... FBI warnings, and such.  From that first image, I timed it. From the first image until the very first gunfight, four (4) minutes pass.  The first gunfight lasts longer than we waited for it to begin.Each action sequence is flawless, razor sharp edits combined with perfect choreography, moving cameras, slow motion bits next to exploding buildings... Consistently amazing.There are few action films that raise themselves to a level of Art, capital A included, and this is one of them.How John Woo fell to the nadirs of Face Off and Broken Arrow is a mystery...unless it is because he has yet to make a U.S. film with Chou Yun Fat...himself a special effect worthy of many viewings. "},{"Title":"if only all of woo's movies could be this great...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hate John Woo films! There, I've said it. Mission Implausible 2 , Face Off, Broken Arrow - God, these movies were ridiculous! They all featured plots that seemed to have been written by a 7-year-old with ADHD, and directed by someone who drank 10 gallons of nyquil! Then we have Hardboiled. This is an action movie! The script wasn't great, but it didn't seem like it was a rejected pitch for a marvel comic either! For the most part it was believable, mature, and managed to create a tension that haven't experienced in john woo's other movies. The acting wasn't great, but the actors did just enough to make you care,or hate, them appropriately. These two aspects of the film are just a bonus for me,because the plot and acting in an action movie just needs to hold its own, while things like editing, effects, and cinematography are key in my opinion. These latter 3 categories are done with incredible efficiency in hardboiled! The fact that mr. woo limited the use of slow motion in this film compared to his others, made it so much more effective when he did use it! Also, never have i seen so many squibs and pyrotechnics used so boldly! I swear to God, it seems like the actors are standing in a tornado in several shot,because there's debris and shrapnel flying all around them! Finally, the director seemed to be trying a much wider variety of shots here than his other films. My personal favorite is the 4-5 minute continuos tracking shot that follows chow yun fat and his partner through the halls of a hospital,on an elevator, through the halls of another floor before cutting! All the while, blasting away with pistols and shotguns, slo-mo kicking in and out. what a great shot! What a great action movie! If only all of Woo's movies could be this great... "},{"Title":"The best action movie ever made","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie you are supposed to see, if you like action movies in any way. Great characters and over-the-edge-action as you have never seen before. Chow Yun Fat gives the coolest performance ever and Tony Leung Chiu-Wai is great as undercover cop. If you are only a little into HK-cinema or action movies at all, watch Hard Boiled. A Must see. "},{"Title":"I love John Woo but this was TOO VIOLENT","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While 'Hard Boiled' has remarkable gunplay throughout, it doesn't come close to the simplicity and cohesiveness of Woo's brilliant 'The Killer'. Chow Yun-Fat is once again tremendously charismatic in the role of a hard-boiled gunfighter but he doesn't have a good foil to play against. I cannot recommend this movie to anyone who is squeamish, since there are far too many innocent victims killed in the crossfire of the villains.  "}{"Title":"Great movie...","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   There are many things one can praise about Hard Boiled. John Woo's action, Tony Leung's undercover cop charecter but simply put Hard Boiled is a great movie. The premise of the movie is that the Hong Kong police force has officers so deep undercover, that sometimes the cops kill their own. I don't want to give away the story, to avoid spoiling it for those who haven't seen it. Get the DVD version and enjoy a action masterpiece "},{"Title":"The best John Woo movie","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My opinion is that this is the best John Woo movie.  The story was terrific, the acting performed by Chow Yun-Fat and Tony Leung was terrific, and the action was just so intense!  Well you know John Woo!  He loves action!  His whole life is like about action, where people are flying in the air, things exploding, gun firing, people swearing, etc.  The hospital scene's a good example.  It was so explosive! They were killing each other if though there was no tomorrow.  That scene could be the best and the most action scene ever created.  The team work between Chow Yun-Fat and Tony Leung was also a good remark.  One shoots another, the other shoots back.  One takes cover, the other covers back.   From this day on, I rate this movie 9/10 and say that its the best John Woo movie ever.....  Yet! "},{"Title":"a hardboiled super action!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a big John Woo fan. I liked Face Off a lot but other movies didn't interest me much.  However, Hard Boiled was superb! Tony Leung, my favorite Asian actor, proved that he can give a great performance in action movies as well as he did in Wong Kar Wai's dramas. It wouldn't be unneccesary to describe  how much action scenes were beautiful. The reason this movie is wonderful is, though, even though it's a action movie, it also talks about friendship, loyalty, anxiety towards Hong Kong's future and love. Without those facts, this movie would be just a simple mindless movie with full of blood. I hope John Woo will stop making pop corn action movies, broken arrow, MI;2, and show Hollywood how he got his reputation. "},{"Title":"John Woo? No way! This film belongs to Philip Kwok!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, you've got to see this film if you like action.  That said, I say that credit should go where its due; to action director Philip Kwok.  The plot and character development are passable, with special credit going to Tony Leung as Alan/Tony, the angst burdened undercover cop.  Chow Yun Fat is charming as usual, and carries off his spectacular action scenes quite well. However, the centerpiece of this movie is the action, from the brutal birdmarket shootout, to the final, gut wrenching scenes in the hospital. This movie is about action, and nobody does it better than Kwok.  The former Venom hero (remember Lizard?) also graces this movie as the riveting villain Mad Dog, a small role that somehow dominates the movie.  I got a special thrill watching Mad Dog beat the snot out of the two heros, then calmly loading his guns while they writhed around on the floor!  So, Mr. Woo, why isn't this guy in Hollywood working with you?    "},{"Title":"I gotta say it, THE BEST ACTION MOVIE EVER!!!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An action masterpiece. No Chuck Norris or Sylvestor Stallone movie here, not even American and that's the weird part. I always thought American action picture's were the best like Rambo and 'was' a major fan of the Norris or Seagal pictures until I saw Hard Boiled two years ago for the first time, and I was almost blown away by the biggest shootouts and biggest body counts out of any movie I have ever seen. A bunch of cops and mobsters blowing the @#$t out of a tea house with a body count of about thirty in the first ten minutes of the film, only starts the action. All of the other action sequences lead up to the best action scene out of action film's history. A bunch of mobsters take over a hospital, leaving two cops (or a cop and a hitman) in the basement, until they blow their way out in an ultra-violent gunfight like it was off some video game that lasts about 45 minutes long. John Woo is at his best here. Don't watch this movie if you're really against violent pictures, but in other words THIS IS THE BEST ACTION MOVIE EVER... I swear it!  "},{"Title":"Best Action","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best action film ever! John Woo is the master when it comes to the Heroic Bloodshed genre. He made slow-mo action scenes popular. If you liked this one, also look out for The Killer! "},{"Title":"Action packed, and I really mean that","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From my point of view, this is the greatest John Woo movie ever to be made (though I haven't seen Mission Impossible 2 yet) When you take an good actor as Chow-Yun Fat and puts him in a role as a raw cop, and you give him a lot of guns and explosives to play with, you get HardBoiled. This movie is a movie that when the action appears you sit there silent....wow...it gives 100% all the time...it burns, smashes, explodes, bullets flying (and persons)all mixed with splendid camera work. ok, now you think..aha..so this is a movie with no story, then you're wrong..the story is there and its told very well. Its just easy to forget who is who during the mega action packed sequences. Anyway if you like raw action, this is a movie you must see I say..John Woos greatest movie "},{"Title":"The Baron of Ballistic strikes again!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Baron of Ballistic John Woo yet again serves up an actioner with a brain. Ultra-cool Inspector 'Tequilia' Yeun (the ever-brilliant Chow Yun-Fat) is the head of a massive gun-running investigation. However, when his partner is murdered by the dealers in the opening-shootout, he swears vengence. After a spectacular single-handed gun-battle, Yeun is forced to team up with assassin Tony (Tony Leung), who is working for evil Mastermind Johnny Wong (Anthony Wong). And that's it. A simple plot obviously proves to be a bombastic experience. Yun-Fat and Leung are sensational as the hero-duo, while Tereasa Mo & Phillip Chan provide good supporting characters as Yeun's mates at the station. The action scenes are breath-taking, while the finale in a hospital can not be put into words . . . it's that good! If you have never seen a John Woo, then this is a brilliant film to start with and you'll be hooked in no time! It's the most rockrolling, heart-grabbing, gun-toting 122 minutes of your life! Forget 'Face-Off', this is what John Woo is made of! "},{"Title":"Simply Awesome!!!!!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To me, there is nothing I like more than a movie with an easy plot and great action sequences(a ton of bullets being fired) and this movie has it all...........and then some!!!!John Woo is a terrific action movie director. Many of Hollywoods so-called action directors could learn and should learn from his style.He is THE MAN and Hard Boiled is the action movie by which all other action movies should be judged! "},{"Title":"If you're looking for the ultimate action film, this could be it!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A thoroughly entertaining and extremely violent action film.  I was looking for the ultimate action film, and so far this film takes the cake. Superbly acted with an excellent plot and gunfight sequences like the bank robbery scene of Heat played over and over again. My only criticisms would be the extremely high gunshot to reload ratio and the unrealistic effects of some of the weapons. I gotta get me one of them shotguns, so I can hunt tanks! Also, if viewing on DVD, beware of the English soundtrack.  It was obviously done by Australians and you get the feeling that Chow Yun Fat is about to light the barbie and crack a beer. A really enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"The perfect action film","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled is an excellent film; it does exactly what it is supposed to - provide an energetic film with plenty of action and gunfire. It does that better than just about any American action film to date, but Hard Boiled actually manages to do a bit more on top - the characters are actually fleshed out pretty well (for an action flick), and the storyline is pretty darn good, all things considered.Still, it's the action sequences that are what you see this movie for, and, as such, it succeeds brilliantly. The final scene is one of the finest pieces of action movie-making I've ever seen, but the entire movie acts as a superb setup. Everything about it is well-done. The way the actors move, the way they shoot, and the way, they just, well... act... it all seems to be done with extreme care. And it all works. The entire movie is riveting, and a must see for everybody that likes explosive action films.  "},{"Title":"John Woo's best work","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I may not be the biggest John Woo fan, or even close to being considered a fan, but I do admire him. Most of the films I've seen are packed full of good action. The 3 large action scenes (restaurant, warehouse, hospital) are all on my favorite action scenes list. I know that Broken Arrow wasn't that good, but hopefully John will make that up to us in MI2.  For anyone who has ever seen just one single John Woo film, you must see this one to compare. "},{"Title":"Woo and Yun-fat, doing what they do best","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wanna see a film with so much action, fire, carnage, and bullets that it could make Rambo and Die Hard look like kindergarten material? Lashou Shentan, or Hard Boiled as it is better known,  is for you. Chow Yun-fat plays a tough cop named Tequila, who is thrown down a maelstrom of terror and conspiracy involving a gun-running gang. Yun-fat is spectacular, and the pyrotechnics and John Woo's split second direction will knock your socks off. The 50 minute gun fight in the hospital is fantastic "},{"Title":"One Of Woo's Best.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Easily one of the ten best action movies of all time! Chow Yun Fat is cool as always. John Woo can direct a gun fight like no one can! There may be a few slow spots, but the huge amount of action more than makes up for it! Hollywood can only dream about making a action film like this, at least until Woo makes his Hollywood masterpiece. Face/Off was So close, but I feel he can do better. Hopefully I'm right.   "},{"Title":"One of the greatest action films ever","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat and John Woo team up once again to make another masterpiece film. After making great movies like The Killer and A Better Tomorrow together, the two people get together to make one of the greatest action films ever. This movie is about a cop (Chow Yun-Fat) who teams up with a triad hitman (Tony Leung) to battle a psychopathic arms dealer (Anthony Wong). This movie is full of great shoot-outs including a gun fight at a teahouse, Chow Yun-Fat's raid on a warehouse, and the final balls-to-wall gunfight in the hospital. While John Woo has the usual themes of friendship, loyalty, etc. in this film, they are second to the awesome action scenes. My only complaint is are the scenes of innocent bystanders getting mowed down. I found it a bit disturbing. "},{"Title":"Explosive action! Cocktail chomping mayhem!","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the opening sequence in the film you know what you are in for, a white knuckle roller coaster of an adventure that keeps you wielded to your seat. Hard hitting violence is crafted  into an eloquent ballet by the masterful John Woo in this superior action thriller.But underneath this high octane carnage is a well told story of friendship, revenge and new hope.  It centers around an uncompromising, tough, Dirty Harry style cop who gets emotionally involved in a gun smuggling case after the death of his partner. Tequilla (the cop) is played brilliantly by the ever charismatic Chow Yun Fat and equally Tony Leung plays a wonderfully cool and calm assassin with a big secret.With most action films you get one major shoot out at the end but with Hard Boiled you get three major shoot outs each superbly choreographed and given that certain touch that only John Woo can give. A true masterpiece showing both John Woo and Chow Yun Fat at their best. "},{"Title":"No other action film can add up!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All that needs to be said is that Chow Yun Fat is a God.  John Woo will remain action King.  Everyone, make sure to see The Killer as well.  These are films that should never be missed.  Add them to your home collections and share them with the kids. "},{"Title":"No other action film can add up!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All that needs to be said is that Chow Yun Fat is a God.  John Woo will remain action King.  Everyone, make sure to see The Killer as well.  These are films that should never be missed.  Add them to your home collections and share them with the kids. "},{"Title":"THE Hong-Kong-action-movie. Woo´s best.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of John Woo´s last movies he made in Hong Kong. And one of his best. See it and you will know the meaning of what is called Heroic Bloodshed. The style in which Woo lets his actors move and handle their guns in perfectly choreographed slow-motion shootouts is somewhere between an artistic ballet and finest martial arts. He was proving during all his career, but this movie leaves no doubt Woo is the King Of Highbudget-Actionmovie Directors (and Chow-Yun Fat is the perfect actor for that kind of movie). Hollywood tries to copy it (e.g. Matrix,Blade etc.)-quite pleasantly-but never reaches it. Also in America Woo is the only one to do that style in the right way (Broken Arrow, Face Off)-because it´s HIS style. "},{"Title":"A story of one man, about 2`000 guns, and a bodycount running into three figures.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled was John Woos swansong from Hong Kong cinema, and its fair to say that he went out with a bang.  Indeed, the first twenty minutes alone, a stonkingly good and incredbly orchestrated shoot out set in a tea room contains more action than most Hollywood action films do through there entire running time.  Woo sets his stall out early, and then freewheels from one heart-pounding set peice to the next.  It is fair to say that the plot is flimsy, but who cares when the action`s this good?  However, there is more to recommend this than action alone.  Chow Yun Fat is as ever awesome, Tony Leung is more than capable in the support role, and Phillip Kwok is suitable menacing as Mad Dog. There is almost always more to Woos work, and most dissertations of it will blab on about thig such as the underlying themes of loyalty and duty, the complex friendship triangles that ocur, often between people on different sides, and the ultimate resolution of peace through violence.  These may be true,  but dont detract from the twin pistol, rip snortingly good shootouts. As has been mentioned, the acting is stellar, but Woo is the real star of the , injecting the action with both a staggering energy, but almost poetic grace.  Indeed, the gunfights are better than anything previous, or since. Not only does he stage one running gunfight that lasts the best part of 3/4 of an hour, he has the audacity not only to include steadycam shots that last for a couple of minutes, they include complex stunts, and explosive squibs gong of! All in one take!! It would be easy for m=e to rant on about how good this film is forever, but I couldn`t do itjustice.  Possibly the best action film ever made. Almost certainly the best film to come fromHong Kong.   "}{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat is better than ten Van Damme's","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a true fan of all action films, even old B-types like Army of one or wanted dead or alive. But after seeing Face-off I seached to find out about an Asian director. I found that he was a legend and had made other Hollywood films Hard target and Broken Arrow. I enjoyed these so much I had to try his Hong Kong flicks. I looked towards Hard Boiled. It is great there is a thick plot, juicy charactures and a very satisfying ending. Although the film is let down by the Dubbing it still beats all of the Seagal films. It has some very good violent scenes which I enjoyed and Chow Yun Fat is amazing, he truly could hold his place even against the greats(Sly or Arnie)This is one which should definatly not be missed and if you liked the Hong Kong feel look towards The Killer, if you liked John Woo's trademarks then watch Face-Off and if you think that Chow Yun Fat is a God then try Replacement Killers.    10/10  "},{"Title":"Best action film... ever","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I live in the US and I, until recently, hardly ever got to get my hands on John Woo's Hong Kong films.  Finally I found a video store that has both The Killer and Hard Boiled.  I rented Hard Boiled first since I remember hearing Robert Rodreguez say it was one of his inspirations for making Desperado (another very stylish action film).  Well I can see why it was his inspiration, because this is by far one of the best action films I have ever seen.One thing that disappoints me about the US is that we never have had the chance to see a great Chow Yun Fat movie unless we go into the Foreign section in our video stores.  The Replacement Killers was descent but pointless, The Corrupter wasn't to bad at all, but his films with John Woo are like masterpieces.The action in this is so poetic and stylish.  I can't even imagine where they came up with some of this stuff.  The stunts in the film are also amazing.  The action scene with all the motorcycles flying through the air and dropping babies out of windows in the hospital at the end make your jaw drop, literally.  After seeing this film, you see so many aspects in it that were repeated in Hard Target, Broken Arrow, and Face/Off that it's hard to count.I could go on for awhile talking about the violence and Chow Yun Fat's performance (it's even good when his voice is being dubbed over).  This is something I have to get on DVD, it's amazing.  I did see The Killer in the following week and, considering I saw Hard Boiled first, I kinda liked Hard Boiled a little bit more.  Although I seriously recommend if you haven't seen either of the films go and find a video store that has them and rent them both.  Watch The Killer first for it's great shootouts and it's softer mood and then watch Hard Boiled which will just knock you on your ass.  Just outstanding.  10/10 "},{"Title":"I would have given this movie a 20 if I could","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having done two very negative reviews on IMDB, I thought it appropriate to write a laudatory review of the greatest pure action film ever made.  This is John Woo at his finest; a hard-boiled cop (the always entertaining Chow Yun-Fat) with a heart of gold chases a ring of gun runners all over Hong Kong, with much mayhem and bloodshed.  Boasting a body count that few films can rival, Hard Boiled is fun for the whole family.  The Eastern ethos that pervades the movie is interesting as well.  Unless you take yourself way too seriously, you will enjoy this masterpiece of the action genre. "},{"Title":"#1 John Woo action flick with pulse pounding action and wonderfully choreographed stunts.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite John Woo movie. The action scenes were magnificently created, as was the writing of the script. This is one of the best plots in an action movie I've ever seen. John Woo is like an artist....he turns stunts and fights into gorey masterpieces. This was the first foreign John Woo movie I'd seen, and the rest were very impressive. Explosive action that doesn't leave you tired at the end, I give this movie 9/10.  "},{"Title":"explosive piece of work, i will probably never see a better action movie!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lashou Shentan (also known as Hard Boiled in English) is an amazing piece of work that will blow you away! This movie is extremely bloody and very violent! But this movie is not only about blood, violence, gore and profanity - it is also about action! The choreography of this movie is superb, probably the best I will ever see. This would have to be my second all time favorite action movie! My first is John Woo's The Killer! I am a major John Woo fan after I saw those movies!  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If anyone likes their action films high-octain and very loud, and very, very violent, then this is the film for them. Director John Woo has surpassed himself in this film by making what is without a doubt the most flamboyant and OTT action film put onto film.Chow Yun Fat has proved that no one can handle guns in a two fisted gun battle better than him. The action sequences don't come much better than they do here, and the climatic battle in a hospital lasts a staggering 45 minutes, which includes a superb long shot following Fat and Tony Leung through corridoors, up an elevator, and along another corridor.I strongly suggest that you watch this and enjoy what is easily the finest film to come out of Hong kong, and certainly John Woo's finest hour. "},{"Title":"Incredible Action, beats the Matrix","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Loved Hard Boiled - had the fortune to see it in a theater - what a crowd-pleaser! Incredible action film, yet lacking a bit of the soul The Killer had. Also has some odd changes in tone. But all in all, very entertaining, funny, gripping and touching. This is the film I use to perform the John Woo Test - every time I change apartments or re-do my A/V setup, I pop in Hard Boiled to make sure that my receiver is taking audio from the VCR.  "},{"Title":"THIS IS THE BEST WOO/YUN-FAT MOVIE EVER!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the opening sequence, the action never lets up.  Chow Yun-Fat handles a gun like John Wayne and looks as if he got training from Sam Peckinpah. He's the greatest gunfighter of the 90's.  John Woo knows how to get the job done.  He's the best Hong Kong director and with movies like these he tops himself everytime.  His next best is The Killer which also stars Chow Yun-Fat.  "},{"Title":"Hong Kong hellraising with hardcore heater hijinx","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are only familiar with Woo's Hollywood films like Broken Arrow and Face/Off, step into the world of real Woo mayhem with Hard Boiled. The gunfights are lyrical, poetic; the characters perform the most acrobatic of moves as they dive, jump, shoot, slide, die, roll, and all sorts of other manuevers that will have even the most jaded of actions fans riveted. A must for any one who likes the work of Tarantino, Peckinpah, and Lam. Look out for Baby pee puts out Chow Yun's flaming pants, Handguns hidden inside the bases of birdcages, and good guys Tequila and Alan taking on an entire hospital building full of baddies. "},{"Title":"Absolutely mind-blowing!!!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Probably one of the best action movies I have EVER seen.  John Woo has really outdone himself here.  There are action scenes in this movie that look better than anything a Hollywood director could possibly dream of.  The movie itself is pretty slow going in between the fight scenes, but the fights are SO good anything that proceeds or follows them is totally blown out of your memory.  Chow Yun-Fat is totally cool as the hero, and Tony Leung is equally cool as the bad guy.  You will not forget this one, even long after the last bullet casing hits the ground.  A must-see.  "}{"Title":"The most frantic, hell raising action film next to The Killer","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This would have to be one of the greatest action movies in human history. From the moment it starts, to the moment it finishes, two cops kill close to 350 individual people. This would have to be John Woo's second finest action film EVER,only being surpassed by his legendary The Killer.If you want a movie where the action never ends, no one ever reloads, and happless victims are turned into human Swiss cheese, then Hard Boiled is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Not the best John Woo, Chow Yun-Fat collaboration, but high on the list.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good cop story, from both the point of view of the renegade cop, and the undercover cop who crosses the line. It has all the big gunfire and explosions one has come to expect from John Woo. And nobody can top Chow Yun-Fat when it comes to the signature gun work that he displays.  "},{"Title":"Chow-Yun is as good as they come","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely my favorite Chow Yun-Fat/John Woo film.  It is a masterpiece of Hong Kong action at its best.  Woo's use of slow-motion and speeding up the film is pure genius.  It might not quite have the same depth as The Killer but it equals out with the absolute nonstop action.  I also liked Tony Leung also I thought he was very good Alan. "},{"Title":"One of John Woo's best","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has some of the best choreographed action scenes I have ever seen.  It's easy to see where Tarantino got his inspiration.  Never a dull moment, the last 45 minutes in the hospital play out like a hectic ballet of gunplay and bloodshed. Definitely a must see for any action fan.  "},{"Title":"A slightly more jaded review...","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled may be one of the best Hong Kong action films ever made from an action standpoint, but true fans of the genre(not just those few who have seen one or two John Woo movies and think they know the score) may very well find themselves disappointed in the film's lack of identity.  Woo touches on his usual themes of loyalty and brotherhood, but with nowhere near as much success as he did in The Killer or A Better Tomorrow.  The characters are also even more archetypal than usual...and in this case, the only real life in the characters comes from the amazing charm of Chow Yun-Fat and the likeable appeal of Tony Leung, both of them more than able to save even the thinnest characters. Hard Boiled is still a great flick, though...don't get me wrong!  In fact, it's probably the perfect HK action film to watch with a roomful of newbies and recent converts.  Loaded with great action and jaw-dropping stunts, Hard Boiled is spectacular eye candy, but for those of us already spoiled by more intense HK action films like Ringo Lam's Full Contact, it falls just a hair short in other departments.  "},{"Title":"Amazing, unlike anything I've ever seen","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Woo's masterpiece.  Incredible action in the most unexpected of settings--a library, a sailboat, and a hospital. The best action movie of the '90s, bar none. "},{"Title":"A Smart Action Thriller","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled classifies to be one of the most brutally stunning films in my humble opinion. Violence, beautiful camera shots, and superb acting from the greatest director of all time (John Woo) Come together in this film. Woo has made this film a visually intriguing one by using his vast knowledge of how to catch your eye.Chow Yun-Fat stars as Tequila (Sgt. Yeun) who has a distinct joy in killing ruthless criminals. They refer to him as the Supercop. Tony Leung is Alan an undercover cop caught in the mix of the Triad and the police force.This movie has the greatest action sequence i have ever seen on film. It's a must see for any action fan! "},{"Title":"Best action movie of the 1990s","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow-Yun Fat and John Woo team up in this superb action film. The plot is good and this movie has some off the most spectacular action scenes in film history. Chow-Yun Fat is great as always.John Woo is the best action director around.See this movie, you don't know what you are missing. "},{"Title":"John Woo's great movie.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard-Boiled was great. After seeing Woo's American films, I sawthis one as a starter for watching Hong Kong movies. This wasgreat. I love movies about cops. Chow-Yun Fat is a great actor,and he was great in this movie as Tequilla. I also thought thatTony Leung was great. I liked his character as a cop who's beenan undercover Triad for a long time, and is torn between hisjob. The movie has a plot and point which some action moviesdon't have. This was about peoples relationships with each otherwhich is what John Woo is special for. And the gunfights werethe best I've seen. They're better than in American movies. Butwhat's great is that American movies are taking after Woo.   "},{"Title":"20 bullets per second? Woo Woo (John)","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imaginative and intense action movie by John Woo starring Chow Yun Fat as an asian 'supercop' against asian mobsters.Has the record for most bullets fired in a movie, breathtaking action sequences and as always a dark and deep character portrayal by Mr Fat. Made in Hong Kong it contains somewhat excessive violence, not usually seen in American made films. The hospital sequence is a thriller!Something for people wanting a decent action flick and that are tired of the usual Hollywood productions.  "}{"Title":"Hard-hitting action with excellent characters and a superb plot","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Genius action director John Woo creates the ultimate action adventure cinema has ever seen.  Chow Yun Fat, who plays hard-boiled cop Tequila, gives a magnetic performance that erupts with confidence.  Woo creates a ballet of violence turning seemingly brutal gunfights into perfectly choreographed beauty.  The final 45 minute climax in a hospital may very well be the single most amazing piece of action movie making ever.  Woo's ingenious angles and camera movement take the audience into a sea of stylized violence topped off with outstanding use of slow motion to capture the essence of Hong Kong action. "},{"Title":"The most action in any movie ever.","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, I just said before that Hard Boiled has the most action seen in any movie ever. That is not an understatement. Never before have I seen a non stop action sequence go for a whopping 45 minutes. This 45 minutes of mind blowing amazement also contains the famous 2 minutes 45 seconds scene, in which a whole entire take endures for... you get it. This is all action by the way. John Woo is a man known for his melodramatic, action packed movies, but Hard Boiled only contains the latter. Trust me, this will either give action fans EXACTLY what they are looking for, or it will just be too much. My own step dad, who loves a great action movie, thought that Hard Boiled was just too much. Basically the story follows lead Chow Yun-Fat, a cop named Tequila, who is trying to bring down the gun smugglers who are responsible for the brutal murder of his friend/fellow cop. During his vendetta, he finds out that the police have an undercover man within the triad, and so Tequila and our undercover man Alan team up to bring down the bad guys. And that's just about it. Sure, I actually did think for an action movie it was good enough, it got the job done. Tony Leung's performance as Alan was great, he made a character we cared about in the midst of... insane chaos I guess. And Chow Yun-Fat is... Chow Yun-Fat, an ice cool, tough as nails star. He shines in this movie just as much as he does in The Killer or A Better Tomorrow. So obviously, the story is okay, but not as impressive as previous Woo films. Heck, half the film was literally filmed without any script. The action is where Hard Boiled is at. And it's just insane. Completely mental. John Woo must have said, Come on guys! This is the last movie I make before I completely ruin my career in America, so lets give it all we've got! Hard Boiled is filled with iconic action scenes. You've got the close quarters tea house shootout less than 5 minutes into the movie, you've got the crazy warehouse shootout just as we pass the first quarter of the movie. Not long after there's a small, impressive shootout on the boat. And then all hell breaks loose not long after we hit the halfway mark when our characters enter the hospital. Utter madness. Butgloriously beautiful madness. And that's all Hard Boiled really is. If you're looking for an action movie with an above average story, you'll probably be disappointed. Go in expecting more than half the movie to be just full of insane action, and you'll be fine. Hard Boiled is a landmark film for a reason, there's just so many memorable moments here, I can't really describe it. Saying that this movie has so much action will either put you off, or get you excited for one of the most mind blowing movies you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"Give a guy a gun, he thinks he's Superman. Give him two and he thinks he's God.","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a classic essential piece of action filmmaking. It's also one of the best (if not THE best) film John Woo has made. And it's probably an essential piece of Hong Kong cinema. Why? Because at the very least, this film totally rocks.The action scenes are freaking awesome and wicked! The gunfights are nonstop, the stunts are wild, the explosions are huge, and the body count is through-the roof! At times, it can be so insane and over-the-top that it might come off as cheesy. But one thing is for sure the action is frequent and very entertaining. And with John Woo's use of slow-motion and motifs, the visuals are stunning.As far as the story goes, it generally works. The first half features the more dynamic investigation-plot while the second half is mostly a non-stop shoot-out. Characters have their moments throughout. But altogether, it's a loosely-connected story. It feels like the audience is plopped in the middle of everything, and you just go with the flow.The film has good photography throughout. Acting is good; Chow Yun Fat is practically iconic as Tequila, and the rest of the cast is brilliant too. Writing is okay. Production value seems pretty decent. Music seems pretty dated to me, but it is groovy. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Action movies of all Time","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being a huge action fan, I began to here praise from the legendary Hong Kong director John Woo. Curious of his work I decided to check out one of his most famous films Hard-Boiled. And I don't regret it...After the amazing tea house shootout, I was hooked and it just got better from there. The star Chow Yun-Fat plays the Hard-Boiled cop, Tequila Yuen who's up against the triad and seeking revenge for his partner. Simple yet affective.Tequila is one of the coolest characters ever. As a 'take no prisoners cop' Tequila spends most of the movie, filling bad guys with led with an arsenal of weapons such as dual pistols, machine guns and the most powerful shotgun in a film. But while still a dark person, Tequila is still an engaging and likable character, that you'll be rooting for by the end.Featuring some of the best shootout scenes ever shot, the film is a non-stop 2 hour joyride. Full of exaggerated blood, stylish shooting, huge explosions and Chow Yun-Fat in one of his coolest roles, this is some of John Woo's best work.Unless, you've got something against blood filled action, I recommend you hunt Hard-Boiled down and enjoy one of Woo's best works. "},{"Title":"High-Octane Action","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a late-comer to this movie, I guess I didn't know what to expect. I thought it would be slow and drawn out like so many older action movies were. Instead, I was pleasantly surprised at the high-octane shoot-em-up scenes, as well as the quips and one-liners the characters throw at each other. While some of the dialog is stilted, most of the writing is concise and to the point -- just enough to tell you the story without being boring. The action scenes are among the best I've ever seen. I only wish I'd seen it earlier. It's easy to see from Hard Boiled how Chow Yun-Fat and John Woo became such big international stars, but it's obviously been difficult for either of them to top this film. "},{"Title":"Hard-Boiled","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Give the guy a gun and he's Superman. Give him two and he's GodChow Yun Fat is Tequila, Hong Kong Police Sergeant. Tony Leung is undercover cop, Tony(..using the alias Alan), who has successfully infiltrated a triad organization. They join forces to take down a ruthless arms dealing mafioso, Johnny Wong(Anthony Wong)who has a large cache of weapons within a vault underneath Maples Hospital. If Tequila and Tony are not successful in stopping Wong, he'll slaughter the innocent lives of the entire hospital to save his own neck.If you want to see how to make a real action movie, see John Woo's early work in Hong Kong before vacating for America. HARD-BOILED has some astonishing action-set pieces which will have fans of ultra-violence salivating. Bodies are mangled and pulverized by bullets as well as major destruction of the buildings where shootouts occur. Even before you can settle into the movie, Woo hits it out of the ball park with the superb shootout in Wyndham teahouse where Tequila and his partner trade gunfire with arms smugglers where many innocent customers(..and the poor birds in their cages chirp-chirping away)are caught in the crossfire. As you'd expect, Tequila loses his partner(..has become quite a cliché, I admit)but his murder of the one responsible(..while covered in flour!)is quite satisfying. Then a little later we get the successful raid of Wong(..desiring complete control of the selling of illegal arms)over his older competitor, Mr Hoi(Kwan Hoi Sang)inside a large warehouse where guns are hidden in automobiles as a means to traffic them to locations. This is were Hoi's best assassin, Alan, betrays him joining forces with his rival. You see practically all of Hoi's men massacred by Wong before Tequila(..moving within the warehouse unannounced)intrudes upon their success by blasting away at them. Not only does Tequila contend with men on motorcycles and Alan(..who is so skilled as a shootist he knows how NOT to hit Tequila), but with Wong's main henchman, Mad Dog(Philip Kwok, quite a memorable, intimidating heavy). Again, many men die as sparks and explosions emanate with bodies blasted apart as Tequila, Tony, and Mad Dog masterfully evade ammunition aimed their way by flipping and sliding over vehicles and through windows.The final dazzling, mesmerizing set-piece(..which occurs over an hour!)is set within Maples Hospital as Tequila and Tony(..now fully aligned after Tequila's informant, Foxy, played by Wei Tung, is pummeled, shot and soon killed by Mad Dog)must duel with Wong's army of sadistic hoods who will shoot anybody that stands in the way of their success. By the end, the hospital resembles the skeletal remains of a building you'd see in Beirut. Woo establishes Wong as an absolute monster..he even machine guns cripples with crutches who are in his way! His men actually blow away patients and medical personnel trying to get out of the hospital..and soon opening fire on SWAT members attempting to evacuate infants out from an upper floor window! This film features some of the most amazing gun battles I have ever had a pleasure to witness. Exhiliarting ways Tequila and Tony are able to avoid the contact of bullets aimed in their direction. I've never seen such damage to the insides of buildings before this film. One entire sequence has Tequila and Tony moving floor to floor dropping their adversaries..it's so incredibly shot and magnificently presented in epic form. It doesn't get much better than this. Also, featuring Teresa Mo as Tequila's girlfriend, and Philip Chan as Superintendent Pang(..always at odds with Tequila for he stands to ruin such a difficult operation that has went well until he Tequila started interfering). John Woo himself(..who isn't a bad actor!)portrays a bartender and former cop, whose jazz joint Tequila plays his clarinet from time to time..wonderful jazz score adds the right mood to many melodramatic scenes. Everpresent in John Woo's work is injecting humanity into his films, not matter how blood-thirsty they are. Where Tequila must defend himself against baddies with one hand while cradling a baby is nothing short of amazing, particularly how he escapes an exploding building! This film only adds to the iconic status of Chow Yun Fat and Tony Leung, even before their greatest works for such directors as Ang Lee, Wong Kar Wai, and Zhang Yimou. "},{"Title":"Tequila, bullets and jazz","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After the dead of a partner, Inspector Tequila (Chow Yun-Fat) decides to end with the gun dealers who killed his partner. Soon he will find in Alan (Tony Leung Chiu Wai), an undercover cop who works with the gang, the perfect partner to end with the dealers.This is the main plot of the last film directed by John Woo in Hong Kong, and one of the most influential action films ever made. The story is simple and common in this kind of films but i really love it and for a simple crime/cop story John Woo creates a monumental and memorable film with some of the most original situations and in consequence some of the greatest action scenes ever filmed. I mean to set the last and biggest action sequence of the film in a hospital full of patients is really amazing and works perfect in the way that Tequila can show all of his abilities. And the the scene of Tequila and Alan in the hospital is amazing and without a doubt it rank in the greatest action scenes ever. So the film is that, a good and simple crime/cop story full of exciting action scenes with John Woo at his best. And with the coolest cop ever in a film, Tequila who is one of my favourite characters ever, of course because of his great skills and also because of his charisma that shows since the very first scene playing jazz and being the unique who drinks tequila.The cast is great, with Chow Yun-Fat in an excellent role and with Tony Leung Chiu Wai who is one of my favourite actors and who appears in lots of great films like Hero, Chungking Express and Infernal Affairs and right now is very well know in the West. Also the cameo of John Woo is good as a friend of Tequila from the jazz bar. The rest of the cast is good too. The music is another aspect that i love of this film. specially the last song after the hospital inferno.Conclusion Hard Boiled is one of the most influential films ever made, i haven't watch all of Hong Kong John Woo's films but i can say that this much, much better than all of his mediocre career in Hollywood, where the only decent film that he has make is Face/Off and his best work is the video game Stranglehold and for the low budget ($4,000,000) comparing to Hollywood films i can say that is more exciting than 121,000,000 Mission Impossible II, which budget was $125,000,000. So watch this film and enjoy Inspector Tequila. 9.5 out of 10, just for the horrible and fake look of the blood.Dragon Dynasty DVD since some DVDs of Dragon Dynasty appears in some stores in Mexico City i start to get every DVD that i see from the collection and i love the films. I didn't know that this film was in Dragon Dynasy so when i start to look out for this film, i knew that this DVD was the unique that i can get since the Criterion DVD is out of print and i recently get it. Is the number 15 and is great; contain lots of extras including some interviews, trailers, a feature with John Woo and a location guide. Terrific presentation for the film. "},{"Title":"Two guns make it all worthwhile...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chow Yun Fat stars as Tequila, a grizzled, cynical and mean cop who isn't afraid to shoot first and never ask questions (Tequila is so cynical he makes Death Wish's Paul Kersey and Dirty Harry seem like choir boys) and after a group of thugs take over a hospital it is up to him and another cop to take them down all pistols blazing. Hard Boiled isn't nearly as dramatic as The Killer or A Better Tomorrow but it is a prime example of when an action movie is taken so beyond it's limits that it com-busts and makes everything else seem like Walt Disney. Hard Boiled features some of the greatest action sequences ever filmed. The stairway massacre is awesome and the climax is so intense it becomes jaw dropping in how it is handled. Never in the U.S could something like this get made without people protesting and playing the morality card about how violence is affecting our children. What is quite surprising though is that the action in this movie would quiet down any cell phone armed teenager used to the artificial action filmed by a PG-13 friendly Hollywood. Hard Boiled is a lot like The Road Warrior in it's greatness. You feel like you were watching it for like 10 minutes and you note that the credits are closing. There is some character development but overall Hard Boiled exists in pushing the envelope and it does so in such a way that it is guaranteed to drain anybody's batteries.* * * * out of 4-(Excellent. A Must See!) "},{"Title":"heroic bloodshed as it should be","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" JOHN WOO IS GOD AND CHOW YAN FAT IS THE SON OF GOD!!! This is an action movie for the fans! The first scenes will surprise you and seem chaotic. But if you watch it more often and carefully you will see a well choreographed action sequence which is just a sample of the rest of the movie! The sequences will improve and amaze you every minute! Fasten your seatbelts and get ready for a roller-coaster ride! This one surpasses FACE OFF easily! Chow Yan Fat (Tequila) is the hard boiled cop who is trigger happy and brutal! But even then you just love the guy! As this wasn't the case with John Travolta (who was unconvincing as the good cop in FACE OFF)! All the trademarks from John Woo's movies are represented,pigeons,jazz music,(speed)boats,friendship and shootouts (in slow motion),lot's of them! If you liked the Matrix trilogy, then you will love Hard Boiled, because the action is far better (and without the digital effects,cgi). Max Payne (the video game) is based on this movie without a doubt.Need i say more! "},{"Title":"2000 Deaths and I want more!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Woo is God. Watching films to me is based solely on entertainment. John Woo is God. Back in 1992, if you were the handsome 8 year old I was, you probably didn't see this film for about another four years. It was met with a lukewarm feeling by Hong Kong viewers but it did become a cult sensation and is truly one of the best action films of all time.John Woo is God. Face it, the action in this films top notch, I don't care if the story is stupid. The hospital scene, is the greatest action sequence ever put on celluloid. You couldn't argue ONE thing that passes it in that category. John Woo is God.Chow-Yun Fat is awesome as well, toothpick in mouth, and destroying every loser in sight. Why the hell would you want to see him interacting with a troll named Jodie Foster, when you can see him destroying the entire Triad underground! John Woo is God.The rest of the cast rules as well. Tony Leung is one of the greats in all of Hong Kong cinema, one could argue that his performance was better, and reminds me much of the 2003 hit Infernal Affairs. He's a cool cat, and that assassin scene always gets my juices pumping. Anthony Wong is pretty good as well, and the eye-patch man steals the show. John Woo is God.Then you've got action, from the teahouse shootout, the warehouse shootout, I mean God. Somebody once said (I forget who) that action films are trash. Maybe so, but I like my trash Hard Boiled (drum shot, please). John Woo is God.This is the action film everybody should see, what's this crap about being overrated? If anything it's underrated, it should be voted best action film ever made. Because what is shown at its best? Is itA Action B Geena Davis C Seattle Mariners D Strap-onIf you said B Geena Davis is an ugly whore If you said C Seattle Mariners are a crappy team If you said D I'm not into that kind of thing.Yes it conquers action and John Woo is most certainly the best when it comes to that subject. I'm ready for my trip to heaven. "}{"Title":"Like eating 100 Snickers bars--first few is good but then you get sick","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gratuitous, wanton, joyless, over-played slaughter.  230+ dead persons in comparison to The Killer's 140 doesn't mean a better movie.  After seeing The Killer (my first John Woo movie and by far his best), A Better Tomorrow 1 & 2, Hard Target, Face/Off, Mission Impossible 2, and Bullet in the Head, I eventually got around to watching this giant piece of noise.  On my first viewing, I was appalled by how many people are pointlessly shot up for fun.  The film lacks both the rich melodramatic chord and style of Killer and the coolness of the action.  John Woo excesses himself overtime both in bullet volume, ridiculous dialogue, and nasty villains.  I really can't see why people like this movie so much, even the sound editing is HORRIBLE! It seems only three sounds are used for the dozens of various guns and only one explosion sound is used for the dozens of (annoyingly unnecessarily) explosions.  This film also has a serious blood packet fetish.  In Killer, some blood is used when people are shot but this movie takes it to the RoboCop level of ludicrous gore.  By the time this movie is over, you'll want to check your shirt for bloodstains and wishing John Woo had cut some of the subplots out.  Anthony Wong Chau-Sang lacks the real sense of cruelty and evil that Fui-On Shing oozes continuously in the Killer.  In the end you feel neither vengeance or depression when his character gets it in the end and your just happy the movie has finally ended.  That's the last point I'd like to make, did this film HAVE to be over two hours long?  The only American film I can think of that has everything this has and shows it in exactly the same way is Rambo III.  Watch that for the same effect in your head. "},{"Title":"Zenith for John Woo","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, the first film of John Woo's I had seen was Hard Boiled.  I became an immediate Hong Kong movie junkie.I think the main reason I love this film is that it's contains so much that Hollywood would never, EVER dare show in a movie.  This is just raw action bullets blazing, bodies dropping, explosions throughout from the teahouse to the insanely entertaining climactic final battle.  Chow Yun Fat as Tequila is superb with his hardcore attitude.  Tony Leung is great and has some amazing action sequences as well.  Anthony Chau-Sang gives a frighteningly evil performance as the heartless Johnny Wong.Speaking of action, much credit goes to Philip Kwok, a huge part for this film's success.  From motorcycle drive-bys to lighting up a smoke from a flaming car wreck, Mad Dog is a great villain and Kwok's fight choreography is breathtaking as gunfights are orchestrated like intricate dance steps.  Trust me, it's hard to take your eyes off once this one starts.The story is not difficult to follow and it keeps you waiting for more action.  Hard Boiled can be watched many times and is a great tribute to Hong Kong moviemaking. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Action Picture","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lashou Shentan better known as Hard Boiled is one of the most amazing action pictures I've seen. The shootouts in this movie are amazing, millions of bullets go flying. The action scenes are hypnotic. This is John Woo at his absolute best, non stop, heart pounding action. For action fans there is no other choice but Hard Boiled.  "},{"Title":"Almost one of Woo's best","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing new plot-wise (male loyalty, police undercover, gun smugglers) but the acting was good, the dialogue credible and some of the most amazing and very violent stunts I've ever seen in an action film.  They make the film worth watching.  But, it's too cruel for me to say I enjoy it...SPOILERS AHEAD!!  Towards the end a large bunch of babies are put in danger--one or two are almost gunned down!  Also, a bunch of crippled people are shot to death by the bad guy.  Why?  We already knew he was a psychopath...we didn't need this!  It's an upsetting scene--needless and sick.  Those two elements make it somewhat unpleasant to watch.  Take those scenes out and you got a great, kick ass action film! "},{"Title":"Gunplay a plenty.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a sixth dimension beyond that which is known to man. A dimension of space and infinity. It lies between sum of a man's weapons and the chamber of his gun. There's a target up ahead, you've now entered the Bullet Dimension. What is the bullet dimension you may ask. Well, it's that place wher more bullets come from when action heroes forget to reload. The bullet dimension is filled with an infinite amount of bullets. And while Chow Yun-Fat has not dethroned Arnold Schwarzenegger as king of the bullet dimension, he is making a name for himself there. In Replacement Killers he didn't even not bother to reload, he just threw away his gun and got another one. But this isn't Replacement Killers, this is Hard Boiled. Mr Yun-Fat doesn't need to reload here. This is a violent movie. Probably the only shoot out in a hospital infant center in movie history. Story Of Ricky's Philip Kwok is Mad Dog in this which is a plus. And this is also one of the only movies that can compete with The Wild Bunch for highest body count. "},{"Title":"Everything goes in and out of style, except war","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've known about Chow's career and great action sequences. But never got a chance to see his Hong Kong movies, it was never on TV; and I was too young to buy DVD's or videos.Replacement Killers was the first film I saw and it was pretty cool. Bulletproof Monk was okay; great fight scenes but I didn't feel it was Chow.I recently watched this film and obtained the DVD into my collection.The music is a little..retro; but the action sequences are the true reason for this films success.Chow shoots and shoots his way through endless baddies; Tony Leung perfects; a role that he will later return to, alongside Andy Lau (Infernal Affairs).Tony and Chow make a great team; the scene in the Vault is hilarious, neither knows what to do.John Woos appearance is nice and seeing him interact with his leading man; for me the shoot-out scenes are simply stunning, it is done with great precision, blood spills all over as Chow decimates his enemies with ease....Hard Boiled a true action classic. "},{"Title":"Should be BIGGER than Die Hard","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled is one of the best action movies ever made. It is a; well scripted; well acted; well executed; action masterpiece. It includes multiple action sequences that are possibly some of the best action sequences in motion picture history.With this said, I think that it really should gain the notoriety and status of Die Hard.. possibly more. Die Hard has everything to make a great film; amazing action sequences, a great protagonist and a great villain.. but Hard Boiled has TWO great protagonists, and TWO hard ass villains (even though one of the villains does become a bit sentimental.. but then again, he gets a cool mangled face!) and it clearly beats Die Hard in the action division! What bugs me is that English speaking folk only prefer Die Hard because they don't have to listen to the poor overdubbing or have to read subtitles.. but I say that is bull!- it's all about the delivery and the passion; and Hard Boiled certainly delivers, and it certainly has passion, whereas Die Hard feels a bit hollow. I'm sure Westerners would appreciate this movie as much as Cantonese speakers do if they just give it a try (they enjoyed Crouching Tiger, Hid.. didn't they? ..only because of the publicising it got in the Western world - Hard Boiled didn't get ANY!)So I urge anyone who has seen this film and enjoyed it, tell everyone that has prejudices against foreign language films TO TRY AND WATCH THIS FILM MASTERPIECE which by the way is better than Die Hard, Die Hard 2, Die Hard WaV (supposedly the hallmark of the action genre) SO THAT I CAN SLEEP AT NIGHT! Thanks for reading, I know I am ranting and babbling, I apologise, Garjun ) "},{"Title":"Greatest Action movie of all time?","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Give a man a gun and he's superman...give him two and he's God That is a quote from this movie and how true it is. This was my first John Woo movie I saw and what an experience it was. I was about 8 when I first saw it and I just recently watched it again and it brought back that feeling I love when I see a good movie. You just go somewhere else when you see this. It is far fetched in the way that one man can go in and face hundreds with just a few guns, and in the way that the characters very rarely re-load the guns, but isn't that what you should expect from a movie like this. I'm an action movie fan to say the least but some of the old classics like Die Hard, Terminator, Rambo and Hard to Kill struggle to keep up with the explosive pace of this. A great movie, and I don't think John Woo has made a better one since. "},{"Title":"Evidently, legendary action director John Woo wasn't always as legendary as he is known to be today in the U.S.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled is one of Woo's earlier hardcore action films, and it definitely has no shortage of action. While there can be no question about Woo's skill at staging fast paced action scenes, that very element was probably the main thing that brought Hard Boiled down. Aside from the fact that the acting was terrible, even from the great Chow Yun-Fat, the film was awkwardly dubbed into English, so you DVD owners out there may want to just leave the subtitles on. With a traditional action film story (an effort to stop a gun smuggling operation and hunt down a close one's murderer, grossly outnumbered, of course), Hard Boiled is not an entirely uninteresting film &#150; because the same old story is made to work again by the quality direction, almost single-handedly. The problem here is the gunfights. While they are, in fact, relatively well done, due to John Woo's careful hand at direction, there is just so much mind-numbing machine gun fire and so many nameless people being blown away that, pretty soon, a really terrible thing for the film begins to happen, you just stop caring.Watch this film is you are a big John Woo or Chow Yun-Fat fan, or if you are into mindless action films, but be advised, it pretty hard to be moved by a film that kills dozens and dozens of people &#150; nearly constantly &#150; within seconds of introducing them.  "},{"Title":"Great for the time but a bit dated for today! 4/10","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Review I remember thinking that this movie was amazing when I first watched it, in the early 90's, because of the great action at the end and the coolness of Chow Yun-Fat but I must admit, it does look a bit dated now. The soundtrack is awful throughout the movie and the gun action seemed a bit messy and over exaggerated. Anyway, this movie is about a Hong Kong cop, Officer Tequila Yuen (Chow Yun-Fat), who attempts to arrest a group of gun smugglers in a tea house with his partner, Benny (Bowie Lam). During an epic shootout, Benny is killed and many of the officers are badly wounded so Tequila goes on a mission to kill the gang who ambushed there operation. Whilst seeking revenge for his partner, Tequila sets out to kill the gangster who sent out his henchmen to ambush the deal but Tequila's boss, Pang (Philips Chan) wants the gangster alive so he can testify. While all of that commotion is happening, a high ranking assassin, Alan (Tony Leung Chiu-Wai), works for a triad boss, Uncle Hoi but when Alan is approached by a rival gang leader, Johnny Wong (Anthony Wong) to join his gang because of his impressive gun skills, Alan turns against Hoi and they plan to raid one of Hoi's warehouses. During the raid, Wongs henchmen kill most of Hoi's workers and he demands Alan to kill Wong who is called to the scene. Because of his loyalty to his new boss, Alan kills Hoi and he's left alone with his thoughts while Wong departs. Tequila watches the whole alteration and he attempts to kill Alan but he runs out of ammo and to his surprise, Alan spares his life. Tequila is then told by Pang, that Alan is an undercover officer so they join forces to take-down Wong, while he still is undercover. Tequila's informant, Foxy (Tung Wei) gets fatally injured by Wongs henchmen and Alan shoots Foxy to show his loyalty to Wong but he knows that the shot wouldn't kill him because he gave him a lighter, which he put in his breast pocket. Foxy then tells Tequila about the whole alteration and Tequila takes Foxy to the nearby hospital because of his fatal wounds. When Wong finds out that Foxy is still alive, he sends his henchmen to the hospital to kill Foxy but Alan and Tequila are there to protect him. Whilst fighting against Wongs henchmen, Tequila and Alan come across a secret passage which leads to Wongs arsenal, which they use to defend themselves. Wong then takes the patients and police officers hostage and after killing many of them, without any remorse, Pang and his officers get involved to try and free some of the babies in the maternity ward. Tequila helps to save the babies and the hostages while Alan goes head to head with Wongs head henchman. Wong then plants bombs around the hospital, so Tequila has to fight against time to save the last baby. When Wong starts to murder some more of the patients, his head henchman decides to turns his gun on Wong because he's against killing innocent people but he runs out of ammo and is killed by Wong on the spot. While the building is exploding, Wong comes out of the hospital, holding Alan at gunpoint and Wong tries to humiliate Tequila in front of all of his fellow officers but Alan isn't having any of it and he puts up a struggle with Wong and shoots himself through the belly, giving Tequila enough time to kill him. Once again, it's another detailed storyline with loads of bullets flying throughout the movie but the whole look and feel of the film was a bit dated. I really liked Chow Yun-Fat's character because of his no fear, one man army attitude but the gun action is a bit far fetched and I personally would have enjoyed it more, if it wasn't 2 hours long. Watchable!Round-Up This movie was John Woo's last release in his native country before he hit the Western market with Hard Target with Jean Claude Van Damme. Its the last movie that he made with Chow Yun-Fat, after a successful run of movies together, which include A Better Tomorrow I & II, the Killer and Once A Thief and I hope they come together again, before Woo decides to retire. Anyway, the signature gun action from Woo is definitely what made this a hit in the early 90's but I was expecting more the second time around.Budget $4.5million Worldwide Gross HK$19.7millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their action/crime/drama's starring Chow Yun-Fat, Tony Chiu Wai Leung, Teresa Mo and Philip Chan. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Overrated? No. Awesome? YES!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie and thinking it was super awesome. I watched it yesterday and I have come to a conclusion. It is very awesome. So many gun battles. So many dying jerks. Not the best movie ever but it could be close. Arsenal in a hospital. That's pure genius. I want to go into a time machine so I can go back to when this movie came out and tell myself to go see it. I don't want to have 10 lines of text. I just want to say how much this movie is great and how I love seeing movies where people get shot in the eye. Oh fine. It was a good movie. Kind of a cheesy story, but who cares? The action more than makes up for that. Chow Yun-Fat is super cool shotgun man. If you like good movies, I recommend this. If you want to be a jerk, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable action shooter from the master, John Woo - 79%","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After a slight delay of three or four days, I have finally reviewed this film which was shown by Channel 4 on Monday. The reason for the delay is really quite simple - Kill Bill Vol. 1 (seen on Tuesday) has been occupying my thoughts since then and it is only now that I can concentrate on Hard Boiled, John Woo's acclaimed masterpiece of extreme violence cinema. And not a samurai sword in sight.Chow Yun Fat is Tequila, a trigger-happy cop pursuing gun-running Triads across Hong Kong. After losing his partner in a raid, Tequila must team up with an undercover cop who has infiltrated the leading Triad gang to bring down the organization. But the fact remains that few will watch this film as a serious study of police work in Hong Kong. John Woo has become a brand now and fans know exactly what to expect - theatrical shoot-outs, loads of slow-motion, paper and debris flying everywhere and a high body count. All present and correct, sir! Why shoot a baddie once when you can shoot him ten times as you are diving through a window, crashing through the glass and watching your doomed target sail through the air and crash through a table?The fact that there is so much death and destruction in this picture (230 people die on screen, a record according to IMDb) is this film's strength as well as its weakness. It runs like a computer game, with ammo seemingly limitless and a villain called Mad Dog (Time Crisis, people!). True, it pales in comparison to Tarantino's latest but all the action is so over-the-top and over-stylised that the impact of the violence is deadened. But action is what John Woo does best and there is no doubt that initially, the gun battles are exciting to watch. It's just that when every battle is the same, are you still entertained?Someone I work with described John Woo as a one-trick pony. While that may be harsh, it is nonetheless accurate. Hard Boiled is no different to any other Woo film in that it glorifies the gun. I rated Woo's Face/Off higher than this film for two reasons. One - I find it easier to relate to an American setting than an Oriental one. Second - I saw Face/Off before I saw this and the Woo-effect still had the magic. It's starting to wear off now but that isn't the fault of this film. If you haven't seen a Woo film then the chances are you'll have no idea what I'm talking about. For the newbies, this film is an excellent place to start. The stunt-work and gun-ballet are as good, if not better, than anything the mainstream movie watcher will find in The Matrix, Desperado et al. But if you've seen more than one Woo then the appeal will depend on how much you enjoyed the last Woo film. The law of diminishing returns is in full force - the more you watch Woo, the less you enjoy them. "},{"Title":"Pretty nice.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Boiled has a reputation as an action masterpiece.  I recently had the opportunity to see it, and I have to say it's definitely a good film.  The action is excellent, with stunts and choreography that blow the viewer's mind.  Some incredible things are put in this film, and everyone obviously tried their best, which is very nice to see. With that in mind, however, I do have some problems with it.  I am NOT denying its status as an excellent action film--but for all that, it is still only an action film, not going much deeper than most.  For me, great action alone does not a movie make. The plot has a decent enough basis...cop takes on criminals, avenging his partner, meeting up with an undercover man inside, etc.  There are actually a great number of subplots, as well.  The problem is, none of the plots are adequately explored, which gave the film a sort of half-finished feel, as though John Woo (for whom I have tremendous respect) had finished the action sequences but had to release the film before the acting for the rest of the stuff could be revised.  Certain parts of the film are just laughably done as a result...it might have helped the film if the number of subplots had been reduced, and the main plot alone emphasized, making it easier to go deeper into things. Hard Boiled ends up, for me, as some outstanding action scenes held together only loosely by a plot that seems grounded in good ideas, but never really uses them much.  It is still an entertaining film, but won't go down as one of the greatest in my book. "},{"Title":"Woo's Best Badaxe Hong Kong Actioner!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all of Woo's Hong Kong action films this is my fave!  This story of a younger cop and older cop Chow-Yun Fat is one kickaxe, ultraviolent movie ride.  Like the best Hong Kong action films this makes violence into an almost beautiful, kinetic dance.The hospital sequence at the end was my favorite part, especially the bit where Fatman rigs a way to bust into a massive gun filled vault.  I liked the overall look of this film, the neon like lighting, the costumes, everything.  I dug this film so much I almost wish I was playing the part of the young cop.  That'd be every action fan's dream, wouldn't it?  Being Chow-Yun Fat's ass kicking partner in an action extravaganza.  Ooo ooo ooo, so so true. "},{"Title":"Okay!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film and I have to say that it is simply OKAY! The plot is not well done, the structure of the film is flawed, and the characters are not well developed. The only thing that saves it is the action which really isnt all that amazing.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cheap never-ending fireworks","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe going back in time could explain to me the love of many viewers for this movie. John Woo made a big shootout movie with permanent dangers and many action scenes, which maybe would have even frighten veterans from Verdune. Unfortunately I'm not a fan of shootouts with so many bullets failing. Perfect shooters have machine guns at hands and are constantly missing their targets. That worked later with John Woos action orgy Face/Off, because this movie is so over the top that you can't demand any bit of realism.'Hard Boiled' was much cheaper, and for it's shoestring budget (even for it's time and location) it comes with an astonishing amount of big explosions, gunfights and police adventure. But it's atmosphere reminds me of the 70's.It's a movie mainly for fans of Chow Yun Fat, and as I'm not one of them, I did like the movie much less than they do. Fat was less leading actor than a supporting catalyst for the sympathetic Tony Leung Chiu Wai, who was clearly the hero of the movie. All other characters, maybe except Mad Dog, are only minors to support the two big names and the shootouts.But the shootouts are missing tension, as they are so massive but not really dangerous for the heroes. Countless, faceless enemies, policemen and bystanders are falling under the fire of the heroes and villains like bleeding puppets.I remember 'Scarface', where the final gunfight is something I never forget, because of its ultimate intensity. With 'Hard boiled' I can't remember a scene after a few hours. "},{"Title":"Great Action movie","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't remember the exact UK tag line for this movie, but it was something like More exciting than a dozen Die Hards.While I do not entirely support this tag line (the main reason being, that it does looks like it's bashing Die Hard), I do think that the movie is more than exciting. And I'm not only talking about the slo-mo shootings ...What made most of John Woo's HK movies for me great, were a few things. Peckinpah's slo-mo thing aside, which he uses to a great extent and very masterfully, I always liked that his movies had strong themes and characters. There is no one who is cooler than Chow Yun Fat in a John Woo movie. But it's not about being cool. It's about friendship, loyalty, betrayal and respect! Sometimes even respect for your foe! As also shown in this movie.The action is insane, yes. It's also theatrical. It's not a secret that Woo is a fan of the Opera, which is also shown in his action choreography! But if you wouldn't care for the characters, that wouldn't really matter.John Woo and Chow Yun Fat are for me the equivalent for John Huston and John Wayne. Or Scorsese & De Niro (lately it's Scorsese and Di Caprio). Woo and Fat could be working together soon (rumors are heard all the time, maybe they do actually filming or prepping a movie right now) and I am sure I will enjoy their movie! As I enjoyed this movie!I'm also sure I will enjoy the game that will be based on this movie. It's called (Woo's) Stranglehold (due to be released Fall 2007) and you can play the character Tequila (aka Chow Yun Fat's alter ego)! Now that's cool! o) "},{"Title":"A perfect example of why Woo should never have left his home.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the record, I utterly despise John Woo's American films. Not once has he impressed me, much to the contrary. His US films are stupid, unrealistic, and lack the brutally intense, realistic gun battles that he so masterfully conceived in his Hong Kong films. It's sad and hard to believe that this is the same director.Rarely are such intensely brutal gun battles put on film in such a masterful way as they are here. Every bullet does damage to something or someone, which had to have made this an impossible film to choreograph. It is awe-inspiring to see all of the damage happen before your eyes leaving you wondering in amazement at how they even pulled it off. All of the blood squibs and debris are placed perfectly. I was amazed at the intricateness and caliber of the sequences. Very well thought out. And while it is true that foreign stuntmen are willing to take more chances than Americans which makes the films far more enjoyable to watch (American insurance companies also have something to do with this), the audacity of some of the stunts is downright insane. I wish the Americans would take note of the detail and insanity involved here. Some of this can be seen in some of Woo's American films, but it doesn't really matter since they suck anyway. The one and only bad thing I can say about the action sequences, is that no one ever reloads, EVER. Other than that minor gripe, they're flawless.The basic story is fairly decent, although due to the cultural gap some things don't make a lot of sense or seem silly. This can't be blamed on the film itself though, but the aforementioned cultural difference. But overall, a great story that keeps you guessing. It makes for a rather long action film, but that's a good thing because we get treated to so much action. I can't say much for the acting considering I don't speak Chinese and can't interpret the way in which the lines are delivered...but it seemed satisfactory. Great story, invincibly awesome action, immense entertainment.Hard Boiled kicks ass, period. If you really would like to see how to pull off some amazing action sequences, then give it a shot. You will not be disappointed. Fellow action directors should take note, including Woo himself.  "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Compared to The Killer (which I liked a lot), I found this film rather boring shooting bad guys becomes repetitive after a while and, frankly, I find it silly the way the heroes (good and bad alike) get shot, fall down, stand up, continue fighting, get shot, fall down, get wheeled into hospital, stand up, continue fighting, get shot, etc. Like watching Tom&Jerry or Daffy Duck.2 SPOILERs ahead(1) Same with the babies In this kind of movie, does anyone really think the baby factor adds suspense? Cuteness, maybe. You just know it - they'll all be OK. No babies were hurt in the making of this film(2) Even plot twists become routine First time the bad guy turns out to be an undercover agent, OK, surprise. Second time, well ... yawn. Seems to be more cops than real criminals in the higher ranks of HK gangs.<\spoiler>All in all - 6/10, alright for late night channel hopping, but for better entertainment value, go see Killer/Time and Tide/Kill Bill "},{"Title":"Screw The Matrix Hard Boiled > J00","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seriously, Hard Boiled is THE action movie. It's got guns, karate, gunfights, explosions, plot, suspense, artistic beauty, a high body count, realistic fx (as opposed to CGI), ammo, C4, covert missions, mafia hits, raids, hostage situations, Bullet Time, and even full-blown war (which beats the LOTRTT climax in sheer action). Even the Matrix can't step to this masterpiece.'Nuff said. "}{"Title":"Must watch for John Woo & Action fans.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is basically a movie with very little plot, but lots of good tips on how to film a great action movie.  I found it to be a good movie, although replaying this movie isn't the best.   I'd say watch the movies to figure out where John Woo got his thing going.  Chow Yun Fat is also pretty darn good.  But again this is one of those rare 10 star movies that you really should leave part of your brain at the door.  At least the brain for storylines.  The action one's gonna jump thru the door before you get to it.10/10Quality 10/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"Godly Action Sequences, So-So Script","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have hardly ever experienced action sequences so awesome. American action has never reached this kind of pinnacle. But the rest of the script is very cliche. I was sure the captain would say to Chow Yun-Fat You're a loose canon, Tequila! and he basically did say that.The final sequence of the film is hard to take. It seemed to me that John Woo was getting off with killing off innocent victims and putting newborn babies in grave danger. I still give this film a 7/10, but I was getting more than a little annoyed at these sorts of things near the end. "},{"Title":"Hard-boiled, as in cooked too long.","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is quite good, until they get to the hospital. Then, it turns into the most mindless mess of misanthropy this side of mindless slasher flicks that would never rate over a 1. How could it go south so quickly? What were they thinking? Was it so they could add the asinine and annoying Save the Babies subplot. Oh ... my ... gawd. That ... was ... lame. Yup, No babies were hurt in the making of this film. Of course, about 68 nurses were mowed down and 17 elderly people on crutches and in wheelchairs were whacked. But hey, that's action. So, my advice? Watch until he says tell her to meet me at the hospital. Then hit the STOP button. "},{"Title":"Maybe a fun film but not a good one","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the film was good back when it first released but watching it now proves that it does not stand the test of time. The acting is so-so at best with the exception of Tony Leung who does an excellent job of showing the anguish and conflict of an undercover cop. You can see it in his eyes. Yun-fat is just plain angry all the time and does various acrobatic things with his mouth. But his character does not have depth despite some effort to portray otherwise with the implementation of a former cop friend played by John Woo himself, who Yun-fat would sometimes confine deep subjects with such as friendship, life and death, etc. However, the conversations are stiff, shallow, and lacked of emotion. This film is widely praised for its action sequences and I could see how it's come about but I'm seemly biased by today's standard. I know I shouldn't do this but I just can't help it. The action sequences are just too over-the-top. I understand the unrealistic element of action movies to entertain but this one really irks me. Unlimited amo, bullets wouldn't go through car door yet throw a person across a room as if he just got hit by a truck, people miss their marks constantly in the most obvious way - yes, I'm talking about you Mad Dog, you were in an arm base with high caliber rifles yet you used a single shot pistol, you were 12 feet away and caught your targets off-guarded, and you still missed - which by the way somehow miraculously helped Tony, who was shocked with high voltage and on the verge of death just moments ago, back on his feet faster than a stallion; Wong, the main villain, tries to explode the building filled by gas (ordered by him by the way) that he was in, with C4s. Even my kid cousin knows better and Wong't do that. I know I'm really nitpicking here but it did strike a nerve. I'm willing to overlook all that but the main problem is hard-boiled down to this it's too exaggerating, too much, and dragged on way too long which really tiresome to watch after awhile. Stripped the action and the plot is weak full with holes. There are some really cheesy scenes and dialogs. Most importantly though, I didn't feel any chemistry between characters. I didn't feel an emotional surge when a close friend is killed or when he's in great danger (A Better Tomorrow was great on this). I just didn't care for them; I was a mere spectator not an engaged participant that was drawn into the scenes. However, I'd not discredit this film for its influence. This and other Woo's films helped popularize the gun fight ballads. The scene where Yun-fat slides down the stair, back rested against the stair rail, tooth-pick in mouth, pumping the dual pistols is spectacular; wicked cool.TL;DR average at best with lots of over-the-top actions that gets old really quickly while doesn't have a good enough plot nor acting to sustain it. Probably was great when first released but doesn't hold the water now. A Better Tomorrow and The Killer are both much better films with similar theme. "},{"Title":"A solid effort","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was pretty impressed by John Woo's Face Off, which was a very entertaining action film with a nice cast so I was curious to check out his early work. The action sequences are handled very well in The Killer, but at the same time I felt they were were a bit uninspired. There are plenty of shootout moments here, but I found them quite repetitive and not necessarily entertaining. Also, I had problems with the editing, which was awkward at times. As for the acting, the leads do an okay job but didn't seem so convincing in the more dramatic scenes for me. Overall, The Killer was a bit disappointing experience but an enjoyable mess nevertheless. "},{"Title":"If you want an action film with amazing gun scenes, this is your movie!  However if your not into bullets Hard Boiled has got nothing for yah.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard boiled stars Chow Yun-Fat as detective 'Tequila' a stylish name to go along with a stylish character. Tequila is a ballsy, cigarette breathing, killing machine. His goal stop the out of control arms smuggling in Hong Kong. After a huge gun battle leaves a number of dead civilians and officers, the reckless Tequila is removed off the case. Of course no higher up is going to be able to stop Tequila from shooting bad guys as Tequila continues to work behind the scenes. Simultaneously, undercover cop Tony, played by Tony Leung must murder and betray his way to the top of the underground weapons trade in order to take down the big fish.John Woo is the master of action and Hard Boiled is a perfect case in point. Woo knows we go to the movies to see heroes flying through the air with double pistols and unlimited ammo. We're not there to see realism, we're there to watch in slow motion a gun being drawn and bodies drop to the floor in blood. Woo's command over the camera and his ability to squeeze every drop of coolness from his action scenes is truly at elite level. Now that I've praised Woo's knack for action it's time to talk about the bad. Hard Boiled is far from the best action film out there. This film is over 2 hours long and the story is all over the place. In fact Woo had to shut down production for a massive rewrite after they shot the opening scene, then later their writer died in the middle of filming without having finished the script. There are scenes interspersed that perhaps show a little character development but don't do much for the story. It was pretty hard for me to follow the story and it felt uneven all around. Many action scenes are gratuitously long. Towards the end of the film there is a section where the cops pin the gangsters in a hospital. This chunk of the film takes about 30 minutes! The scenes are just too indulgent stretching the adrenaline reserves of even the most die hard action junkies. Hard Boiled would have benefited from slightly better planning.The acting is good, Chow Yun-Fat is obviously an Asian powerhouse and Tony has got some impressive acting chops. Overall this film is probably best just skimming through to the action scenes. If you really want to study the camera work you might watch the entire thing all the way through. For me at least the non-action scenes felt like overdramatized filler. However you definitely have to credit Woo for his action. Expendables has got nothing on this film.Who this film is not for-If you don't like guns, no need for you to watch this film. "},{"Title":"This movie is hyped way too much...","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First a lot of people hype that movie. Must be cool because everyone says so and since the director is John Woo it must be a Mind blowing movie. It can be seen a very early step into the action genre. John Woo had only a poor budget and the movie looks like it. Compare the camera shots and the effects to his later works like Face Off or MI2 and you know what I am talking about. I really can't understand why everybody here says it the best action flic. I mean come on people jumping (literally) to the ground moments before they get shot, people dying before the explosion takes place and people dying without ever getting shot. The sound is very bad the camera motion is average and the stunts are average too.I'm a big John Woo fan nowadays. As said before I liked the action of Hard Target, Face Off and MI2. MI2 is a masterpiece of fighting choreography and camera-work. But this movie is only a b-movie. Sorry but there is no more about it. 5/10derboiler. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  OK, nothing special","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled takes a pretty good stab at the traditional action film. There's plenty of stuff blowing up, so for an action movie buff like me, that's all I need. And I don't mind the subtitles (as an English speaker).Unfortunately, two things mar the film. The type of film used is not very high quality. And -- although the movie gets clever towards the ending -- the first 2/3 of the film is not very clever.Do you know what I mean? In Jackie Chan films, it isn't just punch punch punch punch punch punch. Usually they're bouncing off the walls, throwing chairs around, and doing some interesting physical tricks.Unusually for a Hong Kong action film, there isn't much physical trickery in the first 2/3 of Hard Boiled. Instead there is a lot of shoot shoot shoot shoot. Guns make it too easy and impersonal. The film is a little too violent, too.Who should see this film-- action buffs only, and then only on a rainy dayI'll give Hard Boiled a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best movie of all times","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a jewel, the very best movie of all times. I've never seen such action sequences which are so brilliant. It has been compared to Joel Silver's many times but it certainly explodes all of them. This is an obvious cinematographic experience, a pure masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Quantity Does Not Equal Qual&#x85;Ah, Forget It.","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember the seventh grade being a time when I really began to discover movies in terms of their directors. I had developed that insatiable appetite for Tarantino, Kevin Smith, and watched various films of John Woo. As an adolescent male, the idea of sliding down a banister while simultaneously unloading two guns into two guys was, I remember specifically, awesome. Or no, kick-ass. Woo has gained an audience of many males by dazzling us with balletically choreographed action sequences. Who doesn't like stylized action set pieces? But let's not start sucking Woo's balls quite yet. The film begins really well, with a gun fight breaking out in a teahouse, done with both grit and grace. Alas, the impact here has become boredom by the end, because that is all you get from this movie. Nothing else happens, we don't care about anybody, the plot is the oldest formula on the shelf and there exist no intricacies, dimensions or details. More-is-more here.For a director who's spoken so often of honor, has said that he hates violence, I find it baffling that his films, both from Hong Kong and Hollywood, have little more to offer than hyper-stylized gun battles that, save for a few exceptions in his better movies, are only all of a piece. They are ends in themselves. Woo does some interesting things with Chow Yun-Fat's hard-boiled cop, giving him a sideline gig as a jazz clarinetist, his partner his drummer, to give him more dimension. Tony Leung, playing his counterpart, enjoys boating and making paper cranes. Ultimately, so what? They both kill so many people, so so so many people, often entire rooms and buildings full of people, and then Chow goes right back to the precinct where he flirts with the pathetically clichéd ex-girlfriend officer. My gripe is not so much that massacring hoards of totally objectified henchmen as if they're pop-up boards (I.e., that they're characters in an action movie), as much as that they, and nobody else, are real characters. The ex-girlfriend cop is nothing but alternately a latent romantic interest and a nurturing mother figure in the few scenes she has, the bad guy is just a guy who seems to just do things because they're bad and be followed around at all times by at least a dozen guys waving guns around as if to have no concept of discretion, the police chief is the barking, ranting superior who's fed up with Chow's reckless methods.The violence is portrayed like a martial art, or a painterly broad stroke, instead of something that generates tension, drama, horror or any intense feelings. The chase in The French Connection is exhilarating, not just because of the way it's filmed and edited, but also because the stakes are realistic, the character's motivation is there and we're absorbed in the visceral vice grip of it. In Woo's most pivotal work, violence and action seem to instill in a lionized fashion that might is right, especially if you look slick and cool during. Slow motion helps. It takes precedence over the worn-out, threadbare plot, or even any sense of logic. Why the hell would a stockpile of artillery be stashed by arms dealers at a hospital, where you have to seize control of the entire place in order to extract the load? Oh, right. Because they're baaaad. They're mean guys. Ooooh. And early on, when a character executes a hit in a library using a gun hidden in a book, Chow is called in and shown being such a clever pathological detective in finding the re-shelved book. Never mind the fact that the book is soaked in blood, and surely must've dripped a whole trail back to its shelf. But no, we're given dissolves between Chow and the other character, suggesting he's getting into the mind of the killer. Jesus.The climactic scene, one cop held hostage by the main baddie who forces the other cop to slap himself repeatedly and say that he's impotent until the hostage cop takes action, while an entire police force, a whole district of EMTs and hundreds of bystanders look on, doing nothing about the situation at all except watching it transpire with anxious facial expressions, is the pinnacle of the violence-as-wrestling-match mentality pervading this film. There is one scene that portrays violence to truly dramatic effect, when the scarred, one-eyed super-duper-evil-looking henchman sees the bad guy mowing down innocent bystanders in the line of fire as one of the heroes escapes, and tries to prevent it, saying, You didn't have to kill 'em! Only to be punished for it. But instead of coming off like it means anything in terms of honor or morality, it just ends up being nothing more than an exception to the rule, which is, All we're watching is guys getting shot in really cool ways, arbitrarily, without consequence, to the point of tedium, where we've seen literally hundreds of people fall down dead from getting shot that the effect is gone.I think the reason why Woo went back to Hong Kong, why he's not much part of the limelight in pop culture anymore, is because, like me, the rest of his cult following has grown up. The late '80s and '90s are over, and that generation of film fans want to see more than guys in black suits and sunglasses killing other guys in black suits and sunglasses. So what if a body flies through the air in slow motion with symbolic doves fluttering about? If that's all a movie has to offer, a viewing is fine, but the potential to start a craze based on that imagery alone has diminished. "}{"Title":"Was I wrong to expect a plot?","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a real disappointment. My brother is a fan of cult movies, and I decided to watch because I like John Woo. Sure, there was plenty of action, but the film was devoid of anything else. It was just two hours of blood and gunplay. That wasn't the only thing wrong with this movie. Although this was more the fault of the DVD maker, some of the subtitles(English) disappeared too fast for me to read them! The action was also very repetitious. Where's the plot? At least other Woo films like Face/Off and Mission Impossible 2 had somewhat unique plots, especially Face/Off. This one was just a two hour exhibition of people firing handguns at each other. Another thing wrong with this film were the sound effects. The sound was very low quality and unrealistic. I watched the Usual Suspects about 50 minutes after this film and was amazed at how much better the gunfire sounded in that film compared to this one. I can't really think of anyone to recommend this movie to. 3/10     "},{"Title":"AWFUL","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I gotta tell you.  This movie is rotten to the core, and comes standard with the following, like every other John Woo movie ever a 9mm pistol in each hand, doves doves doves, close to 300 people shot or killed, melodramatic slow-motion, soapy dialogue, and motorcycles.  Now, you may say, I'm just looking for a good action flick with some entertaining action sequences!  Then, I say to you, Hey, fine!  Lower your standards!  If you can get past all the extremely irritating cliches I mentioned above, then go ahead!  Watch this MOVIE! (and I say movie because I believe that the amount of artistic content in this picture is minimal to lacking... I dare not call it a film, and forget about one of the most pivotal action films ever made.)  And if you do watch this movie, and like it, then I encourage you to then rent Mission Impossible II another cheap shot from Mr. Woo. But you'll see plenty of motorcycles and shooting with double 9mm's and doves and slow motion and wipe/dissolve transitions, and Tom Cruise does his own stunt work!Want action?  Watch The French Connection... or Bullett. "},{"Title":"A tad overrated, but as an action film it works quite well","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Prior to his Hollywood crossover, action director John Woo used to make some splendid films (his best Hollywood effort has probably been Face/Off, but most of them (e.g. Paycheck) have been dire at best).Many of these films starred Chow Yun Fat (Bulletproof Monk), and they were all pretty good movies - including A Better Tomorrow.Here, Fat plays Tequila, a renegade cop who teams up with an undercover agent to bring down a Mafia kingpin who killed his partner. Lots of slow-mo action ensues.I enjoyed this movie and it kept me interested. Woo has a love for action as an art, just like Quentin Tarantino loves dialogue and style, and so quite obviously the plot is often pushed aside.However, this is a good movie. A tad bit overrated, but fun nevertheless. I agree with the rating my TV guide gave it 3/5. I wouldn't rate it 7.9/10.P.S. For anyone who enjoys this film, check out the videogame MAX PAYNE. It's one of the only cinematic experiences I've had whilst playing a video game, and has many references to John Woo (one scene of the game has two villains discussing John Woo action movies). You also have the bullet time ability (slow-motion) that Woo literally invented with these films. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If your mentality is okay with 9 round handguns shooting 20 rounds etc, gratuitous violence for no sake other than to have violence, then this is the movie for you. Early Woo stuff...you can see the makings of a good director, but ultimately, this movie is junk. Bad acting, too many slow mo' scenes, BAD DUBBING...poor, unrealistic sound effects...and the DVD transfer is HORRENDOUS!....avoid this turkey. "},{"Title":"Hard to believe John Woo went on to make Hard Target after this!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Boiled plays like an awful Steven Seagal direct to video movie. No plot, and to make up for it, ridiculous amounts of violence and blood, thrown in just to detract from the awful script! The plot, if you would call it that, is some tacky one about drug lords that seems like it was written in five minutes! Chow Yun Fat is ridiculous s the police inspector and this film plays to all the clichés in the book - Chow is warned to stay off the case, but then it gets personal and he goes behind his superiors to solve it. Absolutely horrific. The action scenes are well shot, but the director seems to be more in love with the visuals than the plot that should carry a movie like this. "},{"Title":"Where's the story line?","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just a load of Orientals shooting each other in spectacular real-time and slow motion, only the locations change. Oh, and why is freeze-fame used so often? The dubbing is atrocious, the choice of vocabulary and delivery verge on the comical. "},{"Title":"Get real","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is simply the most violent and most rediculous movie I have ever seen. There is no plot, the acting is hilarious and so is the action. See this movie for about 4 or 5 completely outrageous stunt scenes that's it. I cannot even believe the amount of death in this movie, I like actions but this is way over the top. The most violent movie I could ever imagine being made. Rent it for a laugh, 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Top Ten worse movies ever","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I checked spoiler alert in case I give something of the plot away but for the life of me I don't know what the plot of this movie was. For a bit there it looked like it was going to develop into something. It definitely had it's influence on 'Infernal Affairs' and 'The Departed' then for some reason they got away from the plot and character development and for what seemed like an eternity, decided to just have people shoot each other in a hospital non-stop??? There were no side stories. Good guys winning? 90% of the police force seemed liked it was killed during the shootout. Hundreds of innocent patients are slaughtered. This is dedicated for the good work the Hong Kong police do? If this is how the Hong Kong police go about business, God help the citizens of Hong Kong. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE! What a waste of time and money","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe someone actually agreed to PRODUCE this movie! I rented it hoping to see some awesome Chow Yun-Fat martial arts, but this is basically a bloodbath/carnage movie. I mean, is it really necessary to kill all of those civilians? And the sound effects - FOR PETE'S SAKE!!! Get some real gun effects and not the cheesy crap ones. Oh man, am I sorry I ever spent money renting this! "}]