[{"Title":"Not an absolute masterpiece, but well worth the rental","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	I got 'The Lawnmower Man' as part of one of those 'Buy a pizza and get a free movie' deals, and I put off watching it. And put it off more. And more, until finally I had nothing else to do, so I popped it in the VCR and sat back. Two and half hours later (It was the director's cut- don't see the normal version as it is not nearly as good) it instantly became one of my favorite movies, so I rewound it and watched it again.	To date I have seen it four of five times, as it has problems, it's not very fast paced, but is terribly engaging and Fahey is superb in the lead. The writing isn't great, but is passable, and the computer effects, though far from the center of the story, are excellent.	If you haven't seen it yet, or have only seen the normal version, it is well worth the rental, or even purchase. "},{"Title":"A film to fuel the imagination.","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"45 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget the Stephen King connection. Their take on aspects of computers may be a bit off, but it's fiction, let it be fun. And for god's sake, lay off the special effects.What you end up with is a fantastic film about the possibilities and dangers of technology in a hypothetical world. You see the hopes and dreams of a brilliant scientists, and the manipulation of a militaristic government. You get to see a great example of power corrupting a human being.I've seen this film a lot, from 15 to 25 years old, and the last scene of the movie never fails to give me shivers.But please, please, please don't watch the sequel. Really.  "},{"Title":"an early look at the coming power of computers","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stories about a simple person getting turned into something more seem pretty common in movies, but none are like The Lawnmower Man. Portraying scientist Pierce Brosnan turning retarded Jeff Fahey into a super-genius (with unintended consequences), this is one movie destined to blow your mind. The visual effects were beyond impressive even for 1992, but they never dominate the movie. We might say that the movie deals with the dangers of people relying too much on technology, and also the dangers of militarism, but even aside from that, this is a movie worth seeing. Check it out.Oh, and I think that we can all agree that the sequel needs to be avoided at all costs. "},{"Title":"Was a good movie at the time and it still is","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie in the theater when it was released.  At the time the graphics were not dated in any way shape or form.  Where is VR today? I recently bought the DVD and after watching it and remembering that it was an eight (8) year old movie, I still enjoyed it.  I have seen a few VR games in arcades and to be honest the graphics today aren't much better than they were in this movie.  I have seen a lot of comments about the effects being dated and I think that should be common sense when watching an older movie. When I watch Tron I don't think that the graphics are dated, I just remember that the movie was made in 1982 and effects and computer animation weren't the same back then as they are today.  Most older movies have that look when compared to today's special effects.  I always take that into account when watching older movies.  I enjoyed Lawnmower Man then, now and I will the next time I watch it.  I will keep it in my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable trainwreck","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"35 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Given the absolute trainwreck that this film is in many respects, it's surprising that the story works as well as it does once it gets going. The middle of the film is actually somewhat engaging, there are scenes where odd flashes of competence shine through, and the beginning of the climax, at least, is pretty suspenseful, even though it peters out when it should be reaching a fevered pitch. Even with the plethora of problems, The Lawnmower Man is worth watching for fans of so bad it's good films (even though this isn't exactly so bad that it's good), just to witness the atrocious special effects (almost all CGI) and the bizarre concatenation of elements that it's almost impossible to imagine anyone thought would be a good idea if they weren't intentionally shooting for a comedy or an absurdist genre film. Yes, director/writer Brett Leonard, co-writer Gimel Everett and the production team were serious, and thought that they were producing a cutting-edge, hip and thrilling genre film--something like the Matrix of its time. That alone is funny enough once you've seen a few minutes of the film to make this worth a watch.The story has two protagonists, one of which eventually becomes something of an anti-hero. The film begins with a text prediction about just how prevalent and influential virtual reality will be at the turn of the 21st Century. In retrospect, it underscores just how ridiculously inflated revolutionary or savior technology predictions tend to be. We then meet Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan before he was in a position to turn down starring roles), who is engaged in virtual reality research for the government (his superiors call their project/division The Shop). He's experimenting on monkeys, and per his superior's orders, the focus is on military uses--the monkey is being virtual reality trained in battle strategy while they're manipulating its aggression levels. As anyone who has seen at least two or three genre films could guess, this ends up backfiring. The monkey freaks out and runs rampant through the secret government facility, attacking employees.Dr. Angelo semi-voluntarily goes on hiatus. He had wanted to eventually test human subjects for susceptibility to his virtual reality mind expansion, without the emphasis on violence, but that seems a lost cause. However, after his wife leaves him, he decides that maybe he can do the research on his own. He decides that the perfect test subject is the titular lawnmower man--his neighbor Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey). Jobe happens to be developmentally disabled. Of course, things do not go exactly as planned with the tests on Jobe, either, especially once The Shop gets wind of what Dr. Angelo is doing.The Lawnmower Man grew out of a Stephen King short story that most famously appeared in his Night Shift collection. The King story is only a few pages long, and it bears almost no resemblance to the film. The only scene that's at all similar is the one involving a lawn mower and Peter Parkette's (Austin O'Brien) father. It might be informative for those who have a less than consistently favorable opinion of King-oriented films to note that King sued to have any reference to his name removed. I actually like most King-oriented films, but I find the suit amusing, too.What makes The Lawnmower Man such a trainwreck? The most prominent problem, because it is such a focus of the film, is the CGI. When Dr. Angelo is working with human subjects in The Shop's facilities, they wear spiffy spandex suits reminiscent of Tron (1982). That may be enough of a problem in itself (and just who made those suits if Dr. Angelo had never been authorized to work with humans?), but the bigger problem is that the CGI is also reminiscent of Tron. That's not to say that Tron isn't successful, but it had very primitive CGI. There, it was more excusable for three reasons. One, it was made in the late 1970s/early 1980s, when CGI _had_ to be much more primitive. Two, realizing this, Tron director Steven Lisberger aimed at creating more of a minimalist world. And three, once introduced to us, most of Tron took place in that world.By the early 1990s, computer graphics had progressed quite a bit. Yet, Leonard allows The Lawnmower Man's CGI sequences to almost exclusively consist of brightly colored, low-resolution, simple geometric shapes floating around in a featureless world. Admittedly, The Lawnmower Man was a bit low-budgeted. But I'm not sure that excuses computer graphics that look like they were done on a Commodore 64 by someone working through a basic pixel animation book. And this stuff is supposed to accelerate the evolution of the human mind? It wouldn't matter so much if this were not the crux of the film. But the CGI is as important here as the scenes inside The Matrix are to that film. The effects work a bit better when they're integrated with cinematography. But Leonard avoids that more than he should.And the CGI isn't the only problem. The story otherwise is extremely awkward. Most of it is unintentionally absurdist. Jobe lives in a little shack in an otherwise normal suburban neighborhood. A sadistic priest regularly flogs him. A beautiful widow seduces him. Peter's family is almost a spoof of the typical King family, with an abusive, alcoholic father. All of these people bizarrely live right next door to Dr. Angelo. I could go on and on, but there isn't room.Still, there are aspects of the story that work. When Leonard finally gets around to death scenes, they're pretty good. The suspense stuff when Dr. Angelo is in Washington is good. And the overall arc about Jobe transforming, but getting out of control and seeking revenge is enjoyable, pithy and certainly a classic, archetypal plot. But this isn't anything if it's not a mixed bag. Watch expecting a trainwreck, and you should be entertained for an evening. "},{"Title":"Value this movie as you live in early 90's","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"30 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie in early 90's (1991?) and a that time I spaced out on the special effects. In Amsterdam where I lived at that time there were enough helpful items which influences the way of experiencing movies. So with a little green help this really was a great movie. Imagine that it is possible to alter your personality or intelligence by experiencing virtual reality. Scary, but interesting thought.Nowadays I still think it was a strong movie for that time. Just use your imagination and don't compare it to real life and Matrix kind of movies and you'll enjoy it.If you have no imagination leave it in the box. "},{"Title":"Let's party like it's 1992","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This effect-laden sci-fi horror film looked pretty impressive back in 1992. But of course times move on, and such movies have a tendency to look dated quicker than most as technology marches on to new levels. I guess The Lawnmower Man is one of these films. But in fairness, it can be quite fun to look back at old special effects and see what was cutting edge back in the day. In truth, today if you were to give a 12 year old child a computer game with graphics similar to those in The Lawnmower Man, that child would turn around and laugh in your face. Such is the speed of computer technology. So yes, The Lawnmower Man no longer looks cutting-edge but neither does it look terrible, its effects work within themselves and are only occasionally atrocious, such as the burning priest.As most people already know, the story is about a simpleton who is turned into a genius via virtual reality technology. The side effect of this method is that it turns the, otherwise good natured man into an insane evil psychotic.The Lawnmower Man is neither a particularly good film, nor an especially bad one. There's certainly nothing special here, and the effects were by far its chief selling point. Without them this would almost certainly be a forgotten B-movie. Pierce Brosnan and Jeff Fahey are reasonable enough in their roles, but they were always going to play second fiddle to the CGI. At the heart of it all it's a simple clichéd story that doesn't really hold very many surprises to be perfectly honest. But it's still quite good fun in a silly kind of a way. "},{"Title":"Different plot, effective computer graphics, overall classic film","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As you've probably seen, a lot of people have have seriously slagged off this film. In most cases, its because of the unusual plot. But I think that this is what makes this movie.Your also bound to be confused with what the plot is, but its not complicated. Pierce Brosnan (Known as 'Angelo')is a scientist who works for a company that specialise in virtual reality and computer generation. Brosnan has been working on a project which enables people to become smarter, but has had tough luck finding volunteers. However, his luck changes when he realises that his friend 'Jobe', a lawnmower man who is slightly backwards could be the perfect specimen. Angelos tests prove successful, and things go great. But as in all films, there's a downside.. Jobe becomes too smart and takes revenge on people as his life becomes estranged with computer generation.It would be cruel to tell you any more - the film is marvellous in the directing department. Jobe's frustration is well screened an some of the ideas are great. Even Brosnan plays a great part in this film and makes us forget he is 007 in years to come.The CGI in this film is what makes it. OK, I have to admit, Terminator 2's special effects are in a different league, but the effects in this film are not supposed to be super realistic. They are supposed to be a vision (in most cases) of virtual reality - how a computer generated world would look. They are engaging, but dated. Still, I think there effective and entertaining. some people say this film is a thriller, an in ways their right. But don't get mis led and think this is a horror film - it isn't, its more psychological.So, the final verdict. If your into films that are certainly different than the usual s**t we get these days, I would recommend this definitely. However, if you have no idea what virtual reality is or have no patience, then don't bother. Classic stuff! "},{"Title":"One Version Good, One Version Bad","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When many people (who have seen it) hear of Lawnmower Man, they immediatelycringe and think of a poor rendition of a movie and wonder why the actors who were in it... were in it. The Director's Cut fills in so many blanks left out by the normal version that it isn't even funny to think about the normal version anymore. The Director's Cut should have been the one to reach press, and the public... The show was done well with excellent storyline. "},{"Title":"Nice movie concept, good actors, good atmosphere, bad effects","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its a good movie , one of those that keep you the whole time your attention on the screen. For this its deserve already a good rate. Then we could tell that the actors are quite good in their acting, that the visual effects aren't always perfect , but we were also in 1992!! Also its a good combination of Science fiction/Thriller/Horror movie , not many movies succeed in this. The supernatural that involve into the story sounds a bit strange but who knows effectively what could happen when certain barriers are broken?....and visual effects are not all in a movie, the audience fantasy should still play a rule... sorry for my English) *Frankie*  "}{"Title":"A movie well worth seeing","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie truly impressed me.  The special effects are pretty dated now, especially the scene where the *blocked to avoid spoiler* was caught on fire, and the computer effects are very colorful, almost like a cartoon. However, the plot was nice and satisfying, and watching Jobe change from a dumb farmer to a psychopathic genius was very interesting.  It had a few niggling flaws, and is by no means a perfect movie, but it is very enjoyable and both Peirce Brosnan and Jeff Fahey give great performances! "},{"Title":"i love this movie","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***may contain spoilers*** i just remember always wanting to see the movie ever since i was 4(seeing as i played the old computer game that takes place after the movie)all the time. of course i was too young then. when i saw it i was a little disappointed, but recently i bought the DVD which took out the stuff that wasn't needed like angelo's depression and caroline's death. instead she just left and never came back. the movie was faster paced with some scenes that were not needed in the film taken out. its definitely worth buying in my opinion. the VHS director's cut isn't as good at the DVD (which i don't know why they aren't the same) because they still left boring things in there. the plot is good and the acting is too. the movie began to become farfeched when jobe gets physic powers, but i still enjoyed it. the computer graphics are awesome and very enjoyable. i loved all of the virtual reality scenes. also, it doesn't have a happy ending, which i'm glad it didn't. it's just too bad they made a sequal that ruined the point of the lawnmower man... "},{"Title":"If you consider the year of making you might see the real thing behind the now outdated FX. A must see for sci-fi lovers.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie back in the early nineties when it became available in Hungary. (I think it was only a few months later than the original release.) I remember I was completely stunned by both the visuals and the concepts the movie offered. I think the idea of using computers (and especially virtual reality) as a tool for enhancing someones intellectual and mental capabilities was something that pointed very much into the future. Especially with VR and 3D graphics being really far from commercial use by that time. (And VR is still quite far from it, 13 years later.) Also it raised some all-time moral questions, for example the use of a new technology for bad (military) or good (educational) purposes. And no surprise, you'll find out that the decision is in the hands of the funding source, as always, In this case, the military. (As always?)So, even if this movie is pretty much outdated now visually, it still deserves maximum respect from me. I recommend it to all sci-fi lovers, but it might make anyone thinking for a while who has a philosophic sense. "},{"Title":"A modern sci-fi/horror adaptation from the mind of Stephen King","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first half of this science fiction horror tale (based on a short story from Stephen King's Night Shift Collection) is thought provoking and gripping, but the latter half decides to dive deep into an eccentric and confusing mix of special effects and pseudo-scientific mayhem. Dr. Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) is a brilliant but obsessed computer science specialist that is engaged in secret government experiments to create super-intelligent soldiers out of chimpanzees by using virtual reality simulations to stimulate the brain. When the experiment goes haywire, and a rogue chimp gets away, Angelo believes his destiny is to better mankind by using a human subject for his projects for the purpose of curing brain diseases and not warfare. His subject is Jobe, (played perfectly by Jeff Fahey) the half-wit lawnmower man that lives in the shed of a church next door. As Dr. Angelo's experiments progress, Jobe becomes an intelligent super-human genius whose powers eventually spiral out of control.This film is triumphant on many various levels. Films dealing with a gradual transformation/disintegration of a central character are very intriguing to watch, and this is very much Cronenbergian in its portrayal of Jobe and how he develops into a telekinetic mad genius from a complete idiot and ultimately becomes a tragically vengeful and emotionless entity. The themes dealing with the unlocking of the human primordial intellect and controlling its power by wisdom and not impatient force work wonderfully. The performances are superb as well as the animation sequences, and director Brett Leonard (Virtuosity) is good at integrating them into a live action film. There are many sinister government character types that add suspense to the plot, and Jenny Wright is great as the sexy seductress neighbor who has her way with Jobe. The only time this fails is when Jobe gets revenge on the government goons and the characters that antagonized him by merging his powers with the world of virtual reality resulting in some far out murder sequences that just don't seem to make any sense. Jobe eventually infuses himself with the computer mainframe, and the climax becomes a bit too bizarre, even for sci-fi computer geek fans. Nonetheless, this is a well-made, above-average assault on the senses. If you can find the VHS unrated director's cut, it is much better than the DVD release which is cut by almost twenty minutes, losing most of its character development and style. This is highly recommended for fans of mind-bending sci-fi/horror. "},{"Title":"okay, people....","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i'm kinda weary of the stephen king references to fuel the dislikes of this film, not to mention those who thought this was a lame attempt at horror. THIS IS A SCIENCE FICTION FILM!!! this is stephen king by character names and simple, skeleton basis only!! i have seldom ever seen better character development/evolution better handled in a film. this is a true credit to the world of science fiction. we have a disgruntled, anti-war, but corporately suppressed, scientist with a vision for bettering the world who regrets what he creates due to the direction he was forced to take. we have a slow, simple-minded underdog who gets ridiculed and taken advantage of who is used as a lab rat and eventually becomes what could easily be an Anti-Christ figure- a hero turned anti-hero. this, to me, is drama and then some. the slow pace of this is intentional as every frame of every scene is imperative to the development or eventual development of a key character. this has all the intensity and thought that '2001-a space odyssey' ever had, not to demean kubrick by any means. his film was visionary, yet practical and a well recognized piece of true thought. this is how i view 'the lawnmower man.' one really needs to look at this as a study in character interaction and development, rather than just basic horror or  an insult to stephen king. to those who appreciate a good story with interesting twists that is over all intelligently told, yet intentionally disturbingly concluded, this is for you. for those looking for a book on film or a horror flik for a date, avoid it, because you probably won't understand what this film is trying to get across. along with the obvious 'frankenstein' like story, it could also be like Einstein and his eventual leading to the atomic bomb.in short, please see this film if you have any interest in a well told story with intelligent thought and especially if you love sci-fi. avoid it if you're in the mood for horror if you recognize the title as being stephen king. >  "},{"Title":"When The Author Hates The Movie, Well.....Still, It Had Its Moments","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is supposedly based on a short novel by Stephen King. I say supposedly because when he saw what they did to his book, King demanded his name be removed from any association of this film! When an author does that, it's kind of a tip-off that someone has made a bad movie. I also wonder if Pierce Brosnan ever looks back and winces when he recalls being the star of this film? Actually, maybe he shouldn't because it's not that bad a premise. The film is no award-winner, but it is intriguing in its originality. I mean, how many films deal with a slightly-retarded gardener who becomes an experiment with a into-your-brain video game? Jeff Fahey is pretty interesting as the lawnmower man. Being someone who is fascinated with special-effects, I watched the film probably normally would have considering some of the bias (see below).What I objected to - and nobody else ever seems to - is another cheap shot at a cleric, where I see in almost every Stephen King story, whether he authorizes it or not. In this movie, we see a priest let the wandering mower-man live in a little shack in back of his church, and then he whips the man! Rule number one in a King adaptation - or in the movies, in general, seems to be always show a Christian figure as a villain. At that point, I joined King and disavowed any association with this garbage. "},{"Title":"When sci-fi envisions worse technology than the the ones present at the time","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a campy sci-fi horror movie that just isn't that horrifying or entertaining to watch. And despite the title, it doesn't have almost anything to do with the Stephen King's novel of the same name. As a matter of fact I was bored when I saw this flick. I gotta admit the main reason I decided to check this movie out is because of the release of the movie Transcendence. Maybe this flick was actually really good when it came out, despite the crappy CGI even for when this movie came out. Although it's worse than Saturday morning TV shows now. The plot in this is about a scientist that believes that virtual reality is the wave for the future for human enhancement, testing it out on a mentally handicapped guy that mows lawns for a living. And it alters his brains to the point he becomes super smart and able to use telepathy, telekinesis and soon other ridiculous powers. Watching this movie was like watching Flowers for Algernon with virtual reality. There is parts with a Roman Catholic priest, but I still don't know why he was in this flick since it just didn't have much relevance to the plot. Who knows maybe I just missed something. I give this movie some credit for it's symbolism to represent technology as more than the means of sending and receiving information. Despite the fact that I found it ridiculous when it came to the movie's perception of technology. How the movie is pointing to the notion that we are dealing with higher dimensions that we can plug into on a mental and spiritual level and our physical bodies don't matter anymore. That people can transcend and enter into the virtual world and live forever as bits of data.﻿ Interesting idea though and I guess when it comes to the perception of technology, it's ahead of it's time because people are still trying to find the means to do that. I actually feel like trying the Oculus Rift now.4/10 "},{"Title":"Not even so bad so good","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Saw this when it came out, because I was curious about the cgi and a bit about the theme. I hazily remember not being too enthusiastic about it, but the theme was at least futuristic.I felt I had to watch it again today, especially because I was curious about why, with VR in tech news constantly, no reference was made to this precursor. I know why the movie is so crap, it has no possible redeeming qualities. It actually fails so badly in most respects, on multiple layers, in a way that it doesn't even capture that feeling of so bad, so good, like some carpenter's movie (or even a lot worse movies).Brosnan is atrocious, like he's been in many other movies, the plot is totally lost halfway through the movie, acting from the guys in suits is so beyond insulting, it can't even be amusing, the evolution of the story and the ending feels like a bad B movie.I'd say the only redeeming quality is the imaginative VR CGI, which today obviously looks like crap, but for the time it was a fair potpourri of pop tech ideas. Hit or Miss, but it does convey a sense of vintage tech that is actually interesting...to study maybe.Steven king proves again to be a cheap shot.If anything, it remembered me extremely crappy movies were aplenty in the 90s too. "},{"Title":"The darker side of science","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is just one purely awesome movie. From the cuts one would expect a movie that is simply showing off virtual reality, but it is much more than that. Sure enough, there are some brilliant virtual reality scenes, and it does explain things about it, but the explanation moves from a simple advertisement to the extent of the possible abuse of the technology.Lawnmowerman is not a science-fiction movie, it is a horror movie. When I say horror movie, it is not horrible monsters chasing maidens everywhere and ripping people to shreds, rather it stretches reality to a point where we can see a possibility in what is being portrayed in the movie as actually happening. On the cover, the credits say based on a short story by Stephen King. There are aspects of Stephen King in this movie, such as The Shop, which is a government research facility devoted to the development of almost occult powers with the purpose of waging war, but Stephen King did not give permission to make this movie, and when he sued the makers of the movie, they were forced to remove him from the credits.This movie looks at man's basic obsession with power. Doctor Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) is really a naive scientist who has a romantic view of science. His romantic discoveries are corrupted by the Shop's desire to see how far they push the experiments in the development of a weapon of war. Angelo wants to create something that will aid humanity, but unfortunately he must go to the Shop as they are the only ones who have the facilities, but with their facilities comes the pressure to develop something they can use. Their interests are not in helping people, but in destroying people.There are two sides to everything in this movie. On the simple level there is Father Macay, who is a kind priest that took Jobe in when he was young and abandoned. On the other side he is tyrant side, using his good deeds to enslave Jobe. Jobe's simpleness creates a dichotomy, as on one hand he is innocent and friendly, where as on the other hand he is ridiculed and easily manipulated. Doctor Angelo is a brilliant scientist who is working at the cutting edge of computer science, where as he is a man who is obsessed with his work to the point that he drives away his wife.The project is what reveals the greatest dichotomy. This is a breakthrough in regards to healing the retarded. People that were once ridiculed because of their backwardness can now live among normal human society. When we look deeper we notice that Doctor Angelo really does not know what he is doing. He thinks he is helping Jobe but we notice that things are changing about him. Not only is he becoming like everybody else, but he is developing extra abilities. When Jobe is first operated on, we see symbols flashing at him. These symbols appear to be related to sorcery which suggests not only that Doctor Angelo is working with things he does not understand, it also raises the possibility of an evil, uncontrollable side to it.The uncontrollable side comes out when the project 5 formula is used on Jobe. This formula is supposed to be the formula used to reach the maximum mental capacity. It had been used of chimps with surprising results, but also there was another side to it. Where as it advanced the chimps mentally, it also made them more aggressive. The same is with Jobe. We see that he advances to an extraordinary stage, he is almost a god, but he also becomes incredibly aggressive, almost inhuman. Even though, there is still a very human aspect to him. When he confronts his enemies, father Macay and Jake, he gives them a chance to repent; when they do not then they are dealt with. He does not let on that he is incredibly powerful, but once they realise it, it is too late. When Peter is trapped in VSI, Jobe cannot allow him to die. He has a choice between trying to escape the mainframe, or letting Doctor Angelo rescue him. The pain of the choice, and the humanity that still does remain within him is represented by his icon becoming flesh.An interesting event in the movie is with father Macay. Though he is a minor character, his character is developed well. He is portrayed as the typical hypocritical catholic priest. His quote how can we let these godless creatures on the sacred altar really outline his ignorance, especially how God created the ants. His comment on the sacred altar is meaningless because all it really is is a piece of wood with a piece of cloth on it. The sacred altar is an old testament concept, whereas Jesus' death wash all of this away. The book of Hebrews clearly outlines how these rites are no longer necessary. His ignorance is even more clearly seen when he says, and he will bring the wrath of God upon him just like his namesake. All I can say to Father Macay, open your bible and read it. God was not angry with Job and did not punish him. Rather it is more about suffering. The bible is very clear that Job was a righteous man and that God was not punishing him. We also see the results of this ignorance when Jobe is doing his penance. He quickly finishes it off and immediately turns away from God and worships the lawnmower. This looks stupid, but it is something that really happens. The hypocrisy of many Christians drive people away from God and to other, stupid, idols, such as football.The Lawnmowerman is an awesome movie, one that I have bought, and will watch again. I love this movie and would highly recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Lawnmower ManThe best thing about lawn maintenance is that you can make some extra cash selling grass clippings to stupid teenagers.However, the groundskeeper in this thriller is too thickheaded to figure that out.One day, while mowing the lawn, dimwitted Jobe (Jeff Fahey) is invited in to his client's, Dr. Angelo (Pierce Brosnan), home to play virtual reality games.During his time with Jobe, Angelo determines that he would make an excellent lab rat for a new drug that promises to stimulate brain function.With his acumen amplified to the point of telekinesis, Jobe uses his newly minted mind powers to settle scores with those who exploited him when he was obtuse.Bearing little resemble to the Stephen King short story on which it is based, instead, The Lawnmower Man uses name recognition to capitalize off the 1990s virtual reality craze. Besides, everyone knows mixing drugs and video games only leads to obesity. (Red Light) "}{"Title":"Better viewed late at night","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another science gone wrong movie. There's really nothing new about this near dud of a film except for some very dated CGI (but it's nonetheless interesting). It's pretty dumb, and save for the solid performance by Pierce Brosnan, there wouldn't be anything to save this movie from going to the direct-to-video bin.Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) is on the verge of a fundamental breakthrough he is on the verge of being able to use virtual reality to increase a person's intelligence. However, his private funders want him to use this for military, which Angelo only agrees to so he can get funding to do his own research in the near future. After an experiment goes wrong because of his donor's pressure, he performs his experiments in his home. He decides to use virtual reality to increase the intelligence of a mentally retarded lawnmower man named Job (Jeff Fahey). The experiments work better than Angelo could have hoped, but when his funders find out about it, they want Job to be used for the military testing, and they'll do anything to convince Angelo to do it.There isn't a single original moment in this film, and apart from Brosnan, little else to recommend it. The direction is flat, and the acting is of low-quality. Most of the minuscule budget was probably spent on the special effects, and it shows.He may have been the James Bond of the 90's but Pierce Brosnan is not a one-note actor. He's easily the best thing about this movie, in fact, he's the only thing really worth noting about it (you can see most of the visuals are easily seen in the trailer). Jeff Fahey is solid, if over the top when he's the mentally slow Job, but he fails to chill when he goes crazy. The story tries to add some inner conflict to this part, but it doesn't really work. No one else is very memorable.The main selling point of this movie was the computer graphics, and although they are creative, they are horribly dated. This isn't a bad movie, but it's not a very good one. "},{"Title":"I'm gonna say it...it's a good film.","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" WARNING PRETENTIOUS ACADEMIC FILM REVIEW Alright, my friends in the pretentious film community may have issue with what I am about to say, but I honestly think Lawnmower Man is a good film with a solid philosophical backing.Drawing immediate comparisons to Verhoeven's masterpiece Total Recall is not uncalled for. Both deal with issues of the representation of the sign within our society. In Lawnmower Man, however, Brett Leonard picks up where Verhoeven ended...what constitutes reality in our postmodern world? Jobe The Lawnmower Man is played by Jeff Fahey, an adequate actor who does what is required of him. At the start of the film before he begins his training with Brosnan's Dr. Lawrence Angelo (who provides a good performance although he overacts a bit during crucial moments) he is bathed in orange light, highlighting his human character. He is a caring father figure to the boy from Last Action Hero, and is taken advantage of by the church (I'm not going to get into the overly obvious religious imagery that is in the film) and a local bully. Yet he is skilled at working with his hands and is a fine lawnmower, even building his own lawnmower(Big Red, to which he bows as he did at the cross previewing his later view of technology as God and himself as Christ...I told you, sometimes the imagery is too obvious, a definite flaw I am willing to overlook.) Jobe is taught through a combination of drugs and Virtual Reality. As he is exposed more and more to images representing images which represent objects of knowledge (Baudrillard's theories regarding third simulacrum can easily be applied to this film.) He is no longer able to distinguish between the real and the virtual. In a constant state of schizophrenia (referred to as Schizo-f***in-phrenia by a cop) Jobe discovers that virtual reality is not simply artificial, but instead another dimension which can affect ours. Soon he discovers telekinetic powers and is able to affect our 'real' world through his virtual reality.The film's argument is solidified as Jobe discusses his progress with Dr. Angelo. Drawing straight from postmodern philosophy, Jobe tells Angelo that they are not tapping into new forms of knowledge. Instead Nothing we've been doing is new. How very pastiche.As I hinted above, Jobe WAS altogether human. But as he becomes closer to technology, he becomes wholly rational and is depicted as inhuman, more a machine. The oranges and yellows are replaced with purples and blues, and Fahey's light voice is replaced by a monotone, and accompanied by a 'robotic voice' track. His transformation is complete when he decides to move entirely into the virtual world.There are a number of side plots I could mention...a lust story...an evil corporation bent on using Jobe as a super-soldier (makes me Totally Recall another movie. I apologize for the bad pun.) The fact of the matter is that there is a lot to analyze in this film, most of which I have not touched upon.Check it out. Although not without its flaws, it's a fine film and is definitely underrated. It may not be high art, but we've broken down that barrier anyway. "},{"Title":"Either You get it or You end up working for Showtimes Screaming Room !","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's funny to see this movie ranges in the middle here at IMDb (at the moment 4.9); guess it divides the audience into love or hate ...There are a lot of awful stuff with higher scores than The LawnmowerMan in here - which those who have voted 1/awfull, really should see before they think The LawnmowerMan is inferior !!!And even if directors like Brett Leonard or David Fincher (Se7en, Fight Club, Panic Room, The Game, Alien 3) has a Musicvideo-background, that should be irrelevant for critics ... but it isn't.Part of the blame for The LawnmowerMan is Brett Leonards own fault because people and Stephen King didn't forgive him easily for the PR-trick it was to call his own story Stephen Kings Lawnmowerman !!!But everyone also blamed Finchers debut Alien 3, though now we have found out the whole story about his Alien-like working-conditions ... We have forgiven Fincher, he had to work with Vincent Wards cosmology, was stopped from influence and in the end they actually edited the Alien 3 movie without Fincher ! (The Alien Quadrilogy has a better Alien 3 edition, more like Finchers idea, though not Finchers cut)So Brett Leonard was smart, but got caught and I think it's a pity that he didn't trust his own story enough (but Mister Stephen King should here remember how he threw out Carrie - saved by his wife I think - because he TOO lacked self-confidence !!!) because this is a much better & grander story than Kings LawnmowerMan and having said this I have to add that I'm a big Stephen King-fan at the same time ! As an example take IT - a much stranger movie than Leonards LawnmowerMan, but I love it.The other part of the blame for The LawnmowerMan is that there are two versions  One is the early 2-dimensional (here I mean character-story) edition only 107 minutes long, but Leonards choice is of course the brilliant 141 minutes edition which unfortunately only can be seen in widescreen on DVD if You combine two DVD-players (and two DVD's) so you shift between the movie and the deleted scenes) OR You could do something else which probably would violate the copyrights ...Therefore IMDb should have 2 entries for The LawnmowerMan and then, my dear haters of this movie, You would see that most of the lovers of this movie would vote VERY low too, when voting on the mutilated edition of The LawnmowerMan running 107 minutes .And as written elsewhere There are a lot of people (especially in the movie industry) who doesn't like Brett Leonard ... and hopefully Brett will shake of this BLIND ENVY (2 nominations at Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films, USA !!! One for best Best Science Fiction Film ! And the other for Best Special Effects !) and carry on his avantgarde-work like Hideaway, Virtuosity & Feed.Brett, You should also start writing again - don't let the The Langoliers win ! "},{"Title":"The perfect science fiction film!! (may contain spoilers)","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is flawless. This is definitely the perfect science fiction film. Let's start with the acting. The acting was great especially from Jaff Fahey who played Jobe. The effects were over the top. The script was excellent. This movie has such an interesting story that you have to watch it more than once. The story is so hard to get if you watch it once. I liked how Jobe was such a stupid idiotic simpleton called Jobe. Who would let everyone push him around. Then as he get's smarter he defends his self from A-holes like the priest and the biker dude. This is a movie that I recommend to anyone. Also recommended is the game Lawnmower man on super Nintendo. If you can find it of course. "},{"Title":"An epic vision of mankind's possibilities and risks ...","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a lot of people (especially in the movie industry) who doesn't like Brett Leonard ; and his other movies like Virtuosity (with Russell Crowe & Denzel Washington) clearly shows he is revealing an insight beyond Stephen King (his short story has very little to do with Leonards script !) into the so-called evil . Of course Kubricks Clockwork Orange is in remembrance , but Leonard does what Kubrick couldn't do - probably due to Burgess novel and the impersonal story-points of C.O. - by letting us into the evil guy and by understanding his secret of the deepest darkest unhappiness known to man  The Luciferian state .However , TLM is a different movie than Virtuosity and battles with brighter themes ! TLM is from 1992 ; Windows 3.1 was only just announced (Windows 95 didn't exist yet of course -) and Windows NT was only on BETA-stage ... The wonder-promise of virtual learning , which now is commonly accepted (people speedlearn from the Internet and softwares on computers) , takes further steps into the future to a threshold we eventually will run into (when we have eliminated spam-mongers and cyber-terrorists !) sooner or later .And here TLM starts it's evil magic , not like Fausts choice , but like a two-way-responsibility gone apart between the individual (Fahey) and the society (Brosnan , Slate etc.) resulting in tragedy on both parts . We can learn a lot , but we cannot learn how to unlock our civilized psychological prison as we ARE the prison of our mothers milk or symbolically in Jobe's case , the aggression-chemical !Yet I find there are many other themes (in example  the creator and the creation / the mystery of sex and the mind etc.) , this underrated ahead-of-it's-time-movie treats , that is worth paying attention to ; this is a masterpiece in more than one way . And I find most of the actors great in this movie , of course with Jeff Fahey as the real leading star here and Mr.(X?)Bond/Brosnan to give a slightly unconvincing performance .I'm looking forward to see his Hideaway (with Jeff Goldblum & Alicia Silverstone) based on Koontz novel . "},{"Title":"Not bad, especially the second time around","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 13 or 14, and didn't understand it at all.  I was enamored by the visual effects.  This time around, I'm 22, and have an electronics background, so I understand some of the concepts a little more.  It really isn't a bad movie, it speculates what the world will become in 2001, which is obviously a little innaccurate, considering it's almost 2002, but still.  The concept is completely science fiction, and, for all we know, could be a sign of things to come.  Maybe not now, but in the future.  It won't be as obvious as a mainframe with open I/O ports letting a purely electronic being out into the world's data networks, but it could be a precursor to some AI developments.  In 50 years, people may think this movie was worthless, or they could think that it was a vision into the future.Either way, the movie makes you think, and that is more than can be said for a lot of movies (i.e. Dude Where's My Car).  Good movie.  Rent it or watch it on the Sci-Fi channel. "},{"Title":"Worth a second look","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Last week I had occasion to see this movie again, and I was surprised that it wasn't as offensive as I remember. The Lawnmower man came out in 1992, the year before the Internet hit the big time. Now that these 'VR futurists' have been shown wrong (and you can tell from the interviews that they were serious), one can watch it as a fantasy, rather than science fiction. In this respect it holds up the computer graphics are beautiful, if a little dated, and a couple of restored scenes (in the director's cut or the DVD) make the story more compelling. Perhaps VR will deliver on its promises someday; meanwhile, there's a fairly good story here.p.s. Stay far away from the sequel. It was just plain bad. "},{"Title":"Must see the uncut film to enjoy","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film once had the great master's name (Stephen King) on it, but he did right to sue them, as it has nothing to do with his story.It is a good film all the same but you must see the uncut film to enjoy it as it is almost 40 minutes longer. There are some great efects in the film and, like always, the end leaves room for part 2 which is out now and not great. So this film is worth getting, but if you are a Stephen King fan this film is not a King movie "},{"Title":"cheesy with an interesting idea","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) at Virtual Space Industries is experimenting on chimps with drug-assisted virtual reality to raise intelligence. The company is looking for military uses but Angelo wants other uses. Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey) is a mentally-slow gardener. Dr. Angelo sees Jobe as an opportunity to test his work on a human specimen. Soon, Jobe gains brain power which leads to conflicts.Jeff Fahey's slow look is probably the most memorable thing about this movie. The need to show cinematically his slow mental state leaving him looking silly. It's a bit of cheese which keeps one from taking this movie seriously. His normal look isn't much better and is kind of creepy. The primitive CGI keeps the movie looking dated. It's also notable for a lawsuit by Stephen King to take his name out. The movie is relatively flat without much tension. It's very static and the virtual reality isn't exciting. The movie has no tension for a long time. It's very broad and only for cult film lovers. "},{"Title":"A wonderful period piece","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a bit 'B', a bit dated, but with redeemable characteristics. Some of the writing is pretty good. The direction was hammy, but at least the tone is managed well, over-all. Dr. Angelo's character is given a little berth to pass off as a realistic character; this invites us to identify with him as a voice of reason in a cartoonish sci-fi universe.Of course, the whole thing uses the misunderstood tech trope of the year, virtual reality, boosted by mind-altering drugs, as a hook for yet-another story about man's effort to cosmically transcend. This is a strained notion, as any technically savvy dude or dudette knows. So the whole thing rides on a willing suspension of disbelief. The question remains whether this act of suspension rewards us with a sustainable, ennobling myth.Well, my attempt to give the flick a slight jolt by voting it a '7' is an indicator. The flick is surely dated, but not bad for its time. Where the story fails to fully ennoble, it at least maintains a sense of momentum; I found it quite watchable.At the very least, it worth watching as a heroic effort by the producers to mythically bend new (at the time) tech toward a moral fable about humankind's perennial tech hubris expressed as yet-another effort to bite off more than can reasonably be chewed.I was particularly struck by an interesting form taken by the usual story-management effort to keep Dr. Angelo's karma clean That the dosing of his human subject with the next-stage experimental drugs was effected without his knowledge, via subterfuge by admins; not by the researcher (Angelo) himself. Very clever plot point, that!Anyway. It's not a great flick, but may be worth watching as a kind of worthy period piece. It's a bit of an aesthetic casualty of the 'B'-flick hewings of production folks of the time If you factor that out, you can see the glimmerings of decent sci-fi. "}{"Title":"90's cheese-fest","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this film, I didn't like it. But then a part of went Maybe I should watch it again from a different point of view.I enjoyed it a lot more this time, but it still has it's flaws- The opening where the chimp escapes and we just see the top of the back of its helmet. - The fella with the dodgy Irish accent. How can you tell he's Irish? Cos he's drinking! You American bastards!- Jobe looks like a cartoon character from the beginning. He's looks like Harry from Dumb and Dumber.- The beginning where Dr Angelo wakes up from his nightmare, he lights a cigarette and wakes his wife up by blowing smoke in her face. What a prick. - Also in that scene, he sees the next door neighbour abuse his wife and son. This is supposed to take place in the middle of the night and yet these people are still up and are not in their pyjamas. Now that I got that out of the way, here's the stuff I do like from this movie- The concept of turning a not very bright man into a very smart man and he gets too addicted to intelligence. - The oh-so-90's futuristic sets. - The 90's computer graphics.- Jeff Fahey was just great as Jobe.The 90's-ness makes this film work for me. There's a lot of great cheesy movies from the 80's and there's certainly a lot from the 90's.If they ever make a special edition Blu-ray, they should interview Jeff Fahey (no need to interview the rest of the cast, there isn't that much to say about their characters), the production designer and the director who was in charge of the computer graphics.As a sci-fi thriller, it is not as intelligent as Twelve Monkeys, but enjoyable if you like cheesy 90's movies. "},{"Title":"Ten Stars to the Director's Cut, Six to the Theatrical Release!!!","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE LAWNMOWER MAN started life as a Stephen King short story. Along the way, New Line Cinema attached his name and title to another script called Cyber God. Understandably, Mr. King was very disturbed by this. He attempted to sue them to have his name and title removed. Eventually, an agreement was settled. And don't worry fellow King fans, the film does feature a scene from his story. The film itself exists in two separate forms the wonderful Director's Cut and the heavily-cut, disjointed Theatrical Release. The story In a secret government-run facility, Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) has been running virtual reality experiments on chimps. Unfortunately, due to a new drug, his best monkey escapes, kills a guard, causes havoc, and gets killed. Depressed by the loss of his work, Dr. Angelo happens to notice Job (Jeff Fahey) the simple-minded gardener. And decides to cross the ethical line by trying his experiments out on the Lawnmower Man. As Job starts getting smarter and stronger, Dr. Angelo slowly grows terrified of his creation. Overall, the Director's Cut is the definitive version. The characters are more fleshed out and sympathetic, and there's a few brilliant special FX scenes that are missing from the Theatrical Release. The only problem It's tough to find the Director's Cut. But it's worth tracking down, because here's something original and fresh! "},{"Title":"How BAD Does a Movie Have to Be That Stephen King Wants His Name Off It?","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stephen King sued New Line Cinema three times to get his name removed from their film; The Lawnmower Man. The courts imposed a $10,000.00 fine on New Line for defiantly using King's name on home video editions of the film he rightfully asserts has nothing whatsoever to do with his short story. It doesn't. But count your lucky stars because I've read the story and it's TERRIBLE. New Line kept the name and applied it to one or two screenplays lying around to make The Lawnmower Man; the story of a bullied and abused simpleton (Jeff Fahey) elevated to the level of cyber god with the aid of a well meaning scientist played by Pierce Brosnan. The star of this sci-fi/horror film was the computer generated special effects and at the time of the release they were considered pretty good. But more than 20 years after the fact they look horrible! If I were rating this movie in 1992 it would score 7/10. But those FX are ruinous today and drag the film down to a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Besides Mr Brosnan, this just ain't up to much","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (34%) Despite the always solid Brosnan at the helm, this still manages to be too weak scripted for its own good as the plot boils down to a simple man gets experimented on, he becomes dangerous and powerful, the end. The secret lab base is one of the most ridiculous examples of set design ever. It looks so dark and depressing, and by the looks of things most of the workers have either killed themselves or simply left as every time it's shown it's almost completely void of people. This very well might be the first movie ever made in which more time and effort was spent on computer effects than the script itself. A true pioneer of CGI driven junk cinema. "},{"Title":"Decent Story But Terrible Effects","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Story Loosely based on a short story by Stephen King. A scientist turns a gardener into a genius through enhancing drugs and virtual reality. The gardener becomes very intelligent and starts losing his mind.*Review Now let start of by saying this The Lawnmower Man has some of the worst visual effects that I have ever seen. The acting in this story is okay its not the worst but it's alright. They story is actually very interesting too. I just think Stephen King's actual story could've been a better movie than Brett Leonard's version. Also the story seem too predictable. There's some parts of the story where it seems to drag and get a little boring at times. The movie does steal some parts from the short story too. One interesting fact about this movie is that Stephen King successfully sued the producers for attaching his name to the movie's title. I don't know why this movie needed to be shown in theaters. The film looks like a made for t.v. movie. Overall the movie is decent. The acting is okay, the story is alright but it's too predictable, and the visual effects are just terrible. Plus the ending just didn't feel right and it felt confusing.You realize, Dr. Angelo, that my intelligence has surpassed yours...  - Jobe Smith "},{"Title":"Virtual Reality Explored. In Reality, Poorly Executed","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Shop is at it again. Who is The Shop? The same clandestine government organization that was responsible for the Firestarter. Their goal is the same though the technology is slightly different create a weapon from a human subject.The Lawnmower Man was Flowers for Algernon mixed with Tron. Dr. Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) developed a drug and virtual reality technique to increase intelligence. After his experiments failed with a chimp he decided to tweak things a bit and try again on Jobe (Jeff Fahey), a mentally challenged lawnmower man. The experiments worked to increase Jobe's intelligence but it also awakened another side of him as well.Initially I was attributing this movie to Stephen King, but after reading more on this site I found that Stephen King sued because this movie had almost nothing to do with his self-same titled short. I watched this initially in the early 90's and wasn't impressed. In the attempts to be futuristic Lawnmower Man came off as cheesy. In their attempts to apply virtual reality technology and effects on screen it made for terrible graphics. I know that virtual reality was all the buzz in the early 90's as we were rapidly progressing in the computer field as a people, but the graphics and special effects were still a ways off. What were supposed to be riveting, scary or jaw dropping scenes-were no more than cartoonish. I'm not saying this because CGI today is so breathtakingly real, I mean even in 1992 this movie never moved the needle on the scales. Consider that in 1991 we had T2 which was revolutionary as far as on screen effects, and in '93 (a year after Lawnmower Man) we were treated to Jurassic Park, another titan in the CGI department.The movie ended with an opening for a part 2 (which was done though I never saw it) but why? It would seem that a remake would make this movie so much better but the concept of virtual reality yet again wouldn't go over well. That drum has been beat too many times I'm afraid it's lost its effect. "},{"Title":"A Dated, But Interesting, Futuristic Thriller","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist (Pierce Brosnan) loses his lab subject, a chimp. But he quickly finds a new one -- the neighborhood imbecile, Job (Jeff Fahey). After treatments of drugs and a virtual reality game, Job gains superhuman intelligence and verges on becoming a god. This is all fine and good until the government steps in and tries to find a way to turn Job into a weapon. Because that's what the government does, you know.This film is well-known and has been widely seen. Jeff Fahey is a cult star, and Pierce Brosnan is, well, James Bond. But a lot of this one has failed to stand the test of time, and I suspect its early popularity will continue to wane. Set just prior to the boom of the Internet and virtual reality, this film played on the fears of the luddites and posited some possibilities that were, well, impossible. Maybe at the time they seemed likely, but now the ideas presented seem largely silly.I am at a loss about how to discuss the special effects. Watching this film in 2008, the effects are really bad and makes much of the film seem cheap. Even for the time, as good as some of the effects were and how necessary they may be (such as the men unraveling), much of it just came off as childish. Why would virtual reality be a mix of video games and cubism? And the flaming priest scene... just failed in every respect. For a film about video games (or virtual reality) that crosses into reality, see Brainscan. It's gorier, scarier and really drives home a fear about technology (the alleged connection between video games and violence). Lawnmower Man, as I said, tends to lose its message as the years go on and the Internet is more a part of our daily lives.I still enjoyed the movie. Fahey is a versatile actor (see Season Four of Lost) and it's nice to see Brosnan without a suit or muscles or with women hanging off him. He comes across as a normal, average guy. Catch this film while it's still relevant. Somebody someday will pick up the theme here and present an updated version of it, but until then... this presentation is slowly becoming stale. "},{"Title":"Virtual Reality - the Disease or the Cure?","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew that the effects would be dated, but I remember how startling they were in the theater. Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) has developed a virtual reality system that enhances mental abilities & intelligence with the help of powerful psychotropic drugs. Evil interests push the experiment past the limits of safety & scientific responsibility, so Angelo goes underground.His dull-witted, childlike gardener Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey) becomes the first human guinea pig & quickly blooms into a brilliant savant with extrasensory & telekinetic powers. Jobe becomes addicted to life within virtual reality and helps himself to more of the mind-enhancing drugs until he becomes a psychotic, yet brilliant, megalomaniac. His psychosis takes a murderous turn, & Angelo battles to bottle up his creation as Jobe strives to escape into the nascent world wide web to begin his campaign of world domination.A completely formulaic cliffhanger sets the stage for the sequel.Fahey is wonderful as he morphs from meek & abused gardener to self-styled CyberChrist. Brosnan is solid as usual. I would have liked more back-story on Jobe's life. The plot is predictable - theater buffs will see the parallels to the classic play Flowers For Algernon, just substituting a retarded human for a mouse. Animation/graphics fans will enjoy the trip down memory lane. The real value of the film is the dated CGI virtual reality environment, which was dazzling at the time, & created a sense of awe that this Brave New Artificial World represented our immediate future. Although Virtual Reality has not become the ubiquitous juggernaut that Lawnmower Man promises, clearly the exponential growth of the web can easily be substituted as the film's vision of Things To Come..Lawnmower Man took me on an emotional roller coaster ride as I first empathized with Jobe's challenges & his constant victimization. As his mental acuity developed at light speed, I rejoiced in his triumphs as he rose above all the mistreatment & stood his ground before his tormentors. Then, it was down the incline all the way to pity as he spiraled into self-destruction. In the end, I wondered if there was a shred of humanity & compassion left in the soul of Jobe Smith. Can Virtual Man have a soul? Perhaps the sequel will answer that question &#150; I'm buying my ticket today! "},{"Title":"It Lacks Qualcast Quality.","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Lawnmower Man is directed by Brett Leonard who also co-writes the screenplay with Gimel Everett. It stars Pierce Brosnan, Jeff Fahey, Jenny Wright, Geoffrey Lewis, Jeremy Slate and Dean Norris. Music is by Dan Wyman and cinematography by Russell Carpenter.Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Brosnan) is a big mover in the science of virtual reality. When he tries his new technology on mentally challenged gardener Jobe Smith (Fahey), it elevates him to a higher intelligence and it's not long before Jobe acquires scary new powers&#x85;Originally meant to be, and titled as, Stephen King's Lawnmower Man, the film eventually, after a King lawsuit, ended up bearing very little resemblance to the author's short story. There's a couple of small ligaments that link the two, but in the main (not Maine) this Lawnmower Man is its own entity and an obvious attempt to cash in on the then virtual reality zeitgeist.Lawnmower Man has a cult fan base, of that there is no doubt, where much like Tron from 10 years earlier, the effects work and the capturing of something very much being in with the youth of the time, has proved perpetually appealing to nostalgists. But strip away these and you have your basic Frankenstein story for the 90s, a pretty standard story lacking intelligent smarts or deep thematic points of worth. And then of course there is the bizarre fact of having a film decrying the advancement of computer technology, by using computer technology to make the film's strongest moments! Hee. It's only adequately performed by the cast, and Leonard's direction matches his writing, which is mundane when not about the visual effects; effects work that dated very quickly as it happened.Other cuts and sequels would follow, the former didn't improve the same basic problems of the theatrical cut, the latter releases proved to be laughably bad. The Lawnmower Man, an interesting movie in the context of its time, and certainly fun enough for those who were there cloaked in a visually inspired warm glow, but it has not been a must see film for anyone else since 1995. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The definition of dated","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE LAWNMOWER MAN, a virtual reality-based sci-fi thriller supposedly based on a short story by Stephen King (although in reality it has nothing to do with it) is the perfect definition of a dated film. The entire premise of the film is reliant on then-cutting edge technology involving computer generated characters and VR, and of course today it looks laughable. JURASSIC PARK came out a year later and also dealt with cutting edge technology yet it hasn't dated at all, so I guess the difference is down to the budget.This is one of those films that's mildly entertaining in places and that's about it. It's a passable slice of entertainment, neither particularly good nor particularly bad, instead occupying a place in the middle of the road as with so many films. It has its good points, and the best of those is the consistently underrated Jeff Fahey, a man who's spent his life enhancing B-movies with many a decent performance.The narrative is about a simpleton who gradually transforms into a genius, and the journey there is fairly interesting, enlivened by a quirky turn from Jenny Wright as a love interest. But Pierce Brosnan's scientist lead is a bit of a bore and Brosnan gives one of those diffident performances that blight his career. Not to mention that Geoffrey Lewis is wasted while Austin O'Brien (the kid from LAST ACTION HERO) gets way too much screen time.By the end, of course, it all becomes rather overblown and over the top, complete with maniacal villainy and pyrotechnic effects. B-movie director Brett Leonard also handled two films I hated (HIDEAWAY and HIGHLANDER THE SOURCE), along with a movie I was indifferent to (VIRTUOSITY) and I'm in the latter camp with THE LAWNMOWER MAN; it's one of those films that deserves to be forgotten except by the most dedicated sci-fi fans. "}{"Title":"Access Denied.....","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist performs experiments involving intelligence enhancing drugs and virtual reality on a simple-minded gardener. He puts the gardener on an extensive schedule of learning, and quickly he becomes brilliant. But at this point the gardener has a few ideas of his own on how the research should continue, and the scientist begins losing control of his experiments.....1992, when this film was released, I remember the posters saying, Better effects than Terminator 2. As a fourteen year old, it sold me, I went to see it and remember the VR scenes, nothing else.Now, being a little more wiser to movie quotes, that poster quote was put there because obviously at the time, no one had anything good to say about it. and this was quite a big release back in 1992.21 years later, and the film hasn't aged well, frankly it looks awful, and those groovy effects I saw when VR was a big thing, look terrible.As for the plot and narrative, it's basically Fahey combing his hair and dressing like Eastwood in his movies with Clyde, and Brosnan holding his head and shaking, and smoking in bed.Some say the directors cut makes it more worthwhile, filling in important plot holes, believe me it doesn't, it makes the film more of an ordeal.But it's still watchable in the car crash sense of the word. it's an unmitigated disaster, but there are a few funny scenes.But it really hasn't held up well. "},{"Title":"A Highly Underrated Masterpiece.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good movie. The character Job is very sympathetic, and Pierce Brosnan does a wonderful job of giving life to his character. The computer effects were done nicely and helped set the movie's tone. Yes, the ending may be a tad cliche, but was still great. Avoid the sequel at all costs. It doesn't use any of the cast from the original and does to Lawnmower Man what Highlander 2 did for Highlander. "},{"Title":"So bad it becomes good then becomes bad again, all within half an hour...","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It perplexes me, seeing people give this film ten out of ten ratings. I generally trust the opinions of people who do so to the extent that if they told me the sky was blue, I would look out the window and see for myself. Because no matter how you look at it, The Lawnmower Man was a film with a terrible script, based on some terrible ideas, trying to trade off the name of an author who was at the peak of his commercial success. Said author, one tall American by the name of Stephen King, liked the idea of his short story being used to bolster the bleak commercial prospects of this film so much that he took the producers to court and demanded they stopped using his name. Having read Stephen King's The Lawnmower Man for myself, I completely understand why. Stephen King's The Lawnmower Man is a surreal terror story that twists suburban convention in a manner that only Stephen King can. Brett Leonard's The Lawnmower Man has not an original or well thought out idea anywhere in its little head.Part of the problem stems from the basic story of the film. The central story involves a scientist attempting to use virtual reality to train simpler minds such as those of monkeys to perform tasks that any normal human being would regard as complex. When our bold scientist meets a man who is, to put it bluntly, quite retarded, a light goes on in his head. What if the virtual reality simulator could be used to accelerate the functioning of this gardener's brain to the point where at least nominal calculations are no longer beyond him? And therein lies one of the problems most critics never pick up on. The human brain is demonstrably more complex than an electronic board or an engine, and accelerating it or repairing it is a much more complex process than this film gives credit for. When you add to that the fact that if Albert Einstein had been born around the same time as I was, he would have been diagnosed with High-Functioning Autism, this film's conception of the difference between simple and god-like becomes very shaky indeed.Not helping matters any is the apparent lack of research or planning that permeates the screenplay. In one memorable scene, we are told by the supposedly brilliant Doctor Lawrence that Jobe has mastered the Latin alphabet in a matter of hours, whereas it took him a year. This prompts the question of who is really retarded in this scenario, given that the Latin alphabet is something every child in the English-speaking world learns between their fifth and sixth birthday. At other times, the script seems to have been written by a twelve year old who has been listening to Black Sabbath songs like Iron Man a little too closely. Jobe's proclamation about how he will take over every computer system in the world being the best example. But the worst parts come when the script paints the characters into corners that they have no possibility of escaping, so the writers shoehorn in a convenient device. The writers here clearly had no idea of what a security backdoor is or how it works in the real computing world.Fortunately, Hollywood productions tend to have at least one strength they can fall back on when all else fails. Since the Hollywood system attracts some of the best actors money can buy, it stands to reason that The Lawnmower Man would have some commendable performances in spite of the terrible screenplay. Jeff Fahey's performance as Jobe easily rings the truest in this entire film. Pretending to be retarded is enough of a challenge for an actor. Pretending to be retarded, then suddenly gifted with mental faculties that would make Newton or Tesla envious, then given over the megalomania, is quite an acrobatic act. That Fahey pulls it off so well in spite of the script he is working from is a credit to him. Pierce Brosnan is no slouch, either, even though his performance as a scientist has little to discern itself from his performance as a secret agent. Somehow, this matter-of-fact, questioning portrayal really suits the scientist a lot better. Brosnan's performance as the man wondering where he went wrong is the only real anchor this film has.Much has been made of the virtual reality environments around which some of the plot is based. In 1992, simulating a self-contained environment within a computer was a frontier, and someone in the studio obviously thought this would be a good trend to cash in on. What they did not anticipate was that computing was becoming a very monolithic market, and a lot of the fantastic dreams we had about the future of computing were about to fall by the wayside. At the same time, the ability of computers to splice funky effects into films was growing at an exponential rate. A year prior, a little film called Terminator 2 had dazzled audiences with a combination of very simple computer-generated effects and practical effects that made the villain of the piece seem almost invincible. By comparison, the attempts to convince an audience that our characters had found their way inside a computer system were so half-hearted that it left audiences wondering if this were some kind of joke. Sadly, the end result has that Ed Wood touch of broadcasting a failure to think things through.As a result, this production of The Lawnmower Man ends up being a classical one out of ten film. Film school students can look at it for examples of when an ambitious effect or series of effects are not done well. "},{"Title":"mind blowing sci-fi fantasy movie","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the original Lawnmower Man is a masterpiece.great acting from both Pierce Brosnan and especially from Jeff Fahey,who plays the title character,but whose real name is Jobe Smith.Jobe is nicknamed the Lawnmower Man because that's what he does-mows people's lawns.However Jobe is Mentally challenged with the intellect of a young child.he is of course picked on by many,and abused both physically and mentally by the person entrusted with his care.It just so happens,however that Jobe lives next door to and cuts the Lawn of Dr. Lawrence Angelo,(Pierce Brosnan) a scientist whose field is the study of intellectual enhancement.to make a long story short Jobe willingly becomes a participant in Dr.Angelo's research and gains enormous intelligence,more than could possibly be imagined.this intelligence comes with a grave cost however. the above premise is brilliant and superbly executed.What could have been a disaster turns into near perfection,due not only to great acting,but also the skillful direction of Brett Leonard,who later helmed the very well done Virtuosity,starring Russel Crowe.He also helmed the upcoming Highlanderthe Source and unfortunately,the pathetic Man thingso you never can tell.anyway,back to the Lawnmower Man.aside from the great premise,good direction and acting,this movie also had one other thing going for itmind blowing special effects achieved with cgi,i believe which is all the more astonishing since this art form was in its infancy.bottom line-awesome movie. 10* "},{"Title":"does it have to end in evil?","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Technology should be exciting, and upbeating. I don't like the ending which the new technology helped to transform an mentally challenged person to an evil to the human society.Considering that it was made quite a few years ago, I think that the special technology are ok. However, they don't amaze me, they just don't give me the same excitement as watching the star wars. It is as if I was looking at a magic show instead of a virtual reality.The story line is ok, but it is not too exciting. I watched till the end while listing to the director's commentary part of it.  "},{"Title":"A realistic vision of the future","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film, released when Virtual Reality was little more than a gleam in its inventor's eye, shows only SOME of the benefits that this new medium could provide, as it will go beyond merely replacing television and film to become a new form of entertainment/education altogether. Imagine, for example, being able to actually perceive the distance from Earth to Moon, as you today perceive the distance between chess pieces. Similarly, imagine being able to actually perceive the 3D distance between an ant's eyes, for example, and its back legs. And imagine a fully real/solid 3D image approaching you more and more closely, until it actually passes BEHIND your eyes, into your brain. This opens the kind of educational possibilities portrayed in the movie. For more (realistic) details of just what a Virtual Reality headset might look like, look up US Patent #4,952.024. "},{"Title":"Mows off the competitors all right","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some movies stay with us forever, being revolutionary and genuinely original. An unnaturally low (well, average) rating of this movie is extraordinary. Instead of rubbing shoulders with Blade Runner and The Matrix on the top 250 list, it finds its place in a line of average blockheadbuster flicks. Perhaps, this situation is a result of Lawnmower Man 2 Beyond ... something release. They should have created a low-end Blade Runner 2 back in 1980s or 1990s to even the chances.For me it is difficult to find any drawbacks in this sci-fi. The whole screen presentation is a cyber kick in the brains (do we actually need all this scientific progress that pushes Man closer and closer to the edge?) and in the ass (the final scene is far from being a happy ending and the CGI talk between the scientist and his creation is still spooky even now). The movie is complete and locked in itself. The final scene with phones ringing all over the world makes one point perfectly clear the evil has leaked through. Of course, by today's standards the computer-generated sequences, especially in the beginning of the movie, are not impressive, but the ones shown in the end are really memorable and all the way freaky.And don't make the mistake once made by me never watch the Lawnmower Man 2 abomination. It is like reading Hamlet 2 by some Shakespoore.To crown it all, it has all the guts and style to find its place in the row of such clever sci-fi flicks as Solyaris (1972), Blade Runner (1982), Alien (1979), and The Terminator (1984). It will be very interesting to know the evaluation of these original sci-fi movies in a hundred years. Will try to check it out on IMDb then, if given a chance of course.And a tough 10 goes to&#x85; The Lawnmower Man (1992)! Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"Dated but still intriguing Science Fiction Thriller.","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) is a scientist, who's brilliant with perfecting the virtual reality software but he's completely obsessed with the technology. His fascinating experiments on animals fails... he decides to try on a human instead with extremely low intelligence. His next subject is Jobe (Jeff Fahey), a slow-witted gardener who often gets picked on by the local priest (Jeremy Slate) or gas station attended (John Laughlin). When Dr. Angelo new human Guinea pig pays off... probably too well. When Dr. Angelo's bosses at The Shop, a shadowy group that wants to use the technology to make the perfect soldier for War. Now Jobe's I.Q. has increase, he becomes an better man but Jobe finds himself having superhuman powers and he becomes hungry for the future of the world for technology.Directed by Brett Leonard (The Dead Pit, Hideaway, Viruosity) made an interesting science fiction thriller that has some fascinating ideas and memorable moments of Virtual Reality sequences. Brosnan and Fahey are good in their roles. This was certainly well-remembered movie, when it was release in 1992. Some of the Special Effects still looks good today, despite some truly dated ones. This was supposed to be... based on a short story by Stephen King. But King sued the filmmakers and he felt, it didn't look nothing like the short story.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an engaging commentary track by the director and producerGimel Everett. DVD also included twelve deleted scenes (All appeared in the Director's Cut), a brief behind the scenes look and more. This DVD is the original theatrical version but i feel that the Director's Cut was released in VHS and LaserDisc is the better version. It has more fleshed-out scenes with the characters and the story made more sense. It was an box office success in theaters but the feature was even an bigger hit in Overseas. The Lawnmover Man will be remember for the memorable use of Virtual Reality scenes but i felt the premise is also something very special, don't miss it. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Dull and dated, but Fahey is awesome","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pierce Brosnan plays a scientist whose virtual reality experiments on a chimp have gone wrong. The chimp got smarter, and had to be killed after it snatched a gun from a security guard and went on a rampage (in the hilarious opening sequence). He feels like the chimp, with its natural penchant for animalistic violence, was probably not as good an experimental subject as a person would be. Yeah, sounds like a bad idea, but he goes forward with it with the participation of his retarded lawn mowing guy, Jeff Fahey. So, yeah, Fahey eventually gets smarter and, for no particular reason, starts to use his superior powers (he becomes telepathic and telekinetic), as well as his Tron-like tracksuit, for evil. This could have been corny fun (and, honestly, at its best, it is), but between the horribly dated CGI and the far too slow pace, it's a dud. The only really good thing about it is Fahey's performance. I do love his rampage, though, where he attacks people telekinetically with his lawnmower. "},{"Title":"A great movie with some neat special effects","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Lawnmower Man is a early 90's sci-fi movie with some amazing special effects and an interesting plot for virtual reality, the effects feel like your watching a computer game and that's a reason why I like it.The film sees Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) who is testing out virtual reality on a monkey but the experiments have a fatal error has the monkey goes crazy and escapes with a gun with the VR program still effecting it. Lawrence meets Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey) a simple lawnmower man and comes up with the idea of using his virtual reality program on a human. Lawrence sees Jobe and offers to help him become smarter by using him in his virtual reality programs. Jobe agrees and soon the experiments begin and after a while he becomes smarter, he also becomes attracted to a young women who he cuts the garden for. As the VR training progresses Jobe becomes super intelligent and begins to control the reality around him, Jobe then goes to the base and puts himself in the virtual reality world but this time he wants to control the real world by going into computer systems so Lawrence must try and stop Jobe before he completes his goal in the virtual world.The Lawnmower Man is a great sci-fi movie. Check it out. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Awesome! A Must see for Sci-fi Fans!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Need I say more? But I will )... At first I was skeptical to see this movie simply because it was adapted from the Stephen King short story that is all of about 5 pages long and wasn't sure how they could make a good movie out it. But I saw it anyway (Simply because I am a Stephen King fanatic and see everything that is made out of his books/stories) and was pleasantly surprised! When the simple-minded Jobe (played wonderfully by Jeff Fahey), or as people in town call him, the Lawnmower Man, finds a genetically altered monkey in the tree outside his shack and mistakes him for a comic book character, his life is changed. Dr. Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) decides to change him!! Using a drug that he developed for The Shop, Dr. Angelo alters Jobe's mentality, making him smarter. Only, when The Shop finds out, they switch the serum and it, in turn, gives Jobe powers such as telekinesis and mental telepathy. With some pretty impressive vitural reality effects and some excellent acting (on the part of Jeff Fahey) The Lawnmower Man will give you an entertaining ride for your dollar. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's best sci-fi movie","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first watched The Lawnmower Man on 1992, when it was originally released on theaters. I liked it very much, specially because of the F/X that were astonishing on the 90's. Jeff Fahey, that also was on Extramarital and Wyatt Earp, and I watched them, did a really good job on here, together with Pierce Brosnan. Rosalee Mayeux were good too, this was the first movie that I watched her. Well, The Lawnmower Man is a well done movie, and it's worth the buying, renting, or else watching. Recommended for sci-fi fans! I give 4 out of 5 stars! Also continued by Lawnmower Man 2 Beyond Cyberspace or Lawnmower Man 2 Jobe's War. What you're doing sitted down there, watching my review? Get up and buy it!  "},{"Title":"Skip all the hollywood-minded nerd's reviews that simply cant get it!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't consider this too good, still, I write here because many reviews for this one (we can understand what kind of people these are) simply underrate it. I mean, come-on, one has to be really stupid to take this for a horror movie! On the other hand, it's uneven that when it first came out it was celebrated by advertisers as the first film using computer grafix in a somewhat-special way. Because TRON is the king for that matter.Anyway, even if i haven't seen it for a while, I remember that the character development is really good & general idea and visualization really ok. Don't bother to see the second part though. Nice film on Virtual Reality - but if you want something more meaningful, then check out Cronenberg's ExistenZ "},{"Title":"Interesting idea.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Lawnmower Man has an interesting concept and some good visual effects, but left me feeling kinda empty. I'm a Stephen King fan so I'm still wondering where they got this screenplay from King's short story. Brett Leonard does a good job directing, but the film is weak in the screenplay department. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great. Thats the bottom line. This movie had some really great special effects and a really great storyline. I also liked the actors that played in this movie... Pierce Brosnan, Jeff Fahey, in a SCI-FI movie... that is awesome. I give this movie a nine out of ten!! "},{"Title":"Bored? Watch paint dry, don't watch The Lawn Mover Man","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I woke that morning, I never knew what was coming later that night... I never knew, that THIS was the day when I would see the WORST horror movie EVER. I rented this movie with my friend... we used to rent horror films every now and then... a little did we know about what this film was going to be like. The stupidest thing here is that I can't believe we didn't even look at the video cover, or read the back cover OR look at who was starring.. Pierce Brosnan! Oh god if we only would have just looked at it! The movie starts like with a smart monkey running off with a 3D-glasses on or something as stupid as that. Then a dumb guy becomes smart by some stupid machine. I know this is an old movie but the visual effects still are a pain. I didn't really understand the plot of this movie, luckily. To me, it seemed like that a guy just kills off people and he knows how to do it cos he's smart. I just remember the many stupid scenes which didn't make sense. Like when the guy was making out with a girl in some kind of virtual world. I just couldn't get a hang of it. And the ending scene... of god I don't know what the hell was going on but i'm still having nightmares about that. The most depressing thing here is that the night when rented this movie, we also rented another movie, but after first watching this crap, my VCR broke!!!! And all we had left in our minds was that crappy movie. It's been a while now since I saw that film, and I'm doing my best to forget it. Maybe I couldn't describe it so well how horrible it was cos I don't really remember it anymore. I like horror movies, too bad that usually they suck. Well, I wouldn't consider The Lawn Mover Man as a horror movie. In the end, this is probably the worst movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Stephen King will disavow any knowledge of your activities...","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How King sold the rights to his so-so short story about a murderous satyr who mows lawns to the producers, and how they turned it into this unrelated tribute to cyberspace/virtual reality, is probably a story in itself worthy of a movie.  Don't be mislead by the King connection or the title  this is basically an early entry into the growing genre of virtual reality movie. There are some sympathetic performances, particularly Fahey but also by Brosnan.  There is a definite Flowers for Algernon approach here, but ultimately it goes for a big finish and descends into a climactic battle for cyberspace as Fahey's lawnmower man turns bad.  Adequate by the standards of the genre, but in no way a work of the master. "},{"Title":"A man makes a movie, called The Lawnmower Man.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not often one can say sincerely, This is the worst movie I've ever seen.  I thought that when I saw this film in the theatres, and seven years later it's still the champ.  Basically, it's a riff off of Flowers for Algernon, except the characters are unsympathetic, the geniuses are not especially bright, and the things they do are not very interesting.  When the movie came out, its sole redeeming feature was the computer graphics, which were technically impressive but not very pleasing to the eye. (That is unfortunate, given the large amount of screen time they get.)  Now, of course, a $1000 home computer does a much more impressive job.  The acting is bad, the pacing if awful, and there is exactly one professionally looking shot in the entire movie  a backlit shot of Fahey, as he comes over a hill. Unfortunately, the image itself was a cliche even then, and it's the most successful aspect of the movie. There is a modicum of an attempt at a suspenseful ending, via a chase as Dr. Frankenstein tries to prevent his monster from destroying humanity, however, if you're still watching at that point, and you're actually in suspense, then I envy you  the SECOND movie you watch in your life, whatever it happens to be, is going to be much better than this one.  So, don't give up on this movie thing just yet. "},{"Title":"Brosnan is great, Fahey isn't - and he needed to be","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) is working on using virtual reality in conjunction with 'neutropic drugs' to produce enhancement of intelligence. A chimpanzee on the project manages to use its new intelligence to pick the lock on his cage and kills someone before he is shot. Angelo decides he needs a human test subject. His wife, Caroline (Colleen Coffey) promptly leaves him.Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey) works for Terry McKeen (Geoffrey Lewis) mowing lawns. Jobe isn't that bright - he has been raised and abused by Father Francis McKeen (Jeremy Slate). His best friend is a young boy named Peter (Austin O'Brien) who he reads comics and plays games with. Angelo thinks Jobe would be a perfect test subject. It works and soon Jobe has changed completely. He finds a girlfriend named Marnie Burke (Jenny Wright) and becomes more assertive.However there are unforeseen side-effects as the process starts to unlock hidden psychic powers and Jobe starts to have odd episodes. Angelo's boss Sebastian Timms (Mark Bringleson) finds out what has been going on and has sinister plans for Jobe. Meanwhile Jobe has sinister plans of his own.The script is by Brett Leonard & Gimel Everett and bears little resemblance to Stephen King's novel. It is reasonably paced and well directed by Leonard. The graphics are very 1990s and you accept that. Camera-work and sound are fine if a bit Hammer Horror. Brosnan is great in his role and most other actors give passable performances.The main problem with the film is Fahey. As the lead he needs to be spectacular, as he needs to be convincing as a simpleton, a genius and ultimately a psychopath. He isn't up to it. I don't remember saying this about another film, but this is one occasion where a remake could be better than the original, if you could find the right actor. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was one of the best movies I ever watched when I seen it in 1993. On renting it recently for a trip down nostalgia road, I did expect to be disappointed, but I was so wrong. This movie is so good on so many levels it is incomprehensible. I have read so many reviews on IMDb saying the CGI is so dated, and CGI was so much more advanced at the time, and the story line had lots of holes, blah, blah, blah Back of, I say, this movie presented an otherwise unheard of storyline, with a brilliant cast and an incredible set of effects that drew me in the first and second time I watched it.Brosnan was brilliant, a true master, obviously this is before he got smarmy, but he delivers an amazing portrayal of a genius torn between his work and family and making the right decision to go with his work, I mean any idiot can have a family, save that for Joe Soap, what was done in his research was so much more important.Again I re-iterate, I love this movie. "}{"Title":"Behind Blue Eyes","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this sci-fi thriller, according to the DVD sleeve, Pierce Brosnan plays Dr. Lawrence Angelo, a brilliant scientist obsessed with perfecting a revolutionary Virtual Reality computer software. When his experiments on animals fail, he finds the ideal substitute Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey), a slow-witted gardener - 'The Lawnmower Man'. Dr. Angelo's goal is to benefit his human guinea pig and ultimately mankind itself. But evil lurks... in the guise of 'The Shop', a shadowy group that seeks to use the technology to create an invincible war machine&#x85;Presenting&#x85; Frankenstein in virtual reality! Although this is a completely unimaginative and formulaic story, it's stylish and very visually stimulating. The special effects, by Frank & Tom Ceglia and Paul Haines and others; and, the computer graphics, by Angel Studios and Xaos, Inc are terrific. Credit should also be given to the director and photographer team of Brett Leonard and Russell Carpenter, who manage to compliment the effects sequences well. The Lawnmower Man looks better than films with ten times the budget. The writers could have easily improved the story by making Bronson's character single, and attracted to his new neighbor's wife (solving one of the more obvious plot problems).In the lead roles, Mr. Fahey and Mr. Brosnan have a good rapport, but their characters aren't entirely convincing; Fahey's dim-witted introductory scenes are weak, and Bronson never fully channels the mad scientist gleam needed to put the role over the top. The actors are competent, sexy, and endearing over the running time, however. There are no problems with the supporting cast seductive Jenny Wright (as Marnie Burke) is arousing with her looks and lines, like I'm looking forward to having my lawn mowed. Among the notable are Austin O'Brien in his first feature, and Jeremy Slate in his last.****** The Lawnmower Man (3/6/02) Brett Leonard ~ Jeff Fahey, Pierce Brosnan, Jeremy Slate, Jenny Wright "},{"Title":"Makes you question your sympathies for other people","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If one can look past the visual-technology used to imply effects one can be pleasantly surprised as they find themselves questioning her sympathies for other people. This movie is a product of the 90s, and as such, may not be for all people. The idea of a full-grown man befriending a small boy might seem startling to us now, but in the 90s it was rather common (if I'm remembering this correctly). Billy Bob Thornton does a spectacular job playing a mentally challenged man in a small town where he is misunderstood...only a child can understand him. When given the chance to help his friend, we find ourselves questioning our sympathies for other people. Even though, due to certain physical conditions I currently find myself in, I usually feel sympathetic to people who face any kind of diversity, I do not know if I can fully agree with the path that Billy's character takes. ***SPOILER ALERT***MURDERING IS WRONG IN MOST INSTANCES BUT IT IS WRONG IN THIS INSTANCE? I AM NOT AT LIBERTY TO SAY!***END SPOILER ALERT*** And I don't believe that anyone is at liberty to say. It is not a question that can be so easily answered by our text books or our knowledge; One must contemplate the answer and decide for their own self (that is exactly what one must do, hopefully as soon as possible we should all do that). Somethings are just deeper than what is found in books. The movie feels very realistic. VERY sober. This movie wasn't made in the Hollywood spirit I have come to despise, but in a different spirit full of intellectual rigor. Though there is a child in this movie, I would not recommend this movie for children, at the end **SPOILER ALERT**Billy Bob Thornton's character murders someone**END SPOILER ALERT** And most people don't like their children watching that. The title of the film sounds simple (it's just an object!) and the character seem simple, but it is a very complicated movie. I hesitantly recommend. "},{"Title":"just comments","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i am watching this now, and i kept thinking that it was similar to johnny mnemonic, and was very surprised to find out that it was based on a story written by stephen king. thought for sure it was something from wm. Gibson.curiosity got the better of me which is why i came here to the IMDb to find out the date it was made. t the visuals reminded me of johnny mnemonic. the story itself is actually pretty good.i never did like sappy 'chick flicks.'at any rate, it seems to be a pretty good movie, and i am glad that i found it. it was in the bargain bin at walmart for $5.50! "},{"Title":"The difference between this film & STEPHEN KING'S short story is the difference between apples & oranges.","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brilliant scientist Dr. Lawrence Angelo (a great turn by PIERCE BROSNAN) has created a break through in revolutionary virtual reality technology. Using the technology, coupled with an experimental drug he has been working on, Angelo has been experimenting with chimps, with breakthrough results, as it turns his test subjects into super smart, very intelligent creatures, however when one of his specimens escapes from the lab & runs amok killing a couple of guards in the process, it winds up being gunned down. It looks like all of Angelo's progress is lost, until Angelo gets an idea in his head to use a human test subject The intellectually handicap Jobe Smith a Lawnmower Man (A great turn by JEFF FAHEY) who cuts his lawn for him. As the days go by, Jobe is quickly getting smarter & Angelo's experiments work much better on Jobe than any of the animal test subjects. Unfortunately what Angelo doesn't realize is, that the secret government agency that is funding his research has stabbed him in the back. Upon learning of Angelo's break through with Jobe, they replace Jobe's drugs with an experimental drug of the very own. This all backfires with terrifying results as the drug soon heightens Jobe's sadistic darker side & also gives him the powers such as psychokinesis & mind control, giving him the abilities to pry into peoples minds, revealing their thoughts & troubled past experiences, which allows him to use them for his own ends & is gifted with the ability to erase peoples minds, thus using them as slaves, which allows him to influence other peoples trains of thought. Things only get worse when Jobe gains supernatural powers that he uses against those who tormented him in the past, including the strict, self righteous bigot priest who raised him, a group of suits who want to capture him, a scum bag gas station employee & best of all, Angelo's alcoholic next door neighbour who is forever beating his wife & son, using his powers gained through the use of the experimental drug & virtual technology which he uses to bring supernatural elements into our world.THE LAWNMOWER MAN claimed during production to be based on the STEPHEN KING short story of the same name, that he penned in 1975 & included in his NIGHT SHIFT novel, but that short story & this one is so far removed from each other, it's clear that NEW LINE CINEMA & ALLIED VISION LANE PRINGLE PRODUCTIONS were only using King's name for publicity & potential box office profits, thankfully King saw through this ploy & wisely sued to keep his name off the film (Ironically enough DEAN KOONTZ would do the same with HIDEAWAY, an abysmal CGI effort that bared little connection to his novel of the same name, which was also directed by this films director, Brett Leonard) The original King tale told of a lawn mowing company that worshipped a mysterious demonic deity known as Pan using remote controlled lawnmowers, while the Lawnmower Man walked around naked after it. When the guy who hired them discovers their secret they make away with him in grisly fashion (See how different the short story is from the movie?) While THE LAWNMOWER MAN has indeed received it's fare share of flak of the years, in all fairness, the film really isn't all that bad. THE LAWNMOWER MAN could be construed in many ways to be modern day updating of the FRANKENSTEIN story crossed with the film CHARLY, who's main character became smart by that films end. With the FRANKENSTEIN elements being how a brilliant mind wanting to create a perfect, smart individual watched in horror as his creation backfired & ran amok, turning on him & while it really doesn't follow the short stories plot, it does include a three elements from it, a lawnmower moving by itself, chasing it's intended victim through the home before cutting off his head & that head later being found in a bird bath. The film is certainly well acted & director BRETT LEONARD does well behind the camera, delivering several cool shots. The films ending is also very intriguing in the simple sense that by the climax, Jobe's spirit has now entered the telephone lines the world over, making every single phone call to ring & ring all over the world & possibly setting him up for world domination & the characters for the most part are really well fleshed out & interesting, so the film manages to keep one engrossed in it's story, especially in terms of where it is going next with it's plot & situations.I will say however, that while THE LAWNMOWER MAN does indeed have an interesting idea at it's core & manages to hold one's interest, it unfortunately just runs way to long (The directors cut runs well over the two hour mark!) & relies on way to much on (at the time of it's release) the kind of cutting edge computer technology & graphics that it's making it's statement about in an anti-computer sort of way, which makes the films story & it's maker awfully hypocritical. Another problem is that while the CGI used in the film was very impressive at the time, in our current present time with the increase of technology in computers, phones, movie CGI effects & video games etc. the graphics here look as outdated as an old Nintendo game's graphics would be in comparison to the current XBOX 360 games.All in all, THE LAWNMOWER MAN is definitely worth a look, but I would be hard pressed to call this film one of the best adoptions of a STEPHEN KING story (mainly because, again it bears almost no resemblance to the tale he wrote) however it remains a watchable & interesting modern take on the FRANKENSTEIN legend. Co-written by the producer GIMEL EVERETT & director Leonard. Followed by a sequel LAWNMOWER MAN 2 JOBE'S WAR.*** stars "},{"Title":"no comment","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its again one of those great sci-fi movies which are beyond their time thats why noone understands them  so they loose against movies like star trek. Its about cyberspace. Something that can help human beings to enter new age. Doctor Angelo who is the founder of this THING wants to walk in small steps but people who are above him want to make things go faster for their own benefits. That cause a chaos and Jobe, a simple guy who has some mental problems become a half-god. Angelo wants to prevent him from being a FULL-god. Angelo wins. really? we see that he does not, at the end of the movie. The movie does not make sure whether Angelo is right or Jobe is right. We human beings does not understand some things and we are afraid of those things. But that does not mean it is a wrong thing. I think thats the movie gives a wrong message. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" May contain Spoiler! I bought this film about a year ago, at my old job, which sold some DVD, but not a lot. While the film is semi low budget, it is a good film to watch considering it's about 14 years old now.Dr. Angelo (Brosnan) is a doctor who does experiments with Virtual Reality with monkeys for combat purposes. however the experiment goes wrong and the test subjects are killed. Dr. Angelo wants to do VR work with humans however his superiors do not want him doing that. Dr. Angelo takes a hiatus from his work, and decides to test the VR with Jobe (Fahey) a man who is mentally challenged. As Dr. Angelo does the tests on Jobe, Jobe becomes much smarter, but the experiments have some nasty side effects.There are some things with the film that I do not like, mostly the lack of decent character development, and some of the Special Effects, which are used a little too much. It seems like some of the characters never really develop and stay the same through the entire film. The script isn't always the best at times, and some of the lines are pretty cheesy. Other than the problems I see, this film overall is not bad for what it's worth, so if you like semi low budget sci-fi flicks, then this is a good watch movie. "},{"Title":"a man helps a mentally slow boy get smart who later plans to take over the world","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" what the hell does this film have to do with the short story by Stephen king i read the story and watched the movie one has absolutely nothing to do with the story. i don't see the point to this movie .that was an hour and 45 min ill never get back. Some may like this movie but i have no idea why. for that time the graphics seem to be OK which was the only thing that was keeping me from turning off the movie and throwing it into the garbage. the duologue did not help the movie ether . pretty much a movie with the duologue that a 8 year-old can understand and a plot that confuses the hell out of u. overall not a movie u should spend 5$ on cause u'll end up hating your self for buying a peace of crap. "},{"Title":"So, why didn't people wind up liking it more??","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's where I thought it stumbled...1. Bad dialogue - He's the best chimp I ever had!... It took me all of 15 seconds to come up with a line that didn't sound quite so ridiculous (He's the best subject I've ever worked with) only *I* wasn't hired to write the darn thing... !2. Lazy, ham-bone acting from pretty much everyone concerned; but most surprisingly and disappointingly of all, from someone who's since proved he knows better Brosnan - Looking all bug-eyed and frantic as he spits out lines about tempering excitement with caution. Someone's been overdosing on campy Hammer Horror... Perfect MST3K fodder.3. Pretty graphics? Not even barely. If I'd wanted to see superior images of that type - even in '92 - I'd have just dropped some LSD...It tries and mostly fails - but at least it tried - and I suppose it paved the way for better efforts because people learn from their mistakes. I'd say it's worth a watch, so long as you expect things to be silly, rather than chilling. I only wish it hadn't taken ITSELF so seriously, because that only magnifies its faults all the more... It's one that will definitely live long in the memory, though sadly for mostly the wrong reasons... "},{"Title":"Be afraid of computers - be very afraid!","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this film has any redeeming value, it is that you may find it so bad as to be amusing. Perhaps the acting could have been worse, unlike the script. Stephen King, who wrote the book upon which the (virtually non-existent) story is supposed to be based, tried to dissociate himself from it - I can certainly see why. To make matters worse, the cine is dated in a society where people are growing accustomed to computers, and where the interest in virtual reality, not to mention the application thereof, remains very limited. What I mean by this is that a modern audience would probably be more aware of how preposterous this B movie really is than the people who saw it back in 1992. It doesn't get a lot worse than this. Score 2 out of 10 - because I like sci-fi! "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing...","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the same film company that brought you the Lord of the Rings trilogy comes...something very different and inferior (and I wasn't even a huge fan of the LotR films!).The Lawnmower Man is so bad that Stephen King removed his name from the advertising for the film (based on a short story by...). He claims that The Lawnmower Man's film adaptation is absolutely nothing like his story. Yet this is the man who allowed his name to be used for The Running Man with Arnold Schwarzenegger (a great mindless action flick), even though it's absolutely nothing like the book (which I have read, and which loses focus towards the middle). King wrote under the pseudonym of Richard Bachman for The Running Man (and several other books), but he still allowed his name to be used as part of the advertising run for Arnie's film version of his novel. (Although he is still credited as Richard Bachman during the beginning/end credits.)So you can just imagine how bad this film is if he wanted his name removed from its existence.And it is pretty bad. I had heard a lot of good things about this film--err, I thought I did. Turns out that the film has generally low ratings anyway The Internet Movie Database has the film clocked in at exactly 5.0 (out of a possible 10) stars as of January 14th, 2004, and Rotten Tomatoes has a Rotten reading of the film with 50% good (and bad) reviews.Jeff Fahey (who?) plays Jobe, a mentally retarded lawn mower (not the machine, I mean a real lawn mower man) who gets picked on by friends, rents a small room at a church run by a crazy priest (why are the priests always crazy?), and allows himself to be beaten by the crazy old man. Oh, and he hangs out with a small kid named Peter (Austin O'Brien) every day. Yep, he's got a nice life. He's certainly not a loser.This changes when Larry (Pierce Brosnan in a pre-Bond role) experiments on Jobe using his state-of-the-art virtual reality simulator, which engages areas of Jobe's brain, making him become smarter (and apparently stronger?) in very little time. Soon he's experiencing new sensations with the town *flirt* and boasting a bunch of strong muscles.But Jobe starts to lose control when his mind becomes too strong, and he learns how to take apart human beings' bodies with special effects--which pretty much means he turns everyone into hundreds of small digital bits. (There is one thing, however, that doesn't fit--how in the world does someone turn human beings into electronic form when they're in the real world?! Oh, wait, maybe he's in The Matrix and he's an Agent--that would work. They should try a tie-in Neo vs. The Lawnmower Man. Actually, on second thought...no.)I didn't buy Jeff Fahey as a retard for one single moment. He more or less looked like Jeff Daniels' character Harry Dunne, from Dumb and Dumber, for the first hour--prancing about with shaggy blond hair and muttering words like an idiot. I can honestly say that Fahey is not representing most mentally challenged people in his role for this film. And if he is, someone should sue him.Fahey (I'll ask again who?) is not a great actor, and either is Pierce Brosnan, who more or less keeps this film alive throughout. His is the best performance in the film. Admit it, that's pretty sad. (For the record, I like Brosnan as James Bond--I think he's the best since THE best Connery--but sometimes he gets in over his head in films. This is one of them.)I really did look forward to The Lawnmower Man, but I had no idea what to expect. I didn't think it would be as weird as this. I thought that--given what little I knew about the plot--there was the potential to make an interesting, engaging science fiction film (I'm not exactly a huge fan of the genre, although some people who are might like this film). I was wrong. Everything here is wrong, and the film's best feature--the thing everyone remembers it for--are the so-called great special effects. Right. Let's move on to that.The special effects, which may have been quite extraordinary in 1992, are nothing compared to today's special effects. Obviously the filmmakers thought this would be the way of the future--virtual reality simulators--but it's not, and the graphics look like they've come out of some low-budget 80s strobe music video with drug-induced background fluctuations. When Jobe inserts his mind into the computer (how does on do that?), he turns into the image of a bald man with edgy features and lumber logs for limbs. Huh? This is what the video cover for the box boasts the best special effects since ''Terminator 2'?Right. And quoting Arnold Schwarzenegger, who was of course in T2 (vastly superior to The Lawnmower Man, by the way)And if you believe that, you'll also believe that there are little Richard Simmons's running around! Yeah, it's better not to ask about that one, either.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still don't know why they made this film.  Not because the concept was bad, but how badly it was pulled off.  The computer animation was good(for the time), but the rest of the movie was sucked down the toilet.  I don't hate this movie(like I do Godzilla), and watching it wasn't a painful task either.  But, after considering how much time passed during the course of the movie, I realized this movie went nowhere.  Even when it built up it's climax(or so I was lead to believe), I didn't get the enjoyment or excitement I thought and hoped I would.  The acting is very Ed Woodish, thanks to a director who only cares about the computer animation.  To add insult to injury, the quality of the soundtrack was exceedingly poor.  The virtual reality scenes sounded good, but the dialogue was very fuzzy and incomprehensive(I cleaned my ears to see if I could hear it better, but it made no difference).  And some of the trivial effects in the movie, like the chair flying in mid-air, were extremely poorly executed(I could have done better).  My vendetta against this film is not the concept or the story, but how badly executed it was.  Ed Wood could have crafted a movie better than this.  It's all about achievement, and this film doesn't have it.  The only standing ovations in the film were the well animated computer effects.  "},{"Title":"This film and all copies of it should be burnt","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lawnmower Man should be a phrase to explain things which are terrible. When you go to the cashpoint with your new hot date to get out money for the evening and the machine tells you that you have no cash - then that would be a Lawnmower moment.I am still coming to terms with how truly awful this film is - I commented on this film a couple of weeks ago - but the full impact of its dreadfulness is only now dawning on me. Previously I thought the film was desperate but now I actually consider it to be depressingly bad. I now believe that a script about watching paint dry could get made into a Hollywood film.Who was responsible for making this film ? - and if that person steps up and tells me how difficult it is to make a film and then says Well if you think you can do better my answer will be an emphatic YES - I canPerhaps there should be some review body to prevent A) Shockingly bad films like this being made B) To advise actors not to take these parts C) Advise audiences not to go to the theatre to see it D)and finally to explain to TV companies not to buy the rights to show the film.I forgive whoever made it because we all make mistakes - but I just hope they learnt their lesson, for everyone's sake ! "},{"Title":"Horrible Computer Animation","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Title The Lawnmower Man Director Brett Leonard Cast Jeff Fahey, Pierce Brosnan, Austin O Brien Tagline God made him simple. Science made him a God.Review I had not seen this since its initial release in 1992. I decided to give it a re-watch for old times sake. Boy, some things don't age well do they? Lawmower Man was a film based on a short story by Stephen King. After King saw how they butchered his story and saw how bad this film was going to turn out, he sued and asked for his name to be removed from the film. Was King right? Did the film suck the big one? Well the story is interesting enough. A mentally challenged gardener named Jobe (and affectionately called the Lawnmower Man by the townsfolk) is chosen by the local genius scientist Dr. Angelo, to participate in a series of experiments involving cyberspace and virtual reality that could help make him smarter and snap out of his mental disability. Jobe starts to experience a few changes....he becomes smarter...and more violent.The main problem with this movie is the dated effects. This movie boasted that it had the best special fx since Terminator 2...ha! What a lie. It was just a ploy to sucker you in to seeing this half assed flick. Yeah, I said half assed because at times some of the effects are less then impressive. Terminator 2s effects still look good by todays standards. Not so with The Lawnmower Mans computer generated images.Some of the effects are alright for the time they were made I guess. Those scenes involving Jobe and Dr. Angelo in cyberspace are mildly interesting, but when compared to todays effects seem very very low key. Less then something you'd see on a video game. The character Jobe, once he goes into cyberspace becomes this slow moving, slow talking character. Wait, wasn't he supposed to be more powerful in cyberspace? Well, I guess we can chalk that down to the fact that the computer effects were just starting out back in the day. Some of them were pulled of rather nicely (like those with Jobe saying I am God here! that was cool!) but other times being just plain bad.Not only that, but the effects come off as uneven. Sometimes they'd use computer graphics, in others they'd use real film footage made out to look like computer graphics....it just gave the film a very uneven look. One of the most poorly executed effects for example is a swarm of digitized bees attacking a bunch of security guards. A bunch of blurry white circles moving around? Thats supposed to come of as a swarm of killer bees? And when they show the bees in close up...oh god, they look even worse! So yeah, the biggest problem here is that when Jobe goes rogue, well the effects that go with his killing spree just make the killings laughable. And that my friends is not good in a horror movie.Anyhows, what holds this film together is two things the acting from Pierce Brosnan and Jeff Fahey and the story. Yeah, Pierce Brosnan pulled off Dr. Angelo very well. And Jeff Faheys portrayal of the mentally challenged Lawnmower man was alright...but Ill admit some of his acting as the Lawnmower Man in his dumb phase didn't do it for me, I don't know there's just something about actors portraying mentally challenged people that I find sort of insulting or disrespectful, but thats just me. I preferred Jeff Fahey a lot more as the mean and smart Lawnmower Man. Some of his lines are excellent.And the story well, it pulls you in. Even though its sort of a mess at times, you can see that Kings influence is all over it. Specially when it comes to presenting the characters of the small town and when it focuses on Jobe and his life as a slight less less smarter member of the human race. King always does a good job of fleshing out characters and you can see that here.Its a halfway enjoyable film but unfortunately its full enjoyment is held back because of its limited, dated and poorly executed special effects. I wonder what a remake of this film would look like today? Now heres a movie in need of a remake if there ever was one! Hollywood listen up! Rating 2 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"10/10 Fantastic film","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film....there are no words that give it justice. I didn't get it at first but after a friend commented on it my mind was blown. A man who mows lawns for a living, tries to use computers to turn himself into a lawnmower, but in the end, it turns out he was a lawnmower all along...because he MOWS LAWNS! My god, i couldn't believe such a fantastic plot with those kind of deep sub plots could be done on this kind of budget, but Brett Leonard made it happen, we salute you.o\Of course lets not forget Steven King, without his ingeniousness this would not have been written to such a high caliber. These men, they need more recognition for what they gave to people growing up in the 90's, this let us know what we could aspire too, and that in the end, we learned that it was inside us all along. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure?","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This thing plays like a made-for-TV movie, with amateurish directing and special effects, but I still had fun watching it for some strange reason (maybe I'm just a sucker for revenge movies). If this came out nowadays, with updated visuals and sets, it could be a hit. Don't go out of your way to see this, but don't assume you'll hate it if you enjoy science fiction.Although Stephen King had absolutely nothing to do with this movie (besides writing a short story with the same title), the story is surprisingly King-like. Pierce Brosnan tests out some neat-o sci-fi crap on a mentally-handicapped man, and before you know it, the dude is getting all smart and taking out the trash (aka hunting all the poor lads who gave him a tough time)! Don't expect Oscar-worthy material, but this could be a decent way to pass a lazy afternoon.. "},{"Title":"It may be the future to you... but it's the same old sh*t to me OK Sci-Fi thriller.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Lawnmower Man begins with a piece of text that reads 'by the turn of the millennium a technology known as VIRTUAL REALITY will be in widespread use. It will allow you to enter computer generated artificial worlds as unlimited as the imagination itself. It's creators foresee millions of positive uses - while others fear it as a new form of mind control...' The film starts proper at the laboratory's of 'Virtual Space Industries' where Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) is working on something called 'Project 5' which involves using virtual reality in conjunction with 'neutropic drugs' to produce some sort of intelligence enhancement in the test subject. The current subject is a chimp named Rosco 1138 who using his new found intelligence picks the lock on his cage & kills someone before he is shot. Angelo carries his work on at his home without any interference. His wife, Caroline (Colleen Coffey) promptly leaves him. Angelo decides to throw himself into his work & take it to the next level. Angelo notices Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey) who works for Terry McKeen (Geoffrey Lewis) mowing lawns. Jobe isn't that bright, he has been raised & beaten by Father Francis McKeen (Jeremy Slate) since he was 5, he is made fun of & his best friend is a young boy named Peter (Austin O'Brien) whom he reads comics & plays games with. Angelo thinks Jobe would be a perfect test subject & starts the process, it works at an astounding rate & soon Jobe has changed completely. He finds a girlfriend named Marnie Burke (Jenny Wright) & becomes a lot more assertive. However there are unforeseen side-effects as the process starts to unlock hidden psychic powers & Jobe starts to go nuts. At the same time Angelo's boss Sebastian Timms (Mark Bringleson) & the organisation who funded Angelo's experiments find out about what's been going on & have sinister plans for Jobe & the process themselves whether Angelo likes it or not... At this point I should say that according to the IMDb's 'Alternate Versions' section there appears to be a Director's Cut of The Lawnmower Man & that the version I watched was definitely the shorter theatrical cut. Co-written & directed by Brett Leonard I thought The Lawnmower Man was an OK time waster but nothing special. The script by Leonard & Gimel Everett is reasonably paced & it's certainly a bit different but I'm not sure about the heavy handed warnings on the use of developing technology. What's with the sequence where a psychic controlled lawnmower chases someone around their living room, it comes over as quite silly watching it. And what does Jobe do when he discovers he has these fantastic abilities? Somewhat predictably he decides to get revenge on people who wronged him, forget that I'd be looking for ways to make as much money as possible! There are actually very few special effects scenes in The Lawnmower Man & I personally thought they all looked awful especially the burning man & whenever anyone was turned into little dots (you know what I mean if you've seen it!), but then I suppose I should cut it some slack since it was made way back in 1992. The acting by Fahey as Jobe was terrible in my opinion, he starts out over exaggerating every movement to come across as simple & he didn't have much of an on screen presence when he became the villain. Brosnan is his usual laid back unshaven good-looking self, he's alright. Everyone else is adequate. It's well made throughout with nice production design & some good sets especially Angelo's lab with it's spinning gyro-sphere's. The Lawnmower Man is a perfectly reasonable way to spend 110 odd minutes but at the same time didn't exactly blow me away, worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Ok, but cheesy at times","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Story is good, but cheesy at times. Effects pretty good for the day. Worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is, without a shadow of a doubt, one of the most ludicrously bad films I have ever had the misfortune to watch.  From beginning to end I was completely baffled by the plot, the characters, everything.  the whole point of a movie is for it to be entertaining - not so incomprehendable that you need to watch it at least eight times to realise what's happening. BEST BIT  The graphics.  And that's all. WORST BIT  The film. It's completely and totally awful.  Please don't watch it. "},{"Title":"An odd movie.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why oh why oh why couldn't he have just closed his eyes? Fine, I'll admit the effects were reasonably impressive for the time, but the story and the dialogue often made little sense. So Jobe was trying to take over the world... And do what? And how was he going to take over the world.Yes, yes, he goes into cyberspace (ripoff from Tron, another movie which didn't make much sense, but was much more entertaining), but if he gets into your computer, JUST TURN IT OFF! End of story... Why are most sci/fi scriptwriters completely science illiterate? "},{"Title":"The worst christmas present ever...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, here we go... i got this movie and lawnmower man 2 Jobe's War for christmas.  I never saw these movies before i got them.  I was happy that they were horror movies, but then i watched them.  What the heck kind of crap is this?  This puts horror movies to shame.  Bad effects makes it worse.  lawnmower man? whats next, monkeywrench man?  When will they stop with these stupid killers!  You want a good movie? WATCH FINAL DESTINATION! Well, atleast it made a christmas none of my friends or my family will forget for the fact it was so funny when i told them how cheesy these movies where.  in fact, i had to force myself to watch them.  they got boring after the first 45 minutes.  I HOPE YOU DONT GET THESE MOVIES FOR CHRISTMAS! APRIL FOOL'S JOKE MAYBE... BUT CHRISTMAS? NO! "}{"Title":"How to waste money on a ridiculous movie","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has well to be the most un-realistic movie ever, and sure one of the most senseless; I remember this coming out because of all the virtual reality hype. I can't see the director knowing a single thing about what virtual reality is. Maybe I missed something but hey, I never saw anyone being injected with some stuff that gives you supernatural intelligence, and I don't think virtual reality gives you the power to create objects at your own will. I mean, c'mon, the media are ignorant when it comes to talk about science or technology, but even the media never ever hit such a low point. "},{"Title":"Science Guy","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Way back in about 1994, when I wanted to rent this movie, I had high hopes. I rented the movie and was very disappointed.  Jeff Fahey a blonde, etc...? The concept of the story may be interesting, but the movie moves at a snails pace.  The turning of a very peaceful and simpleminded Fahey into a psychopath is too much to take, etc....  Good actors Pierce Brosnan play roles that are far from memorable.  The much anticipated vr/computer stuff is alas turned into massive explosions.  Later, I saw that they were having some kind of sweepstakes where a person could win a bit part in Lawnmower man II.  I couldn't image the making of such a movie, how bad it would be (to raffle off actor parts?), and how much of the cast would come back. Well, on March 25, 1999, I watched Lawnmower.  Almost none of the cast from the original (not even Jobe) was in it.  Its cgi graphics are straight out of a blue-screen.  Perhaps the most memorable rating is that I couldn't get the idea of Bill Nie the Science Guy being Jobe out of my head.  But, I gave it a higher rating (it won the battle of the baddies).  Other than that skip both.  There are not worth money.  I'm just glad I had a free coupon. "},{"Title":"With the topical novelty value long gone all that remains are poor effects, poor acting and an average story","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By the turn of the millennium a technology called Virtual Reality will be in widespread use. It will allow the user to enter computer generated artificial worlds. VR's creators sees unlimited positive uses, but others fear it as a new form of mind control. Dr Lawrence Angelo is in both camps &#150; he has created a VR programme that he feels will evolve the human mind greatly, but sees a corporation looking more to commercial and military applications. Frustrated by the lack of progress, Angelo decides to try out VR in his home, using the slow-witted lawnmower man Job &#150; who lives in a shed under the control of a strict priest. Very quickly Angelo's work on Job pays off as he becomes more intelligent and able &#150; but can either of the men control how far his development will go? You see the problem with futuristic films is that, if they jump onto a bandwagon and make short term predictions then they risk looking silly even after a few years. With Lawnmower Man it is likely that it was silly and poor the second it hit the cinemas, never mind how dated and unconvincing it looks over a decade later. I doesn't help that the CGI looks even more silly and OTT now but the effects are poor throughout and highlight how dangerous it is to base a movies appeal quite squarely on the appeal of special effects. Outside of this, there isn't really anything else that the film has to offer as the plot is simplistic, obvious and lacking anything in the way of tension or emotional involvement. It is a poor story and I'm not surprised that King went to court to be disassociated from it.The cast don't help it much either but then they don't have the material to work with. Brosnan is over sincere and plays well-meaning scientist 101 to the hilt without ever making him a person. Fahey's rubbish Forest Gump impression is just as bad as his absurd transformation into evil master; he is unconvincing and when the script demands from him he simply gets hammy. Support is equally as average and nobody can do anything to stop the rot and you can see the film just become more interested in being an average sci-fi horror with a reliance on of the moment effects and themes.Overall, this may once have been topical enough to pass muster but a decade on the novelty is gone and all that is left is an average film with a poor plot, poor acting and laughable computer effects. With so many good techno-fear sci-fi's around since this film was made, I fail to see why anyone would seek this one out instead. "},{"Title":"Too loaded with special effects","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I give this movie a 5 out of ten as the acting was good enough to make you feel for the characters you actually felt sorry for JObe when the priest is beating him with a belt, however in general the whole movie is too loaded with special effects and i soon found myself lost in the plot. A second thing which really i found totally out of place was the overly gratuitous sex scenes between jobe and his girlfriend. It was sweet to think that somebody could like jobe and that he was new to the experience of kissing women and sex but it is totally over the top to then show what it did i feel anyway. The ending was very clichéd and not the ending that was needed at all i felt. I did however like the acting of the two leads and so watched this film till the end. Not a terrible effort but could have been a lot better.xxxxx "},{"Title":"Not Enough","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie seems to be derided almost as much as Tron and with as little reason,in my opinion.I saw posters advertising it on the London Underground and thought it looked very cool but i left the cinema with an unsatisfied feeling,but why? Firstly, the Special Effects although very good,are not that much better than Terminator 2 because in the latter movie the action interfaces with the real world;here its almost completely artificial. The Stars are not big enough Brosnan and Fahey are no match for Arnie or Bruce! The plot is good, and quite plausible as Sci-Fi goes and with a neat twist at the end. But overall there simply werent enough explosions for the Action fans or enough Spacecraft for the Trekkies, so the movie lost its place in the hall of fame.Personally i still like it a nd always watch it on TV! By the way, critics who cant understand why Jobe wants to take over the world-he is Mad and has delusions of grandeur-its that simple! "},{"Title":"Woeful tripe","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How Brosnan managed to recover from this and become 007 is anyone's guess.. A travesty of a film with no redeeming features, and nobody to root for. I remember being drawn to this first by its promise of groundbreaking special effects in the vein of Terminator 2- I like to keep abreast of movie technology. However, the difference between this and T2 is that in T2 the effects were woven into the storyline; here they seem completely superfluous. Seeing as the rest of the film isn't much to talk about, nothing good can really be said about the entire movie.By the way, one golden rule of movies is to least give the audience someone to root for. Granted, there was no real hero in Lacombe, Lucien but at least in that film the main protagonist seemed to be believably facing some inner moral dilemmas. Here, among the motley crew of characters there is no one to identify with at all. The drunken Lewis, the modern-day Frankenstein Brosnan, the simple corrupted Fahey, none of them.My advice is to avoid at all costs. King fans, there are plenty of other superior adaptations out there. Special effects-junkies, check out the new Mummy movies instead, if you're really pushed... "},{"Title":"Desperate","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bet even Pierce Brosnan's mum thinks this film is awful. I bet she even considered changing her name - (if she hadn't before). This film was almost destined to be a failure - the selection of topic was poorly advised. The character work in the begining was fine, not great but fine, but the film quickly falls into a tangled heap of farce - with action scenes and music reminiscent of The A Team. The guards and the secret service guys in the final quarter were so lame. The closing scenes and therefore climax of the film were just boring - with an unimaginative, railroad ending. I'm sure that the Brosnan family are happy that this film is behind them. "},{"Title":"Good premise goes south","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's been a very long time since I've seen this movie, but the SFX were outstanding for its time.  The brief synopsis a simpleton becomes the subject of radical new experiments in a virtual reality based higher education.  But wait, there's more before they can call the simpleton's progression a success, they realise they have created a power hungry cyber-monster.  Still enthralled?  Great take this info and write your own movie, saving yourself the pain of watching this plot executed into nothing more than a corny B-movie flakefest.  The second half of the film becomes boring, over-the-top, and takes itself far too seriously.  Skip it and go straight to Lawnmower Man II Jobe's War.  No, WAIT... just kidding!   "},{"Title":"Rollerblades...","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jeff Fahey stars as Jobe the town idiot who is given super intelligence when a bright scientist(Pierce Brosnan) uses his experiments to increase his brain capacity however Jobe becomes far more dangerous than ever since he has psychic abilities and can manipulate anything to his will, he also looks to take over the world via computers and must be stopped even if Jobe is clearly invincible. The Lawnmower Man believe it or not has little to do with the original story, which in my opinion was not very good in the first place. The original story didn't have enough premise to really get it beyond a fifteen minute short on the Twilight Zone. That being said The Lawnmower Man's current story is so complicated and illogical that it doesn't sustain the running time. For instance we learn little how the science works in making Fahey smarter and although Fahey is a good villain most of the way through the real appeal comes from watching him take vengeance on those who ticked him off. In other words it's a revenge movie blended with virtual reality tones.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"meh.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  thats sums it up a beige film , it gets better as you go along, form the part where he gets the first injection is fine. the acting was ok ish ..... you just havta go with it,it's not meant to be serious the ending was cunning i thought in the style of my fav films with the technology bad thing. so see it and then file it away.5/10 "}{"Title":"The Lawnmower Man","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently this film was vaguely based on a short Stephen King novel, and I did see an image from the film in a book about special effects, I think it was the leading James Bond actor that attracted me. Basically (possibly in a near future) Dr. Lawrence Angelo (Pierce Brosnan) works for Virtual Space Industries trying to make chimpanzees more intelligent using drugs, and virtual reality, but one of them escapes and he is forced out pretty much. He didn't get the chance to prove or perfect it to work on humans, but he believes he can turn his simple minded gardener, aka the lawnmower man of the title, Jobe Smith (Jeff Fahey) into a more intelligent being. Jobe agreed to it, and slowly he shows good improvement in intelligence, but of course it turns into a Frankenstein theme when he develops the ability to move objects, his voice sounds more like a computer, and he has turned evil. In the end he is defeated by his creator in the virtual world. Also starring Jenny Wright as Marnie Burke, Mark Bringleson as Sebastian Timms, Geoffrey Lewis as Terry McKeen, Jeremy Slate as Father Francis McKeen, Dean Norris as The Director, Colleen Coffey as Caroline Angelo, Jim Landis as Ed Walts, Troy Evans as Lieutenant Goodwin and Rosalee Mayeux as Carla Parkette. The special effects for 1992 I suppose are quite good, but I almost lost track of what is going on a couple of times, so not one I'd bother with again. Okay! "},{"Title":"A film built around now-antique CGI tricks","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like many others, I saw the name Stephen King attached to this film and that prompted me to see it.Oh, the dupe that I was! I also heard this film was a breakthrough in CGI. Again, I was duped.This film was not interesting in story OR CGI. King sued to have his name removed and I don't blame him. The story was NOT up to King's standards. It would appear the story was written around the idea to showcase the CGI of the film.As for the CGI, some were interesting for their time - but more interesting in terms of being a demo reel for the CGI of the day than apropos to good movie making. All the CGI seemed to scream hey look at what I can do with the computer as opposed to enhancing the story. Indeed, the CGI competes with the story.The problem with such heavy reliance on dazzling viewers with the latest CGI tricks, especially in this era, is that very quickly the visuals lose the ability to impress. Today one views them more as laughable than impressive. I was tempted to call them first generation theatrical CGI but I couldn't forget movies like Tron, who used even more primitive graphics to good effect years earlier. Tron is a good example of a movie that is still watchable even though by today's standards the CGI is positively paleolithic. Another of what I now call second generation CGI films is Terminator 2 which is still very enjoyable. But Lawnmower Man? It was a CGI tech's playground which is easily forgettable. Not the worst movie I've ever seen but not very good either. "},{"Title":"Blockbuster stereotypes totally failed to engage me","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually steer clear of films I have any reason to suppose I am going to dislike as much as I did this one, or at least switch them off; but unfortunately I had been deluded enough to recommend 'The Lawnmower Man' as potential enjoyable viewing, and thus felt obliged to soldier on in company to the (much-delayed) end. It was not the somewhat dated effects that made me wince -- I *liked* 'Tron'! -- nor even the rather more dated evangelising on behalf of 'virtual reality' and its miraculous effects on mankind. (There is a lot of dodgy science in this film -- hard SF it ain't.) But the flaws of 'The Lawnmower Man', in an irony probably not unconnected to its obsession with high-tech special effects, are on the oldfashioned and unglamorous level of plot, dialogue, and -- above all - cliché. The dialogue was my particular bugbear. There was some really clumsy emoting going on right from the start -- the scenes between Pierce Brosnan and his screen wife could have come out of a manual of bad sit-com. The scenes between the Idealistic Inventor and the Evil Military, while less excruciating to the subtlety-attuned, verged on parody of another type, as did the Dumb Cops, Drunken Abuser, and Religious Sadist. Its central gimmick -- idiot is programmed into psychotic genius -- aside, this struck me as one of the laziest, least original films I'd ever seen.Almost every situation, character and reaction is a stock stereotype. The scientist signals his maverick status by dressing in bomber jacket and jeans and his brains by wearing spectacles; the surrogate wife and son next door are sweet and wholesome (and destined to save his soul from the start); Jobe indicates his transition to stud status by getting his hair flicked and cutting the grass in nothing but a pair of skin-tight jeans. There are the requisite bombs that tick down to zero, the winsome child who runs away into danger to provide motivation, and a diving leap silhouetted ahead of a wall of flame. The action scenes are generic, the computer scenes verge on the absurd -- computers are represented alternately as either hand-waving devices or unbelievably simplistic -- the emotional involvement is so cursory it's hard to feel anything for the characters, and the brief, unbalancing swerve into horror rather than techno-conspiracy territory is presumably the last undigested remains of the titular story. As for the sex (and I'm not just thinking of the cyber variety), the less said the better.The computer graphics are perhaps the least of my problems with 'The Lawnmower Man'. I don't make a habit of watching modern Hollywood output, and maybe the culture shock was an unfair one -- but this film reminded me exactly *why* I was put off in the first place. I wasn't expecting a masterpiece. The first few minutes were not unpromising. I suspect there's a perfectly good Stephen King story in there somewhere... but even Pierce Brosnan can't save this production from the mire of its script. "},{"Title":"An utter waste of time","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Lawnmower man's in your head now jake Based upon a book about a man with green pubic hair, who eats grass this movie takes steven kings bizarre short story and integrates state of the art cgi. Brilliant (he said sarcasticly) "},{"Title":"The film doesn't live up to it's title!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's called Lawnmower Man but you don't see much of lawn mowers. All you see is virtual reality stuff. They should've called this movie at least something relevant to the topic, like Virtual Man orVirtual Reality Man or even VR Man. Something, but to have the title Lawnmower Man in the horror movie signifies he kills people with lawn mowers, and he does, one man a drunk who abuses his wife and son, he deserved it! This movie is quite crude also. The subject matters, as it were.       In conclusion, this movie blows. Using the title Lawnmower Man, makes you think of a movie about lawn mowers. That would be like calling Psycho The Shower Killer when Norman only killed one woman in the shower. But this movie does have it's entertaining moments, off hand I can't think of any right now but I do know they're there. But don't even bother to see Lawnmower Man 2.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Dated FX","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film isn`t up to much . The central plot involves a village idiot who is used in a medical experiment which increases his intelligence and gives him psychic powers which he uses for revenge . The most annoying thing about THE LAWNMOWER MAN is the really crap FX which probably weren`t all that good in 1992 but are truly awful 10 years later. A lot of people criticised the unconvincing burning man CGI in EVENT HORIZON but there`s a scene of a man burning to death here which is totally unbelievable containing some of the worst computer animation I have ever seen . Likewise the scenes of people disintegrating into bubbles . Bad movie. Bad FX. "}]