[{"Title":"An interesting, original and engaging retelling of a classic story!","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"69 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Guillermo Del Toro's stylish and original take on the vampire legend is one of the most strangely overlooked and underrated films of the 1990's. It's films like this that make me want to watch films - films that are fresh, unpredictable and so rich in symbolism that it has leaves lots of room for discussion. Del Toro was little more than an amateur director at the time this made, but in spite of that he's more than given the professionals a run for their money. Every scene is adeptly filmed, and the way that Del Toro makes contrasts between locations and the two central families is a pleasure to observe. The way that the film switches language from English to Spanish and back again is indicative of the fact that this is a rich tapestry of contradictions and one that makes intelligent comments on many subjects, from obvious ones such as addiction, to more concealed ones, such as a commentary on family; stemming from the way that the roles of child and parent become reversed when our hero becomes afflicted with the vampire-like curse.For the story, Del Toro has taken the classic vampire theme and mixed it with essences of mechanics and the human lust of being able to live forever. The story follows Jesús Gris, an antique dealer that lives with his granddaughter Aurora and wife Mercedes. One day, our hero happens upon a mechanical scarab that latches itself onto his palm, causing him to bleed. Jesús slowly gets addicted to the mystical scarab, but there's someone else that wants it and will stop at nothing to get it. The mythology of the scarab is told in a great opening sequence that sets the viewer up for an intriguing and original horror story. The film retains the intrigue that it sets up in it's intro for the duration, and Del Toro ensures that his audience is always left guessing and wanting to see what comes next. The film works due to interesting characters that the audience is able to feel for, and is constantly interesting by the way that Del Toro handles the contrasts that the story presents.On the whole, this is a fabulous horror story that takes an existing legend and makes it it's own. This is exactly the sort of film that cinema needs more of; and it's not one that film fans will want to miss. Highly recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"A gem lies inside Cronos.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An antiques dealer finds a device that gives everlasting life, but with it comes a horrible price.Cronos follows the story of a kind hearted Mexican antiques dealer Jesus (a well cast Frederico Luppi), who one day stumbles upon a huge golden mechanical bug that when applied to specific parts of his anatomy seemingly starts reversing the aging process. However lurking in the background are a demented man (played by a very haunting Claudio Brook) who realizes the potential of the mechanical bug's power and will stop at nothing to acquire it. Assisting him in his search to get the mechanism is his maniacal son Angel (Ron Perlman in one of his best performances).Writer/Director Guillermo Del Toro proves that he could be one of the most innovative low budget mexican directors to come about since Robert Rodriguez. The scenes showing the inside of the cronos device are very sharply done and it seems you are actually looking inside the device. To compliment Guillermo on his writing, never before have I seen such an interesting spin put on the vampire/zombie genre. And in saying that I may be giving away too much of the plot.Unfortunately due to low production cost, the movie moves along at a slow pace and without a lot of shock. It is, however, kept strong by first rate acting, especially by Jesus' little granddaughter (Tamara Shanath), who in my  opinion, if given the chance, will grow up to be a very fine actress. Which is actually a great feat for all actors involved because this movie is a cross between drama and horror and requires fine acting.All in all, this best picture winner at Cannes is a hidden horror gem that just pours out originality, and can really not be overlooked by any true horror or movie buff. The twists come aplenty and there is enough gore to suffice any horror fan. So for any person looking to rent a mindless gorefest rent C.H.U.D. But for  those looking for a horror film with a little intelligence, do yourself a favour and pick up Cronos, it's well worth the rent. Overall Rating 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Fresh, original horror film","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't think of many 90's films that will be remembered as classics of the horror genre, this film is an exception.When you think of Mexican horror, you no doubt think of the El Santo Vs. the Aztec Mummy type films made in the 60s, don't get me wrong, I like them too. In interviews, director Guillermo Del Toro has said that his influences come more from American and British horror (such as the classic Universal and Hammer horror films) than from Mexico's horror tradition.  Still, the film does have a distinctly Mexican sensibility, especially with it's abundance of Catholic imagery.First time director Del Toro, cinematographer Guillermo Navarro (who would go on to do great work for Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino, among oth ers), and production designer Tolita Figuero create a very unique, interesting look for the film.All of the actors are great, especially veteran Argentinian actor Federico Luppi, who plays the main character Jesus Gris, and Luis Bunuel's favorite Mexican actor Claudio Brook, who plays Dieter De La Guardia.  What really makes the film for me is it's quirky sense of humor and odd characterizations, I found scenes toward the middle of the film to be hilarious.  The effective, subtle, score by Javier Alvarez also adds to the mood of the film.The film also manages to be a very different kind of vampire story than usual, It makes me think a little bit of the Wurdulak segment of the great Mario Bava's film Black Sabbath.  Vampire films of late have become very tiresome, it's nice to see someone take a different approach.I think Guillermo Del Toro is a talent to watch for.  "},{"Title":"Interesting and imaginative","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some of the most imaginative films originate in Mexico.  This one is no exception.   When Jesus Gris, an old antique dealer opens the base of an ancient statue, a golden object in the shape of a large beetle drops out.   This mechanically activated object can clutch a human arm and inject a magical fluid which can prolong life.   The early scenes, when the camera moves about the treasures in the antique shop, set the atmosphere and draw us into the story.   Each piece seems to hold a special secret.   When the mechanical beetle suddenly grabs at the old man's forearm, we can feel the excruciating pain as he screams out and we see the pointed legs piercing his skin.   Then follows the injection by the scorpion-like tail.  Terror reigns until he dislodges the device.  (What a relief!).   Now wait for the miracle to happen!   Excellent make-up on the main character as this horror story unfolds makes it almost believable at times.   The sincerity of the acting between the old man and little granddaughter who plays about the shop makes for a really warm and loving relationship.   (Where do they find such wonderful child actors?).   Evil is portrayed by the cruel Dieter de la Guardia and his henchmen who set out to steal this ancient invention of the alchemists.   Much of the excitement of the film is provided by a chase through upper rooms and rooftops (real edge of the seat viewing!).   One of the most unforgettable scenes is the close-up view of the whirring golden cogwheels inside the device.   They make a cruelly fascinating and threatening sound as they wind up to do their mysterious work.   Movie-goers who have a horror of hypodermic needles should perhaps give the film a miss but you brave ones will enjoy the age-old theme of searching for the secret to eternal life. "},{"Title":"A Film That Harbours The Essence Of Horror","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Severely underrated on this website, Cronos is an engaging tale that captivates the viewer for the entirety of its duration. Guillermo Del Toro's first ever film is a thoughtful, heart-wrenching story which above all manages to be fresh, intriguing and unique while managing to captivate the feel of horror films in the same mould as The Shining, whereby it is a film about family first, and a horror film second.Cronos is most definitely not associated with the slasher end of the horror market and nor is it anywhere near the filthy attack on the sense provided by goreography. What Cronos manages to achieve is an attack on the mind and the soul, the essence of what a horror film must succeed in doing if it wishes to leave a lasting impression. Given this I can, to an extent, see where the mediocre rating has derived from, it's not a blood fest it doesn't provide a scare a second and nor does it have gratuitous scenes of eyes being gauged out by rusty pick axes, but as every true horror fan knows is these are merely sideshow attractions to the superior horror films like The Shining, like The Fog, and Cronos if not completely at the top, is very close indeed.There are three things which notably stand out about this film and make it undoubtedly worth watching. The most subtle is the commentary on US-Mexico relations that Guillermo Del Toro has littered throughout his film. It provides an interesting portrayal into how he, and undoubtedly many Mexicans, feel about their encounters with the US, that they are always trying to be dominated and they must stand up on their own, to strive to succeed. The most obvious is that of the highly notable Christian references and intentional name play. Our protagonist, the antique dealer, is named Jesus for simple reincarnate issues, but there a great deal of my God, my Lord and more comments of that ilk in the film, there is undoubtedly a side plot on the directors behalf of pointing out the good that still emanates from our protagonist. Jesus' granddaughter and wife are named Aurora and Mercedes respectively, and by knowing the meanings of their names which are the dawn or first light and mercy provides the films finale with a sense of completion. Lastly of note is the acting on the part of Federico Lupi and Tamara Shanath, who provide the necessary gravitas even in motion if not through vocals to convey the deep emotional tie between grandfather and granddaughter which when all else is removed is the main driving force of this story, and the one that will have you coming back for more. It's innocence is soul-wrenching, yet Aurora's ability to see what is happening with unclouded eyes, provides the cornerstone for the emotional drama to take hold.One critic in 'The Daily Telegraph' claimed this to be as scary as hell, and to be honest he is wrong. This film isn't scary in the 'popping out from behind the bushes with a meat cleaver' manner, this film is an attack of that which makes us, and indeed Jesus, human. It is a cerebral assault which plucks at your heart strings and confuses the soul, and for it is severely likable and very watchable while occasionally disconcerning. Cronos is human drama at its most wonderful, emotional and chilling and more importantly a wonderful debut by a director who will build in stature and promise greater things, but this is a debut with bite to it, and once it grabs hold of you, it's very difficult to get it off. "},{"Title":"Sympathy for a vampire","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a unique film. This is not a gore-fest type of flick, but instead, a compassionate story about an elderly antique dealer named Jesus Gris who discovers an object called The Cronos which causes him to crave blood. While still in Jesus Gris's possession, The Cronos is actively pursued by Angel de la Guardia (a big Herman Munster of man) played convincingly by Ron Perlman.Angel de la Guardia is the nephew of another deteriorating elderly man Dieter who wishes to have The Cronos because it will give him eternal life as a vampire. Can Jose Gris love for his grand daughter overwhelm his craving for blood? Find out for yourself!!!What I liked best about this film is the compassionate story line, the dark humor of the mortician, and the effective use of subtitles.  -Bottom Line Very unique and Nicely Done!!!  "},{"Title":"Unpredictable and intriguing","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best horror films of the 90's. It has an excellent plot, a great script, good acting, and masterful direction. The horror scenes were brilliantly executed, the humor well-balanced, the cinematography effective, and the make-up effects were stunning. Don't worry if you hate subtitles, this one will have you gripped until the last frame. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"a simply beautiful movie","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is the first Guillermo Del Toro movie, and it is a great achievement. There's not much to say  it is a beautiful movie, a classical, beautiful and simple movie. There's some fantastic in it, but that's not all  the greatness of this movie is based on the characters  Ron Perlman and the man at the morgue are specially brilliant. It is dark, full of suspense, tensed, and extremely funny in the same time. With low budget and simple frames, Del Toro has managed to picture the true essence of cinema  a good story, good characters, and lots of blood, humor and cruelty. What else could we add ? Just watch this. This movie has been badly underrated. It is intelligent and honest. Far superior to lots of over intellectual or too much precious horror movies with over beautiful aesthetics. CRONOS is simply brilliant. Long life to Guillermo Del Toro ! "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie of the 1990s.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Cronos' is a rarity an original, intelligent, suprising, and genuinely creepy horror movie! A wonderful unpredictable script, inventive direction from Guillermo del Toro (an impressive debut!) and uniformly strong acting from all concerned, make this essential viewing for not only horror buffs, but lovers of fantastic cinema of all types.'Cronos' is a treasure! I cannot recommend this movie highly enough! "},{"Title":"Genuinely Original.","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CronosDuring Bravo's Top 100 Scariest Moments (should've been Movies instead) countdown, I happened to catch the sequence about this particular film. It looked pretty damn good, so I set myself out to see it. It's directed by the man best known now for Hellboy and Blade. Rather than being action-packed, violent, and bloody, it's actually simply a dark and unusual horror film. And, one of the more refreshingly original plots I've seen in some time.The film centers around an old man who owns an antique shop in Mexico who stumbles upon a small, gold, mechanical object. The object was created 400 years prior by an alchemist seeking immortality--and as such, the device grants that most sought-after of gifts. By violently piercing the flesh of whoever activates it and delivering immense pain. Well, there is someone else--a very rich and very dying man who has sought the device for a large portion of his life. His nephew is played by human gorilla, Ron Hellboy Perlman--and he is simply the old man's caretaker and go-to guy. Well, as it turns out, the antique store owner, named Jesus, finds out in the most unpleasant of ways that the Cronos device has a set of rules meant for its use--and only the rich old dying bastard knows them--and he will only trade the rules for the device.Here's the breakdownThe Good--The more I see Ron Perlman in movies, the more I like him--he's a very versatile actor. Especially if you take into account that he's made films in France, Mexico, and America, has spoken French, English, and some Spanish; and went from this to City of Lost Children to Enemy At the Gates (as a Russian soldier) to Hellboy. His role is plenty entertaining here.--The acting is quite good.--The story is really unique, fresh, and original.--The special effects are very nice--not a drop of CG anywhere in the film. The mechanical workings of the Cronos device and the insect inside are really cool.--Good music.--Good atmosphere and some excellent bizarre and creepy scenes that really hold attention.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--Unfortunately, the film never states what those rules are for successful use of the Cronos device--only a little bit is hinted at or discovered and it felt like there were actually a lot of guidelines to the device.--Somewhat slower pace--but it's used as a tension builder.--Pretty good sets.The Bad--Not enough scares--but then, this is a slower movie made to build up a creepy story. Not a scare-a-minute-shocker.The Ugly--Somewhat clumsy opening scene that has some unanswered questions about it. I was a little confused about exactly how the old man came to know or believe that Jesus had the device.--It also would've been nice to have a little more background story on the Cronos gadget, it's maker, and exactly how the sickly old man that Perlman watches over came to know about it as well as what started his search for it.Memorable Scene--Jesus (the character, not the Bible-guy) licking blood off the floor of a men's room.--Also, Ron Perlman's character obsessing about getting a nose job--and he gets punched in the nose twice.A Note About The DVD--For some reason, getting the proper sound/subtitles mix was a real hassle--it didn't like to be set up ahead of time for some reason. Maybe I just had a DVD with some errors or something, but I selected Spanish with English Subtitles and ended up with an Audio Commentary--in Spanish! I eventually had to restart the film and just change everything as it played. I went through the opening sequence about five times and I think I still ended up with subtitles for the deaf or hard-of-hearing--because even Ron Perlman was subtitled and he spoke English through most of the film!Acting 8/10 Story 10/10 Atmosphere 8/10 Cinematography 8/10 Character Development 7/10 Special Effects/Make-up 9/10 Nudity/Sexuality 0/10 Violence/Gore 6/10 (Very little gore, and only mild violence--all decent quality) Sets/Backgrounds 7/10 Dialogue 9/10 Music 8/10 Writing 8/10 Direction 9/10 Cheesiness 1/10 Crappiness 0/10Overall 8/10 Overall, I think this deserves an 8, maybe a 7, but I settled with what I thought it deserved. It's not the best horror film out there, but it's quite good and very original. Recommended to all Horror fans. People with a passing interest in horror should check it out, too. Not too dark, violent, or gory for the squeamish. A Mexican gem.www.ResidentHazard.com "}{"Title":"Slow but interesting reinvention of the vampire legend","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When antiques dealer Jesús finds the legendary Cronos device within a statue he accidentally uses it.  It feeds on his life force in exchange for eternal life.  However wealthy Dieter and his nephew Angel also want the device and are willing to do anything to get it.This is certainly a different vision of the vampire story, it dispels with a lot of the gore, the castles, Igor etc, but keeps the sunlight, the through the heart death etc.  The story moves very slowly and is focused on Jesús and the devices' effect on him.  His accidental transformation causes concern within his granddaughter and he finds that eternity has a price.  The scenes between Jesús and Aurora are touching and make a nice change from the blood letting scenes.The action is never really forthcoming and it is a little stilted in a way.  Pearlman's character is a good addition to the story, but it does move so slowly that it may be a disappointment to those expecting a horror film.  Luppi is good as Jesús, haunted by a gift he never wanted, Tamara is also strong as his granddaughter.Overall it's an interesting retelling of a famous story.  The direction is faultless although the story occasionally feels aimless and drifting. "},{"Title":"Gruesome, Violent, Weird and Bizarre","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1536, in Veracruz, Mexico, during the Inquisition, an alchemist builds a mysterious and sophisticated device named Cronos to provide eternal life to the owner. In the present days, the antiques dealer Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi) finds Cronos hidden inside an ancient statue while cleaning it with his granddaughter Aurora (Tamara Shanath). He accidentally triggers the device and soon his wife Mercedes (Margarita Isabel) and he note that he has a younger appearance. Out of the blue, the stranger Angel de la Guardia (Ron Perlman) visits Gris's shop and buys the old statue. On the next day, Gris finds his shop trashed and Angel's card on the floor. He pays a visit to Angel that introduces him to the eccentric millionaire De la Guardia (Claudio Brook) that explains the healing power and the eternal life given by Cronos. Angel is sent by De la Guardia to hunt down Gris to get Cronos no matter the costs. Cronos is a horror movie by Guillermo del Toro with a gruesome, violent, weird and bizarre story. The lead character becomes a vampire after accidentally triggering an ancient device. The obsession of a dying man for the Cronos leaves a path of violence trying to hunt down the owner of the device. The great expectations for a movie by Guillermo del Toro and released by Criterion is a little disappointing, despite the originality, performances and cinematography. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Cronos "},{"Title":"Underrated?","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I could not believe that this film was directed by the same man who made The Devil's Backbone. It is shot like a daytime TV series, ineptly scripted, has virtually no suspense and suffers even further by slow pacing and lame dialogue. On the plus side, I will give the movie credit for an original meshing of the two old myths of the fountain of youth (or in this case, the golden mechanical insect of youth) and vampirism. The second springs from the first in a clever reversal (usually vampirism leads to immortality, not the other way around). But a somewhat neat twist can't cover up its flaws. The wild changes in tone are meant to be interesting and maybe even 'innovative', but when the film is meant to be lightly humorous, it achieves merely 'quirky'; when it tries to be scary, it only goes so far as 'eerie'. Ron Perlman is not worthy of all the raves (his performance is just plain wooden, and rarely funny), and the rest of the acting simply gets the job done. The most fatal flaw in this movie (from which most of its problems stem) is a lack of authenticity, in the characters, the plotting, and the overall emotional heft of the film. Characters do things only because by doing them the plot will advance from point A to point B, and when the seams show this badly, it's hard to become emotionally invested in the characters and their situations. Cronos does still manage to be interesting, though, both as a bizarre mistake and a strange stepping-stone in the history of a now-accomplished director. But if you want good Mexican comedy or horror , look elsewhere (Y Tu Mama Tambien and Del Toro's own Devil's Backbone are good examples). p.s. to tommyross88 if you're angry with another reviewer, maybe you should channel that into writing your own review and joining in on the conversation, instead of just making a fool of yourself. That seems to work fine for everyone else here. "},{"Title":"Nope. No Gold Star For Cronos","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You know, what I found to be the most disturbing and repulsive aspect of Cronos' modern-day fantasy story wasn't its moments of intentional horror, at all - No - What I found to be the most distressing and repugnant here was the emotionally devoid child, Aurora, and her willing and unquestioning involvement with her dead grandfather and his ghastly transformation into a blood-lusting vampire.I mean, Aurora even went so far as to actually empty out her huge toy-box as a makeshift coffin for good, old grand-dad to retreat to and be safe during the daylight hours.And the fact that Aurora's vampire grandfather used his own grand-daughter as his accomplice (and set her up as a target to all sorts of deadly danger) really left a very unfavourable impression on me about Cronos' story as a whole. It convinced me that this film's story (in its desperate attempt to be original) was made in the poorest taste imaginable.This very minor and ineffective horror film also lost itself some significant points for the miscasting of Ron Perlman as the Angel character. As far as I'm concerned, this self-adoring, Neanderthal, jug-head was completely incapable of playing the nasty villain with any believable conviction, whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Interesting and intriguing take on the vampire genre","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Before Guillermo del Toro came to Hollywood to make big budget thrillers such as Mimic and Blade II, he was in Mexico making movies that are truly unique and filled with tension. His directorial debut, Cronos, is a hugely original movie and take on the vampire theme. Guillermo also wrote the screenplay.The movie opens up with a narrator telling the story of an alchemist who made a metallic, beetle like device (the Cronos) that when placed against skin, has a scorpion like stinger that stabs the person and injects a tiny amount of bloody fluid. The injections cause the alchemist to live for centuries and only dies when he is in line at a bank in Vera Cruz during an earthquake and is crushed by falling debris.Some time later, an antique dealer, Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi), discovers the Cronos device in the base of an old statue he has acquired. After wondering what the device might be for, he inadvertently sets it off and is pricked by it's stinger. The whole process of watching this happen is fascinating, and you are never quite sure if there is some sort of living insect inside the enclosure, thanks to Guillermo's David Lynch like photography and editing of the scene.Jesus soon discovers that he has more energy and feels more youthful than he has in ages. But unbeknownst to him, there is an evil and rich old man, Dieter de la Guardia (Claudio Brook) who has been searching for years for the device. He has tracked it down to Jesus' shop and sends his simple minded nephew, Angel de la Guardia (brilliantly portrayed by Ron Perlman), to get the statue that has stored in it, the Cronos device. When the statue turns up empty, Dieter instructs Angel to get the device at any cost.In the meantime, Jesus has become addicted to using the device. His young granddaughter has noticed him using it and decides for his own good to hide it from him. After spending time with her he realizes that maybe the sacrifices of the device, such as his wife not feeling as youthful as him, or his greedy and manic need to possess and have control of the device, are not worth the benefits.The story is not fast paced by any means, but the development of the characters is superb. There are also slow moving scenes with huge amounts of tension, in particular a scene where Jesus is at a party where someone had cut himself and cleaned up in the bathroom. Jesus finds himself drawn to the blood that had dripped on the floor and after slowly considering it and getting his face closer to it, he has his cheek against the floor and extends his tongue and licks up the drops!I have seen the video a couple times, but it is on DVD in region 2 PAL format only. The video is available in both subtitled and dubbed versions. I highly recommend the version with subtitles, because much of the dialogue is already in English. Ron Perlman's character for example speaks very little Spanish.Perhaps now that Guillermo del Toro is more well known in the US, we will get a region 1 NTSC release on dvd.  "},{"Title":"A new bite on an old mythology.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A new vision of the vampire myth involving an insect trapped in a device that grants immortality, an innocent grandfather, his all but silent granddaughter, a human monster and his victimized nephew.An elderly antiques shop owner, Jesus Gris, and his granddaughter, Aurora, discover an unusually device in a four hundred year old Archangel statue. Gris inadvertently triggers the device which begins a change in him that not only slowly makes him more youthful in look and energy but infects him with an addict's consuming fixation for blood. Unfortunately for Gris, he is not the only one with knowledge of the device's existence and power, and he becomes the target of the dying businessman De La Guardia's desire for immortality at any cost and his violent nephew Angel.Loved this film! Loved it! I've always had a thing for vampires and I really enjoyed this new view of the vampire mythology. This isn't just a new story of vampirism though, it is also a tale of family. The love, devotion, and acceptance of family is beautifully shown through the grandfather Jesus and granddaughter Aurora, as is the dark side of family, with it's violence, abuse and victimization, as shown through the obsessed De La Guardia and his nephew Angel.Frederico Luppi is excellent as Gris. He brings a depth and every-man dignity to Jesus not often seen. A subtle, detailed performance.Claudio Brooks is terrifying as the obsessed De La Guardia. A Dorian Gray portrait of a monster whose humanity lays in a tank with his diseased organs.Ron Perlman is absolutely superb as Angel. He takes what could have been the average brute/thug character and gives him humor, depth, and the ability to evoke sympathy and, almost, forgiveness, from the audience. Favorite line (narration describing the death of the Cronos device creator) His skin was the color of marble in moonlight.Definitely worth buying. "},{"Title":"Great debut. Maybe my favorite of Del Toro's films.","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Guillermo del Toro's debut feature, and, in my opinion, his best work. Federico Luppi is an antiques dealer who discovers an intricate, golden clockwork scarab hidden in a statue. When he engages the mechanism, it clings to his hand and injects something into his arm. After a while, he begins to feel younger and more virile. It turns out that the device grants life, perhaps immortality. And, of course, there are others who want it, notably another dying old antiques dealer (Claudio Brook), who enlists his brutish nephew (Ron Perlman) to retrieve the scarab from Luppi. The visuals are beautifully designed. Del Toro would get even better at that as his career advanced. His screenplay here is better than anything else he's directed. The acting is great, especially from Perlman, who is both menacing and very funny. My favorite performance in the film may be Tamara Shanath's as Luppi's silent granddaughter Aurora. She says all of one word, but she plays one of the most important roles in the film, and does a lot to wring the emotion out of Luppi's dilemma. Perhaps it's not the performance itself, but the casting, but whatever the cast, Shanath is perfect. "},{"Title":"One of the best vampire movies out there...","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I consider Del Toro as one of the most imaginative filmmakers today, and this is his take on a vampire movies.Problem with vampire movies today is that they are overdone to death, and they all fallows the standard formula of vampire flick drinking blood, flying, biting, being gay, and turning into a bats. Now, with this movie Del Toro turns classic vampire story upside down. This is completely unique take on a vampire myths. Story is about man who turns into a vampire after he is bitten by device which was made by the alchemist in 16th century. At first, he is lucky. After every bite by the Cronos device, he gets younger. But... of course, device has it's side effect - he is slowly turning into a vampire and his body is rotting! Del Toro makes this movie incredibly emotional and that's the main focus of the movie. Basic concept is that granddaughter of unfortunate man who is ironically called Jesus, begins to accept her grandfather no matter how bad he looks or how bad he acts. It's a family value movie. It's not your typical horror or vampire movie. It's a love story, family value movie with elements of the fantasy and horror. It's one of the best vampire movies ever made, almost touching the ranks of the Nosferatu, Near Dark and The Hunger... "},{"Title":"Arid,hackneyed  and distasteful.","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Guillermo del Toro being one of my favorite directors and having watched most of his movies felt bad to leave Cronos unwatched.As Cronos is regarded as Guillermo del Toro's first motion picture i was very much excited to watch this movie ,but my excitement quickly turned into dismay as Cronos was nothing like his other films,films which have rich characters of profound depth and background.Having said that,the story and actors were promising but they ended up disappointing too by the end of film.But its good to see that the writer/director quickly learned from his mistakes and gave some of my favorite hits. "},{"Title":"Moving Tale of Love and Tragedy","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My recording is the English dub of the film. Despite the feeling I've missed something in the translation, I still love this film. It's a very moving tale of a man who turns (and yet doesn't turn) into a monster, a victim of circumstance. "}{"Title":"Good idea, poor (and I mean ***POOR***) execution","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *spoilers herein; ignore them and watch this film at your own risk*I am very sorry, Mr. Del Toro, but after sitting through yet another tepid horror film of yours, I am completely at a loss as to why so many genre fans refer to you as a master of horror. Along the _The Devil's Backbone_, I have never seen such flagrant incompetence with the genre and its elements.However, I gave this film a 4/10 because, if nothing else, we have a really neat concept here.  I give Del Toro the credit he deserves for finally de-sexing the vampire and actually making it as disgusting in practice as it is in concept.  The scene at the very beginning involving the fate of the alchemist is fantastic.  Further, the idea of a (sort of alchemic/cybernetic) vampirism device is even brilliant and lends itself to all sorts of fun possibilities.Unfortunately, beyond the excellent beginning sequence, ZERO of those possibilities are explored.  Rather than focus on Jesús' descent into vampirism (despite his still real love for his wife and granddaughter), the film instead makes this a sappy treatise on silent intergenerational love, conveniently ignoring any real-world implications of anything Jesús says or does.  Is the point that, if you love someone, you let them destroy themselves, as Aurora does in allowing Jesús to continue using the Cronos device?  Or maybe if you love them, you bring them into incredibly dangerous, life threatening situations, as when Jesús brings Aurora into the jaws of La Guardia for no apparent reason.Besides the thematic concerns, the script is just terrible.  The last 20 minutes make absolutely no sense whatsoever if we are to believe that the characters can think at all.  I couldn't help yelling at my television, Will everybody please stop arguing for a second and just THINK about this?!?!WTF Jesús has the Cronos device, and La Guardia wants it.  La Guardia explains that he will share the device with Jesús, who refuses, saying that he  just wants to die.  La Guardia is delighted and says he will tell Jesús how to die if Jesús just hands over the device.  Jesús refuses (?), saying that La Guardia must fulfill his end of the bargain and kill Jesús before the device is handed over (????).  There is an ensuing struggle, in which Jesús kills La Guardia (?????????????????????) and attempts to escape with it (even though he wants to be rid of it).  Angél (who never understood what any of this was about in the first place), seeing his uncle dead, is ecstatic because he is now rich.  Upon seeing Jesús escape, he suddenly decides he wants to stop Jesús (although why is never explored; to my knowledge Angél does not know Jesús even has the device, nor would he be interested in it anyway).  The only apparent purpose of this is so that Angél can die the Disney villain death by falling a great distance.  Jesús is also killed, but Aurora, even though she knows of his wish for death, inexplicably uses the device to bring him back to life, albeit as a bed-ridden invalid.  Exeunt.What's dumber that I actually sat through this garbage or that I will go see _Hellboy_?  Oy. "},{"Title":"Juicy Beetle","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Experiencing the debut film of an experienced director always serves as an interesting road map for their later work. Still, it's a testament to Guillermo del Toro's clarity of vision as a filmmaker that his first work, Cronos, so ably exhibits the themes and aesthetics that would continue to delight audiences for decades to come. Here only 29, del Toro cuts his teeth, appropriately, with his own spin on the oft trod vampire yarn. And while his is a quieter, less flashy bloodsucker than many of its garish 80s predecessors, his simple-but-elegant, deft work here is enough to cement Cronos as one of the more meaningful entries into the genre, while proudly hinting at the unique talent del Toro would continue to foster.After a commandingly Gothic prologue regaling the origins of the Cronos device and its alchemist inventor, del Toro allows his plot to float into place with confident patience. From its opening titles, Cronos plays with the claustrophobic passage of time, sneaking enough ominously ticking clocks into the soundtrack to make Alfred Hitchcock anxious. Like many of the best, del Toro opts for minimalism, slyly flirting with vampire tropes without expressively spelling them out, and thereby imbuing moments like a single drop of blood hitting a bathroom floor with fanatical intensity. As always, the vibe is tasteful rather than schlocky, the horror being found in the irksome mundanity of bodily transformation, rather than cheaper shock tactics. Similarly, the Cronos device itself is a fiendishly fun invention, a diasporic blending of immorality influences an Egyptian-influenced scarab beetle, golden like Midas, hidden inside the statue of an archangel, and, of course, bloodsucking in its own right. It's a subtle but effective MacGuffin, and the recurring internal POV shots of its clicking, skittering array of gears already establish del Toro's flair for steampunk ingenuity.Beyond all of its sparky trappings, Cronos' most poignant musing on the passage of time is the heartfelt, bittersweet grandfather/granddaughter relationship at its centre, wryly transpiring in the fading glory of their brittle antique business. As the aptly named Signor Gris, Federico Luppi gives a grand, warm performance as an amiable man who, somewhat accidentally, is slowly, steadily warped by the Cronos device, though Luppi is clever enough to weave in dregs of inherent transgressive lust amidst his 'good man corrupted by power' archetype. Tamara Shanath similarly impresses as his shy granddaughter, who feels like a refugee from an early Fellini film, oozing maturity and sadness through her almost pantomime silence. Their interplay, most nonverbal, lends the film a tender yet fatalistically mournful feel, unusual for the normally overstimulating genre. In fact, Cronos is so meditative that you're almost tempted not to treat it as a horror film, until Gris starts to acquiesce to the inevitable decay of immorality, with some impressively eerie prosthetics helping along the way. Still, there's a playful undercurrent throughout Cronos, largely thanks to Ron Perlman, giving a delightfully irreverent performance with what would have been a generic thug in other hands, but del Toro never turns down a chance for an endearingly bizzaro side character to rear his head (see the oddball, mutton-chopped embalming technician prone to singing at the funeral home, Perlman's fellow scene-stealer).Ambitious as he is, del Toro is careful not to get out of his depth, and his debut is a simple, familiar tale, verging on being short-sighted in regards to action or frights to keep the viewer jumping throughout. Nonetheless, as a thoughtful, slow-burning and magnetic vampire tale, Cronos is confident and classy enough to stand the test of time, and, years before Pan or Hellboy, a vibrant introduction to an exuberantly expressive career.-8/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty impressive debut","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is director Guillermo del Toro's first feature length film, and remembered fondly as a horror classic that's a bit rough around the edges, but still contains a lot of atmosphere, creepy imagery and del Toro's signature touches. Personally I've always liked del Toro's non-horror movies better, but I cannot deny that he has a unique flair for them.Likewise here. We have disturbing fetish pictures about bugs, we have golden clockwork machines, we have a slow descent into madness, we have masterful use of dark and shadow to create a closed, claustrophobic atmosphere and we have that distinct Latin American lean.So what's the story? An old antique dealer, Jesús Gris (Federico Luppi), has found an ancient alchemical device that promises to give life eternal to anyone that uses its power and provides the proper sacrifices. Unfortunately other parties are also looking for the device and thus Gris has to deal with the side effects of his newly found immortality as well as trying to keep himself and his relatives safe.Classic imagery, but del Toro's take on these old myths and ideas is refreshing and done well. You can see that the limitations of the budget are keeping him from telling the story he wants to tell, but as a whole it's not a bad tale. The various actors are also talented and really help to sell the mood to you. Luppi and Ron Perlman are the two shining stars and they'd later on go to star in many other films directed by del Toro.Cronos is not the best horror movie I've seen, but if you've liked del Toro's later movies, it can be a rewarding experience to check out the very first one. "},{"Title":"under written but shows signs of del Toro's brilliance","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Antiques dealer Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi) buys an interesting angel statue. After some cockroaches climb out, he takes it apart and find a golden device. The device opens up and stabs him. It turns out to be a device that gives eternal life. And wealthy De la Guardia (Claudio Brook) and his nephew Ángel (Ron Perlman) will do anything to get their hands on it.This is written/directed by Guillermo del Toro. You can see many of his styles and touches. The golden heart is pure del Toro. But the story lacks tension, pacing, or excitement. It's too simple and under written. Maybe it's too much to hope for. For his first full length movie, Guillermo del Toro shows that he has the skills and a vision. "},{"Title":"This is a fine first film that foreshadows qualities seen in the director's later works.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1535, an alchemist builds the cronos device, which allows for extended lifetimes. Four hundred years later, the alchemist is killed. His belongings go on public auction, and the cronos device attains anonymity.The film is about the attempts of a rich, ill man, who is obsessed with eternal life, to obtain the cronos device.Cinematography 9/10 Good.Sound 9/10 Adequate, but with occasional overwrought incidental music.Acting 10/10 Fine acting by the five leads.Screenplay 10/10 Exceptional. The director's touch is evident even in this first effort. Motivation, exposition of consequences, and logical flow of events were right on the money. The ends that the characters meet fit their personalities, which was a nice touch, and one frequently omitted in more current films. "},{"Title":"I am looking for more Del Toro and quick!","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am becoming more and more impressed with Guillermo Del Toro's work. I found Hellboy to be a great comic book movie and Hellboy 2 to be everything I am looking for in a superhero movie. Pan's Labyrinth was a classic, great fantasy storytelling. Blade 2, although my least favourite of the Blade series was very entertaining and provided great emotional attachment to the characters. I found this in a shop today and I simply could not let it go. Knowing his other stuff I wanted to see his first full-length movie.The plot is that in the 15th Century an Alchemist builds a beetle that emits a parasite into human flesh that makes them live longer, but also having a harshness to sunlight and a strange thirst for human blood - it's called Cronos. In a modern day Mexico an antique store owner (Frederico Luppi) and his granddaughter find out that an angel relic was hollow and inside is the Cronos and infects the antique store owner. Meanwhile an old rich man and his nephew (Ron Perlman) stop at nothing to find the Cronos device.Guillermo Del Toro is quickly becoming one of my favourite directors now. I did enjoy the imaginative spin on a rather tired out concept (well maybe not back 20 years ago but look at things now!). I did enjoy the acting from Frederico Luppi. If you are a fan of Del Toro (or knows what kind of movies he makes) then this is definitely worth a watch. It isn't as good as Hellboy 2 or Pan's Labyrinth (his masterpieces!) but it is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is not your typical vampire movie. It's a stylistic, beautiful portrayal of the love between a grandfather and his granddaughter. It does new things with the vampire myth and it is the most touching Gothic love story. You can feel that this was a movie made by a man with an explosive imagination and a lot of heart put into what he was making. It is an intelligent and thought provoking film that shows vampires in a different light. This is certainly a great first film that leads into a great career for Guillermo Del Toro. Whether it's foreign films, or mainstream American Hollywood, Del Toro projects visions on the screen of unbelievable creativity and his stories are always sprinkled with a little bit of his childhood. "},{"Title":"Vampire Zombie","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie had a lot of good things going for it. First it had a great cast. Federico Luppi was a great character for the film and he really did an excellent job as main. Also I find it kind of ironic that his name is Jesus. Tamara Shanath, who played the little girl, had such a strange character, but she really pulled it off. The others were good too, but I will only mention Ron Perlman because he brought some nice comedy to the film as well. The story was pretty fantastic. It was like they combined being a vampire with being a zombie; but they put their own little twist on it. The twist made the story good from start to finish. The movie wasn't as scary as it was interesting. It may not make you jump in your seat, but it still gives off the horror vibe. Take it all in and it will seem creepy to you. Guillermo del Toro wins awards for reasons and this is just one of the films to show it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, dark atmosphere","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved watching the movie, despite the odd and simply story. The story is a mixture of a vampire story, and The Fly. Not much happens during the movie, everything is told very slowly, without much conversations. Sometimes the conversations are bit odd, and badly played (especially when it comes to the uncle). I am glad to say though, that it's not bad enough to destroy the movie. The movie is shot beautifully, with unusual but greatly fitting, atmospheric music. For me, the atmosphere has been the best of the movie. There are very few movies that are this dark and yet so beautiful at the same time. - This movie is barely scary, does have no shock effects, and not a lot of gore. This is no usual, cheap horror flick. It's a dark drama with a fantasy theme. "},{"Title":"A Strange and Beautiful Film.","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Antique shop owner Jesus Gris is shocked when he finds a strange metal object hidden in one of his statues. As he is examining the small device it latches on and stabs into his hand. After he takes it off he begins to feel the urge to let it grab hold of him once more. The more Jesus uses it the more he realizes that there is much more to this machine than meets the eye. He's not the only one who knows of it's power though. Mr. De La Guardia, a dying millionaire, will stop at nothing to get it, even if that means getting rid of Jesus once and for all. Cronos is Guillermo Del Toro's first film and may very well be his best. Del Toro masterfully blends elements of horror, comedy and mythology to create a magnificent fairy tale concoction. He creates a film that can be scary, funny and touching all in the same scene. Cronos also has a uniquely spooky tone that's much more like a classical ghost stories than a modern horror movie.All the actors are excellent; specifically Federico Luppi whose performance makes me want to search out more of his films. Ron Perlman also gives an excellent and hilarious performance as Angel De La Guardia, the carefree nephew of Mr. De La Guardia, who can't wait for his uncle to croak and leave him his fortune.Every element of Cronos is expertly carried off, but what really stands out are the small touches. Gris sneaking to the bathroom to use the device like some perversion of drug addiction. His granddaughter trying to hide it from him as she is afraid of what he is becoming. Angel's sheer disgust every time he has to deal with his dying uncle and be part of this seemingly pointless quest.Cronos is proof positive that Del Toro is a true master of his art and one of the best directors working today. Cronos is a masterpiece and a film not to be missed by anyone. It's also easily one of the most overlooked and underrated movies of the 90s. "}{"Title":"Different  and Poignant","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a beautiful film which along the way takes into the account the most important things in life. Our life, our conduct and the way our choices effect our loved ones. The central character is an honourable man and his relationship with his Granddaughter is at the core of this film. Very different and very welcome film on immortality and consequences.Lot of layers and with scenes that will stay with you. For me the scene where the Grandfather returns and the Granddaugher awaits with a towel and how she empties her toy chest so he can rest there during the day and his decomposing body tucked in with the toys as you would do with a child. The role reversal is subtle but as addiction to the Cronos Device happens her role grows. The girls silence through out the film is enduring as as you find out there is great sadness in her life.The players are perfectly cast and at the times the pace is thoughtful but I see this as real strength of this film. "},{"Title":"First feature from Guillermo del Toro","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This early film from Mexican director Guillermo del Toro brings a new take to the vampire myth. Here a Sixteenth Century alchemist invents a strange device that will keep its user alive almost indefinitely, although the user will have a craving for human blood. The alchemist finally dies in present day Mexico and the device falls into the hands of kindly antiques dealer Jesus Gris. He accidentally activates it and somehow instinctively knows that be using it repeatedly he will feel rejuvenated. Unfortunately for him a dying man knows of the device and is searching everywhere for it with the help of his unpleasant nephew.This film might not have the expensive special effects used in his later films but it is still a well-told story with decent effects. The acting is solid throughout, especially from Federico Luppi as Jesus Gris and Ron Perlman as the unpleasant nephew. Tamara Shanath was also pretty good as the antique dealer's young granddaughter even though she barely said a word. While there was some gore and violence none of it was too over the top. If you liked Guillermo del Toro's later films like 'The Devil's Backbone' and Pan's Labyrinth' I'd certainly recommend checking this out too. "},{"Title":"Unique take on the vampire myth","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mexican antique dealer Jesus Gris, finds an ornate mechanical beetle hidden in an old statuette, that once belonged to a 16th century alchemist. Unbeknownst to him, inside it there is an ancient parasite that gives the gift of immortal life. Also on trail of this device is an American millionaire who has spent his life researching the writings of this alchemist and has been searching for this mythical device, he will stop at nothing to get it. Gris stumbles onto the device and after using it, soon finds his features becoming more youthful, unfortunately the price for this is a raging bloodlust. Unique and at times surreal take of the Vampirism myth. Its also a very stylish and visually accomplished debut. "},{"Title":"much ado about the cronos","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Guillermo del Toro was 28 when he made Cronos, which according to himself on the new DVD was the only problem, that there were many points of pressure making such a big-budget movie in Mexico, as his debut, and only had access to so many materials. But for what he had available, del Toro made a film that has his signature traits. It's got some fantastical special effects, some nasty imagery, and even some sentiment to it (maybe sentimentality depending on the point of view). It isn't perfect, but it doesn't really try to be anything like that; it's a dark tale of the tragedy of possession, and the bond between elders and their young ones. It's also, for a debut, astonishingly well directed. The man who would make such a great work of modern art like Pan's Labyrinth shows his potential here.It's the story of a lost object, or presumably lost, that has very significant history to it (as we learn in the bad-ass opening narration). Then it opens on an antique dealer, Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi, great Mexican actor), who comes across it and finds that the object- an golden insect clock/creature that burrows itself into one's hand or other body part- is very addictive. But only after his place is trashed does he realize that a wealthy dying guy is after it too for the power it holds eternity. In the meantime he has Ron Perelman as the old man's nephew to contend with, who in all actually hates the man for all intents and deathly purposes, and only his very young, not-talking-yet granddaughter can assist him in any way.Before going any further I should make note of the granddaughter, Aurora, played by Tamara Shanath. It's probably the only real glaring flaw throughout the movie, and especially in looking at Cronos in relation to other works by the director. Usually del Toro is totally keen on using child actors and crafting really interesting characters (either the male lead in Devil's Backbone or especially Ofelia in 'Labyrinth'). Here it doesn't really work as well; he means it to be the main emotional connection that makes some sense, but she's nowhere near the level that Luppi is up to, and only towards the end really makes her mark on the character. This, plus a few little technical glitches like some strange make-up effects that fall a little flat (ripping stomach skin, anyone?), are the only big set-backs I could see.Aside from that, it's pretty much all good as far as brave, original horror film-making goes. It's technically a vampire movie, as Jesus Gris craves blood while under the spell of the cronos device, but it's not as one usually sees (del Toro based it on other vampire lore, more obscure bits of history that involve the insects we see so fervently used as symbolism), which is good to see. And his method of suspense has a keen knack to it, like a somber ghost story with touches of a more modern action/thriller. This isn't Blade II; it's more meditative, with a little more soul to it in many instances, and the style of the camera and the lighting reflect this too. Also, for good measure, there's some really wicked and demented humor thrown in (mostly courtesy of Perelman, or bits like the cremation scene) to lighten up all of the nastiness and bleakness to the piece.It's all in all a very good movie, a work of a director passionately concerned about his themes and trying different ideas out, and also working out a style that's pumped up by most of the performances (duly noted is Claudio Brook as de la Guardia, who has a kind of gray quality that disavows the easy target of him as the villain). "},{"Title":"A Different Vampire Movie","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos (1993) Rated RTo be honest, I have never been much of a horror fan. However, easy access to almost any movie ever made (through NetFlix) has led me to watching stuff that I never would have paid any attention to in the past. While it is a horror movie (a vampire movie to be exact), Cronos caught me off guard. It was NOT what I thought it would be and may be worth consideration.The movie is a Mexican production, though there is a good bit of English dialog as well (and of course the DVD offers English subtitles). The story starts with an alchemist in the early 16th century who fled persecution in Europe to begin anew in Mexico. He became the official watchmaker to the Viceroy, but continued his work to achieve immortality. His success (or failure, depending on how you look at it) will eventually lead to the story of a kindly old grandfather and his relationship with his grand daughter and how that relationship is affected with the introduction of a vampire.You will not find lavish production sets or Oscar winning performances (my wife hated the film) but you will find a fascinating take on an old story and frankly I could not stop watching. The interactions of the characters were rarely what I expected and they kept me glued to the screen right up to the end. I would not recommend it for families with young children, but it is suitable for teens (the movie does have an R rating, but that is because there are a few places where the language is a bit colorful and blood is a bit plentiful). If you have the time and like horror that keeps you thinking a little bit, give this one a try.http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0104029/combined "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Frightfully fun and sometimes disturbing vampire updating from Mexico about an antique's dealer who stumbles upon a device that attaches itself to whomever messes with it. The device once attached gives it's host a feeling of youth and will let the host live forever, but with a serious price. The host must drink blood in order to live. Some seriously nasty effects and fun casting add to the excitement. Rated R. "},{"Title":"Apparently a classic... but one I didn't car for at all.","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is set in the Mexican town of Vera Cruz where an elderly antiques dealer named Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi) has his own shop, one day while inspecting an antique statuette of an Angel he finds a small golden mechanical object that he winds up only to find it digs metal claws into his hand & wrist. Later that night Jesus places the small device on his chest & it digs into that, the next day & Jesus looks & feels much younger with much more vitality & energy. Jesus realises that the small golden device has regenerative powers but a dying industrialist Dieter de la Guardia (Claudio Brook) also wants it & explains to Jesus that the device is called a Cronos & was made in 1535 by an alchemist intent on prolonging his life, Dieter also warns Jesus that if strict instructions are not followed the consequences will be dire. Addicted to the regenerative capabilities of the Cronos things change for Jesus as he finds himself drawn to drinking human blood, has a strong aversion to sunlight & his skin starts to peel off...This Mexican production was the feature film writing & directing debut of Guillermo del Toro who subsequently went to Hollywood to make notable fantasy films such as Mimic (1997), Blade II (2002), Hellboy (2004) & Pan's Labyrinth (2006) & while often hailed as some sort of masterpiece I must admit that ultimately I was pretty disappointed with Cronos & I can't say I particularly liked it. The script lays the emotion on thick, while Cronos has fantasy & horror aspects there is perhaps a greater story trying to be told here. A heartwarming, tear jerking story of age, death, disease, society & the horrors of life itself but I found the whole affair rather plodding, rather dull, rather boring & lacking in anything to really capture my imagination & compliment the drama. I just found myself bored & unable to get involved in the story & the character's at all. Cronos is a sort of dark fairy tale about Vampirism but as you would expect from del Toro his sympathies lie with the Vampire antiques dealer & makes him the hero, the character we should pity & feel sorry for while making the real villains ordinary people with their desires, brutality & cold bloodidness. At just under an hour & a half Cronos moves along at a reasonable pace, certainly has a few moments worth watching & is generally well written & produced even if none of it particularly resonated with or captivated me.Although not strictly a Vampire film as such the side-effects that Jesus suffers from using the Cronos are definitely Vampire-ish with the blood drinking, body rejuvenating, sunlight burning properties he develops. As one would expect Cronos looks very stylish, the screen is packed full of detail & I am sure a lot of time & effort went into the look of Cronos. There are a few neat shots like the internal clockwork mechanism of the Cronos clicking away in close-up. Unusually Cronos is a multi lingual film that switches between Mexican & English spoken dialogue for no apparent reason & sometimes even within the same scene & same conversation.Apparently Cronos had an original budget of about $1,500,000 but it went over & ended up costing more like $2,000,000. Filmed in Mexico. The acting was alright, I can't say I thought anyone was great but then maybe that's because I couldn't get into the story. Apparently the character of Jesus Gris was written specifically for Max von Sydow.Cronos is a film that most people seem to love for being a dark fairytale fantasy horror with great style & substance, personally I totally disagree with that statement as Cronos did nothing for me other than just about pass an hour & a half with one or two nice visuals. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"A unique tale","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is a unique take on the Vampire story, it does have some of the elements of the Vampire like sunlight and destroying the heart but it also has some things different to the Vampire story, one thing is the Cronos device. The film has a touching story between the main character and his Granddaughter, the acting in this film was good. Guillermo del Toro has some really creative and imaginative ideas in his films and Cronos is another one with some interesting moments. Cronos can be a little slow paced but it gives the film more time for the characters development, another thing that could disappoint a few people is that this film isn't really a horror movie since there's no real terrifying scenes, Cronos instead is a touching tale of what one man will do for eternal life and what happens afterwards.The film sees a ageing man named Jesus Gris who finds a mysterious device called Cronos, he discovers that this device that give someone eternal life. Jesus Gris uses the Cronos device and finds himself feeling younger, a man named De la Guardia wants the Cronos device to extend his life but Jesus Gris doesn't give it to him. Soon he finds himself with the urge to drink blood, after being knocked out by the man's nephew named Angel he finds himself being beaten up and being asked where the device is, Angel beats him badly and thinks he's dead so he drives him off the cliff. Soon Jesus Gris awakens and finds himself rotting, he returns home and stays in a chest since light hurts him, Jesus Gris has enough of being a Vampire and decides he wants out so he goes to De la Guardia's place to find out how to make himself human again.Cronos is a unique take on the Vampire tale and a great movie, it is a little slow paced at times but it is a touching story and should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A precocious Del Toro hits a home run on his first try","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie won the Best Picture at Cannes when it was released, and it's easy to see why. It's the oddest vampire movie you'll ever see, and one of the best. It's the story of an antiques dealer (Federico Luppi) who finds a thing called the Cronos Device inside an old wooden statue of an angel. The last man who had it was a 16th century alchemist who died in a building collapse&#133;400 years later. Soon, the old man finds himself accosted by Angel (Ron Perlman), nephew of the president of Empresas De La Guardia, who is searching for the device. Why? Well, there's where the mystery begins. It's a story of addiction, resurrection, blood, and death with some very interesting Catholic overtones. Del Toro also names his main characters symbolically old man De La Guardia, whose name roughly translates to of the guard or guardian, is the guardian of the secrets of the Cronos device &#150; he's got the only manuscript that has the instructions to use it. Ron Perlman's character is Angel De La Guardia, literally guardian angel and that's EXACTLY the role he fulfills for his uncle. The granddaughter of the antiques dealer is named Aurora &#150; as in dawn, new beginnings or a new day which is exactly what is happening to her grandfather. Her name and her actions also seem to imply that she is the symbolic alter ego of Angel since she also acts as the guardian angel for her grandfather. Last, the antiques dealer's name is Jesus Gris &#150; gray Jesus, a very apropos name for a man who is gray-haired and undergoes not one but TWO resurrections in the film. Yes, it's an intellectual film, but don't let that put you off. It's still got some damn scary moments and a couple of pretty icky gore sequences. Since it is a Mexican movie, it's mostly in Spanish with some dialogue in English. A great movie that deserves much more recognition than it's given by most horror fans. "},{"Title":"The Alchemist del Toro's first film.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is perhaps the most original film in the fantasy genre this decade, coming from an extraordinarily gifted director. In the mid-90s, a spate of independent films from Mexico in the genre of Magical Realism like Like Water For Chocolate and El Mariachi came to the notice of American art house cinema. Given that, this was still quite an unexpected surprise. Like another brilliant film of the previous decade, Near Dark (1987, director Kathryn Bigelow), the v word is never mentioned and never needs to be. This film trusts the audience's intelligence and rewards it with an understated tale of a humble antique dealer and his granddaughter when they accidentally stumble upon a mysterious artifact that grants its user immortality at a price. The acting is superb and you feel with the characters as they battle those who seek possession of the device at any cost. "}{"Title":"Not really a horror film","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While pretending to be a horror movie, this film is centered around the relation of the antique dealer and his granddaughter. She knows of the Cronos device and tries to protect him, and though eventually herself in danger, she saves him twice. Her acting is superb, displaying very natural and believable the whole range of emotions.The movie is as different to ordinary vampire films as possible. It is set in everyday life, a deserted factory the most gothic scenery. At the same time this factory resembles the mechanical interior of the device. There are no obvious surprises,in fact, the opening shot tells us almost as much about the device as Jesus finds out during the whole film. It is how he and his granddaughter react on this threat that keeps the audience enthralled.During most of the film the camera is extremely static, which emphasises the meaning of its movements. When Jesus drinks blood while his granddaughter is present, the scenery freezes, while the camera circles around them; a lot is going on while nothing is moving. "},{"Title":"Stylish and inventive vampire flick","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A real gem, is this stylish and inventive vampire flick; elegant direction, good performances (including the remarkable Ron Perlman, great as always) and a clever, literate premise combine to make this movie a must-see for all lovers of the spooky cinema. "},{"Title":"More about the style and vibe over scare","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A bit slow for a one hour and 30 minute movie, but still it's intriguing enough. After the first few minutes the creepy factor seems to falter and started to lack the interest factor. Watching this movie was like watching The Monkey's Paw. Where the story is about something that can give an increased life span but there is a catch. This movie really does bring about human greed though and what human's in general long for. But at what cost? This movie is more about style though over terrifying the audiences. Because it really isn't much of a scary movie. If it has some sort of tensity or even more chilling parts this movie might have stood out from other horror movies. It isn't a bad movie but it isn't anything special either.6/10 "},{"Title":"Watchable, but overall slightly disappointing ....","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is the first feature film of one of the masters of fantasy horror- Guillermo De Toro. After Cronos, he has subsequently gone on to make numerous other films which have given him critical acclaim as well as commercial success. Cronos right from the first shot looks very Guillermo-esque. It has the storyline involving fantasy elements with thematic undertones, it has the strikingly attractive cinematography, good makeup and it is very bloody.Cronos in a blunt way is nothing but a new take on the vampire genre in horror films. Del Toro has clearly tried to leave his own stamp on the vampire concept and make an artistic Vampire/horror film. When the movie started, it did keep me engaged. I found myself interested in the obvious theme of addiction or greed and the consequences of such uncontrolled lust for something and the characters also seemed likable. But from the midway point of the film,the screenplay becomes very predictable and Guillermo resorts to clichés of exploitation films. The acting throughout the film is hot and cold. It is good in parts specially in case of Federico Luppi, but it also gets over the top and very forced when Ron Perlman and Claudio Brook are on screen. So overall the plot is interesting and the film seemed to have potential during the initial stages, but it sort of fell apart due to Del Toro's decision to have a more standard and predictable last act. But from a technical standpoint , this film clearly showed that Guillermo Del Toro already had the artistic vision and the directorial talent to do big things which he did later on in his career. "},{"Title":"I May Have Nightmares","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one wacko horror movie. Guillermo Del Toro, who has now become one of our greatest directors, made this unnoticed masterpiece without much hoopla. It is the story of Jesus Gris and his family. He is a kindly grandpa who runs a curio shop. Inside one of the angel statues is a metal scarab which has magical powers. The beginning of the film tells of an alchemist who discovered a way to immortality. Unfortunately, there is a price to pay to keep the body going. There are incredible images in this film. Cronos, of course, is the god (sometimes known as Saturn) of time. There are images of time all over this. Even the turning of the gears like in a watch whenever the scarab fixes itself is an image of time. And, of course, time is the enemy of us all and is the enemy of the adversaries in this film. Ron Perlman is the scene stealer her in all of his craziness, playing a sociopath who cottons to everything his master does (his master is terminally ill) hoping to receive his master's wealth eventually. There are touching scenes with the little girl, Aurora and Mercedes, the wife. But all in all this is something that once seen will never be forgotten. I wonder if it started out as a nightmare. "},{"Title":"Completely Underrated","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just watched this film for the first time today and thought it was great. The story premise was interesting and original, the acting great, the relationship between the grandfather and granddaughter was touching and the atmosphere was suitably suspenseful and creepy. I was on the edge of my seat.Before watching this film I checked out its IMDb boards to see a lot of negatives that after watching the film myself I can't understand at all. Maybe people expectations were too high after watching Pan's Labyrinth? Maybe they were expecting a totally different film? I don't know.It is a slow film but I found it to be perfectly paced. The acting seemed to get a lot of negative comments here but I thought it was great, understated and natural. But I would recommend this film to fans of Del Toro and horror or people looking for a fresh take on vampires. Just don't go in expecting action and gore like other vampire flicks. Great underrated Film. Check it out and don't let others negative opinions put you off. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Well-crafted creepshow...","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CRONOS opens with an interesting little fairy tale about The Cronos Device, which holds the secret to Eternal Youth, or something to that effect. Flash forward to the present day and the attempts of Ron Perlman to obtain the device for his ailing uncle. The device, a golden clockwork scarab, turns up in the possession of one Jesus Gris, owner of an antique shop. In short order, Perlman is sniffing around the place and Gris is handling the scarab. Before you can say think twice, the scarab literally has its hooks in Jesus. He begins to grow younger. Perlman steps up his efforts and... well, I'll just leave it at that, for now. CRONOS is beautifully shot and directed and the idea interesting enough to hold one's attention, though it is a bit slow at times. All things considered, it was a portent of things to come. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Fun","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm having a bit of fun watching some fantastical cinema, starting with Brazil (1985), continuing with some early Guillermo del Toro and probably advancing to some early Cronenberg and Lynch. Who wouldn't like that?I didn't have any specific expectations for Cronos (1993) other than perhaps something along the lines of Polanski's brilliantly mysterious The Ninth Gate (1999), and in terms of atmosphere, the two are definitely not unlike each other, and this is most certainly a compliment on my part.Although Polanski's is the more interesting and accomplished film, Cronos is a lot of fun, especially during the first part, where the mystery is set out and the the device found and its meaning worked on. I didn't care too much for the initial resolution, which shifted the film from its ancient mystery and stamina into something more conventional, but that first part is very nice filmmaking indeed.And you know Ana from El espíritu de la colmena (1973)? This could be one of her dreams, a bit on the nightmare side, that's true, but so full of vivacious humour that it's impossible not to laugh at times.While I'm not exactly impressed with the film as a whole, I'm impressed with the director and his ideas. If you have the opportunity, I'd listen to the commentary track by Del Toro to the Masters of Cinema release of Carl Theodor Dreyer's Vampyr (1932), which not necessarily explains a lot of this but enriches the ideas behind the film. "},{"Title":"Vampire machine","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is a story about vampires, but not anything like we're used to. First off this is probably due to the fact that it was made not by a known American film studio but has come to us from Mexico. The film of course carries the director Guillermo del Toro's thumbprint, who has left his mark in the histories of film with his dark fairy tales and fantasies. Films like Pan's Labyrinth, Hellboy 1-2 and Mimic, okay so there not all fantastic films and I didn't even mention Blade 2, but you can't dismiss the fact that they all show the director's unique style and it's kind of interesting to see how early these stylistic markers showed up in his earlier work. Cronos was his first feature film, for which of course he also wrote the script and it's not surprising that it began his carrier. The film was a powerhouse and nabbed a heap of awards too, the critics loved it and that's not surprising, it didn't become one of horror fans favorite classics by accident. The story In 1535, an alchemist builds an extraordinary mechanism encapsulated into a small golden device. The invention, designed to convey eternal life to its owner, survives its maker until 1997, when it shows up with an antiques dealer. Fascinated with the strange device, Gris doesn't note that there's more than one person looking for it. The promise of eternal life has become an obsession for old and sick Mr. De la Guardia . He and his nephew (Ron Perlman) will do anything to get the Cronos Invention.. This film isn't just a horror it's a drama, which is mostly the case with films not made in the States, it almost has the same arch as European horror films usually do. Its first objective is not cheap thrills but rather a story being told, which carries within it the darkness, violence and death which is scary. It's a more art film representation of horror and it achieved a level of beauty that helps you really feel the drama of the contrast between life and death. So in this sense it isn't that far away from the usual vampire films, take for instance Interview with the Vampire which has a similar central theme. Cronos' story is about the pain and suffering of living forever, so it reminds me of The Hunger that Tony Scott directed. Del Toro was spot on with the direction and the script was fabulous. He took the casting seriously too, with his favorite Argentine actor Federico Luppi and the very characteristic Ron Perlman, who was perfect in the role of the violent, little bit crazy cousin. The not too complicated basic story is compensated by the effects that are pretty disgusting, just think at one point the Jesus character rips his own skin off. It was an added bonus that they sneaked some humor into the morgue scenes, that type of thing is where del Toro's genius lies, despite the serious theme, message and the monsters he can still be humorous without making the whole thing pathetic. The director paid for some of the film from his own pocket (with a bank loan) and the masks were made by his own effects co. he even has a cameo as and his wife walk their dog in front of the protagonists house. Though artsy beauty sometimes stamps out the apprehensiveness and thrills of a horror and doesn't make us release adrenaline, this film is not boring, rather its deep and serious while still being entertaining. It's unique so I give it an 8/10 https//www.youtube.com/user/Videodromeblog "},{"Title":"The Resurrected Jesus Fights With An Angel","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very recently, this viewer watched, for the first time, the 1958 Mexican film The Vampire's Coffin, in which the Count Lavud--a bloodsucker very much in the traditional, uh, vein--returns to continue his nocturnal depredations. And just last night, for the first time also, I watched another Mexican film dealing with a man who has a decided thirst for blood, Guillermo del Toro's first film as a director, 1993's Cronos. This latter picture, however, coming 35 years after the other, is anything BUT a traditional vampire tale, and reveals del Toro to be a masterful filmmaker, and a consummate craftsman. Both written and directed by del Toro, Cronos must be added to the list of such Great First Horror Films By A Novice Director as Mario Bava's Black Sunday, George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead and Dario Argento's The Bird With the Crystal Plumage; it may not be as seminal a film as any of those earlier three, but it yet bursts with the same manifest imaginative glee and sheer joy of filmmaking; the work of a first-time director anxious to show the world what he is capable of, and succeeding wildly.Unlike the American sci-fi film Kronos (1957), which told of an energy-draining alien contraption, Cronos tells of a gizmo of a very different nature. In the picture's ubercreepy and fascinating intro, the viewer learns that the Cronos device was constructed by a Spanish alchemist, Uberto Fulcanelli, in 1536; a golden, scarab-shaped construction containing moving gears and a living insect, the device can sprout spiderlike appendages and insert a stinger into its owner, conferring the gift of eternal life. Flash forward 450 years or so, and we meet a kindly, aging antique-store owner, Jesus Gris (Gray Jesus, in other words, and played by Argentinean actor Federico Luppi, who would go on to appear in the del Toro films The Devil's Backbone and Pan's Labyrinth), who lives with his wife Mercedes (Margarita Isabel) and his strange little granddaughter, Aurora (the remarkable child actress Tamara Shanath). Jesus' antique shop is very much an upscale one--not at all like the Temptations Ltd. emporium that Peter Cushing presides over in 1973's From Beyond the Grave, to say the least--and, to be succinct, he one day discovers the ancient Cronos device hidden in the base of an archangel statue. Jesus is very quickly affected by the gizmo and is soon afflicted with a taste for blood. Meanwhile, his already tough predicament worsens when thuggish goon Angel (Ron Perlman, who himself would go on to appear in the del Toro films Blade 2, Hellboy and its sequel), emissary and nephew of dying millionaire De la Guardia (Claudio Brook), starts to get decidedly violent in his own search for the Cronos device....Strangely enough, the film that Cronos most brought to mind, as I watched it, was none other than the 1973 American film Ganja and Hess. In both pictures, a decent man is pierced by an ancient artifact (the dagger of Myrthia, in the earlier film) and becomes a vampire of sorts, although the V word is never mentioned in either film; in both films, our transformed man (Night of the Living Dead's Duane Jones, in the earlier picture) is shown daintily and disgustingly lapping up blood off of a floor! But that is pretty much where the similarity ends, and while Ganja and Hess is painfully slow moving and even managed the near-impossible task of putting me to sleep (the only film to ever accomplish this!), Cronos is at once compact, fast moving, suspenseful, colorful and exciting. It is also filled with all sorts of imaginative and oddball touches, such as Angel's nose fetish, a side trip to a very strange mortician's workshop, and those jars of (his very own) preserved organs that De la Guardia keeps on display. And speaking of oddball, the Aurora character is a very strange one indeed, a nearly mute little girl (I believe she speaks but a single word during the course of the entire film) whose unwavering love of and support for her grandfather--despite the horrible transformations he undergoes--are very much the sweet soul of this ultimately touching film. We care not a whit for the two central characters of Ganja and Hess, but get very much emotionally invested in the welfare of both Jesus and Aurora. In all, this is a wonderfully self-assured debut for a tyro filmmaker; as del Toro himself puts it, with typical humor and self-deprecation, in one of this DVD's many interview extras, it was made with absolute, mad, fat-man passion and put out to the world with sincerity and brutal honesty. Happily, that passion is clearly evident throughout this marvelous film.One final word concerning this DVD itself. It is a Criterion DVD, and I suppose that alone should testify as to its quality and generous content. Extras include interviews with del Toro, Perlman, Luppi and cinematographer Guillermo Navarro (who, incidentally, does a wonderful job here, and who would go on to win an Oscar for his work on Pan's Labyrinth), as well as del Toro's first short film, 1987's Geometria, AND a tour of del Toro's office/house/museum, Bleak House. This abode contains hundreds and hundreds of rare books, film collectibles and sundry horror/fantasy pieces, and with any justice will one day be open to the public via paid admission. A most impressive collection, from a man whose love for film seems virtually boundless.... "}{"Title":"A twist to the vampire movies","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Since we were little we heard tales of wizards, alchemists and different substances which have the power to give eternal life ... the director Guillermo del Toro invites us to make a journey into these stories through his film Cronos (1993, Mexico), which is his first film.The antiques dealer, Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi) discovers a strange device capable of giving its wearer eternal life ... that's the story that is told in a linear fashion.It is a strong story about ambition, power and character because throughout the film we see the protagonist struggle with himself unable to resist this drug that slowly consumes him. The funny thing is that he is not a person who wants to live forever, but he wants to live as long as necessary to fulfill your goals.With this film we begin to distinguish the style that del Toro will explode later in films like Pan's Labyrinth (2006, Spain, Mexico, USA), we see everything in a dark mood with religious signs and with a child who connects people with the world of fiction.It's a film that has some plot holes, start telling us a story that engages by itself, but it seems that slowly decays as the film progresses and costs spinning certain things, as there are details that presents which didn't have logical explanation and come to seem a bit absurd. It has an ending that is not predictable, but that is not surprising and is loose enough.It is a story of magical realism that becomes a strange variant of vampire movies told in a somewhat cold and graphic fashion, which can sometimes be grotesque, but all the mystery that surrounds it is what makes that the spectator can't stop seeing it, although it does not have enough characters empathetic and some are very gray.  The script is pretty weak (lacking strength), draws attention because of what we want to see, but how has it ends up leaving you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Just about worth the time of day.","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a bid to cheat death, terminally ill millionaire De la Guardia (Claudio Brook) instructs his ruthless nephew Angel (Ron Perlman) to locate The Cronos, a mystical clockwork contraption with the power to bestow immortality on its user. Angel eventually locates the device in the possession of kindly antiques dealer Jesus (Federico Luppi), and resorts to murder to get his hands on the prize; however, having already activated the device, the old man doesn't stay dead for long. With a hunger for blood, an aversion to sunlight, and a rather manky complexion, Jesus breaks into the la Guardia home looking for answers to his bizarre condition.Cronos, the debut movie from Guillermo del Toro, is listed on IMDb as a horror, but it would be much better described as a dark fairytale although a form of vampirism is at the heart of his script, the writer/director's focus is on Jesus's gradually evolving relationship with his young granddaughter Aurora (Tamara Shanath) and the realisation of a surreal/Gothic fantasy aesthetic. While I don't particularly mind the movie's considered pacing&#x97;a slow-burn narrative does not faze me one bit&#x97;and the rich shadowy cinematography is often impressive, I do tend to struggle with the self-consciously quirky, quasi-art-house approach of the type favoured by film-makers such as Jeunet et Caro and Terry Gilliam, finding it all too affected and ostentatious for my taste.Del Toro's style isn't anywhere near as excessive as those particular film-makers can be when they really put their minds to it, but it does result in just enough awkward moments, over-sentimentality and irritating calculated whimsicality to prevent it from being a wholly digestible affair (the dreadfully inappropriate score and the 'comical' mortician being perhaps the film's most notable weaknesses).5.5/10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Well, it certainly is different!","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is apparently Guillermo del Toro's first full-length film and while it's a bit rough, it also is highly creative and different. However, because it is so visceral, bloody and violent, it is NOT a film for everyone.Cronos begins with an odd prologue. It seems that centuries ago an alchemist came up with some strange device--and it was able to bestow eternal life.The film now switches to the present. An old man and his granddaughter have found a weird metal device--the same one created by this alchemist. However, they have no idea what its purpose is and how to make it work. By accident, the old man is able to activate it-and it pierces him--causing a lot of pain and blood. Oddly, however, he soon begins to feel better and look younger--and feels a strong need to try the device again.In the meantime, a rich and nasty old sick guy has somehow found out about the device the old man's discovery--and he's sent his sociopathic nephew (Ron Perlman) to get that device.There is LOTS more to the story than this---and it gets really weird, violent and bloody. However, I saw it described as a 'vampire' movie and this really is a MAJOR over-simplification. There's a lot more to it than this--and you just have to see it to understand. I won't say more--you'll have to see it...really.The film is wildly creative and cool, but as I said, it's not for everyone. It's not exactly a horror film in the traditional sense and it is excellent.By the way, what's with Ron Perlman? He's carved out an interesting niche appearing in the oddest assortment of international films. Now I am NOT complaining--just marveling at his film projects as they are so incredibly varied. Here, he's in a Mexican film but he's also done French films (City of Lost Children), films about the Russo-German conflict in WWII (Enemy at the Gates)...and the Hellboy films! Talk about a man of multi-talents! "},{"Title":"Scary Creeper Classic","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i didn't think this film was as good as del Toro's 'The Devil's Backbone', but it was one of the director's first and it's still scary, disturbing and memorable twenty years later.this film, though produced modestly in Mexico, signals the strong visionary style that del Toro was to eventually become known for. even though made in the 1990's 'Cronos' has the look and feel of horror films from the 1970's and late 60's. most notably the film's of Mario Bava.'Cronos' is still memorable today because of it's handsome photography and stylish look which elevate it from other low budget horror films from the 90's or any period really. very few horror films look this good or are supplied with this kind of elegance and intelligence. it also still has the ability to scare on a dark night.maybe not as good as the intense 'Devil's Backbone', but still a horror film with more merits than many from the genre in the 90's. "},{"Title":"Solid Initial Effort for del Toro","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is the first feature length film by Guillermo del Toro. I checked it out as part of the Criterion collection available on Hulu for instant viewing. It's his first film so my expectations were not set very high. Overall, I would say that I was pleasantly surprised by del Toro's take on the classic vampire story. It certainly demonstrates his unique vision and cinematic style even at this early stage of his career.Plot wise the film introduces us to Jesus Gris (Federico Luppi) an elderly antiques dealer in Mexico and his lovely granddaughter Aurora (Tamara Shanath). Jesus comes into possession of an antique Scarab like device that he finds hidden in a statue. When Jesus accidentally cuts himself with the golden cronos device, he soon discovers that the device has granted him with eternal life but at a terrible price. Jesus' struggles with his vampirism all while trying to keep his granddaughter safe provide the conflict in the film. Other people lust after the device so they can gain its life giving powers. De La Guardia an evil industrialist wants the device so he can become a vampire and live forever. To achieve this end he sends his toadie nephew Angel de la Guardia (Ron Pearlman) to obtain it for him by any means necessary. The film was shot on a small budget in Mexico and you can see some of the low production values. That being said del Toro does present an interesting twist on the vampire legend and the characters are quite memorable. Jesus' struggle with his affliction and the love of his granddaughter Aurora is quite poignant. While not a classic gory vampire story this has enough thrills and dark comedy to satisfy most viewers. I especially enjoyed the performances of the granddaughter Aurora (Tamara Shanath) and the grandfather Jesus (Federico Luppi).For lovers of horror films and those interested in seeing the early work of del Toro I would highly recommend checking out this film. You can see the groundwork for his later work like Pans Labyrinth (2006) being laid out. As a bonus check out Welcome to Bleak House a ten minute documentary attached to this film. It provides an inside look at del Toro's lair where he gains inspiration and conducts his work. It's filled with super creepy and weird oddities, it will leave you saying wow. I do not think you will be disappointed in this film. "},{"Title":"artistic and imaginative tale by the director of 'Pan's Labyrinth' and 'Hellboy'","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anyone that is familiar with the film 'Pan's Labyrinth' could attest to the artistic style of Mexican writer/director Guillermo Del Toro and his creative ability to craft material that harbors underlying qualities that are not found in modern American blockbusters. His films are dark and full of wonder, and 'Cronos' originally titled 'Cronos Immortal Curse' is no exception but a perfect example of an intellectual film-making achievement. This begins in the mid 1500s as very little explanation is unveiled, but it is known that an ancient alchemist's creation inevitably causes his death as he is found dying with decrepit pale skin barely able to utter his last words. Years later, (in a subtle and notable performance), Federico Luppi comes across a small golden antique box called a 'Cronos Device' that resembles a spider, and is able to latch onto the flesh with its tiny claw-like legs. With a small stinger-like needle, the device penetrates the skin and infects the blood causing Luppi to gain back his youthful vigor and strength. The only drawback is a taste for human blood. Ron Pearlman (who is excellent) is desperately after the device, because his wealthy, aging uncle knows that it is a key to immortality. As the events unfold, the viewer of this sometimes gruesome but humorous tale will be enthralled as Luppi undergoes a strange vampire-like transformation.This is not a vampire movie, nor is it a zombie movie in the traditional sense, but a stylized exploration of human desperation mixed with love and tragedy. Good touches are thrown into the mix, such as Luppi's loyal little granddaughter Aurora, who hardly ever speaks, and a loving wife played by Margarita Isabel (in a touching performance). Chills and thrills galore, and a great showdown between Pearlman, Luppi and granddaughter in the climax. This ends on a perfect note. Sad, funny, and unpredictably strange. Mostly in Spanish with English subs, but all the well worth it. "},{"Title":"creative and inventive,but not quite what i expected","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i'll try not to give too much away,plot wise with this movie.but it basically involves the possibility of eternal life,(sort of) and there are some biblical parallels as well.there's a lesson in here that contains the old cliché,be careful what you wish foryou may get what you want(or thought you wanted) but nothing is for free,and there are sacrifices.the movie is low budget and i don't mean that as a criticism.in some scenes,the movie actually works better as a result.overall,though i didn't like the movie as much as i thought i would.i'd had heard of it before,and had high expectations.i guess i though it would be more profound than it was.it has its moments,to be sure.it's not boring by any means,but it just has less of an impact than i hoped.it's directed and written by Guillermo del Toro,who also directed Hell Boy,Blade 2 and Pan's Labyrinth.as for Cronos it certainly is unique with a different twist on an old genre.for me,Cronos is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Are you a creation?  Are you a God?","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ So that's where vampires come from.  Cronos is an under-appreciated Spanish horror/drama effort that put Guillermo del Toro on the map.  Del Toro's directorial debut is startling in its originality.  It's hard to believe that this is his first film because it's perhaps his best film (although Blade II is more my speed and I haven't seen Devil's Backbone).  It's superb and yet, slow paced.  You are forced to take a time-out, to sit down and get to know these characters.  That's the beautiful thing about this movie, the characterizations are as wonderful as their relationships.  Federico Luppi plays a very sympathetic vampire who has an odd love relationship with his daughter.  On the other end of the spectrum, Ron Perlman plays one of his best and most eccentric characters, Angel de la Guardia.  Perlman also has a strange relationship with his Uncle, he hates the man.  Those are the four main characters, as well as the Cronos device, whom you will be spending an hour and a half getting to know.  It's a strongly dramatic movie versus the usual horror flick.  Cronos is a fairly remarkable little film. "},{"Title":"Unsettling reinvention of the vampire myth","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A novel twist on the vampire myth. The main protagonist here, an ageing Mexican antiques dealer is not a likely candidate for the undead treatment. However, when he stumbles across a small mechanical device hidden in one of his antiques, he finds he has little choice. By keeping the traditional vampire wisdom at arms length (no gothic trappings, no fangs, no evil helpers called Igor) the film manages something entirely new, but equally disturbing. The old mans love of his granddaughter adds anguish to his plight, largely represented in his growing fear of hurting her - in the films most disturbing scene, he is forced to suck a mans blood, while she watches from the sidelines. Compassionate, moving and never conventional or predictable. Cronos is unlike anything you have ever seen before.  "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  bizare but delightful horror flick is not your typical horror flick let me tell ya that but is engrossing all the way and has a story that keeps u gripped to the end and has a bunch of decent gore as well this is a must see for all who want to see something different **** out of 5 "}{"Title":"This movie really did not have all that much going on.","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The person that made this film would go on to make some really good movies such as Blade II, both Hellboys, and many more really interesting movies. This one just did not grab me though. for the most part it moved slowly, the plot was simple enough to understand, to simple and for the most part it was kind of dull. It had some promise, but for the most part it is a very tiresome movie to sit through. Granted, it did not help that I watched this film on the science fiction station where parts of the movie may have been cut out and the movie's flow was interrupted by constant commercials so as much as I did not really care for the movie then I would like to see it again in an uncut format with no commercial interruptions. The film is about some sort of antique dealer who finds something hidden in an object, some sort of beetle shaped mechanism that attaches itself to your arm and makes it so one can live longer. Suffice to say others would also like to get a hold of this device. That is about all there is to it, not so much a horror movie, more of a suspense with some horror elements present. "},{"Title":"An overrated novelty of a film","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Cronos' tends to get a lot of honorable mention whenever it is brought up in articles or reviews, largely due to director Guillermo Del Toro's ever-rising star.  However, even as a fan of his work, I found this film to be stunningly dull and poorly acted.The story is a twist on the vampire legend, centering on a mysterious golden mechanical scarab known as the Cronos which can provide eternal (or at least radically extended) life.  Unfortunately, along with youth, the Cronos also causes a craving for human blood.  An aging antiques dealer discovers the Cronos and unwittingly uses it, while Ron Perlman and his evil/rich uncle repeatedly try to make it their own.Unfortunately, what follows is sub-par at best, and the execution is downright laughable.  From the sexy blonde that graces the video sleeve (and is not in a single frame of the film), to the 'Magnum P.I.'-style opening titles, to the excruciating bilingual dialogue, this is simply B-grade moviemaking with no personality to speak of.  'Cronos' is not suspenseful, nor is it atmospheric or scary.  The gore is not gross, and the bad guys and monsters aren't threatening.  Not to mention the always-intriguing Ron Perlman's hack performance and bad accent.  What is a French-Canadian doing in Mexico?  What is he doing in this film?  Why can't he at least try to speak Spanish all the time?  How much potential production value did the producers waste on this guy's salary?I have no problem with low budget (or even inexperienced) filmmaking, and the horror genre is one that can definately succeed within those limited confines (see 'Halloween'), but here Del Toro's budding touches are so subtle they might as well not even be there.  I am glad to say that he has gotten increasingly better with each film, and those interested in pursuing his works will ultimately come across 'Cronos.'  The novelty of that reason is the only excuse anyone should have for renting this loser.  "},{"Title":"Slow paced vampire story","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie reminded me again and again of that cartoon with the vampire and the little girl, where the vampire would not kill the child and the child would not let the vampire go before having a zillion tea parties and tucking her to bed.Of course, the film is a lot richer, full of symbolism, but at the same time maintaining a simplicity that is both refreshing and easy to relate to. The story is OK, but more than that is the Latin American feel of it all and the mix of old music (and people) with a horror theme. Guilermo del Toro was a rookie at that time, but he made a beautiful film, together with long time collaborators Ron Perlman and Federico Luppi.Bottom line the movie was a little slow paced and the main character both strong and weak in such a human way that it is impossible to not relate to him. The movie is clearly an experiment, as well, filled with great scenes and peppered with strangely unprofessional ones. But it works, it has it's own mood and feel and I recommend it to any horror fan out there. "},{"Title":"Dark fantasy","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How would you like to live forever? In Guillermo del Toro's Cronos we're given a cryptic look at what can happen when you're granted that wish. Reminiscent of W.W. Jacobs 1902 short story The Monkey's Paw, Cronos chronicles Jesus Gris's (Federico Luppi) experiences with slowly becoming younger. Jesus is somewhat oblivious as to why this is happening, but he knows it has something to do with a device he found in his antiques store. The Cronos was made by an alchemist in the 1500's, and comes into the possession of Jesus by way of an angel statuette. Strange things start happening after Jesus accidentally activates the Cronos. Possibly worse than the horrid trade off of his newly found rejuvenation, is the consequence of owning such a device. Bad man want the Cronos, and will go to any lengths to get it. For the sake of his family, and most importantly the safety of his granddaughter Aurora (Tamara Shanath), Jesus must decide what to do when he is faced with an ultimatum. Will he choose wisely? In this dark fantasy film, that borders on horror, del Toro offers us an amazingly suspenseful and eerily entertaining look at the power of greed. There are a few similarities between this and Pan's Labyrinth, especially the creepy imagery juxtaposed with the innocence of a young girl. I highly enjoyed this picture, but will admit that it is no Pan's Labyrinth. However it is a great film in its own right. It's classified as a horror, but I find it to be more of a dark fantasy. Very artistic scenes and beautiful imagery, definitely worth a watch! "},{"Title":"A stylish horror from Guillermo del Toro&#x85;","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must admit to being a bit of a fan of the work of Guillermo del Toro, and so, in an effort to see more of his work I'm looking at a couple of his earlier films. We have this one today and later 'The Devil's Backbone' will be viewed and reviewed in, what I'm calling my mini 'del Toro Fest'. And so to part one, Cronos, this is an interesting horror film with all the visual style you would expect from a del Toro film. I should warn those who are not fans of subtitles that, although there is some English dialogue, most of it is in Spanish&#x85; with the dreaded subtitles. I found a lot more humour than I expected, but also a very dark side to the story. I will tell you more after this brief summary.I guess the best way to describe how the Cronos device came into being is to quote from the opening sequence of the film (If you consider this a spoiler then please feel free to skip the next paragraph)In 1536, fleeing from the Inquisition, the alchemist Uberto Fulcanelli disembarked in Veracruz, Mexico. Appointed official watchmaker to the Viceroy, Fulcanelli was determined to perfect an invention which would provide him with the key to eternal life. He was to name it... the Cronos device. 400 years later, one night in 1937, part of the vault in a building collapsed. Among the victims was a man of strange skin, the colour of marble in moonlight. His chest mortally pierced, his last words... Suo temp-ore. This was the alchemist.Jesus Gris runs a small antiques shop in Mexico. His young granddaughter Aurora quite often helps out and the pair have a strong bond between them. One day a man comes in, checking out some of the small statues, archangels, he has in the store. He pays particular attention to one of them before leaving. Later, when insects begin to come from the statue, Jesus investigates and finds a gold clockwork device in the base, which he keeps. The next day another man, Angel DE la Guardia turns up and buys the statue. He is buying it for his rich uncle, Deiter DE la Guardia, who has some terminal disease, but also has a document describing how to use the Cronos, the device Jesus has hidden. That evening Jesus is cleaning the device when he activates it and it becomes attached to his hand. He rips it off, but it's too late, he is now under the spell of the device and it will lead him down a path of pain and despair. I will not say any more, but needless to say, when DE la Guardia discovers Jesus has the device, things get a bit feisty.I love the visual style del Toro brings to his films, they are always beautifully lit and everything about the production has a certain quality to it. I also liked the music by Javier Álvarez, it fitted perfectly. Good performances all round, particularly from Federico Luppi; I thought he did a great job as Jesus Gris. A very young looking Ron Perlman played Angel DE la Guardia and Claudio Brook was his uncle Dieter DE la Guardia. Margarita Isabel was Jesus wife, Mercedes and Tamara Shanath did a great job as his granddaughter Aurora.There are many things to like about this film, including the visual style, the cinematography, the music and the performances, but I felt there was something lacking. Although I did enjoy it, I did find the narrative a little weak, I felt it lacked a little spice, strange, considering its origins. Even so, it did entertain me and it did add a nice twist to an established horror sub-genre (no clues here), and so&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.8/10.IMDb Score 6.8/10 (based on 7,842 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 90/100 (based on 41 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"The Del Toro visuals are there, but the story is lacking.","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The search for eternal life is hardly a new concept in movies, Cocoon dealt with the restoration of youthful vigor to seniors and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade dealt with the search for the Holy Grail and its magical healing and restorative powers.In Guillermo Del Toro's first feature length film Cronos it is a bug-powered mechanical device and not a drinking vessel or magic fluid that gives you wings &#x96; but in typical GDT style nothing comes without sacrifice or a bit of blood, and there is a liberal dosing of bizarre imagery and some generally nefarious activities on display.After a short preamble describing the Cronos device which is alleged to bring eternal life but was lost long ago &#x96; rumours are that in the last few decades it was the only thing that kept the Sex and the City girls alive and in high heels &#x96; it shows up in the present day (well 1994) in Mexico in an antiques store.The owner of the store, Jesus Gris (say it a few times and you'll get it) finds it by chance with his granddaughter after noticing that a new item on display perhaps wasn't as innocent as it seemed.Unfortunately for Jesus &#x96; but luckily for the film &#x96; others are actively seeking the device on the orders of a wealthy elderly recluse who knows the legend of the Cronos device and the power it contains. The gentleman is not only old but terminally ill, and he and his nephew played by Ron Perlman have the proverbial feelers out performing an extensive search.In short he wants the device&#x85; badly.By the time word gets back to the wealthy shut-in Jesus already has his hands on the device and is positive this is no tacky piece of junk. While cleaning the Cronos Jesus inadvertently activates it, after a moment of amusement at seeing some unexpected whirring and clicking the device snaps into action, driving a sharp metal fang deep into his flesh and bringing much blood. The next morning though far from being sore and sorry Jesus is amazed to see that his wounds are practically healed, what's more he feels more vibrant than ever, youthful and invigorated.In celebration he shaves off his mustache &#x96; others might buy sports cars, each to his own I guess.Now Jesus is obviously no dumb bunny, he adds 2 and 2 together and guesses the device is responsible for his new vitality so he immediately hides it from others. He then heads back to the antique shop to find out that others still want it&#x85; badl-ier.The remainder of the movie has Jesus and the pursuers of the device meeting and playing a game of cat and mouse. Both want the device for themselves and both are desperate to get their hands on it &#x96; only one man has more tools at his disposal and perhaps more personal desperation.Ron Perlman is fine as the somewhat downtrodden nephew who can't seem to grasp &#x96; or perhaps has not been told &#x96; the power of the small trinket that he must relentlessly pursue. There is much evidence though of how little he values human life in any case, even that of his uncle.Cronos lacks some of the immediacy of say The Devil's Backbone or the commercial appeal of Pan's Labyrinth and of course the Hellboys and Blade 2s, but the now familiar Del Toro fascination with mechanisms and macabre imagery are on full display, with a scene in the mortuary being especially graphic, and after Jesus undergoes a fairly radical life-seachange the effects and plot change is quite dramatic. Also who else but maybe Cronenborg would make the decision to put a bug in the device and not just leave it as a machine? More than a decade ago I found Cronos quite fascinating and it remained with me for a while. While time has reduced its impact a little it is fair to say that even if it is viewed as the work of a cinematic rookie it is clear and obvious that there is great vision and flair behind it all, and that better works were to come.In fact now even late in Del Toro's second decade as a director I still feel that his best is ahead of him, even though he has already built an extremely solid resume and attained some commercial success.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. Eye-catching visuals and some standout moments overcome what is in reality quite a flawed plot. "},{"Title":"He thinks it will help him live longer.","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cronos is written and directed by Guillermo del Toro and stars Federico Luppi, Ron Perlman, Claudio Brook and Margarita Isabel. Music is by Javier Álvarez and cinematography by Guillermo Navarro. Plot finds Luppi as aged antique dealer Jesús Gris, who finds a weird scarab like mechanical device in the bottom of a statue now in his possession. It's an item of some importance, especially to a rich dying business man and his thug nephew. But once the scarab unfurls itself and becomes at one with Jesús, there's no going back, nothing will ever be the same again.A unique debut feature from Mexican filmmaker del Toro that riffs on the Vampire formula whilst dabbling in grue and darkly comic values. While it's hardly the near masterpiece some 90s critics proclaimed it as, it's a hugely enjoyable film if taken as a pulpy fun horror picture. Toro plays on the fear of insects and the fear of death itself and then cloaks his film with Gothic mysticism; adding in some eye catching images as he goes. The cast are fine, Luppi is supremely cool and unflustered, while Perlman does a good thug portrayal as nose job in waiting Angel. The sound department also come up trumps, while Navarro's photography lends an ethereal beauty to proceedings.Good, solid and interesting in the main, with flashes of greatness dotted along the way. 7/10 "},{"Title":"teddy bear","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fantasporto 2010Wanting to make a film is a love affair. Any new film is perfect in the mind of who imagines it. You go to your bed at night, and you picture it, just like you first dreamed it. You may loose that vision, you may compromise it if you ever have the luck to advance the idea, but forever you'll have the perfection of an idea. So, i suppose doing films starts as an act of love. Guillermo del Toro certainly is in love with what he does. The infatuation probably has been with him for a long time. he's been around films, as viewer or maker, for a long time. so he invests his films in cinema itself. Every reference, more or less quirky, that molded his imagination, shows up in everyone of his scripts. That means he delivers honesty, consistently, and by itself that deserves respect.But than, there are several levels of quality that one can consider when watching a film which on what each film-goer looks for. Del Toro delivers competence, all the time, every film. He knows how to explore a camera to convey the idea of suspense. He has a quirky imagination that allows him to deliver worlds worth visiting. And he is able to construct a world that allows for two dimensions. One which is ordinary, the real world where we all live in, and a fantastic dimension, where vampires exist, where little children materialize their games. That's why Pan's labyrinth was so loved, right? So, you will find all that, competently done in his films. But he simply isn't too ambitious for me to really appreciate him. Honesty and competence does not equal spark. Yesterday i saw true fire in the imperfect new film of Wook Park. Better filmmakers play with more tools than they are given. del Toro builds films inside certain cinematic traditions, but simply won't break them. If i had seen this film when it was new, i would probably have been excited at the perspective of seeing del Toro exceed it. Now i know he didn't break his own rules. Instead he's probably sliding into the realm of commercial success. I mean, so is Peter Jackson, but he made Braindead before... I hope del Toro can still surprise me, instead of being merely competent.The really interesting element, that runs through this film and pan.. is the little girl. She is the materialization of that binding between the two worlds. But she is herself a quirky element that belongs to none. here in cronos she is given a place of ambiguity, as if the world was in fact spinning around her, and not the device that motivates the whole thing. that artifact is, by the way, the second best thing here. A device shaped like a bug, which actually contains a bug inside. this is the metaphor for the insertion of a world inside the world. One is golden, curious, but cold and dead, the other is alive and odd. The inner bug controls the outer bug. fantastic invades reality. clever writing idea.the last good thing is the little girl's personal space. It conveys that sense of old attics where you can find nearly anything. I love that. This one has an arc where the vampire hides during the day, and is perforated in a way that allows the sunlight to be all around, in a cleverly illuminated way. nice.My opinion 3/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"This timepiece is just about worth your time","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In some ways this reminds me of the old Hammer/Amicus movies of the early seventies. Certainly plot-wise the whole story could have been in one of those portmanteaus or indeed lifted from a tales from the crypt comic. What stops this film being merely cheap, tacky and cliché-ridden are one or two touches here and there.Primarily this is down to the relationship between the old man and his grand-daughter, which has a level of tenderness that is moving. Most of the best scenes in the film are between them, my favourite being when grandfather takes tea with her from her toy tea-set.Another wonderful cameo is the mortician, who fancies himself an artist. This grants the picture a few moments of light relief after a very grim sequence.Sadly not all the film is up to this standard. The promising premise gets bogged down in all the predictable clichés IE the insatiable thirst for blood, the pealing off skin etc and the token villain who is after the old man's secret adds nothing to the story. His side-kick played by Ron Perlman is also more of a nuisance, although his concern for his nose (and what happens to it) is a witty touch. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable little independent horror/thriller film that has its humour and its scares amongst some deeper meanings.","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The poster for this film would perhaps mislead you into thinking that it is something else; indeed, a woman looking tantalised and vulnerable as a creepy looking insect made out of gold is attached to her, with blood dripping from her neck certainly makes the film look like it has an interesting hook, but that's not to say it doesn't anyway.Cronos is more like a contemporary vampire tale without bats and fangs more than anything else. Cronos utilises ideas behind ancient mythology and archaeology to create one of the more interesting MacGuffins ever put to film and that is a beetle-come-jewel that raises not only good excuses to include cringe worthy scenes of skin penetration but also ideas and theories on important issues such as reincarnation and everlasting life. Cronos has that atmosphere of dread running throughout it that you'd be hard pressed to find in a lot of other films; when you compare to what director del Toro has also done of what I've seen, you can see the resemblances in terms of look and genre when thinking of Pan's Labyrinth, Blade II and Hellboy even if Pan's Labyrinth is the only film that matches the quality and feeling Cronos achieves.The reason I mention Cronos feels like an update of the vampire film is that whilst the thought of vampires are sort of scary since they're uncanny creations of the mind, the sorts of films they're in never really scare you; just impress you with their mise-en-scene and atmosphere. Cronos does this and gets across its typical vampire conventions through character's lust for blood, daylight hatred and look of a monster who will eventually come back from the dead- it's main character even has to sleep in a coffin type box at one point. The film is a slow burner and a reasonably impressive one at that. It shows us the MacGuffin that is a bug-come/jewel that houses a real bug that gets off over human blood by injecting itself into a human who touches it. del Toro draws us into looking at the first incident of the item in action; a nasty and suspense ridden scene as Jesus Gris (Luppi) holds it and it digs into him; there are later scenes that made me look away when he attaches it to some other places and it uses its tail in uncomfortable fashion.But this is good direction and writing; showing us piece by piece the item in action and developing the thing as if it were a character itself. It houses a real bug that has lived for centuries and it is a living thing after all so why not treat it like a character? Along with this, there is an early role for Ron Perlman as Angel de la Guardia who plays the nephew of an elderly man hell bent on getting this item since it is the source of not only his old age but his fixation; something that is played with by the dialogue when Angel is angry his uncle has lived so long and he must keep on serving him. There can be parallels made in regards to the film in numerous different ways first, the inclusion of religion is a strong, re-occurring element. The protagonists name is Jesus and he dies at one point before being resurrected similarly to the fable in the bible; secondly, Perlman's character is called Angel but any significance to an Angel's activity seems irrelevant here as the only Angel's in the bible either showed up to inform of pregnancy or guide certain people to a certain place. Angel in the film does neither of this and is more of a lackey for the bad-guy than anything else, even if he doesn't ever take a side per se.There is also the theme of reincarnation which is a strong Buddha belief. De la Guardia (Brook) goes on to say during the film that the insect may have been alive for hundreds of years; living off the unnaturalness that is the item; hibernating and surviving as the years pass. I've already said one character dies and comes back to life again as I expected he would and parallels could also be made with the notion of everlasting life and good health; something the third Indiana Jones film touched on with the Holy Grail; the idea in Cronos is that you do not drink from the correct cup but merely attach an item containing clockwork to your body and not only get a strange fix but get younger as the days pass whilst gaining a longer life. I always wondered what the holy water at the end of The Last Crusade would taste like and how the dynamics of wound healing would work but here, the idea that you have to go through pain and feel certain sensations in order to achieve eternal youth is given more of a thought and humanised a little more.It may sound like I enjoyed Cronos a little more than the rating I gave it but I suppose that's because there is a lot to read into, especially given the fact the director seems to have some things he wants to say and get across. I think this is del Toro's second best film behind Pan's Labyrinth because he goes relatively deep in themes and combines humour with skin crawling scenes that made me want to look away. The film is funny with its colloquial funeral director and his actions; its portrayal of Angel as a guy stuck in the middle on his own thanks to this youth brining MacGuffin that tangles everyone up and it also has a reasonable degree of sentiment. If you're looking for a funny yet smart foreign film that has its contemporary clash of humour, horror and deeper meaning then you cannot go too far wrong with Cronos. "}{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Cronos is the tale of a man (who is looking after his grand-daughter for reasons that weren't clear to me) who owns an antiques shop. He buys an angel figurine (as part of a job lot) and prises the base off (perhaps out of curiousity), whereupon he finds the Cronos device (a large beetle shaped mechanism). After winding the device up it attaches itself to his hand and despite initially being very concerned and pulling the device free he notices later that he is beginning to look younger. Thus starts the story, which leads on to problems as others want to buy/steal the device from him, and all the issues he faces with using the device.I would recommend this film for fans of alternative horror perhaps. It isn't overtly gory, but features an interesting story.As for my feelings about the film. The acting was a little off, and perhaps a little too simplistic or misdirected. It was hard to understand the characterisation at times. The production values were low, although the Cronos device was quite well represented. Some of the make-up effects left a lot to be desired. The story also got a little slow at times. As mentioned though, the main thread to the story was ultimately quite imaginative and interesting. I wasn't sure what to make of the ending either. Despite all this though, I quite enjoyed it. 3/5 "},{"Title":"Most Overlooked Modern Vampire Classic","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1535, an alchemist (Mario Iván Martínez) builds an extraordinary mechanism encapsulated into a small golden device. The invention grants eternal life, but has one small caveat.Ron Perlman is the star power here, but one cannot deny that all the actors are flawless, and Guillermo Del Toro refuses to make a film any less than perfect. This film clearly makes the list of best vampire movies of all time, and certainly top three of the last twenty years.This is, truly, a human tale. There is a supernatural element, but that is second to the emotions and desires of the humans involved. We cannot help but pick sides and feel for both anyway -- even the villain is a tragic figure, and we can sympathize with him even if we hate him. "},{"Title":"Unusual vampire fare","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's difficult to put the external parasite of Ridley Scott's Alien out of one's mind at first. I really liked the conceit of a clockwork device housing the immortal bug - it turns on the Gothic and severs any sci-fi ties. However, we are shown next to nothing of the demonic insect housed within and even less of the nature of he Faustian pact that Jesus gets sucked into.This shouldn't matter, actually. Del Toro's film is about the relationships that Jesus has with his daughter (& wife). Del Toro tries, with fair success to sidestep supernatural issues and concentrate on the human dilemma - whether to live forever and how it affects one's behaviour. Federico Luppi and Tamara Shanath (Aurora) are pretty good. Though I tend to like Ron Perlman, there's a strange datedness to his acting which can lurch over into B-moviedom now and again. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Very clever (but overrated...) debut for Guillermo del Toro.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I better choose my words carefully around here, as Cronos is hugely popular among horror fans and many people label it as the single best genre film of the entire 90's decade. I beg to differ. Overrated might be a too harsh term, but Cronos is definitely less brilliant than its reputation suggests. The 90's may have suffered from a total lack of horror films that deserve the classic-status and del Toro's approach to the genre may indeed by praiseworthy, but then still Cronos is no masterpiece. What Guillermo del Toro presents here is a clever new horror premise blend with sentiment and family-drama. These are two opposites in tone and incredibly difficult to combine, which our director also finds to his cost when his film becomes overly saddening near the end. The first hour, however, is utterly fascinating! An atmospheric intro introduces us to an alchemist that invented a strange little device that makes its owner immortal. Centuries later, the device (which appears to be a golden clock shaped like an insect) ends up in the antique shop of Jesus Gris, hidden in an ancient statue. The alchemist's invention surely works, as Jesus clearly begins to rejuvenate after a coincidental use of the device. However, the fatally ill millionaire Dieter de la Guardia also knows about its existence and, when Jesus refuses to sell it to him, he warns him of the dangerous consequences if the device's instructions, which only he knows about, are not followed. Our protagonist then begins to experience physical and behaviorist changes that turn the film into an entirely new interpretation of vampire-horror (appetite for human blood, allergic to sunlight&#133;). This is probably the main reason why all the fans proclaim Cronos to be such an original movie Jesus is a vampire&#133;but you don't see any dusty coffins, long teeth or black cloaks. Hence also the heavy dramatic ambiance Jesus is doomed to eternal life but all he ever wanted was to grow old with his wife Mercedes and beloved granddaughter Aurora. Cronos is a beautiful picture to look at, slow moving and with great scenery, but it doesn't fully work as a horror film. Nevertheless, this is recommended viewing for all kind of audiences. Guillermo del Toro's direction is surefooted, the cast is terrific and Javier Alvarez' score is enchanting. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Del Torro gives us a good twist on the vampire tales, making bloodlust an addiction for humans, except that it is not taking blood that the characters desire, it is giving blood, which in turn provides eternal life. Strong performances mark this as a good film, but a lack of action and scares may put most viewers off. It manages to provoke some thoughts and emotions, but fails to really impact the audience.In the 16th century a device is created which looks both like a golden spider and piece of jewellery. However, it is this device which can give eternal life as once attached to your arm it sucks your blood, somehow enabling you invulnerable. The device appears in the late 20th century in the hands of an ageing antique dealer, Gris who has had a difficult life of pain and struggling for money. Soon though he works out the power of the device and feels younger and stronger. He begins to fall under the strength of the machine, forgetting about the only thing he loves- his granddaughter. Meanwhile, an old millionaire has been tracking down the device all his life, he will die soon but wants to save himself. His ungrateful nephew Angel hates his uncle must must do his bidding, and goes in search of the device, putting Gris and his young granddaughter in danger. Can Gris resist the temptation of eternal life and protect his granddaughter, or will he succumb to its power forever? The film does move slowly and does not follow many of the vampire story traits. There are touching scenes, made strong because of the performances of Luppi and Shanath. The story is interesting enough to keep you watching, and Ron Perlman injects some pace, strength and humour. The final scenes are good, the whole film is filmed beautifully with good use of light and shadow. Worth watching for fans of Del Torro or of unconventional horror movies.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Average horror film","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Guillermo del Toro directed and wrote Cronos, a horror tale which begins in the 1500s with a scientist inventing a device which gives eternal life. A man in current times, Jesus, discovers the magical machine a statue of an archangel. After winding it up, it awakens, grabs him and injects a solution into his arm. The chemical begins to restore his youth but also causes a need for blood.Meanwhile, a wealthy business man has spent years searching for this fountain of youth and attempts to get it from Jesus by any means necessary, including murder, not realizing that Jesus is immortal. The rich man eventually tries to make the Faustian bargain and all is not well that ends well. Del Toros visuals are good but overall result is disappointing when compared with his later masterpiece, Pan's Labyrinth. "},{"Title":"I must have seen a different film...","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Mike (mike@coolfilms.com) has really nailed this one on the head.  The film is, indeed, stylish and unusually low-key for a vampire/horror genre.  The makeup is above-average and the story is a unique one.However, all of this fails to compensate for the poor acting of the supporting cast and the agonizingly slow pace at which the story unfolds.Let me also say, in addition to Mike's comments, that the lack of any significant backstory leaves me completely uncaring about the fate of any of the characters.  Lack of motivation is another weak area.***MINOR SPOILER***Ron Perlman's character's father wants the device the main character has discovered.  Perlman's character hates his father but has to do his bidding.  Perlman, for some strange reason, takes his frustrations with his father out on the main character by verbally and physically abusing him at every opportunity, starting the first minute Perlman meets him.  This make absolutely no sense in the context of the story. In fact, it was outright surprising to me.***END OF SPOILER***  The bilingual production is so annoying (I actually had to keep checking my DVD player to see if it had mistakenly reverted to a different language setting) that I was tempted to just turn the sound off and go by the subtitles. On the whole, this is a muddled and boring movie that takes itself way too seriously.** out of *****   "},{"Title":"Luppi deserves better films...","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You need a good reason to turn Federico Luppi into a rotting vampire-zombie... I mean, this is one of the best actors ever, he's meant to do bigger things, deeper things. Now, was there a good reason?? I don't think so. What Del Toro sets out is the nth story about blood-suckers (he seems a little obsessed with that -he also made Blade series-), but Cronos isn't even a true horror movie. OK, it is a little bit gore and pretty disgusting, but there ain't nothing scary on it, and that's quite a handicap when you're trying to make a terror movie, isn't it?.The production ain't that bad, but the script could have been much better (I think Del Toro is not a good writer), and Ron Perlman looks like he was drunk when he played his character.To sum up you don't need such good actors to do such a bad film. I'm not sure if those who love horror cinema will like this one, they may think Cronos is a little bit pretentious. If you want my opinion, I think it is a second rate movie, so shallow, and barely entertaining.*My rate 3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Walking Dead","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think I have finally found a Spanish-speaking filmmaker that I do not like. He's talented. He understands how to make competent films. He knows what he is about humanizing cinematic conventions that we know and inherit. Here it is the wholly cinematic notion of zombies. Elsewhere we have other modes. There's a little too much respect given to the inherited notion for my taste. I think he does this because he wants a sort of balance and he's already committed to go into deep intensity on the human dynamics side tight pathos. The problem for me is that he takes both sides seriously. He really does believe that his simple human truths are true. Its the equivalent of deciding a life based on those big-eyed idealistic cartoons of little girls, in fact we get one here. Oh and in Pan's Labyrinth. Its okay by me to use things like this, simple, reliable emotional triggers if it leads us to something deeper or more useful.In a way, that's what characterizes Hispanic filmmakers, the layering. But not del Toro; there's only one layer with two threads and no depth. There is something interesting to say about the device though. Its meant to resemble a beetle with a stinger. Internally (which we see) it is supposed to suggest a clock and there's presumably some significance that we see the gears reverse. Perhaps this was supposed to key somehow with the body parts in jars of our designated rich bad guy. It links with notions of cinematic Orrerries that interest me greatly.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"comb pleyt    gar bawge","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film accomplished absolutely nothing as a vampire flick. No good effects, a drawn out story, and an attempt at horror which ends in regret as a viewer. I've seen almost every vampire film from 'Subspecies' to 'Interveiew with a Vampire' to 'Fright Night' etc. and believe me, this is more of a empathy flick than horror. I must admit that there was rather 'above average' acting, but the story was really lacking. Mabe worth a rental but definitely not an addition worthy to anyone's collection.suggestionsDo yourself a favor and pick up John Carpenter's 'Vampires' or Leif Jonker's 'Darkness'. "}]