[{"Title":"Jackie Chan at his best!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great film!  Just last night I watched one of his not-so-great films and felt I needed to watch something that fits him, so I chose Supercop.  I've forgotten how great it is!Unlike most Jackie Chan movies, this one has a nice plot that is easy to understand and characters that you can easily take a liking to.  The music isn't bad in some spots and the storyline is great.  Let's not forget the action scenes, which are some of Chan's best (not his VERY best, but good nonetheless)!I really recommend this movie to all Chan fans out there. "},{"Title":"Mr. Chan  more like this; less like the Americans, please!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a really fun movie.  Jerry Bruckheimer could learn a thing or five from Stanley Tong.  I can only give it 8 out of 10 because it's not exactly deep, y'know?  It is light as a feather, but it's also fun, fun, fun -- far more interesting and surprising than any action film I've seen out of Hollywood in a long, long time, all of which have seemed to me to be recycling the same script, plot, characters, and score to desperation.  (Beats me how people could shell out eight bucks a pop to see Enemy of the State aka Mercury Rising aka Absolute Power...when they could rent Supercop for two bucks and actually see something unexpected.)Of course, this film stars Jackie Chan being his usual goofy self, deftly making his extraordinary skills as a martial artist, stuntman, and physical comedian look as natural as breathing, but the other amazing talent in this piece is exhibited by the fantastic stuntwoman Michelle Yeoh (aka Michelle Khan), the same woman who for the first time blew away many Western moviegoers in Tomorrow Never Dies.  I think this woman is made entirely of rubber and springs.  Most of her stunts in this movie are actually scarier and more daring than most of Chan's, and some of the most brutal took more than one take.  And she did a lot of them in a dress!Fortunately, she is also in the sequel to this, Supercop II.  It's seven years old, and I can hardly wait to rent it.  (When was the last time you were in a hurry to see an action flick almost ten years old?)  Too bad I can't say the same for Rush Hour, which I had to click off after less than 10 minutes because Chan's co-lead character was such an obnoxious idiot.I really hope Hollywood learns from Chan and his Hong Kong associates, and not the other way around.  Indicators are not positive.  Keep your fingers crossed.  Meanwhile, watch Supercop and enjoy something fresh. "},{"Title":"Astonishing stuntwork and action set-pieces!!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" POLICE STORY III - SUPER COP (Jing Cha Gu Shi III Chao Ji Jing Cha)(USA Supercop) Aspect ratio 2.391 (Technovision)Sound format MonoPolice officer Chan Ka-kui (Jackie Chan) goes undercover within a criminal gang whose millionaire boss (Kenneth Tsang) plans to dominate the Asian heroin trade.Though co-scripted by Chan regular Edward Tang (also responsible for the first two entries in the Police Story franchise), POLICE STORY III - SUPER COP is slightly darker in tone than its immediate predecessors and offers a much more streamlined combination of comedy, drama and action. This shift in focus was occasioned by the hiring of stuntman-turned-director Stanley Tong (RUMBLE IN THE BRONX, CHINA STRIKE FORCE, etc.), who keeps a tight rein on the film's narrative excesses whilst indulging some of the most spectacular action set-pieces ever filmed, *anywhere*.Nothing in the first half of the movie - Chan's fight with gymnastic beauty Sam Wong at a mainland police training center; his initiation into Tsang's criminal gang by helping the villain's brother (Yuen Wah) escape from a prison work camp; a battle with police in a crowded marketplace, etc. - can prepare viewers for the *astonishing* climactic confrontation between Good and Evil, involving a series of hair-raising car stunts, Chan dangling (apparently unassisted) from a rope-ladder beneath a helicopter as it swings *high* above the streets of Kuala Lumpur (!), and the final hand-to-hand battle on top of a speeding train, upon which the aforementioned helicopter has become precariously entangled - and not a CGI shot in sight! Filmed with breathtaking gusto by artists working at the top of their game, this is commercial cinema at its most astounding (check the outtakes during the final credits, in which various participants come perilously close to serious injury or *death* during filming!).Maggie Cheung makes another extended cameo appearance as Chan's beleaguered girlfriend, though the film is stolen clean away by Michelle Yeoh (billed as 'Michelle Khan' in some prints) as a mainland policewoman who assists Chan in his undercover operation, and who proves to be Chan's equal during the fast and furious combat sequences (the character proved popular enough to warrant her own spin-off feature, PROJECT S, in 1993!). Easily the best of the Police Story series to date, and one of the most memorable efforts to emerge from HK in the last fifty years, POLICE STORY III - SUPER COP is a winner. Followed by FIRST STRIKE (1996).As usual, the movie was re-edited and rescored for its 1996 US debut under the title SUPERCOP. That version is missing only a few minutes of material, but should be avoided nonetheless.(Cantonese and Mandarin dialogue) "},{"Title":"The best Jackie Chan action film yet","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen a lot of Jackie Chan films and its rare to find gem in the many jewels in the films he's made.  There are real drama films like Crime Story, or the frentic action in the original police story, there's the three-brother action in Project A, there's the frenctic kung-fu in Drunken Master 2, and then there's this gem.This is certainly the best in the police story series, the action is fantastic, the humor brilliant, the story well put together.  The duo of Michelle Kahn (Yeoh) and Chan is amazing, and Yeoh almost steals the show in her own right - her persona and her instance to do her own stunts (like Chan) makes her a marvel to watch - this is why she is so damn good in Tomorrow Never Dies, but its a shame the director of TND never captured her in the same way Stanley Tong does!Chan maybe getting older, and its getting harder and harder for him to surpass his best.  In that respect, this is possibly the last, best action film we'll get to see.  I enjoyed it, and I'm sure most chan fans will enjoy it too.My Rating 9/10. "},{"Title":"7 Things You Usually Find In A Jackie Chan Film","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With most of these Jackie Chan films, you are guaranteed of getting the same material, meaning (1) tons of violence; (2) extraordinary stunt scenes; (3) good sound; (4) some hokey dubbed voices; (5) a juvenile story with even more- juvenile attempt at humor; (6) very little profanity and blood; (7) a stupid but still enjoying movie (for at least one viewing.)All of this adds up to a fair rating. The fun part of watching Chan's films are the outrageous action scenes and stunts by The Man, himself. Especially for someone getting up their in age, Chan is incredible since he does his own stunts.In this film, Chan's girlfriend, played by Michelle Yeoh, does her own stunts, too. She is an excellent martial arts talent in her own right and a pretty lady. By the way, during the closing credits they show some of the stunts that went wrong. Not all of these are shown for laughs. In a few of them, Chan is injured.The sound was amazing for a VHS. I can only imagine the stereo on the DVD. Overall, a dumb movie with unrealistic fight scenes (people just about get killed, but keep getting up for more!) but if you know that and just want to enjoy a lightweight action film, it serves its purpose. "},{"Title":"Yeah!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Probably my fave Jackie flick so far, this has great story, GREAT stunts, great action, and great work from an awesome cast.  The helicopter/train finale is an absolute rollercoaster.  I'm fortunate enough to have scored a chinese-language DVD, and this cut is definitely better than the Americanized version, with more exposition, and probably more MICHELLE YEOH!  She's the greatest, nearly upstaging Jackie every moment she's onscreen, and they work great together!  And of course the terrific Yuen Wah always makes a good villain!  All around a great, slick, fast paced action adventure, that anyone could enjoy!  A blast all around!  Oh, and let's not forget the gorgeous Maggie Cheung, pretty funny here... "},{"Title":"One of the best Hong Kong Martial Arts Buddy films ever - Yeoh is terrific!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've never really been a great fan of Jackie Chan, often feeling that he somewhat downgrades the true force & meaning of pure martial arts. Instead he turns it into a caricature mixed with lots of excessive special effects such as flying through plate glass windows or jumping over cars on a motorbike.I prefer the more natural, aethetic Bruce Lee when it comes to studied martial arts. He took the art far more seriously and didn't take it to extremes just for the sake of another gee whiz effect.HOWEVER.....Jackie Chan DOES take his art just as seriously, (although not in a spiritual sense), this is proved by the number of near-death accidents he has received for the sake of his art over the years. He doesn't use stunt doubles very often and spends hours & hours going over potentially lethal special effects before finally performing them for us.Police Story 3 is a superior Chan product, much better than his paper-thin stories as of late (although this could be down to the heavy Hollywood influence that perpetrates most of the latter films, and IMHO he is worse off for it).PS3 is no different from his earlier films although on this occasion he has a more equally efficient lead in Michelle Yeoh, as his Chinese army partner.Yeoh is a perfect foil for the extroverted yet dumb Chan. She screams screen presence, and her beautiful face belies her hidden deadly martial arts skills. And more significantly she, like Chan, very rarely uses stunt-doubles. (Best example is her jump onto a moving train while riding a motorcycle. Previously a stunt-double tried to do this but failed, ending up with a broken leg. But then Yeoh tried it and hey, perfect jump!)Together they bring a more spirited edge to a rather humdrum story of drug traffiking. Chan isn't allowed to wallow in his ego because Yeoh is never far behind to push him out the way. The buddy chemistry works surprisingly well, perhaps because we have a woman who is truly independent and can definitely look after herself, thank you very much.Chan does his usual stunts and his martial arts are good enough to get by with, although he is becoming just a tad predictable with more & more extravagant stunts for every new film. Which goes back to my earlier argument that he should really concentrate on the more natural side of his art and push all these boring pyrotechnics into the corner and let the character drive the story rather than the action sequences.***/***** "},{"Title":"Probably the best Jackie Chan movie","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The storyline of this movie brings us from a prison in China to Hong Kong. With its large Manhattan-style skyscrapers and its gangsters.Jackie Chan plays an undercover detective with wonderful charisma and has the will to achieve its purposes with total disregard of his own security. He puts duty first.Thank God he is not alone. A gorgeous Chinese woman, martial-arts expert and efficient cop is doing her part all the time to protect Jackie Chan's back. Michelle Yeoh is the perfect complement.Wah Yuen is another top actor from Hong Kong and plays a successful role as the Hong Kong top gangster's little brother. He is so brilliant in his role and this give us a good impression of the excellent actors there are in Hong Kong who deserve an opportunity to go to Hollywood. When the action gets to Malaysia things even improve much more. And the city of Kuala-Lumpur with its American-style buildings is another great scenario for this good movie. "},{"Title":"Don't worry about the plot, just watch the action","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This would be a pretty typical Jackie Chan movie except for two reasons1) Production values are really high in the movie; there's some really epic action here. I tend to fastforward through the boring parts, but I still give it a 7/10 because of how amazing some of the action is 2) Michelle Yeoh, who is a superstar here - one of the best female martial arts roles of all time; don't doubt her skills, she did that motorcycle stunt for real, and it remains one of the most amazing things I have ever seen knowing how risky that wasThis is action, this is martial arts and even the boring parts are not too boring. I have watched countless martial arts movies, and in some ways this ranks high up in the list. I leave the artistic martial arts movies for people who love them - I just want 90 minutes of mindless action to relax to most days.Definitely has to be a top 5 Chan film "},{"Title":"Surprisingly this third installment is better than the previous two","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Third time is the charm for this franchise. The previous two movies is good, but this one is better. Not only does it have a better storyline, it has better action as well. This time Jackie Chan as a cop is going undercover in order to infiltrate a Chinese criminal organization. And it has some good action and slapstick humor along the way. Which is expected from Jackie Chan movies. It's just done really well in this one. Maggie Cheung is back again as May(Jackie's girlfriend in the movie). And again she goes through getting put into another conflicting situation. She must really love the hero of this franchise Jackie. It just seems like she is constantly being used as a plot device to put the hero through one troublesome situation after another in this franchise. But at least she is incorporated into the plot somewhat instead of a girlfriend character that pops up once in a while for irrelevant reasons in movies. The relationship between the two reminded me of Mario and Princess Peach. To spice things up a bit, Michelle Yeoh is in this as well and plays the partner in the undercover work with Jackie Chan. And she actually adds a lot to the film and her fighting and stunt works are just fantastic. This movie alone shows how great of a stunt-woman she really is and plus she is a actress. And highly entertaining to watch, probably a bit more than Jackie in this case. Maybe it's because I enjoy the female lead kicking ass in movies. Also when it comes to the undercover work, there is actually quite a bit of creativity and good humor behind it as well. In a lot of cases the third installment just isn't as good as the previous ones. But in this case the third installment is better...Well until the 4th installment. If your one of the audiences that liked the previous Police Story films, there is a high chance you will enjoy this one. This is one of the best buddy cop movie I seen. Although it lacks in bonding development, it backs it up with the chemistry between the two and the action sequences.7.9/10 "}{"Title":"Favorite Part","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have always wanted Chackie to mix in more serious roles. His movies are more interesting that way. My favorite part is the who multi-part fight scene. Can you think of a movie with a fight scene with so many protagonists? In that whole scene my favorite bit is when Chackie and Michelle are trying to hide by jumping through the window back into the meeting room and Michelle trips the stick holding open the shutter, leaving Chackie to slam into and bounce off. Michell then pokes her head out and berates him for fooling around. One thing I also liked was that the film kept in a certain amount of comedy, but enough to affect the film enough to make it an outright comedy. Also, liked that first kick Michelle does as she jumps up and kicks two guys at once. "},{"Title":"Chan and Yeoh team up","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Supercop brings together Jackie Chan and Michelle Yeoh two of the best biggest stars from Hong Kong and both made successful transitions to Hollywood films. Jackie returns with more of his death defying stunts and amazing fight scenes. Michelle even does some big stunts herself, like riding a motorcycle onto the top of a moving train. While Jackie fights off a handful of guys with nothing more then a ladder.The movie is the 3rd movie in Jackie's Police Story series of movies, which have all redefined the action genre with their amazing stunts. But just like all good Jackie Chan movies they're all movies with tons of comedy in them. "},{"Title":"Best of Police Story series","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is my favorite of all Jackie Chan's Police Story series.This movie has lot going for it. It's probably the only movie Jackie Chan and Michelle Yeo stars together, and two best talents in martial arts action movie teams up together to get the drug lord in mainland China. Covertly, this is the most comical of all the Police Story series drama, but has the most intense action as well. Interaction between Jackie, and Michelle is so funny, but when they get into the action scene, I would dare to say that this is THE best action movie Hong Kong has ever produced.These guys were really Super Cops, and it's one of the few movies from the early '90s that still doesn't look dated.Simply fantastic, and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"supercop, entertaining chan flick","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i am a huge jackie chan fan, i love rumble in the bronx, first strike who am i and mr. nice guy. so obviosly i had to see supercop as id heard it was his best yet, and i can honestly say it isn't nowhere near, but it's still a good chan flick that delivers the goods there is some breathtaking stunts, brilliant fight scenes the perfect recipe for a great chan flick, i thought the movie was a bit dull in places but it has enough action to keep you glued, it's nowhere near as enjoyable as rumble in the bronx or who am i, but it's still a solid chan flick. another plus is michelle yeah who is fantastic here. overall if your a chan fan you will like this movie, even if it is a bit routine "},{"Title":"An action trilogy of the finest quality","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is one detail, which is not very common for Jackie Chan movies, but which is present here. It has some very tough and serious atmosphere about it while the funny elements are present too. Jackie is menacing and psychotic here. He is not a hero who is attacked and only then fights back (in a usual laid-back pattern), but he is the one who can go and start the tumult. His manner of hitting that evil guy in the glasses is amazing (every time it goes crack!). Another highlight is the scene when Jackie goes to the pub and thrashes the villains who had fronted on his girlfriend. It's one of the best blitzkriegs put on screen. Besides, the whole scene is shot with the background of some action character painted on the wall (it also looks like a poster of rabochiy from the Soviet era) and some lines in Russian on the left. That looks terrific (and nostalgic for Russian people). I also like when the windows are being smashed in the movies. Here there's a lot of this stuff. It's quite amazing watching the characters falling/jumping/running/driving through all manner of panes.All three movies are great. There is no down-slide in the quality - it's a perfect trilogy with sense and incredible stunts (and not only Jackie Chan's character appears in all three movies - that's also excellent and keeps continuity up).Each movie can be described in a few words No.1 - great (in all aspects - it is one gripping story from the very beginning to the very end) and funny (many scenes are ridiculous); No.2 - raging (Jackie is really off the hook here) and painful (Jackie gets tortured); No.3 - unbelievable (the woman that fights alongside with Jackie is incredible) and bombastic (should a lot of guns and explosions be mentioned?).As to the rest - much has been mentioned by the others.It's a trilogy that can be watched over and over again (at least by me). Its place is in top 10 among action jewels. Yes, to me it is a trilogy. Further parts are of no interest, while they simply cannot keep the same pace.A solid 10 out of 10. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Just plain super!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Compared to other Jackie Chan movies I have seen, Supercop is super! I liked everything they have, all the action, all the stunts, and all the fun this can provide. I liked the part where Chan(Jackie Chan) goes to this martial arts school where everyone were in school uniform, and the perform every feat possible. I liked it when the kids chanted Kevin's name, and I liked when the volunteer pulled off his moves in him. Quick and precise, the blows were strong and hard, at least no serious injury could be inflicted. Michelle Yeoh plays the counterpart, and she's just as deadly. She can fire and gun, and kick serious butt at the same time. Dodging bullets and other enemies is always a thing, and for the outtakes of the movie, there you can enjoy the comedy of the stunts and scenes gone wrong. Trying to hold Yeoh so she can fire at the bad guys wasn't to easy for Jackie. Then when Jackie fell on her, he touches her AHEM! At least she didn't sue him, they were equally embarrassed. This movie I say it's a lot of fun, and I enjoyed it very well. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but they should have dropped the 'Police Story' tag ...","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ... because apart from the main character and a few characters from the original (who are in for barely any time) this film bears no real resemblance to the original Police Story.The film is quite good.  There is a drug syndicate on the loose and thus the Chinese government wants the help of Hong Kong in dealing with the problem, so the Hong Kong police send their 'supercop', Ka Kui (Chan), the hero from the previous 2 Police Story films.There are some exceelent action scenes, and for a change they don't always include Jackie, as Michelle Yeoh co-stars and has a go herself.The bad parts of this film IMHO were when they tried to include the old 'Police Story' elements into the film.  The plot involving May bumping into Ka Kui whilst on assignment has been done TWICE already and it's gotten rather old (you'd think she'd have gotten a hint the previous 2 times).  Ka Kui's superior Bill is enjoyable as always but apart from a few minutes at the start and a quick stint as Ka Kui's pretend mother hardly shows up for the film.  It makes you wonder whether it was necessary to include these elements when it may have just been easier to go for a straight-out new film as opposed to another sequel.All up, the film is enjoyable, with some excellent action scenes (as always).  Just don't expect a 'Police Story' film when you see it.  As mentioned above, the only real thing that ties it to the first 2 in the series is the main character and a few characters from the originals who are hardly in it at all.  Apart from that, it's a different film.  They should have just called it 'Supercop' and be done with it (the film itself landed it's own sequels).8/10.Footnote this is a review of the SUBTITLED version (not the dubbed version, thankfully). "},{"Title":"This film made me hurt","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie, while clutching onto a ladder dangling from a FLYING HELICOPTER slams into a billboard, OUCH!  This movie is simply amazing.  Not only are the fights and stunts amazing, but it also has a plot!  Michelle Yeoh is equally amazing.  Rent the movie, excuse the poor dub, and be amazed. "},{"Title":"One of the very best of all of Jackie's adventures...","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's unusual in the saturated action/adventure movie market to find a film that is as outstanding as Supercop.  Jackie Chan is back!  Well, he never really left... This is really Jackie at his best, with all of the finely choreographed fight scenes we expect from Jackie and some of his most innovative, breathtaking stunts ever.  Supercop has it all...great direction, solid story, good pacing, and best of all, it has Michelle Yeoh!  No other woman has ever been able to keep up with Jackie--most don't even try--and Michelle makes it look easy.  It's also easy to see why in her homeland, her nickname translates to Beautiful vase made of iron and steel and why Jackie Chan has said Women should not fight, except for Michelle.  If you're interested in wall to wall action and a little slapstick comedy, as well, this is definitely for you.  Long live Golden Harvest...Dedicated Chan fans should also check out Drunken Master and Drunken Master II. "},{"Title":"Great chemistry between Chan and Yeoh","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like many of the Jackie Chan movies, but this one, featuring Michelle Yeoh, is probably my favorite. The two of them have such fantastic chemistry!  And great moves too! "}{"Title":"A fine return to form","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan teams up with Michelle Yeoh in a great return to form. Chan reprises his role as Chan Ga Keung, a decorated police detective with the Royal Hong Kong Police. Former racing commentator Bill Tung also makes a welcome return - although not as Chan's uncle, as the dubbed English version will have you believe. Chan's mission is to go undercover in a joint operation with the People's Republic of China, to infiltrate a drugs' gang. Yeoh plays a Red Chinese inspector who provides Chan with his cover and poses herself as his sister. The film succeeds on the martial arts' skill of its two principal players, and also on the comic relief provided by Tung, who goes undercover as Chan's mother in one scene. There is, however, less non-stop action compared to the first; but it is far, far better than the second.Like the original, there is a fantastic finalé, filmed in Kuala Lumpur. The famous out-take where Chan is hit by a helicopter is from this movie, and you'll see why. In my opinion, the finalé in this instalment of the Police Story films is the best of the first three.  "},{"Title":"Jackie's greatest movie, EVER!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you're a Jackie Chan fanatic, especially those who prefer his Hong Kong directed films (as opposed to American directed), then say hello to Jackie's best movie EVER! His most dangerous stunts, his closest brushes with death, not to mention Michelle Yeoh's bravest performance ever. Jackie is one incredible man, but you just can't top Super Cop, aka Police Story III (Jing cha gu shi III Chao ji jing cha). It makes me want to go out and learn karate. INSPIRING!!! "},{"Title":"The best of the Jackie films.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best of the Jackie Chan films. He has a lady in this one that matches him for his stunts and adds a new dimension to his films. This movie flows more than any of his other movies. It is an entertaining film to watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"I liked the Action","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great movie! like it a lot. Jackie Chan is awesome! "},{"Title":"Third entry with Jackie Chan as intrepid and likable cop from Hong Kong police headquarter","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Hong Kong detective named Inspector Chan Kui (Jackie Chan) teams up with his female Red Chinese (Michelle Yeoh) counterpart to arrest a Chinese drug czar . ¨Police Story 3¨ packs a violent confrontation between Jackie and an evil drug lord . This stirring story about the cop named Chan of the Hong Kong precinct is well played by Jackie Chan. Hong Kong police officer, Chan is sent undercover to mainland China to break up a drug smuggling ring and later in border of Thailand and Cambodia. After breaking the brother of the drug lord out of jail camp , he escapes along with the nasty smuggler . The wife of the crime boss has been detained in Malaysia for drug trafficking and is soon to be executed. However, she is the only person who knows the account number of a secret Swiss bank account hiding millions in drug money. While the two officers are in Malaysia preparing for the prison break , Chan accidentally runs into his girlfriend May, who has travelled there from Hong Kong. Soon his cover is blown, the villains abducts his sweetheart (Maggie Chung) and he is forced to help them pull off the jail break . The story follows him as he tries to stay alive and chase the villain , being pursued by the wicked criminal band . But then Chan turns into an unfortunate cop when the drug lord learns who has been double-crossed . Then Chan looks for vengeance against the ominous villains at a cat and mouse game.This exciting movie is crammed of action-packed, spectacular fights, comedy , breathtaking stunt-work and lots of violence . Jackie Chan is top notch as one army man fighting a group of heinous criminals and as always he makes his own stunts like is showed on the final fake-shots. This time Chan join forces with another agent , a beautiful communist policewoman , well performed by Michelle Yeoh, both of whom are taken to Hong Kong to work for the syndicate . Awesome,incredible stunts and brief comic touches, as usual , the picture is better constructed than its predecessor. The lighting-paced storyline slows down at times because the runtime is overlong , but frenetic action sequences make up for it. Spotlights movie include Jackie jumping over a train , furthermore dangling and downing a helicopter, among others. This is a phenomenal action movie distinguished by fine cinematography of the spectacular sequences , and contains nice sense of humor as well as the previous entries. In this outing Jackie teamed up to prestigious actresses and good action stars in their own right , such as Maggie Cheung and Michelle Yeoh or Khan . The first version titled ¨Police story(1985)¨ directed by the same Jackie Chan was a perfect action film for enthusiastic of the genre ; the following was ¨Police story 2(1988)¨also pretty violent and with abundant humor touches. It's followed by this ¨Supercop¨ or ¨Police story 3¨ and finally, ¨Police story IV  Crime story. The motion picture is professionally directed by Stanley Tong . Stanley started his career as a stunt man, but got his first crack at directing in 1983. After that , he founded his own film company, Golden Gate. He wrote, directed, produced, and stunt-directed ¨Swordsman II¨ , Stone Age Warriors, which was so successful that Tong was given the job as director of Supercop, starring Jackie Chan. His first American film was Rumble in the Bronx, another Chan film. He directed yet another Chan film First Strike and ¨China Strike Force¨. He recently won the Golden Horse Award, a Chinese version of the Oscar , for Supercop. His most recent work is the family comedy Mr. Magoo , and ¨The Myth¨ , also he has realized some episodes of ¨Martial Law¨ series for Sammo Hung . Rating  Good , the picture has its sensational moments , mostly provided by its agile star, the great Jackie Chan. "},{"Title":"Better than the first.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Police Story 3Supercop (or Supercop, if you prefer) is one of Jackie Chan's best movies. It's got some great fight sequences, such as the gang shoot-out at the drug dealer's compound and the amazing fight/chase sequence at the end of the movie.  Jackie is funny, and fun to watch. There's a little, but not too much of the silly slapstick humor that always seems to fall flat in his other movies. This may be due in part to the spectacular Michelle Yeoh, who is a perfect foil and anchor to Chan. Kenneth Tsang is hilariously over the top as the villain, Chaibat. Jackie Chan and Michelle Yeoh are two of the hardest working people in the biz today, and it shows here. Please, Jackie, make more films like this!  "},{"Title":"A lot of action.","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is good.  Super Cop has a good story, it's funny, and, most importantly, it has lots of action.  This movie should be watched by any Jackie Chan fan or any action fan for that matter.  If only there were real super cops out in the world? "},{"Title":"A Super Police Story Sequel!","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The second sequel to the Police Story trilogy is another high-energy, fast-paced and action-packed movie returning Jackie Chan to the role as Hong Kong Detective Kevin Chan. This time he is sent undercover to mainland China, teaming up with INTERPOL Inspector Jessica Yang (Michelle Yeoh), to break up a drug smuggling ring. Chan befriends crime boss Panther (Wah Yuen), whose girlfriend knows the secret Swiss bank account number containing millions in drug money.Chan continues to display some of his best martial arts action in this film, with incredible stunt work, daredevil jumps and butt-kicking action. It's good old-fashion fighting skills with no wires and CGI.The plot is full of suspense, especially during the scenes where Chan goes undercover and the entire China countryside where he is sent to is in on the undercover operations as well. We get to see how ruthless and dangerous the drug gang can be, which results in some edge-of-your seat excitement while Chan tries not to get his cover blown.The story is also chock full of slapstick humor; I especially enjoyed the part where Chan's superior, Uncle Bill (Bill Yung), disguises himself as a dowager.The acting is great and all characters contributed to an exciting sequel. Highly recommended! Grade A "},{"Title":"Not a bad Action Film","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Hong Kong detective (Jackie Chan) teams up with his female Red Chinese counterpart (Michelle Yeoh) to stop a Chinese drug czar.In 2009, director Quentin Tarantino named Police Story III as one of his favorite films of the past seventeen years. He stated that Supercop features the greatest stunts ever filmed in any movie ever. In 2016 during a roundtable discussion, when asked which movie scene he would love to save for the last of humanity to see, he named the final scene of the movie as his choice.Tarantino knows movies, and he knows kung fu. I doubt any other American director has the knowledge he does regarding the history of the Asian action film, so when he says this has the best scenes, he knows exactly what he is talking about. As usual, I love that the film has a hint of humor right under the surface. Jackie Chan never takes himself so seriously, and why should he? "},{"Title":"Back in action...","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With the third movie in the Police Story franchise Jackie Chan is indeed bringing the greatness back after a bit disappointing part two in comparison to part one.Part three brings lots of action, fighting and fun. Jackie Chan continues to impress with his jaw-dropping stunts and action sequences. And not only does he have the beautiful and talented Maggie Cheung in part three, but Michelle Yeoh joins the action as well. And oh boy does she shine and impress in Police Story 3 Supercop (aka Ging chat goo si 3 Chiu kup ging chat).Police Story 3 Supercop has the trademark combination of action, stunts and laughs that Jackie Chan is known and famous for.If you enjoy Hong Kong cinema and Jackie Chan movies then you most definitely don't want to miss out on Police Story 3 Supercop. "}{"Title":"The Best of the Police Story Pictures So Far","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When he hears of a special mission that requires a supercop from Hong Kong, Inspector Chan Ka Kui (Jackie Chan) is more than happy to volunteer. However, due to the fact that the mission is in mainland China this requires Chan Ka Kui to inform his girlfriend May (Maggie Cheung) that he will be gone for a month. Obviously, since this is a secret mission he can't tell her hardly anything about it. For that matter, he doesn't know too much to tell. What is even worse is the fact that he is totally unaware that he will be teaming up and working in close proximity with a female, Red Chinese equivalent named Inspector Jessica Yang (Michelle Yeoh). Neither does he know the trip will eventually lead him and Jessica Yang to Malaysia&#x97;where his extremely jealous girlfriend just happens to be guiding a tour group. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say that I consider this film to be the best of the Police Story pictures so far. Naturally, it has an abundance of action but it's the humor which I thought was especially good. In any case, I enjoyed this movie and I have rated it accordingly. Above average. "},{"Title":"Meet the Cop Who Can't Be Stopped","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Once again Chan Returns for another instalment of the Police Story movies and once again he truly pushes all his stunt work even further with some amazing action sequences. It introduces a welcomed Michelle Yeoh into the mix and creates what may be one of the greatest chase scenes in the history of cinema.Firstly Chan is back as the devoted and skilled inspector Chan. Whilst he does have a few opportunities to demonstrate his comedic prowess, for the most part the film is a lot more serious than previous instalments to the Police Story films. Instead the film gives him a few opportunities to show a more dramatic range of acting skill. But obviously Jackie's greatest talent has always been in his stunt work and it is showcased brilliantly here, dodging helicopter blades and jumping away from explosions. How he didn't already die several times over in his career is a testament to his skill. But the often show stealing delight of the film comes from Michelle Yeoh who's cast here as Chan's assisting officer. She is possibly one of the earliest and most kick ass female heroes of the action genre, with lightning fast fighting moves and matching the stunt work of Chan. Thankfully the film doesn't go for the usual clichés. It doesn't try forcing any unnecessary romance between the pair. Instead we get a welcomed equal team dynamic with both working together the same way you'd expect two skilled trainers to work together. Yeoh comes off as having slightly less field experience than Chan at one point mistakenly throwing a live grenade into a room of explosive, but is still just as skilled a fighter as Chan and comes across as a better tactician and planner. It takes a lot to even come close to a stunt master like Chan, but the fact that she even steals the show at points is a real testament to her skill. The first hour of the film is what you'd expect from a kung fu star like Jackie Chan and the Police Story films. Chan and Yeoh are both put undercover to investigate a drug ring. The story is more interesting than the previous Police Story films with the interesting undercover element and how they go about persuading the drug kingpins to let them in on the plans. There are many big scale action sequences to keep the plot going to ranging from a training sparring match with Chan against another more disciplined officer and others where Chan and Yeoh have to evade police officers who don't know they are undercover. But what really makes this film a standout even amongst a great star like Jackie Chan's work is the final chase scene. Already Police Story had it's incredible intro chase in the first film where Chan single handedly chases down a bus, but this scene blows it out of the water and is one of the greatest chase sequences put to cinema. It's fast paced, varied and has some of the most impressive stunt work put to film. It goes all over the place with Chan and Yeoh chasing the drug kingpin on top of cars, fist brawling on rooftops, dangling from helicopters and a battling on top of a train. Instead of using effects or stunt doubles for these sequences then as with all of Chan's greatest work, no effects are used whatsoever with he and Yeoh performing all the stunts themselves. Some highlights include Chan smashing through billboards whilst dangling on a helicopter and Yeoh driving a motorbike on to a moving train. The dangerousness of these stunts comes clear at the end of the film where we see Yeoh miss a jump between cars and falls to the pavement from a moving car. It's really a testament to both actors skill and devotion that they were able to pull of such an incredible sequence.The entire film is great, but that final chase alone makes the film worth watching. It really is up there amongst the best chase sequences ever put together on screen. "},{"Title":"Weak Story, But Awesome Stunts","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" (I should preface this review by saying I sadly watched the Bluray release of this that only has the dubbed English track and the added rap music and what not. I also heard it has some scenes taken out and what not. A little disappointed by this copy, but oh well.)Police Story 3 (Or Supercop) is certainly an entertaining film. Where it lacks in story, it certainly makes up for it in stunt work. Your jaw will constantly be on the floor during the action sequences. The story here is... pretty weak. Jackie Chan goes undercover to stop... a bad guy who sells drugs? Or buys them? It can be quite unclear and confusing. So if anything brings this movie down, it would be the story.Luckily, the film is jammed full of some amazing stunts. Chinese/Hong Kong action films almost always impress, and this film is no exception. The last 15 minutes of so has some really crazy stunt work. I have no idea how they allowed the actors and stunt men to do the things they do, because they are risking their lives by doing them. There's a fight on a moving train where they have no safety harnesses or anything. Jackie Chan hangs from a ladder on a helicopter that is flying extremely high above the city. Michelle Yeoh jumps onto a moving train on a dirt bike. It's crazy but makes the film exhilarating to watch. You feel the danger within the scene, and it's a thrill. There's also a fair amount of comedy in this film, which is something that I can be a little weary about in action, but it works in this film. It surprisingly doesn't take away from the intensity, and it just works to make the film more entertaining and fun to watch.This is a film that needs to be seen by action fans. It could have been stronger story wise, but it contains some stunts that many would consider among the best. Check it out if you wanna have some mindless, cheesy fun. "},{"Title":"You watch Jackie Chan movies for the action and the stunts - not the plot","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was quite a good little movie, but then what does one expect from Jackie Chan. Okay, the subtitles in this movie were really bad, but that is not surprising. Even then, one does not really need subtitles for a Jackie Chan movie because one only watches it for the stunts and the action, not intense dialogue.A drug lord in Hong Kong is causing lots of problems in both Hong Kong and China, so they decide that they need a supercop. This Jackie Chan is hired and sent to China to begin operations. In China he teams up with a Chinese cop and they break a member of the drug lord's gang out of gaol and flee to Hong Kong where they attempt to arrest the drug lord.As I said, there is little depth in the movie, but what we watch this for is Jackie clinging to a rope ladder from a helicopter while the pilot is trying to bash him off by flying him through signs. This is supposed to be one of his more dangerous stunts, though he seems to be injured worse in his safe stunts.There isn't much else that I can say about this movie other than it is quite good. "},{"Title":"Action and comedy at its best","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great example of Jackie Chan's mind at work. He knows how to make the best action/comedies and his loyal fans appreciate his efforts. As well as having great costars who can act the part, it must be noted that Maggie Cheung did ALL of her own stunts. The out takes are worth the price of admission, alone. When they show Maggie falling on Jackie wearing the bomb vest, you can tell how much fun they had working together. And the number of takes it took to get it right is evident. His girlfriend in the movie could not have been more cute and helpless. Women 'lobbers' might not care for this as much as the rest of us. When he started coming to the US to meet with directors and producers, he had a lot of time to kill,so he became familiar with the work of Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd.The comedic influence of these two silent film giants is very obvious. "},{"Title":"Watch the UK VHS or H.K. DVD Version","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film Police Story III Supercop is the first Hong Kong movie to be shot with sync sound. It was released in 1993 in Hong Kong and was an instant success. However, it was only given a limited VHS release in the UK and has never been released on DVD.When Police Story 3 was released in the US, Disney bought the rights and killed it. It was given a new soundtrack, dubbed and cut just to make it stupid. Because of this, Cine Asia and HKL have never released this movie.Hopefully in the future it will be bought back and given a real release, until then the only decent version you can see is the Fortune Star HK DVD or the UK VHS which are very hard to find.In my opinion this movie is boring at the start, but eventually becomes an exciting movie. "},{"Title":"Great film to introduce people to Jackie Chan","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The version I'm reviewing is from the Chinese import DVD. Great follow up from police story one and two. Less action heavy than the first two films and darker in tone yet still has a lot of comedy thrown in. The plot that fills the gaps between action sequences is a lot more engaging than 90% of Jackie Chan's output. Acting performances arn't gonna win any awards but the cast does a good enough job of it Michelle yeoh in particular is a standout , id say this is the best demo of her work pre crouching tiger. The two villains of the piece Kenneth tsang and yuen wah are pretty memorable in there scenes and are both likable and villainous in equal measure. Action wise the film is less stunt heavy than previous entry's but makes up for it with very extreme stunts towards the end. There is a lot of hand to hand/ foot fighting and a larger focus on gun-play in this film which is a breath of fresh air because the film could have easily just been a rehash of parts one and two. As it stands super cop is as good as the first two police story films and id consider it to slightly surpass them. If you have 90 min to spare you cant go wrong watching this film. "},{"Title":"not quite the first one, but still really fun","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The third installment in the Police Story series has Jackie Chan going to China to intercept the henchman (Yuen Wah) of a drug kingpin. Assisting him is a no-nonsense officer (Michelle Yeoh), while his girlfriend (Maggie Cheung) has no idea what he's up to. As can be expected, the whole movie is an excuse for a series of stunts, namely the sequences in Thailand and Malaysia. I actually didn't like Jing cha gu shi III Chao ji jing cha (Supercop in English) quite as much as the first and fourth movies in the series -- I've never seen the second one -- but there's no denying that it's a really fun experience from beginning to end. Really cool.Stanley Tong later directed Chan in Rumble in the Bronx and First Strike, and then directed the atrocious Mr. Magoo movie. "},{"Title":"You're a super cop, and you have no memory?","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Long before Rush Hour with Chris Tucker, Jackie Chan was doing his own series of cop movies. The formula is exactly the same a mixture of amazing chop socky with humor and lots of shooting and explosions. You will find more violence in the Chinese versions than the tamer American movies.Instead of Chris Tucker, Chan teamed up with Michelle Yeoh (Memoirs of a Geisha, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon) and Maggie Cheung (2046, Hero). In fact, Yeoh actually provided much more entertaining moves in this film.If you like the Rush Hour films, you will love this movie as it is far superior. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's Best Film.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rated R for some violence. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14APolice Story 3Supercop or Supercop is the third film in the Jackie Chan Police Story series.In my opinion this and Legend Of The Drunken Master is Jackie Chan's best film.THis film has anything a Jackie chan fan could want.A little more action than the other chan films and great stunts and comedy to go with it.Aside from Jackie Chan this film also stars another famous actress.Michelle Yeoh.This film has a fairly good plot for this type of film.The film is about two cops who team up to stop a Chinese drug dealer.Chan goes undercover as a friend of the drug dealer.With plenty of great action scenes,stunts and comedy Supercop is a Chan film you wont want to miss.Runtime95min 10/10 "}{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Supercop is the third , movie in the Police story series. I think this movie was better than Police story 2. This movie had much more stunts then Police story 2. It also had better story and the humor was funnier. Michelle Yeoh does also a good job in this movie. The motorcycle stunt is one of the movies best stunts. Michelle ain't as funny or good as Jackie, but still does some good fights. The story in this movie isn't very bad like they usually are in many of Jackies movies.So i gave 7 of 10I recommend this movie for every Jackie fan. "},{"Title":"More bond than chan , but very good.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Though its very different to the two excellent police story movies that preceded it , police story 3 (or supercop depending on where you are from ) is an entertaining , exciting and sometimes very funny james bond approach to the franchise and it works just as well. Car chases , vehicle stunts and gunplay takes a more prominent role than fighting this time round but its all executed nicely and looks more dangerous than your average bond flick.Michell yeoh, who co-stars here, does more than keep up with jackie chan as she proves why shes the best female action hero out there .The best bit of all though is the finale which sees chan and yeoh taking on the bad guys- on a moving train. Its awe inspiring- definitely one of the best train based action sequences I've ever seen .PS3 isn't the best of the police stories, but its still well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's best movie!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought for sure that Twin Dragons would be the best movie I'll see starring Chan but now I'll have to say that Supercop is better.  It did not have the comedy of Twin Dragons but it had way better action.  The story was okay and the confrontation between characters could have been better, but the exciting action sequences make up for it!  If you like Hong Kong style action, than see this one! "},{"Title":"Great!!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a movie that is a must-see for all martial arts/action/Jackie Chan fans! About a man who goes undercover to bust some criminals.  Filled with tons of action, and plenty of stunts.(gotta love the helocoptor scene, and the motorcycle one. Followed by Supercop 2. If you like Chan movies, i suggest you see Cityhunter. Rated R for action/violence. suggested for ages 15+ in Hong Kong. "},{"Title":"*insert bad dubbing here*","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dear Stupid American DubbersI am quite frankly sick and tired of you butchering quite possibly every single film from overseas. Your inability to successfully even mildly recreate the experience as if it were in its native tongue continues to dazzle me. Even the grandest of grand films from around the world become less bearable to watch thanks to the pitiful, gut-wrenching dubbing. To further your skills in watering down all sorts of movies, you even disallow the ability for some movies to make it to the United States with a mere addition of subtitles. Is it really that hard to just ship the film with their native language and the translation on the bottom of the screen? Really? Here is a list of things you should avoid when dubbing a movie from any non-English-speaking country1) Do not re-edit the film. The movie is 108 minutes long because the makers wanted it to be that way. Do not chop any unnecessary scenes2) Do not remove scenes that actually further explains the plot. That is stupid. Very stupid 3) Do not attempt to add any humor into the movie. Your job is to only translate&#151;not translate and have a shot at stand-up comedy. 4) Do not add or change the soundtrack. You stupid imbeciles, why on earth is there hip-hop music in a Jackie Chan film? That's like throwing in a performance of Swan Lake during one of the intermissions in a hockey game. 5) Do not fix the sound effects. Why are you fixing the sound effects!!?!? 6) Why are we not using Chinese-Americans to help dub Chinese films!?!?? 7) Stop. Changing. The. Storyline. You. Amateurs. You. Make. Me. Want. To. Throw. Something. Heavy. 8) Just don't dub the film. As a matter of fact, don't even follow these rules, because that would mean you are trying to dub. Don't do it, just allow the movie (in its entirety) to arrive here in the United States, and put it the reliable subtitles on the bottom. Please and thank you. Despite Supercop being quite possibly the 38539th film to be ruined because of American dubbing, it remains an enjoyable film, and one that's quite different from the usual Chan fare. The film is about (after reading Wikipedia and IMDb because the dubbing sure messed that up) Chan going undercover with a beautiful agent (Michelle Yeoh) to track down a drug king.The action is very intense, rougher than the usual Chan material; so if you can adjust your tastes, you'll be in for a wild ride. While the usual amount of well-choreographed fights are replaced by heavy action set pieces, the final half an hour will leave you absolutely breathless. If you are disappointed in the first 60 minutes, stick around for the last leg, when you'll see unbelievable stunt after unbelievable stunt. Jackie Chan's female version performs her best work here, as Yeoh combines grittiness with a hintage of sexuality that's very subtle but all-so-present. Bottom Line Supercop is not the best Jackie Chan work, but it still entertains and still will blow you away with some of the set pieces and amazing stuntwork involved. The typical Jackie Chan humor is replaced with intense and crazy action that extends from brutal hand-to-hand combat to guns and missiles all over the place. With that being said, the dubbing will hamper the quality of the film a lot, no matter how hard you try to avoid it. Maybe in the future we can figure out how to successfully translate movies in a way that can make everybody happy; but in the meantime we have to deal with disgusting hip-hop, terrible re-editing, bad voice work acting, and an all-around aura of obviousness that the translators didn't have a clue on what the Chinese filmmakers and Jackie Chan were trying to achieve with this film. P.S. Stop dubbing movies. Please. Just subtitle them. Please. "},{"Title":"Top-notch Jackie, despite its minor flaws","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Though this is billed as the official third entry in the Police Story series, it doesn't really feel like a part of it. The higher production values and the rapid changes of international locations give it an almost Bondian feel. The comedy has been touched-up a bit from the previous entry, and it is actually frequently funny (unlike, for example, the comedy in Twin Dragons or the Lucky Stars films). The action sequences - from the (literally) death-defying stunts to the dizzyingly fast fight scenes - are incredible. The plot is much stronger than usual for a Chan film, though sometimes it collapses into chaos (particularly in the massacre after the meeting of the drug lords, where it's hard to know who's killing whom, or why). Michelle Yeoh cannot quite match Jackie in the comedy department - she doesn't have his facial expressions or comic timing - but she more than matches him in the action scenes, and she shows off some fantastic moves. The version I saw was (acceptably) dubbed, but thankfully did not include the rap soundtrack that others mention. (***) "},{"Title":"chan fan's will love it...","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the best instalment of the police story series and arguably one of jackie chan's finest films.the pairing of chan and yeoh work wonderfully well together. and rather than adopting the standard role of leading female (pretty, but helpless) yeoh more than holds her own in the action stakes and is so good in fact, that she almost upstages chan himself.under the direction of stanley tong, this film contains pretty much everything you could want and expect from a jackie chan movie. while the fight scenes may be less frequent than some of his earlier films, they are very well done and it is the attention to storyline and production values that set this apart from many others. added to that, the usual mix of stunts and humour, this is a hugely enjoyable movie.fans of chan will love it and for those new to the delights of jackie, this will serve as a perfect introduction to his work. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a lot of fun.  Jackie Chan is great (as always), and he & Michelle Yeoh work very well together.  Plus, there are some pretty spectacular stunts - Jackie hanging onto a helicopter flying over Kuala Lumpur, Michelle jumping a motorcycle onto a moving train, etc., that make this movie really special. "},{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  jackie chan and michelle yeoh team up in the third and funniest of the police story movies! but it still cant beat 1 and 4. this is cool because of the chemistry between chan and yeoh. they go so well together! a must for all chan and yeoh fans, but let me warn you, the lack of martial arts fighting scenes may turn you off, but it didnt bother me. see it and have fun! "},{"Title":"Two Stars in One Action Packed Movie!!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan and Michelle Yeoh in one movie !! This film rocks !! This is the best movie out of the whole 'Police Story Series. Jackie provides the best stunt like a fight on a moving train and Michelle Yeoh with her amazing bike jump onto a moving train. These two stars will make you laugh. This is a really good movie because it has amazing fight's and stunts. Go watch it now!!!!  "}{"Title":"We see in this film three of Yeoh's special qualities","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is, of course, one of Jackie Chan's best films. And one of Michelle Yeoh's, too. In fact, it is the chemistry between the two that makes the film stand out.I have, for a long time, been trying to put my finger on what makes Yeoh so special on screen. This film provides three partial answers.First, the chemistry. Her best roles have been those in which she is paired with a strong co-lead -- usually male, but at least once a female -- with whom she has a somewhat adversarial relationship marked by growing mutual respect. In a sense, her unique character is best seen by the sparks thrown off as others try to deal with her as a conventional woman. This is what made TOMORROW NEVER DIES so entertaining.Second, watch the scene in the smugglers boat when she springs to alert as the police boats spot them. It is a small, incidental moment. But I suddenly realized, as I watched it for the fourth time recently, who she has so much reminded me of all this time. Toshiro Mifune. My favorite actor as a youth. What made Mifune unique was that tightly coiled intensity, that explosive athleticism, that he brought to all his roles. It came out notably in his dramatic use of facial expressions -- to express emotion or exertion. And in his body movements -- at turns muscular, fluid and explosive. Michelle Yeoh is a female Toshiro Mifune. She uses her face the same way. And her movements have the same power.Third, watch the outtake in which Jackie Chan is struck by the martial arts training wheel. Michelle Yeoh never leaves her character. As everyone scurries around laughing and joking, Inspector Yang strides serenely with her hands clasped behind her back. Even her look of amused surprise has Yang's condescension. She is inside her role. Mifune, I have read, used to stay in character through an entire day of shooting. In 1941, he even insisted on drilling his Navy crew for days to get the right feel. I sense that Yeoh is equally dedicated to her roles.    "},{"Title":"kung fu chop suy action packed","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is action packed. it is somewhat funny in some scenes. like when jackie goes home to see his grandma undercover, she i mean he drops his breasts. also the scene in this movie which was taken out during editing, jackie has his shoulder dislocated by the moving helicopter scene at the end of the movie. My favorite scenes were when jackie and Chaibat fighting in the regimen style straw houses, when jackie meets the police training facility, and when jackie is saved by his sister when Panther is arrested at the restaurant. I enjoyed this movie and also bought the supercop 2 on dvd.. i know youll enjoy his movies like i do..  "},{"Title":"Super Cop, Super Movie !","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great action from start to finish. It was like James Bond.. eat this !, and The American cinema.. we are here and no less !. No doubt that this is one of the best movies Jackie ever did. Moreover, I watched many movies directed by Stanley Tong. Well, nothing by him was as top-notch as this yet. All the man's cadres are sharp. The atmosphere is rough. The image is hot. The pace is breathless. The explosions are done perfectly (I hated just showing one of them twice). And For all of the time the action is impeccable, rather historical.It doesn't have action scenes; it has action pieces. Their choreography is what excellent stands for (No wonder since Tong, who directed and wrote the whole movie, began as stunt man). Now this is something the Americans must watch, study and envy. How many movies you saw where the action takes place across mountains, over ceilings, in streets, above trains, amongst jungles, with a car chases a helicopter, and a motorcycle jumps up a train ? Not many I suppose ! The absence of CGI makes me the happiest man alive. The least use of body-doubles and flying wires, while being so dangerous itself, pushed this movie to a rare classical rank. In a word  this action LOOKS REAL, to a degree Hollywood itself didn't achieve unless very few times.Jackie and Yeoh's chemistry on screen is pure wow. Certainly I couldn't get enough of any scene they shared. She's equal to him yet as a girl, being in my opinion the best co-star he had during his entire career. By the way aside from so lovely performance they delivered, both of them seemed made of rubber, moving like what an actual jinni would move, doing their stunts in ways no sane person can imagine, I believe these are parts of the reason why they deserve to be called legends. Why they weren't shown as from-haters-to-lovers; yes, it's un-formulaic move but while the girlfriend was here just to blow Chan's cover and be in the hands of the baddies later; then it wasn't a problem to do these things with a sister's character or else, otherwise they merely wanted not to sacrifice the pun of her dialog as girlfriend/whore ! (or it's me loving so much the idea of Jackie and Yeoh as lovers at last !!).Actually the only shortcoming remains, somewhat, in the script. Despite having a plot with a solid shape, and a time full of surprises, I thought that a few parts were kind of forced; for instance how (Panther)'s men don't know well the man they probably hired to help their boss escaping from jail ?, why, while uncovering Chan as a police officer, the gang insisted on using him at the last kidnapping ? (better if they use him, then discover all about him later !), and finally that kidnapping matter too wasn't quite logical; it seemed more like a way to find appropriate third act's plot. Anyway, and to tell you the truth, WHO CARES ??! That very third act is now considered one of the greatest action sequences in the history of cinema. Among any other action sequence this is an immaculate gold alloy, where the writing for the action is crazy and the directing is even crazier. Plus, compared to Jackie's other works, this is in general one of the most complete movies he starred.I loved (Police Story 3 Super Cop). It's super itself. Here, these good guys from Hong Kong dreamed very big and utterly fulfilled. I wish after 18 years of its production, and according to the status of the movies Jackie does in Hollywood lately, that he learns himself a lesson by re-watching this movie in specific. Again, I and the rest of the world, lost a considerable deal of enjoyment when Jackie went to America. It's strange what Hollywood does with these talents, decreasing the portion of authentic, while increasing the portion of phony to unbearable extent. Just remember 2 things. 1) To date no action Jackie did in America is remotely like this. 2) Five years after (Super..), Stanley Tong will be called in Hollywood to direct (Mr. Magoo). How Catastrophic !! "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan is outshone by his female co-star!!!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police Story 3 continues the exploits of Hong Kong's favourite cop and delivers another quality action movie,although it is definitely a notch down from the first two films. Director Stanley Tong,who later made Jackie's breakthrough US hit Rumble In The Bronx,made the decision to tone down the martial arts set pieces,the slapstick and the intensity of the first two,and partially replace them with a more Western style of film-making. The stunts are still prevailent,but more of the action now involves vehicles and explosions,the comedy is more plot-driven rather than pure slapstick and we now leave Hong Kong and visit mainland China and Malaysia. All this edges the film almost towards a Bond movie the fourth film in the series basically WAS Jackie Chan doing James Bond.All this makes this a very easy watch for those not so accustomed to Hong Kong movies,but one could say it loses something for it. Sadly the plot is uninteresting and generally the film is mediocre in it's first hour,with only brief bits of action or indeed inspiration. Jackie really plays second fiddle to co-star Michelle Yoeh in this film,the only time he let this happen with a female co-star. However there are some good laughs,especially one scene where Chan has to pretend he's from a village he's never been to,and the film recovers for a terrific last third packed with amazing action,including Chan hanging on a helicopter being bashed on buildings,Chan fighting villains on top of a train,and Yeoh,not to be completely outdone,jumping from a motorbike onto the moving train.Probably the least of the Police Story films then but there's still great fun to be had. The US cinema release is only slightly cut,unlike many of his other films released in the States. "},{"Title":"Stuntfest","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Supercop is a cut above the early Chan Hong Kong flicks and a cut below the later Chan flicks (eg Rush Hour, Shanghai Noon, etc.) The film is an ordinary comedy/action flick with some innovative stunt work which gets off to a slow start with a messy bunch of nonsense and builds to a stuntfest on par with some of the best stunt work of recent films. If you're a Chan fan you've probably already seen Supercop. If not, you'll probably want to view the more recent Chan flicks (roughly Rumble in the Bronx through Rush Hour 2) before spending time with Supercop. (B-) "},{"Title":"good Jackie action","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hong Kong police officer Ka Kui (Jackie Chan) is sent to mainland China to break up a criminal gang as a supposed supercop. Chief of security Jessica Yang (Michelle Yeoh) is assigned to assist him. He breaks out the drug lord (Kenneth Tsang)'s brother out of prison and infiltrates the gang. Yang pretends to be his sister.Jackie is his lovable Jackie self. He is fun and compelling. Michelle Yeoh is a terrific second. She has the charisma and a serious acting capability. This one leans more towards the action side and less on the silly comedic side. As a Jackie Chan action drama, this is quite good and like always, it has his great stunts and the closing credits to prove it. It's also great to Michelle Yeoh getting her hands dirty. "},{"Title":"Stop In The Name Of The Law!","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This Chop Foey film continues the story of Superchop Stevie Chan played by Marital Arts Master Jack Chan. The film stars the 4 most famous Chinese actors ever &#x96; Chan, Maggie Cheung as his wife, Michelle Yoyo as his boss, and Butch Wiffy as the bad guy. Chan's Uncle decides to send him to mainland China to infiltrate a Drug Baron called Samedi. Chan must join the group by pretending to be a prisoner and getting it on with Samedi's left leg man known as Clive. He gains Clive's trust by busting out of prison together. This scene featured over 500 real prisoners having a riot- Chan fought his way through every one of them and later made sure they returned to their cells or else he would come back and finish them off. It is a big excitement scene with lots of kicks and stuff, and one part sees Chan using another inmate as a bat, swinging his way happily through hordes of murderers, rapists, and tax avoiders.Later Clive takes Chan to Samedi's Lair where they have some 7-Up and play monopoly for a while. Chan wins (using the boot) and Samedi huffs, killing a few henchmen. Chan thinks he may be in to deep this time. They go to free Samedi's mistress, Lady Tibet who has special bank codes but is on death row for walking backwards down a dark alley. Eventually Samedi sees Chan is really a cop (he should have stopped wearing his sheriff's badge) and tries to kill him. There is a tragic event and Chan goes all Bruce Lee, killing all the bad guys in a ferocious 40 minute finally over roads, rooftops, rivers, racecourses, using cars, carts, copters, capers, and cartwheels. It is packed full of actions and is lovely to watch, especially with a few cans of cant.Best Scene. When Chan kills a bad guy with a monopoly board, quipping 'DO NOT PASS GO, SILLY BAD MAN HEAD!' "},{"Title":"My all time favorite Jackie Chan movie","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like most martial arts movie fans, I was aware of the Hong Kong cinema's new wave of high powered action movies that seemed to out-do and out gun anything Hollywood could put out at the time. So when the powers-that-be tried to break Jackie Chan in America for the second time with Rumble In The Bronx, it was a bit of a let down. The action sequences pieces were pretty awesome, but the plot had way too much sappy (and predicable) sentimentality and most of the supporting stuff was just off somehow. The end result didn't knock my socks off the way I had hoped. Rumble In The Bronk wasn't nearly as good as The Protector or Eastern Condors or even Wheels on Meals, (movies I had to go to a lot of trouble and extra expense to see) and it seemed like an odd choice to try to impress Western audiences. But something about RITB - maybe the hovercraft sequence where Chan water-skis on his butt, or SOMEthing - caught on with American audiences this time, and the next theatrical release was Super Cop, known as Police Force III in other countries. And boy, this was the martial arts movie of the decade as far as I am concerned. Everything here is damned near perfect. The plotting, the humor, the fight and action sequences, even the acting was a considerable notch above previous Chan flicks. A lot of the credit for this has to go to Michelle Yeoh, who is one of the rare actresses who can back flip, high kick, AND be completely natural and intriguing on camera. She really does add a great deal of ooomph to the film with her fierce intelligence and sincerity, which plays well off Chan's own bug-eyed oh what the hell NOW? attitudes in the fight scenes and his semi-slacker attitude in the plot-advancing scenes. Just a wonderful movie with a great story arc and exhilarating action. Of all Chan's theatrical releases in the West, only Legend Of The Drunken Master (or Drunken Master II) comes close. "},{"Title":"An Average Chan Flick","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As far as Jackie Chan movies go, I can't say that Supercop is suggested, nor does it excel in many fields. It's an average, easy to watch movie with a pretty basic story (Chan goes undercover, meets another undercover agent, and then takes down a drug lord) and some occasionally decent action sequences. The ending is about the only part of the movie that truly shines with a really neat train sequence, but the rest is nothing we haven't seen before. Chan beats someone up, shoots someone, and there's a lot of needless explosions.As a Police Story movie, I can't say it's the weakest as I've yet to watch the second film, but compared to the fourth (which has one of the most memorable Chan action sequences) and the first (which also contains one of the best action sequences he's done), this one falls flat. It's just another average Jackie Chan police movie in a long line of Jackie Chan cop films. "},{"Title":"Good film, but with some irritating flaws","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Supercop is the third movie in the Police Story-series starring Jackie Chan. Jackie Chan`s character infiltrate the biggest crime-syndicate in HongKong. There are as always many fancy stunts and actionscenes, but the English dubbing proved to be quite annoying. 7,5/10 "}{"Title":"Not bad but not great","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After Rumble in the Bronx came out in U.S, a lot of people were interested in Jackie Chan and Supercop, in my general impression, is it's not bad, but not great. Action The action is all there. We all know Jackie does his own stunts so that's amazing. The fighting from Jackie is awesome and entertaining and surprisingly, Michelle ye-oh was also very entertaining and refreshing. The only action sequence i say that is over the top is the one versus the drug lords. The drug lords vs. Military vs. themselves was good but a little dis believable. I mean 3 guys with rocket launchers can take down the entire militia like that? Makes no sense. Especially since one of the guys merely had a grenade launcher which for some odd reason exploded grenades like they were rockets but whatever. Characeters Jackie Chan is always great. His over the top comedy plus nice friendly attitude are what make Jackie enjoyable. If you don't like Jackie Chan then why are you even watching his movie? The only character i have a problem with is Jackie's girlfriend. I'm not sure why every Chinese movie has to have some air head, annoying, irritating Chinese woman in it but it does. It was very foolish for her to spill out Jackies character to a co worker in a crowded elevator. Every time she hit Jackie you wanted him to sidekick her ass out the door. In my opinion, Jackie could have just stuck with Michelle and cut her out her part entirely. Storyline First the storyline seemed strait forward. Jackie is a cop, is hired by Chinese government to infiltrate a criminal gang learn there secret bring him down. No problems there. From that point is gets tricky and bad. It seems like the movie was written literally on spot, or as the movie went along. The transitions were not smooth towards the middle and to be honest, the movie started to get semi boring. It all started with the police that wanted to take down the criminals in the restaurant. It made no sense that the officer would not recognize Michelle as she is a top notch high brass officer. Second, wouldn't Chinese interpol or what not let all the police in on what is going on? It's the same on the boat ride. Why again? It just isn't realistic to have the police force always after the criminal when they know or should know they have two officers undercover. At first i thought it was apart of the plan but when they started firing guns at them on the boat, it obviously wasn't. Another point is the fact that such high profile criminals wouldn't know high profile good guys. Most American movies already know this so they capitalize by having the criminals get close to finding the truth and are from day one suspicious. This movie didn't go that direction but what another direction which was not great or expected. It left a lot of grounds it should have covered, not traveled at all. Further, another weird storyline is with Panther's older brother. The movie throws a wild card by bringing in his brother who simply wants to take over the drugs by killing all other drug lords then he tells the general to fly to wherever to meet with the main people but instead we never see the general again and next thing we know, there trying to free the wife? Why?The hotel resort sequences were bad also. How many times does Jackie have to tell his Girlfriend IM UNDERCOVER. He told her before he left, he told her there, he told her after she was pushed in the pool, but she played the dumb blonde part and opened her mouth in the elevator. Whoops. I can't stress enough how she makes this movie semi enjoyable to irritating in no time. The final part which made NO SENSE is when they finally tell Panther there undercover, he captures them but next thing we know there not captured anymore and are trying to use the wife as bait to get back Jackies girlfriend. Why have the whole drug-lord thing of going to meet with the main guys? Wasn't Chibot supposed to be for the drugs? If there cover was blown why not just call in everyone? Michelle even said they've had no contact from Hong Kong. Why? See how confusing it is? Why drop the girlfriend off before they even have the wife? Did panther really go through all that trouble to get out of prison just to help his brother get his wife out of prison? What happened to that money Panther had promised Jackie? What about that shipment of heroine? See the problem is there's just too much going on. Drugs, escaping wife from Prison, Military, Older brother etc. It just becomes a convoluted mess. Overall the movie was good in action, good in most characters but the storyline got weak and confusing. Certain scenes should not have been written in and generally this film should have been put in the editing table, tested and redone but probably due to a low budget, it probably wasn't possible. In conclusion, -1 1/2 for the girlfriend, - 3 1/2 for storyline = 5/10 "}]