[{"Title":"One of the greatest low budget movies of the last twenty years, and still an inspiration to wanna be movie makers around the world.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"51 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'El Mariachi' should still be regarded as an inspiration to wanna be movie makers around the world. For around US$7,000 Robert Rodriguez created one of the most enjoyable action movies to hit Hollywood since Peckinpah's 'The Getaway'. Once again Rodriguez proves the point that creativity and imagination beat million dollar budgets every time. An obvious concept to most people one would think, but going by the overblown CGI infested crapola at a theatre near you something that mainstream Hollywood STILL doesn't get! Carlos Gallardo played El Mariachi and co-produced with Rodriguez who did just about everything else - writer, director, cinematographer, editor, special effects,etc.etc. I first saw this movie not long after it hit video and I enjoyed it a lot. I recently watched it on DVD for the first time, ten years after I first saw it, and to me it really stands up. (Rodriguez' commentary is also highly recommended to any aspiring director) Personally my favourite Rodriguez movie is 'From Dusk Til Dawn', but 'El Mariachi' comes a close second. It's sequel cum remake 'Desperado' is a better known to most people but despite a budget 1000 times bigger(!) and some name actors involved I don't think it has half the energy and fun of the original, one of the greatest low budget movies of the last twenty years. "},{"Title":"Good morning, Azul. Know who this is?","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Through the heart of independent cinema comes the bold and expressive first film by Robert Rodriguez. While he would go on later to give us some modern day classics, this is the film that jump-started his career. Set in a gritty town of Mexico, a drifter arrives ready to restart a new life and concentrate on his music. He soon learns that this will be a very difficult dream since the moment he steps foot in town he is mistaken for a murderous criminal named Azul. Azul is after his money that Moco (the head boss) has failed to pay him. Moco tries to have Azul killed, but finds it difficult when he carries with him a guitar case filled with guns. After several gun battles, explosions, and a love story with a woman that gives the guitar player his first real gig, our hero finds his life in the mercy of others. It is at this time our Mariachi is reborn.Rodriguez gives his best direction to date. Perhaps it was the lack of funds or the intensely gritty scenes, but this film helped me realize why cinema is so amazing. It is the perfect story of the small fish making his big mark on a big pond. Rodriguez takes every resource he can and rebuilds the classic concept of mistaken identity. With the fast-framed photography and interesting choice of camera angles, he takes a straightforward story and builds a legend. I enjoyed watching this film because although it was made for just a simple $7,000, the production doesn't look cheap. I have seen Hollywood blockbusters that have looked like they squandered their money more than Rodriguez did. I was just impressed with the quality of the film and the story that I suddenly felt myself totally immersed into the story.Oddly, it is the story that never falters throughout this picture. Normally, when you have a lower cost on budget, a segment of a film will suffer. Sometimes it is the character development, other times it is the story. Nothing is forgotten about in this film. There is plenty of violence (for all you action fans out there), some powerful drama (dealing with his dreams), and some comedy that will keep you grinning from ear to ear. By having this strong balance, our hero emerges with the utmost confidence, our villain seems diabolically evil, and therefore leading into moments of sheer joy, constantly wondering what will happen next. I was rooting for everyone in this film because I felt something for each. Only through the careful eye and artistic direction of Rodriguez could such a feat be accomplished.I have nothing negative to say about this film. From the moment the first turtle walked across the screen until the very end, I enjoyed every aspect of this picture. I suggest this movie to anyone that has ever thought about making a film, but was concerned about budget. I also suggest this film to anyone who loves a good story, amazing action, and characters that literally jump out of the screen like comic book heroes.Grade ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Very good low-budget film, puts most blockbusters to shame.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is so well-established now in other comments, I won't repeat that Robert Rodriguez made this debut film of his for a mere $7,000. Regardless how much he did or didn't spend, this is a very well-written and photographed story of a nice young man who only wants to be a Mariachi singer, but is inadvertently caught up in a manhunt and several gunfights. The movie is not intended to be taken seriously. The crook with the guitar case full of guns is supposed to be part of the joke of the movie. Many people get shot and killed, and of course that isn't funny in real life, but this film is not intended to reflect real life. It is just an entertaining film. Sort of a cartoon come to life.I saw this on DVD, which is real nice because the extra features contain a great insight into how Rodriguez shot and edited this movie. For example, all the filming was done silently. Then, armed with a tape recorder and Radio Shack microphone, he had the actors re-do the scene while he recorded the dialog and other sounds. Music was done the same way. Then, when Rodriguez edited the movie, he matched the tape-recorded sound to the filmed action for the final cut. Watching the film you can notice some non-synchronization, and that's the reason why. It is certainly not distracting. He made the film with no crew, no fancy equipment, vrtally no lighting other than natural. Most of the actors were local Mexican businessmen, bartenders, or TV news men. Quite an achievement in movie-making, because it is a very entertaining movie on its own. I give it 9 of 10, partly because of the novelty of its origin.The other side of the DVD contains Rodriguez's followup movie, Desperado, which is actually a sequel to El Mariachi. So, if you rent or buy this DVD, you are getting 2 movies for one price.  Quite a deal!! "},{"Title":"Still amazes me","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just did myself a big favor and bought El Mariachi/Desperado double DVD and even though I've seen both of these timeless classics before especially this one keeps on amazing me. Obviously it's rather easy to make a good, solid action movie when you got the talent and huge quantities of money to spend on it but it's a lot harder to do it without the cash and only with your talent and creativity. That's why El Mariachi is in many ways still the best movie of Robert Rodriguez.The fact that someone can come up with something as gripping, cool, stylish and suspenseful as this with only a 7000 dollar budget is miraculous. El Mariachi is certainly one of the best action flicks I've ever seen, it's an incredible work of art from a 20+ year old lad. It doesn't have a single dull moment, every scene is a pure genius. Just look at the extremely vivid and highly clever way film has been photographed and edited to make it more exciting. One of the biggest low budget masterpieces of the movie history. Definitely 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Frenetic.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I know the budget for this film was somewhere between 5000 and 7000 dollars, but I would like to comment more on the pacing and frenetic film style Rodriguez bestows upon us. Low budget or not,this film has energy. It never lets down for more than a few minutes and the editing is amazing. Robert Rodriguez has such a knowledge of film-making that he makes this movie look like a million bucks easy. The film isn't perfect, but on sheer energy alone it will entertain you more than most over-blown Hollywood action films. "},{"Title":"This First One Still The Best In The Trilogy","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie put director Robert Rodriguez on the map. He followed up with two sequels Desperado and Once Upon A Time In Mexico. Not surprising, the best of the three was this low-budget opening film. As Rodriquez had more and more money to spend on the sequels, the stories got more and more carried away with too many explosions and special-effects, losing the charm of this first effort.Unlike the sequels, this Mexican-made, so it is in Spanish with English subtitles. Don't let that scare you away. There isn't a great deal of dialog so keeping up with the subtitles is very easy.The movie has very interesting camera closeups and angles as Rodriquez showed he was going to be a stylish director. The story is simple but effective, suspenseful and even with some humor. Unnlike his subsequent films in this trilogy, the action is not overdone here. The length is also is a plus. At 80 minutes you can be thoroughly entertained in less than an hour-and-a half. The only disappointment to me was the print quality on th DVD, but I got an early edition. There might be better editions out since. It's not fuzzy but it's not sharp, either. Anyway highly recommend for actions/crime buffs who like style in their photography, or saw the sequels and would like to know the history of this particular Mariachi. "},{"Title":"Robert Rodriguez's feature film debut!!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi (1992) was a fine debut for film maker Robert Rodriguez. He makes the most of his minuscule budget and makes a very entertaining action film. The story behind the making of the film is even more interesting than the movie itself. You can tell from this movie that Robert Rodriguez had a bright future in the movie business.The story is about a musician who's trying to find work in a Mexican border town. None of the places he visits wants to hire a guitar player for their business. Meanwhile another man comes to town carrying a guitar case, he's no musician. He's a notorious hit man for a local gangster. When their paths cross, nothing but trouble lies ahead for the El Mariachi. Can the poor dude survive the week without being killed? Who is this guitar carrying killer? Why is he in town? What are the local crime boss' motives? To find out you'll have to watch EL MARIACHI!!!An interesting debut that showed lots of promise. The movie was followed by a pseudo-sequel/remake a few years later with a bigger budget and a cast filled with a lot of named actors.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"a bang of a debut","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Rodriguez has his first little/big film here that is by no means big money wise. The book written by Rodriguez, Rebel Without a Crew, illustrates this point very well, but to see the film in its present form you might wonder if it really cost more than he says. But it's this same grit that adds to its rough charm, like a slightly more cartoonish, crazy and action-packed film in the vein of Night of the Living Dead (shoe-string done with a level of truth for what the genre material needs). The budget for this film was 7000. That is the cheapest price for a film given wide release I've still heard of, and probably is. And watching this film I noticed that a lot the big hundreds of millions of dollars spent on other films, while usually bankrolled with high-powered Hollywood casts and immense crews working on special effects, they lost an intensity that this film has even in its brief quiet scenes. Plus, as in the rest of the Mariachi films, it's often got a slick, quick sense of humor where Rodriguez's compositions say almost all there needs to be said. The story shows a singing musician (El Mariachi) who is not looking for trouble, but everyone is wanting to kill a man carrying a guitar case, which he has. It's a nifty little classic of exploitation/action that was meant for video markets but doesn't compromise. It's even got OK acting. "},{"Title":"Dynamic debut...","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jaded, perhaps, by years of toiling in the Public Access field (and having sat through scores of first, foundering efforts by scores of foundering aspiring filmmakers), I was taken completely by surprise by the remarkable Robert Rodriguez's first film. As sure and as polished as any feature, EL MARIACHI belies its no-budget roots and stands as a testament to determination- and talent. If you're one of those whose attention span precludes sitting down and actually reading Rodriguez's book REBEL WITHOUT A CREW, I recommend obtaining a DVD featuring his ten-minute film school. And pay very close attention There'll be a quiz afterward. "},{"Title":"a simple yet impressively made film","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What could easily be viewed as just a simple B-movie turns into an impressive, gritty and action-packed independent feature from director Robert Rodriguez. It's the volatile, gripping story of a wandering guitarist who arrives in a small Mexican town looking for a big break, but unfortunately a case of mistaken identity makes him the target of the town's cold-blooded boss and his vile henchmen who are bent on killing him. Shot for a remarkable $7,000, and featuring a cast of newcomers and generally unknowns, this formidable little feature still packs a punch with violent, pumped-up action scenes and credible performances. Nothing ever truly breathtaking, but a respectable showing nonetheless. *** "}{"Title":"Get real! Even for $7000!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I know it's his first film, and I know he only spent $7000. But still... How can Ebert say this is a good movie? It's pathetic, for a commercial product. Maybe for a family movie fest, featuring all the relatives. But the actors, other than the Mariachi, the joint girlfriend, and the real hit man, are so stiff and artificial that it was a pain to watach them. This Moco guy is such a bad actor that I can't believe the director couldn't liven him up any. There are a couple of cute scenes, but by and large this is not worth watching. I just had to in view of all the fuss everyone made. Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Only good as a joke","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I do not know if the movie was meant to be a spoof or some kind of a joke but if so comes rather long. A passable plot but ridiculous acting, close up shots and zooms that would be not excused in the seventies and an end that would be great in something like Blazing Saddles. The way that was filmed and the garish colors they look a some short of blaxploitation film that for the change was filmed in Mexico or some Italian western that they corrected the colors. I watched it in three sittings trying to believe what I saw. But on second thought if you sit and watch it like a Gene Wilder movie with a watery eyed Mexican substitute maybe goes down with the first try. "},{"Title":"A Nice Film","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Let's give credit where credit is due. Although this picture had an extremely low-budget, it goes to prove that a nice film can still be produced if the director has the imagination and talent to pull it off. And let's face it, the sad fact is that there are all too many movies being made today that cost much more than this particular film ($7000) but fail to deliver the same level of satisfaction. The director (Robert Rodriguez) deserves every attribute due to him. The humor was good and there were some social commentaries that I think some people might have missed. That is not to say, however, that this film was necessarily perfect. It wasn't. The acting wasn't great by any means. Neither was the script. But then, the movie was originally produced in Spanish and the version I saw was dubbed in English, so it is possible that some of the dialogue may have been lost in translation. The ending though, was unexpected and abrupt and I didn't quite like it. As far as the characters are concerned, I thought Reinol Martinez (playing the part of the gangster Azul) did the best. Consuelo Gomez (Domino) was attractive and put in a fair performance as well. Carlos Gallardo (El Mariachi) was average at best. The rest of the cast were pretty much forgettable. Having said all of this, the fact that this film was produced with a low budget doesn't mean that a person should lower his standards and give it a higher score than it deserves when it comes to evaluating it. This wasn't Gone with the Wind so there's no need to give it an equivalent rating. The bottom line is that it was an enjoyable low-budget film and it made a hefty profit. No need to argue with that. "},{"Title":"An inspiration","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This deserves to be remembered. A young, enthusiastic man named Robert proved a number of things about film-making. Such as that low-budget doesn't have to mean bad, that inexpensive and cheap can be two different notions, and that, today, everyone and anyone can make a movie, something which he has since gone on to release self-made documentaries in order to further encourage, and educate about the possibilities of. He knew he didn't have a big studio backing him, and he refused to do what so many others have done in that position, and give in to the idea of the end result being poor. Instead, he made every effort and put all that he was able to put up on the screen, and went a couple of places that Hollywood, out of fear of lost profit, doesn't dare to go often enough. Yes, he got a lucky break. That doesn't change the fact that this can fuel the dreams of other hopefuls, and, along with Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs, has allowed independent cinema to not purely be deeply artistic pieces, but also hold mainstream-audience-friendly genre-flicks. The plot bears the marks of not having a skilled or experienced writer behind it, though the characterization, what there is of it, is pretty good, if the people tend to be types we've seen elsewhere. It should be noted that this was made for Rodriguez to practice, he didn't expect it to be a success. I stand by that he fares considerably better when he has someone else provide the script, a theory backed up by more or less everything he's made. He's visual, he puts together cool images, that's what he excels at. His cartoonist side shows, as well, in the somewhat warped sense of humor, and while he goes kind of far in some places, this can still be viewed by most. The pace is fast, and the almost 80 minutes fly by. He gets a lot of energy into the majority of this, partially on account of the rather frequent cuts(since he pieced it together from takes that had the bits required, instead of redoing entire setups). The action is well-done, and bigger than you might think, for the whole thing costing so little. Since the actors are untrained, the performances are average. The dialog varies, and surely it's never less than passable. Cinematography and editing help prove how much RR put into this. The music is great, throughout. I haven't watched a dubbed version, so I can't vouch for the quality of that. This has disturbing content and violence. The DVD comes with Bedhead, well-done short, a theatrical trailer, the first of his Ten Minute featurettes, and an informative Director's Commentary. And hey, this can help you learn Spanish, if that interests you, since the lines are spoken slower than usual with the language, and pronounced clearly. I recommend this to anyone who wishes to view it, especially fans of the multi-talent who created it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good with so little.","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pretty good with so little. Of course the acting isn't that good at all, nor is the dialog and special effects (only action). But the story, plot and main character are all very likable. I'll admit I am not a Robert Rodriguez fan, I'll Repeat NOT a Robert Rodriguez fan this is my favorite of his work. Where did he turn after Four Rooms (which I didn't even really like) he became Hollywood BS is what he did. He conformed to BS of Hollywood because for an ambitious very cheap independent film he had a promising career. I'm sure others would disagree (just because he's made much money and success in Hollywood) but nonetheless a bunch of BS is what he's done after El Mariachi. The end was good and like I said the plot was simple the story was interesting and the Mariachi was a likable character. "},{"Title":"More grindhouse than Planet Terror; an exercise in low budget, exploitation thrills","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Having experienced director Robert Rodriguez's most recent film, the zombie horror pastiche Planet Terror (2007) - which was sold as a double bill with Quentin Tarantino's femme-exploitation revisionist film Death Proof (2007) as a modern-day homage to low-budget 70's drive-in cinema - I couldn't help but feel somewhat disappointed by its obvious disregard of the low-budget format in favour of CGI, explosions and A-list cameos. Now, although Planet Terror was hardly a big budget affair, it was clearly the work of an experienced filmmaker with his own studio and facilities and a collection of superstar friends willing to turn up and do a couple of days work at a reduced fee. However, with this, his first film, Rodriguez creates a perfect example of the grindhouse ethos in a more contemporary sense; i.e. a violent, low-budget exploitation picture with a minuscule cast of mostly no professional actors and with almost every single technical role carried out by the director himself.Unlike Planet Terror - which is a good film and one that I did enjoy - the final result here is lively and inventive, with none of the generic clichés and nodding irony of that more recent project. It not only shows the efforts of low-budget film-making at its best, but uses the same shortcomings of low-budget film-making to its advantage. In this respect, it reminds me of something that Roger Corman might have produced in the 1970's, with the exploitative reliance on violence and the corruption of innocence as its central theme, and the excitement and imagination that permeates the direction of Rodriguez from the first frame to the last. The film can obviously be approached as a minor-key riff on the very noir-like notions of mistaken identity, small-town corruption and the vision of the mysterious gunslinger, with Rodriguez creating his own blend of Mexploitation cinema that would continue with the bigger-budgeted sequel/re-make Desperado (1995) and the third instalment, Once Upon a Time in Mexico (2003), which just might be the director's best film (or at least, the most entertaining). You can also see certain parallels with a film like From Dusk till Dawn (1996) and the proposed Machete (2008), though really; these films come nowhere near the verve, grit and vitality of the film in question.If you can get past the technical limitations, the use of the Spanish language and the reliance on non-professional actors, then El Mariachi (1992) is a great film. Not a masterpiece, but simply a great film; one that offers entertainment value and some genuine no-budget ingenuity and - if watched with the added bonus of the director's commentary function - an effective, makeshift film school. I suppose you could always disagree that the film is more successful as a result of the low-budget, as I guess there are some elements here that audiences might see as shoddy or indeed comical due to the lack of funds and experience. Nonetheless, the film really does use these limitations to further the story and the occasional moments of light comedy, not to mention the creation of those enigmatic dream-sequences, which Rodriguez claims were shot simply to use up the last few feet of film on each reel. It all works though, creating a film that is wild, violent, funny, charming and above all else, unpredictable. "},{"Title":"Exemplary low-budget movie. Shows how smart a low-budget movie can be. A lesson on how to make a low-budget movie.","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For a movie that is so minimalist, 'El Mariachi' doesn't offer little and doesn't leave much to be desired. Generally speaking, the minimalist philosophy is practically omni-present in this movie. The story is simple, most actors are amateur, the scenario is real, and efficiency and the use of the brain replace any needless effects. Just about everything is authentic and economical. Not a bad way of thinking makes it all the more realistic and at the same time keeps the costs lower.Nothing is overdone, even the action in it - although, I can't lie, this is a very violent movie at times and there is some disturbing content. But even the most shocking violence is kept in an acceptable league - that is, hardly more than the necessary. On the other hand, despite being a crime story, there is a good deal of clever humor (natural humor instead of bad taste humor or forceful humor).Time shows that this movie has gone down in history as a great success. And rightfully so. It has aged with dignity and is now old enough to be considered a little classic.The story of a good-natured mariachi who only wants to offer his music in exchange of very little money but is confounded with a violent criminal who looks nothing like him dressed in a similar style and carrying a guitar case just like his (however with guns and knives inside) is quite thrilling and involving.Peter Marquardt is great as Moco. Moco can be funny at times and yet he is so arrogant and cruel that you really hate him. But if he amuses you and at the same time fills you in hate that only means that the actor does his role very well. Carlos Gallardo is terrific as the mariachi. Consuelo Gómez is splendid as Dominó. Dominó is hot, sexy, beautiful and yet she has a strong personality she has a devilish sense of humor, she can be aggressive in a sensual way, she has that exotic but severe look and she is obviously a powerful woman, a woman with guts. You gotta love her for all that. Dominó is one of the hottest women in cinema ever although, to be honest, the woman who manicures Moco's hands is just as hot.I find it cute and funny that the little turtle of the movie is credited. Not that it doesn't deserve. Why shouldn't animals deserve such honor? Tito Tortuga is great in its minor role as the turtle that crosses a road.All in all, an enjoyable movie. I only don't like the ending because Dominó is killed and the mariachi gets his hand shot. At least Moco gets what he deserves, but unfortunately too late for Dominó and the mariachi. Title in Portugal 'El Mariachi'. "},{"Title":"Always a Sucker for Cinematic Novelty","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie and its sequels (either of which I admit I have not seen) cannot be taken seriously unless you're an action-flick buff, an insider in the game of experimental or just-for-fun cinema, or someone like me who has spent his life on the Mexican border and likes the characters and the scenery.I do not pretend to know anything about Rodriguez or Gallardo, but I must say I rather enjoyed their little game of making a reasonably presentable film on a budget that would just about equal the value of the motorcycle used in the last scene.  And there is an engaging quality in the interplay between the characters played by Gallardo and Consuelo Gomez.  Especially the bathtub scene.Lest anyone think Mexico is rife with gratuitous gunplay in the streets and lawless corruption on a grand scale, however, I suggest they visit the place and see for themselves how ordinary life can be in that vast country.  The worst I have ever experienced is having to gauge just how much and under what circumstances the ubiquitous mordida ought to be.Like a cold glass -- er, make that a bottle -- of cerveza, a trip to Mexico can be a real treat. "},{"Title":"Boring amateur movie","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have always wanted to see this movie because I thought it would be a Spanish low-budget version of Desperado. But even though there are similarities, such as the guitar-case full of guns and the mariachi, those two movies don't have much in common.I don't care that this is Rodriguez first film and if it cost almost nothing to make. It is too cheap looking, too many weird scenes where nothing happens such as the main-character walking into an empty room almost in slow motion looking at the furniture and figurines, the weird nightmares he has which are never explained, his love for a woman that he is never even romantically involved with and yet risks his life for.And the professional assassins that chase the mariachi are apparently no match for him as he easily kills most of them, including their leader, Moco.There is not much action and what little there is, is done really badly.The villain Moco is pathetic and so is the other villain Azul. A fat little Mexican who is as about as dangerous as a Guinea pig. "},{"Title":"An Extraordinarily Impressive Low Budget Debut","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Rodriguez's beginnings are nothing short of inspiring; a poor Mexican-American who rose from nothing to follow his dreams and, through some rather unorthodox methods, raised the $7,000 dollars that would film his debut work and make him a millionaire. Whilst his later filmography has been rather hit and miss in my opinion, this debut work is nothing short of staggering with the knowledge of how it came to be. Rodriguez's grasp of tone, pacing, and a surprising amount of dramatic poignancy throughout the story combine with the low budget charm of the film to create an extremely entertaining and fascinating debut. El Mariachi's greatest strength is its unique sense of being; while Rodriguez pays homage to mysterious stranger action films like the Dollars trilogy, and it is true that several of the plot beats are rather clichéd and predictable, the strong sense of humor and undertones of melancholy keep it feeling fresh and wholly original. This is not to say that it is without flaws, however. The previous clichéd plot beats are a definite setback, and in addition, due to the low budget not allowing for a large cast, many smaller roles (in reality simply passersby during filming) deliver very wooden performances that do take one out of the film's usually strong emotional center. But the low budget itself provides some of the film's best aspects as well as some of its worst; the setting of the Mexican slums coupled with the grainy film quality and shaky camera-work provide an experience that is very organic and enjoyable. This is, in my opinion, Rodriguez's closest that he has ever come to the style of film which he and his more successful friend Quentin Tarantino strive for a poignant, organic, and incredibly enjoyable film paying homage to the classics of its genre while simultaneously carving out an identity of its own. This is a must see for fans of action films and independent cinema in general. If only Rodriguez had managed to keep up this sense of strong-willed, inventive cinema, he might be regarded as well as Mr. Tarantino; but alas, we only have this one film to show for that career path. Still, it's pretty damn awesome. "}{"Title":"Simple yet skilfully made","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One very notable thing about El Mariachi is the excellent cinematography. The visual side of the movie gives strong Tarantino vibes, but there was something else too. The shots may not be exactly beautiful, but they are close to perfect. There's something enchanting about how they shot the film. And together with the narrating in the beginning, the movie reminded me of some kind of 60's or 70's art films, which is quite far from how the film really is. Also Rodriguez has used some very interesting effects in the movie, but very skilfully. They weren't used too little or too much, just the right amount.The music in El Mariachi is weird. It's weird and it shouldn't suit to any film - but it does. The soundtrack is a spot-on. It's different and weird, which is a good thing. All action movies tend to have one kind of soundtrack, so it's great seeing (well, hearing) something other for a change.The editing is also great. The movie is not very long, but it doesn't feel too short. El Mariachi also uses both speed and slowness as interesting and effective stylistic devices, without disturbing the pace of the movie.The story of El Mariachi is as simple as a plot can be. However, usually action films make the mistake of wasting extra subplots to the movie to make the story seem deeper. El Mariachi has one story, and it sure as hell is short, but it still is thrilling and as interesting as it can be. It's good enough.El Mariachi is simple and almost modest, yet it is skilfully made and one of the best action movies I've seen. This is the first movie I saw from Robert Rodriguez. I had high expectations for Rodriguez, and I'd like to think he met them. "},{"Title":"Part Impressive, Part... Not So Much","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is quite well known for being made on a $7000 budget, and while that can be quite impressive... Parts of this film are far from it. But that doesn't meant this is a bad film. Not at all.First I want to cover the more amateur feeling parts of this film that bring it down. The acting can be pretty iffy at times, sometimes coming across as quite terrible. The camera work can be a bit shoddy at times as well, with certain shots containing random camera shaking that just seems to be an error rather then stylistic choice. Audio can be strange and distracting too, generally due to the fact that the film was shot silent and then the audio was recorded on set with a cheap recording device and synced later. Also, the story is pretty cheesy and is full of little plot holes that if you're paying attention will make you go wait...what?.These cons do not completely take away from the pros however. I think there's a lot to be respected about this film, due to how cheap it was made. There are occasionally shots that are quote impressive and well thought out. While the story is kinda cheesy, it does get you interested when things start to heat up. There's almost a kind of fun aspect to the film where you see certain things and wonder to yourself how they were done on such a cheap budget. It's a great first film and is an interesting film for people who want to create their own, due to the fact that it was created so cheap and creatively. It's an example of how you can start off small, but become big. "},{"Title":"Simple but fun fare for the grindhouse crowd","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There's a certain kind of gleeful, almost childish energy to the low-budget grindhouse aesthetic, something that a lot of directors (including Rodriguez) have tried to capture artificially in recent years (to decidedly mixed results, but that's a different story.) El mariachi, however, has the genuine article in spades, and that's probably it's greatest virtue. At heart it's a mistaken-identity comedy about an assassin and a mariachi who get mixed up with tragic results. The central conceit is essentially comedic, and the violence sometimes gets so over the top you have to laugh, but for the most part El Mariachi plays it straight -- which only makes it more fun. I was fortunate enough to see this movie on a big screen with a big audience as part of a film class, and that's really the only way to watch it -- with an audience hooting and laughing along, creating that raucous carnivalesque atmosphere that mainstream movies are too tame and wannabe-respectable for. I suspect El Mariachi might just seem flat if I watched it on my own, however -- after all, there are a lot of parts that are too goofy for their own good, and more than a bit of exploitation. Still, there's something to be said for the communal act of moviewatching, and El Mariachi was able to evoke that experience that none of the classical or art-house movies did for that class. Not one to seriously contemplate, but a fun one to watch with friends nonetheless. "},{"Title":"It shouldn't have been a surprise that the guy who made this would go on to do The Adventures of Shark Boy and Lava Girl","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the low budget film that launched the career of Robert Rodriguez and really cast him as the Squire to Quentin Tarantino's Knight in what was thought to be a Kingdom of New Cinema. So far, neither has really lived up to the stratospheric expectations that were thrust upon them. But while Tarantino has at least achieved momentary greatness, Rodriguez has so far never been more than just good. Watching El Mariachi now, you can see that he probably never really deserved to be in Taratino's class.The story concerns a violent Mexican criminal named Azul (Reinol Martinez), a drug-dealing Anglo named Moco (Peter Marquardt) and a traveling Mexican guitar player we never know as anything but El Mariachi (Carlos Gallardo). Azul and Moco used to be partners, but Moco cheated Azul out of his cut. That, apparently, wasn't so bad&#x85;but when Moco tries to have Azul killed and fails, all bets are off as Azul picks up his guitar case full of weapons and starts to hunt down his old partner. Unfortunately for El Mariachi, Azul dresses all in black and carries a guitar case, just like the young musician. Moco's men mistake Mariachi for Azul and try to kill him in spectacularly unsuccessful fashion. As he tries to stay alive and figure out why strangers are trying to kill him, Mariachi meets a local girl named Domino (Consuelo Gomez), who's connected in someway to Moco. That sets the stage for our three main characters to collide in a deadly climax.For a low, low, low budget movie, El Mariachi isn't half bad. None of the actors are particularly talented and Paul Marquardt reveals himself to be especially horrid at the end of the film, though up to that point he was quite convincingly menacing, even while getting a manicure. The dialog is effective but unremarkable. The scenery and the costuming is all appropriately low rent and the story itself is more like a pilot for a TV show than a legitimate movie.Rodriguez' direction, however is obviously a cut above the rest of the material. He was still very green and some of his shots and set ups are very basic, almost student film-like at times, but there's a noticeable confidence in his storytelling. The camera doesn't linger on any shot for too long, scenes don't just ramble along until they peter out, and you can tell that he's trying to be as visually interesting as he can with limited resources. He also manages to pull off some stunt work that is very impressive for this level of film. Low budget movies are notoriously bad for cheesy, fake and lame action sequences. Putting explosions, gun battles and harrowing escapes on screen usually takes a lot of money. If you can't afford good special effects, good make up or good stunt men, there's not much you can do. Rodriguez manages to somehow make it work, with one scene involving sliding down a telephone wire to the hood of a moving bus being remarkable for a low budget film. That one scene is probably the single thing that most attracted attention to Rodriguez out of all of El Mariachi.And though he occasionally lapses into dumb melodrama, Rodriguez shows a very good grasp of storytelling fundamentals. He tries to show the audience things through a character's actions, instead of having someone tell the audiences stuff through clunky exposition. He's able to pull off a running gag involving Azul always wanting his beer in a bottle. And he knows exactly when he's got to juice things up a bit to keep the story moving and the audience engaged.But while there's flashes of talent shown, El Mariachi isn't really the mark of a great filmmaker. There's no reason to think the guy who made it would go on to create anything like Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction. You can see that things like From Dusk Til Dawn or the Spy Kids movies were a much more natural progression for Rodriguez. Because ultimately, he only attempted to be good with El Mariachi. He succeeded, but for a low budget film to be great it has to be willing to be so out there, so over the top, so outrageous, so imaginative that it runs the risk of being a complete and utter clusterbleep. Rodriguez isn't willing to take that chance and probably didn't deserve quite as much of a moment in the sun as he got from this film.But there's nothing wrong with just being a good filmmaker and there's nothing wrong with just being a decent film. You can certainly do a lot worse for an evening's entertainment than renting a copy of El Mariachi. "},{"Title":"Low budget coolness!!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The prequel (of sorts) to Desperado, and I like this film a lot more than Desperado. Film makers should look to this film as inspiration that you don't need millions to make a great movie.Granted in this film you can definitely see the acting and budget limitations, but this movie has a way cool story and the actors, being non professionals, do a real good job. I prefer this film in it's Spanish form with the subtitles (one of approximately 15 Americans who prefer sub-titled films)I tried watching the English dubbed version and it just doesn't seem right (i've been scarred by the Japanese monster movies of the 60's and 70's) Do yourself a favor (favour in Britain and their former dependencies worldwide)and see this film.Contésteme!! MOCO!!!! "},{"Title":"Only 7,000","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am not sure if this was posted or not, but i thought those who are considering seeing this movie should know that this movie was incredibly only made for 7,000 dolars. Robert Rodrigez is an amazing guy if he can make such a good movie with such little funds. It also sheds some light on Desperado. I saw the DVD and it had some cool special features like a ten minute film school lesson. It really made me want to go out and make a film. Go see this one and get the DVD. Maybe you will be inspired like i was and who knows you might learn something. It is in Spanish though and the sound is a little fake sounding, but what can you expect on such a tight budgett. "},{"Title":"The best cheap action film????","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this film and knowing the limitations of budget Rodriguez had, immediately has you wondering what a great director with vision he is. With simple material but good carma, he makes what starts out to be 'the usual recipe', a visual beauty, full-of-action (and humour) and fast paced action film.Not that the film is good regarding its budget... No. The film is great as is. But it's impressive to see a 'golden' hand holding and moving the camera along with stylish editing and passion and vision for film-making can make it all work without any $dollars$. If you want to make films, go after Rodriguez comments and interviews about this first movie of his.Overall, this is fast, funny, and looking great. A must for all action fans. And of course watch this if you liked Desperado.  "},{"Title":"a must for all movie fans.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With modern day movies exceeding budgets of 10's of millions of dollars who knows where the industry is heading to...But... Robert Rodriquez stunned all with this incredible $7000 action flick that spawned not only two multi million dollar sequels but also launched its director into the spotlight. Mariachi is a good, good movie considering the cost. The actors were good and the way R.R composed his scenes superb. The music,sound, editing, photography,directing and writing, was A grade,inspiring and all done by R.R himself. Yes, he made a movie that is far more worth while than most of the crap with budgets exceeding the fifty millions.  "},{"Title":"A low-budget action bonanza","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If any of you have seen the movie Desperado then you know it is one of the great action movies of the 90's (GO ROBERT RODRIGUEZ!) And if you really know your movies, you know that it is in fact a sequel.That's right, El Mariachi is the actual first installment of a trilogy (Once Upon A Time in Mexico being the third) It starts with a nice little intro portraying a man named Bigotón in a jail cell, who has his own desk. He's sitting there making calls like it's his workplace. We soon find out that he used to work for a crime-lord named Moco. Apparently he's somehow linked to the reason Bigotón is in there. And then, all of a sudden, three guys with big guns walk into the jail and are blasted away by Bigotón's guards. They were sent to kill him, but he was a step ahead of them. And he made sure Moco new that he was out for revenge.Then we are introduced to the Mariachi himself. A poor minstrel type fellow that travels from town to town looking for a place he can play his sweet melodies in. The only thing he owns are the clothes on his back and his guitar case. He comes to a little town that serves out complimentary coconuts at the border, and he immediately falls in love. A nice little voice-over explains his predicament. (I should say right now, that the version I watched was a dubbed copy. So the music was lower than normal and the voices were poorly acted.)After Mariachi gets acquainted with the town, he goes to a bar looking for a job. But no such luck, as a funny little scene showcases a man in a sombrero playing a nice little Mexican tune on a very old keyboard. Mariachi leaves, but then in comes Bigotón with HIS guitar case. But this one is full of guns. Bigotón walks in, orders a beer in a bottle! and then turns around to six guys sitting around a table. Quickly he pulls out his weapons and slaughters them.So now, Bigotón has made himself public. Moco is alerted and he sends his men out to look for a man in black carrying a guitar case. This is bad news for Mariachi, cause he fits the description. Soon enough, he is spotted, and the thugs mistake him for Bigotón. And he gets caught up in this whole mess. And now he must fight his way out of it.El Mariachi Is a nice little film. It's obviously very low-budget and independent, but Rodriguez makes very good use of his resources and, in the end, produces one heck of an action flick. The characters are nicely molded and the plot progresses pretty nicely. The humour is sleek as well. Not totally blunt, but it'sthere.Over all, I give this movie a B. So run down to your video store and see if they've got a copy of this little gem.  "},{"Title":"Simple is best.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" NOTE This review was designed to be read in conjunction with my review of Desperado (1995).El Mariachi was made for $7,000 and post-produced for $220,000. On the DVD, Robert Rodriguez says that most of the $7,000 went into film and processing, and that on the screen is only about $600. Having watched his 10 Minute Film School, which is also on the DVD, I am absolutely amazed at how much he was able to do with so little. Despite this fact, the film still is pretty rough, and lacks the polished look of Desperado and Once Upon a Time in Mexico. But El Mariachi has something that they don't; something much more important Style.El Mariachi has little or no vulgarity, and, despite its subject matter, surprisingly little violence (OK, there's some. It IS an R-rated movie; but it could be a lot worse). And yet, the villains seem more powerful, the hero more heroic, and the chase scenes far more intense than anything in the larger-budgeted sequels. The film is simple, a bit unlikely, but in the end very effective. Just like El Mariachi himself (more on that in my Desperado review).Only drawback One thing of note in both sequels was some pretty good dialogue. El Mariachi's dialogue seemed to lack the edge that the other two films had. But I attribute this to the fact that subtitles are nearly always pretty lackluster. All around a very good film. "}{"Title":"And yes, it did cost $7,000 to make","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the fact that it's obvious that it was made without a production crew or a real budget, El Mariachi actually turns out to be a respectable action movie.  The plot, which involved a nameless guitar player who is mistaken for a hitman and ends up being hunted by the henchmen of a powerful Mexican crimelord, is pretty simple, and there is little character development to speak of.  Robert Rodriguez makes up for this, however, by staging some surprisingly well-done action sequences and maintaining a very tense atmosphere throughout the film with the use of a constantly-moving camera that often shoots the action from some very skewed angles.There was a time when this movie was fairly hard to find, but with the release of two bigger-budget sequels starring the likes of Antonio Banderas, Salma Hayek, and Johnny Depp, availability seems to have increased.  I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good, fun action movie, and to anyone who thinks you need a budget of $100 million dollars or more to make such a movie. "},{"Title":"Low budget, great movie!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Much has been said about the budget of this movie being $7,000  but the reality is that that is how much the rough cut cost. Then after it got picked up for distribution.They took it back into the studio and re-cut it and put a new sound mix on it.  That said, this is a great little movie and it makes it possible for all the independent film makers out there to dream. "},{"Title":"Entertaining romp","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Engaging little low-budget caper, impressive in its ingenuity.  It's slight, and has a penchant for goofiness that doesn't always work, but it survives on its clever style and controlled pacing, and the overall effect is that of an entertaining if rather forgettable romp.  Probably the best of the technical elements is Juan Suarez's exquisite little song, `Ganas de vivir,' which gives us a nice break from the action in the middle of the film.  Recommended.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"low budget wonder","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sure the cost of the film ultimately has kept the momentum flowing for this little revenge/mistaken identity drama. The film is very good on it's own merit due to such creativity and wit. It has a good pace,but that is because it doesn't sweat the small stuff like the bigger budgets tend to do such as coyly build up suspence with explosions of maximum porportions. It does have violence,but it's the way the film is seen through the camera's eye a that make this such a viewing experience. I liked the use of of camera speed during some scenes(such as Three Stooges used to do when running from a predatory element)such as when the hotel owner calls Moco to inform him where El Mariachi is. Also I like how Robert Rodriguez sets the plot in motion. This is a brilliant method which thrusts the innocent guitar player into peril. It uses dream sequences to suggest possible happenings in the future which only add a depth lacking in many action films today. A fine independent film and enjoyable viewing experience. ****1/2/***** "},{"Title":"A stunningly inexpensive achievement.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When Robert Rodriguez's El Mariachi was released back in the early '90s, it received a tremendous amount of press because it was made for a measly $7,000. Thanks to about a million dollars of marketing, the film exploded first onto the indie scene, then into mainstream cinema. With two expensive sequels, 1995's Desperado ($7 million) and this fall's Once Upon a Time in Mexico ($30 million), the original film has garnered even more attention.El Mariachi tells a simple tale of mistaken identity. The protagonist and title character is a mere wandering mariachi looking for work, until he is confused with an escaped prisoner. Then of course, all hell breaks loose. Bullets fly and the fun begins. Strictly on its cinematic merits, El Mariachi is not as great as you have probably heard. The story, as I described, is nothing special. The acting doesn't detract at all from the movie, but no one stands out either. There are a number of continuity errors; shots within individual scenes are inconsistently lit; some of the cuts seem unusual; and the special effects are elementary. The technical aspects, except the necessarily innovative cinematography, are not quite up to Hollywood standards. All of this would not seem to add up to a classic independent film. But the borderline crude nature of all these pieces add up to a fascinating film, and they do that for one reason Robert Rodriguez. His creativity and vision collide with his lack of money to produce a fascinating film. Filling virtually every major role on the crew, he creates a style all his own. Within this style, all of the problems are transformed into resourcefulness and creativity, the product of which is a consistent look akin to what he forged in Once Upon a Time in Mexico and his other films.This uniformity alters one's perspective on the entire film and its parts. A basic story somehow grabs your attention. There is a charm to the naivete of the actors. The lighting often proves to be a refreshingly unique change from the norm. Continuity problems can willingly be ignored. Even the meager special effects aren't much of a distraction. The almost dizzying editing actually enhances the tale's frenetic nature. On top of all of this, Rodriguez utilizes unique zooms, angles, frame rates, and film speeds that give the flick an playful visual look not often found.Bottom Line While none of these aforementioned pieces would work all that well individually, Rodriguez uses these tools to morph a dusty Mexican fable into a cartoonishly enjoyable story that dollar-for-dollar may be the best movie ever made.  8 of 10.(Side note The new DVD is one of the best I've seen. Not necessarily in scope, but in content. Rodriguez's nonpareil information about a remarkable piece of filmmaking is simply superb.  Well worth your $15.) "},{"Title":"Bad haircuts. Bad acting. GREAT movie!","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a flawed movie. The actors are, for the most part, mediocre. Even worse is their hair. But some elements make this a very fun film to watch. A guitar case full of guns, an evil gringo, a modern mariachi who plays the keyboard, some hilarious fast forward scenes, and the ugliest motorcycle ever made. Also at the beginning there is one great voice over, when El Mariachi is walking on the road along with a turtle. Dramatic scenes like this are mixed with humorous ones (some intended to be funny, some not), and that makes the film interesting.If you know a bit of spanish, you'll appreciate the fact that the characters speak very slowly, which allows you to watch the film without subtitles. Also, I recommend watching Desperado right after El Mariachi, you'll understand the mythology of it and enjoy it more. "},{"Title":"Don't expect Desperado or Once Upon a Time in Mexico","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez's acclaimed $7,000 film is well deserving of all the praise it has received, especially considering its shoe string budget, but if you're expecting a shoot 'em up movie or action on the level of Desperado or Once Upon a Time... look somewhere else.  The first in this series of three movies focuses more on storytelling than bloodletting.  While there are action and chase sequences, don't expect huge explosions or massive bar shoot-outs that you may be accustomed to in Desperado. There simply wasn't money for those kind of sequences in El Mariachi, but what it lacks in raw action, it makes up for in a well written and well developed plot.  The movie begins with a mariachi looking for work who arrives in a small pueblo in Mexico and finds none; however, he does find a bar owner named Domino, whom he quickly falls in love with.  Unfortunately for him, he's also being chased by a drug lord named Moco after he was mistaken for Azul, a criminal out to get the drug lord.  Yes, that should ring a bell for those of you who have seen Desperado, but rest assured that this movie is not the same movie.  Overall, El Mariachi is definitely worth watching at least once, if for no other reason than to see how a good movie can be made for next to nothing.      "},{"Title":"El Mariachi es fantastico!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  El Mariachi was one of the best films of the year. The movie has changed the meaning, and use of a guitar case, in many action movies of recent times. Robert Rodriguez is also one of the best directors ever. With only a budget of 7,000 dollars, he made an incredible movie that has revolutioned action films.  "},{"Title":"Not Antonio but really good","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Most people do not know that this is part one to Desperado.  I just got to see this film recently and was quite impressed.  The acting was not bad for probably most of their first times.  There was good comic relief in the film to lower some of the drama but not too much to take away from the film itself.  I believe this film is a good watch and has gotten a pretty high score from me.  Check it out if you get a chance. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Ultra-low budget Action Flick","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" * * *After being betrayed by former compatriot Moco, gangster Azul manages to escape from jail and heads for a small town to gather his forces. He wears black and carries a guitar case filled with weapons. On the same day, a Mariachi arrives in the town, and he, too, carries a guitar case and wears black, though he actually carries a guitar. Moco sends men to kill Azul, but he is the only person who knows what he looks like, and his men mistake El Mariachi for Azul, and the mariachi is forced to run for his life-- and fight back, which he does amazingly well. Things are further complicated when he falls for Moco's girlfriend, who runs a bar in town.Writer/directer/producer/editor/camera man/special effects guy/etc. Robert Rodriguez made this great action film on $7,000. That's approximately what it costs to meet with Arnold Schwarzenegger to suggest that he star in a movie. Rodriguez got $3,000 of it from taking an experimental cholesteral drug. And he made a movie better than most 7 million dollar films, or 70 million dollar films, or, for that matter, 170 million dollar films (this is definitely better than either 'Titanic' or 'Waterworld'). That's the sign of a good moviemaker.The cast is good enough, and the action scenes are excellent, especially when you realize they were done for free. The plot is a bit like the 1947 classic 'Along Came Jones,' but somehow better. The script is great. There are plenty of funny scenes, especially the bathtub scene. And the ending is outstanding. Overall, an awesome ultra-low budget action flick.Like almost all really good movies, this was followed by two inferior (although still definitely fun) sequels, 'Desperado' and 'Once Upon a Time in Mexico.' "}{"Title":"The Guitar Rules","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie! At first sight it looks a bit cheap...and it is...) The film costs $ 7000,- But the story is great if you watch El Mariachi and Desperado at the same evening you only see the difference the first 5 minutes... because the story is great. Can't wait for Once upon a time in Mexico. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  `El Mariachi' is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Not only because of the great acting and engrossing plot, it is the amount of money that went into the movie. A minute $7000. Wow! Any movie now a days is considered `low budget' if it is under ten million bucks. But this movie is more than just a fun movie to watch, it is is a stroke of genius, that shows us that Robert Rodriguez has the tenacity that it takes to be in Hollywood. This movie may be over looked at times because it is not as sophisticated as most contemporary movies, but if you look closer you will notice that this movie is better crafted than many, if not almost all, movies made for ten million plus dollars in Hollywood. He will be remebered in history as one of the best, just wait.  "},{"Title":"Good film, could have been better","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had looked forward to see this film, because I have always loved Desperado. I Think it is amazing how good this one is, considering the low budget. The acting was not too bad, but it was not great. The plot was simple, but entertaining. I think it is really cool that they speak Spanish, instead of the usual English.This was a good film, well worth seeing. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Changed the perception of a guitar case for ever!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In terms of independent film-making at least, this really did set the benchmark for inventive direction and production. For the equivalent of less than 950 packets of cigarettes, Rodriguez gave the world a mini-masterpiece. A total lesson in how to make a competitive movie without a big budget....basically without ANY budget!All the more incredible when you realise that the majority of it was shot in the one-take. Such bloopers as there were, were glossed over and editing cut to the bare minimum.It is the very rawness of EL MARIACHI that carries it. Even with a blown-out budget, Antonio Banderas, big name stars and a full Hollywood make-over, the sequel/follow-up/rip-off/update DESPERADO, had no greater impact - some would say less! (I'm not one of them!)You would be doing yourself a distinct favor if (assuming you have not done so already) you were to catch this brilliant little piece of wizardry, subtitled as it is, as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  engaging, sweet, much better than Desperado","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi is a low budget film that succeeds spectacularly. While not exactly deep, it has a real heart, and plenty of Mexican culture. Plus, for a guy like me who enjoys action movies, there's plenty of running around. There's a real romance and plenty of comedy, too. The film is arty but I found it accessible rather than overdone or overly subtle.It's quite original and a real gem, especially when compared against the sequel film, Desperado, which lacks the magic entirely and is way too violent to boot. With one caveat (the ending was OK but not entirely satisfying to me), I recommend this film wholeheartedly to action film buffs.Who should see this film-- action film buffs-- romantic comedy buffs who see the occasional action flickor get dragged along by their SO. This one's safe.I'll give El Mariachi a 7 out of 10. With a little more production value, it would have been even higher. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Desperado before I had seen this film. From what I heard, Desperado was an Americanized remake/sequel of El Mariachi, that the plot was the same, the action pretty much the same, just at a lower budget. Well, after renting the DVD of this film (Desperado was on the flip-side of the dual DVD), I have to say that El Mariachi impresses me in ways no big budget film has done in quite a while. The story may not have been wholly original, but it was well-executed. A struggling Mariachi guitarist walks into town looking for work, while at the same time a mob boss has sent his goons to hunt down a killer who carries his guns in a guitar case. They mistake the Mariachi for the killer, and the unsuspecting guitarist's world is turned upside-down. What ensues is a lot of action, gunplay, and a really great movie. The fact that the film is made on a nothing budget of $7,000 shows just how brilliant Robert Rodriguez is (watch the commentaries, they're actually fun and interesting). The actors did a commendable job in this film (considering none of them were professionals), especially the lead Carlos Gallardo. The cinematography is excellent, considering the lack of a film crew. The editing is very stylish and an excellent example of what can be done with a little ingenuity and even less money. This is the way independent films should be done. Blair Witch Project NOTHING! This is a film that should be shown in university film-making 101 classes. It's a prime example of making a great movie AND money management (Rodriguez's best advice to filmmakers, Refuse to spend money, because then you learn how to cut corners and still make an effective film.). This is the independent film to end all independent films. WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"The fastest 80 minutes ever!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  El Mariachi is a simple story executed brilliantly. The acting is sincere (impressive considering none of them were actually actors!), and the action is frantic and exciting.By far the most perplexing thing about this film is that it moves along quicker than any other I know, and yet it is absolutely crammed with slow motion! The 80 minutes from start to finish goes by in an eye-blink, due to the frenetic but stylish cutting. This gives it more replay value for me, as I like watching good films that don't take up the whole evening! More movies should be about the length of this one.All the above applies to El Mariachi as a film, regardless of how it was made. Of course, when you consider it was made by an extremely talented one man band with $7000, it is a remarkable achievement.Anyone interested in film-making especially should watch this, if just for sheer inspiration. A great action movie. "},{"Title":"A bullet blizzard","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  El Mariachi is the best example what you can do with only a few money but a lot of good ideas. The camerawork is excellent and you really don´t make out that this movie was shot with a little budget of 7.000 Dollar. This film opened the door to Hollywood for director Robert Rodriguez and cult movies like Desperado or From Dusk Till Dawn followed. Watch out for Once upon a time in Mexico what will be the third part of the El Mariachi-saga... "},{"Title":"The best - a real classic","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great. Better than most action movies coming out of Hollywood today. The overall sensibility recalls Sam Peckinpah and John Woo, while adding fairly intriguing characters. It's a semi-deep movie about a person being confused with another person, and then getting confused himself. "},{"Title":"Classic.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film that started the 'indie explosion' in Hollywood, and established Rodriguez' reputation as one of the most talented young directors around; this is classic movie making.  Made on a shoestring budget, but you'd hardly guess to look at it.  Grabs your attention from the first frame and shows that talent is a more important factor than money in producing a riveting film.  Excellent. "}{"Title":"This man...and his movie rocks!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert's first film was by far his best story he's yet to tell. All of his movies are fantastic, but since EL MARIACHI, they've all been missing something...something creative...I don't know. But for anyone who has seen DESPERADO, or FROM DUSK TILL DAWN, or even SPY KIDS, go rent this---you'll see where it all began! Keep up the good work, Robert! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My keester he did this on 7 grand...more like between 30 grand and 500 grand. However, this film is a independent film classic. The latino community has a action hero. More so with the delightful action packed over the top sequel. This film mixes arthouse values with great impromptu film style. I read his book, not a bad read. Yet, perhaps the 7 grand figure comes in after you figure the producers of LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE pitched in and helped....nothing wrong with this. Nothing at all. The film uses characters and a ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 low budget flare to achieve it's look and feel. It was a hit at SUNDANCE and at TELLURIDE and on the art film and video circuit spawning a SHAFT style sequel with a big body count. I recommend this movie for fans of the KILLER and other foreign fare. Rodriguez does more with ingenuity than most men do with 100 million dollar budgets. Notice his sparing use of body squibs etc. and the movie still works. I recommend the spin off book about the shoot on this movie.....REBEL WITHOUT A CREW. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"What A Flick!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  El Mariachi is Robert Rodriguez's first flick which he wrote, directed, edited, and produced for $7,000.   El Mariachi is the story of a drifting mariachi looking for work mistaken for a gunman.  El Mariachi is a full throttle action trip that leaves the viewer exhausted and superbly entertained.  Be advised El Mariachi is subtitled so if you don't like to read pass it by, but I hate reading just as much as the next man and I loved Mariachi.  Lots of south of the border action laced with beer, women, and a lot of dead people.  Followed by the disappointing sequel Desperado. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good... for having no budget","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A decent, low-budget action flick. Spanish with English sub titles works out okay. All around, average performances from the cast (what can you expect with $7,000?). Surprisingly, some well done car crashes and chase scenes. Some very shaky screen writing but who am I to judge? I've never written a script. Prequel to Desperado.***  "},{"Title":"Good... for having no budget","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A decent, low-budget action flick. Spanish with English sub titles works out okay. All around, average performances from the cast (what can you expect with $7,000?). Surprisingly, some well done car crashes and chase scenes. Some very shaky screen writing but who am I to judge? I've never written a script. Prequel to Desperado. "},{"Title":"Good action flick at a bargain price","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Director Robert Rodriguez, working with only $7,000 to spend, puts together one heck of an action film.  The story of an innocent Mariachi musician accidentally swept into a nasty crime story, Rodriguez delivers with a smart sense of visual style and snappy dialogue.Vote 7 "},{"Title":"reference to viewing the film","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Forget everything that surrounds The Faculty, yeah it's a little below the par director Robert Rodriguez set for himself by his first feature El Mariachi.  The film was shot for a low $7,000 (with the majority of the budget going towards buying the film to shoot).  This film is a great reference for anyone who sees the world of film making as an impossible area to break into.  Rodriguez final product is an illustration for talent over big budget stereo types.  It is also good to note that throughout the film only one professional actor was used (The Mariachi) and the rest of the cast was new to acting and got just one take at their scenes.  And were presented with there lines on the day of shooting.      "},{"Title":"Great Spanish Language Flick","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A low budget flick, which is more fun to watch that its regular budget sequel, Desperado.  Essentially made with just Rodriguez and a camera, it shows that an entertaining movie can be made without a lot of money.  It has a low budget charm, but not the the one you get when you watch a 1950s B-Movie and find its stupidity hilarious.       "},{"Title":"Rodriguez becomes the FATHER of hyper-low budget films...","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK, you suffer for a whole month by getting locked up at the local medicine company and have needles stuck up your arm all the time, have your dung controlled every day, even have your arms torn to pieces. With that sufferance, this man earned a mere 7,000 dollars and in only three weeks managed to make his Mexican flick film. His intentions were to sell the film at a local Mexican video company or something of that kind, not end up in Columbia's Lobby and meet the top notch producers Hollywood is constantly rammed of. This man suffered for this film, he suffered to entertain people, he suffered for us. Lets owe one to him, he deserves it.El Mariachi, Desperado and From Dusk 'Till Dawn have constantly been badly treated over here in Europe, but now one thing. Rodriguez, Tarantino, Spike Lee and a couple of others are the few members of the US film industry that make films... for fun, not for the money. Hollywood is a dependent system, what you need is yourself. And Rodriguez has managed...  "},{"Title":"Great movie, with bad acting.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Here the proof. This is not obligatory to have a lot of money to make a good movie. Sure with money we can buy good actors, but not a good script with a good story. The only things missing in this movie is good acting and good cameraman.Before making bad movie like from dusk till dawn 2  Texas blood money, Quentin Tarantino and Roger Rodrigez could make a remake of El Mariachi. "}{"Title":"A Stunning Piece of Film","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez breaks through with a stunning film based on the violence in Mexico and how a mix-up can lead to tragedy and revenge!Rodriguez shows us the world of a mariachi player who is mistaken for another mariachi who carries a case full of guns then, gets the cases switched. A great film made with a budget of only $7000! I couldn't believe the budget! You must see this visually stunning film! "},{"Title":"$7000..........what a bargain!","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When you watch this movie, keep in mind that director Rodriguez had just $7000 (!) to buy all the equipment, shoot the film, do the editing, etc., etc.....I mean, just about any Hollywood movie starts nowadays with a (multi-) million dollar budget; let's not even talk about the 200 MILLION dollar movie Titanic (Rodriguez could have shot approximately 28571 (!) Mariachi-kind-of films for that amount of cash. So forget about the cheap story and the corny special effects. Just sit back and enjoy a different kind of masterpiece...  "},{"Title":"The Best Low-Budget Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Usually a movie is considered to be low-budget if it costs less than $1 million. El mariachi was a micro-budget that costed only $7,000. Robert Rodriguez was in charge of almost everything behind the scenes with some stars in the movie helping out. The low-budget is apparent, but you turn your attention away from the cost almost right away.El mariachi spawned two international blockbusters--Desperado (the best known) and Once Upon A Time In Mexico. Desperado is part sequel and part remake, but both sequel have poor connections with one another. Since El mariachi does not spawn from anything else, it has the most forgivable flaws.In all three movies, the tragic hero (played here by Carlos Gallardo and in the sequels by Antonio Banderas) is an unnamed guitar player (known as El Mariachi) who just wants to get a chance to play and make some money. He wanders from town to town with only his guitar in search of his destiny. So far he sounds pretty generic, but he has a tender heart and very nice appeal. He stumbles into a Mexican town where he meets a bar owner named Domino. The love story between these two is fantastic. We hope that she helps him rise and become a successful musician. This love story may not be the main premise, but it is defiantly something lyrical.The main story is a case of mistaken identity involving a drug lord, his nemesis, and El. Azul is a mean, rough-and-tough Spanish criminal who breaks out of jail and is after the drug lord known as Moco.Azul loves to wear black and always carries a guitar case that's full of guns. Moco orders his men to kill anyone that fits that description. El also loves to wear black and always carries a guitar case. We all know where this is going. Action scenes and chases occur that are more exciting than stylistic. Style is what Rodriguez was really concerned with in the sequels. With such a low budget, there wasn't very many second takes, just other camera positions. That is what makes it such a great flair. El and Azul accidentally switch cases which makes matters worse. We have grown to love El and Domino, but Azul and Moco still have unfinished business. Sadly, tragedy ensues. Desperado features a recreation of the scene, so the viewer knows what will happen. But Rodriguez did in his first shot what very few directors can ever do make the viewer wonder what will happen next and root for the best...even after you've seen the movie! This isn't very violent as the others are, but its character and plot developments are strong, and it has a higher emotional factor than any other Robert Rodriguez movie. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Non-Hollywood Production","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A simple story about mistaken identities and lost idealism, El Mariachi gets high marks from me for its authentic visuals and absence of big-name movie stars. The film was shot in a real town on the Mexican border, enhancing realism. There are lots of hand-held camera shots, fast cutting, and pleasant lack of CGI. Images look grainy, possibly intentionally so. When the movie was made, none of the actors were well known. As a result, you see characters, not actors playing script roles. Despite the lack of professional actors, overall acting quality is fine.Ambient sounds are amplified, probably for dramatic effect. I really like the guitar score; it's appropriate for the Mexican setting, and it's slightly mysterious. Effective editing masks minor mistakes, such as mismatched lighting and poor lip-sync.The main weakness is the script, originally only 40 pages in length. A guitar-playing musician comes to town looking for work. Unbeknownst to him, a man wearing similar clothes and also carrying a guitar case is involved with a drug kingpin.Except for some violence at times, the story itself is fairly low-key; gore is minimal, thankfully. Though the story could be construed as serious, the tone is decidedly tongue-in-cheek.This film is a pleasant change from splashy, over-hyped, big-budget Hollywood productions that cost millions of dollars. Though I found the story a bit boring and contrived, the overall production offset the script's weaknesses. El Mariachi is a good film to watch at least once for its authentic visuals and its ability to convey a credible story at a very low budget. "},{"Title":"Don't be Fooled by the Marketing!!","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" So many of the reviewers of this listing have based their reviews on the amazing feat by Rodriguez in creating a film for $7,000.The fact of the matter is that this budget figure is little more than marketing hype, promoted by Rodriguez himself in his book Rebel without a Crew. This book has sold significant numbers to indie film makers over the years, looking to make successful films on a shoestring and has also dramatically enhanced the reputation of Rodriguez.The truth is that Rodriguez did indeed make this film for $7,000 but the final version the public got to see, the version reviewers of this IMDb listing have seen, needed a further $300,000 spent on it to bring it up to technical and commercial standards/expectations.Even for an estimated total budget of around $325,000 this is still a decent little film, demonstrating film making talent on a limited budget and it's certainly worth a viewing but don't judge it on the basis that it cost $7,000 to make! "},{"Title":"Incredible for a film debut","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In 1992, a little known director by the name of Robert Rodriguez surprised everyone at the Sundance Film Festival with his low budget action thriller El Mariachi. There isn't a whole lot too this film but that might be what makes it so great. It's a straightforward story about Robert Rodriguez's own man with no name character. But instead of literally being called The Man With No Name, our protagonist is simple called El Mariachi. El Mariachi is a traveling guitar player whose only dream is to carry on the legacy his guitarist ancestors established. He has to take a detour from this dream when he is mistaken for someone with much more sinister intentions than he. A man by the name of Azul is taking out a drug dealer's men trying to get his money the drug dealer owes him. Moco the drug dealer sends his men out to find and kill Azul. The only problem is his men don't know what he looks like and their only identifier is that he wears all black and carries a guitar case filled with guns. Unfortunately for El Mariachi, he also fits this description minus the firearms. And even though the story is fairly simple, it feels like a lot happens in this film, especially for one that only runs 80 minutes.The most defining thing about El Mariachi is its independent feel, which doesn't hold the film back at all. In fact, it gives it a much more intense and gritty feel. It's lack of glamour and glitz makes it a lot more visceral and, to me at least, more exciting. Rodriguez directs this film with a very rough around the edges feel to it. There are a lot of close ups and plenty of quick hand-held shots that put you into the middle of the action, but due to the low budget aura of the film you don't feel shoved into the action, instead just precariously placed there to watch it all unfold in a very real sense without being over dramatized. You have to respect El Mariachi for what it is and if you do you can enjoy it much more.Like I said before, El Mariachi delivers a lot in under 90 minutes. Amidst the great low budget action sequences there really is a great story, despite any simplicity there is on the surface. The film gives us a quick and intense opening sequence in which Azul breaks out of jail and finds out he wont be receiving his money from Moco. We are then introduced to our protagonist and what he stands for. Then we are quickly thrown into the heat of the story as Azul goes on a killing spree for revenge, and El Mariachi is chased down as a result of these actions. The film never has a dull point, which isn't saying much for such a short film, but it still makes it much more enjoyable overall. And even though we see a simple storyline on the surface, we are actually delivered a very well constructed protagonist. He is somebody we are really able to feel sorry for. He pursues such a pure dream of being a renowned guitarist just like his ancestors before him, and yet he has that dream trashed and scattered by the evil of the world. He begins the film as pretty much the only character with good intentions. The rest of the cast, albeit small, are all greedy scoundrels who taint El Mariachi's good hope. In hindsight, it is actually very depressing. And then of course the film ends with a bittersweet set up for Rodriguez's sequel to El Mariachi, Desperado.El Mariachi is simply awesome. For something so low budget and so limited, Rodriguez does great things with this movie. It's a short but fun ride that begins strong, entertains in the middle, and ends with a bang. This film shows how much can be done with so little and how you can still make a great movie without an overtly complex concept. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A fun low budget debut from Robert Rodriguez","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In 1992 a unknown 23-year-old Texan filmmaker surprised everyone in the film industry when his $7,000 film became a surprise indie hit. It was a small action film that was originally meant to have a direct to video release in America for the Spanish speaking market, but ended up becoming so successful that it ended up scorning two sequels and started an excellent character for Robert Rodriguez.El Mariachi is a short, fast paced and simple tale. A unnamed travelling musician, El Mariachi (Carlos Gallardo) goes to the small town of Acuña. Unknown to him there is a conflict going on between two crime lords, Azul (Reinol Martínez) and Moco (Peter Marquardt), with Azul seeking revenge after Moco tried to kill him. Azul travels around the town with a guitar case of weapons and dresses in black. Unfortunately for El Mariachi he also dresses in black and carries a guitar case and Moco's end up mistake him for Azul. El Mariachi has to avoid the men with guns whilst making a living and a local bar owner Domino (Consuelo Gómez) aids him.With a simple plot El Mariachi could have worked as a thriller because of the idea of mistaken identity. Under Rodriguez direction and using a small Mexican town as a setting the film has a quality of a spaghetti western, particularly the prologue in a small jail. The film is hard-boiled, with fun over-the-top characters. Rodriguez makes the film stylist with it's setting and use the setting to maximum effect. The film is fast paced and the camera work is frantic, adding to the action. Rodriguez was able to bring in a little humour with his direction, using very quick fps when say a character sets up a keyboard and there are some surreal dream sequences which gives Rodriguez a chance to add a creepy feeling of impending doom. Considering El Mariachi's low budget the action was of a high standard and well directed, whether it was a gun battle or a chase. And with the short running we still get to engage with the characters.Acting wise the film is okay, with Gallardo being the strongest of all the cast. No one did anything expectation but neither did their embarrassment themselves. However Marquardt was the weak link because he was not a natural Spanish speaker and it was pretty clear at times he was having to read his lines from a card.El Mariachi is a excellent example of low-budget guerrilla filmmaking and a great example for people who have the passion and willing to work hard that anything is possible. "},{"Title":"Decent, Low-Budget film by a young Robert Rodriguez.","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is pretty good for a limited budget film debut. Rodriguez has campiness, Hong Kong-style action sequences, good music and a Western atmosphere. Carlos Gallardo is good as the main protagonist and it sure is a hoot seeing him jump off of buildings with his guitar, hide in cars and escape at least a dozen assassins. It's so cool and funny that it reminds the viewer of a Jackie Chan flick with a hint of John Woo as well. Rodriguez does however suffer from the budget due to having the in-between scenes drag on even for a eighty-one minute film project. I should probably see this film again, in English, because while I'm in Spanish class and saw this on a Telemundo channel, I didn't quite understand this film as much as I could have. "},{"Title":"Nice little movie","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After viewing a few of Robert Rodriguez' more recent efforts, I decided it was time to take a look at El Mariachi. Glad I did. If nothing else, RR proved that it's possible to tell a compelling story without a big budget, computer-generated wizardry, or well-known stars. Although the cast was comprised of largely unknown actors and small-town locals, they did a credible job of bringing the story to life. I found the actors who played the protagonists quite appealing and would like to see them again, hopefully in features that will remunerate them more generously. I also thought the dog was terrific. And the turtle was quite amusing. "},{"Title":"Rises above its budgetary limitations to produce a flowing and enjoyable low-budget film","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When rival Moco's attempt on his life fails badly, Azul decides to leave his jail cell and claim revenge. Little is known about him as he heads away from the jail but they know his aim as he is carrying a guitar case full of guns and is dressed all in black. At the same time as Azul kills the first of Moco's men, a young mariachi drifts into town looking for steady work in the town's many bars. Unfortunately for him he is carrying a guitar case and is also dressed mostly in black. Already down on his luck in terms of career, the young man suddenly finds himself with a case of mistaken identity and is the target of Moco's armed gangs.Unashamedly low-budget, Robert Rodriguez's debut feature film is a great example of how to produce a winning low budget film. The plot is a simple case of mistaken identity that is played out with a good pace and action that lacks multi-million explosions but still has enough about it to be exciting and engaging. The writing is not the best, but then that is not what made this film so famous, no what did was Rodriguez's unique style as director. He takes the simple story and injects it with humour and energy that make it much better than the budget or the written script would have suggested. He borrows heavily from others (Sam Rami is one of the more obvious) but it doesn't feel like he has stolen anything, just used it to do his own thing.The cast aren't that great though, and the method of dubbing everything is pretty evident in most scenes (but not too bad for me personally because I was reading the subtitles anyway). Gallardo is solid lead but lacks his own style and charisma and it is obvious throughout that the visual style and comic air to the film is carrying him. Gomez is OK but not pretty or a presence enough to do it for me I'm afraid. Marquardt is a bit too hammy and lacking in teeth for the main villain, but Martinez's Azul is a big man and fits the bill well.Overall this is an energetic film that works well despite the limitations of the budget and cast. You do have to forgive it some things but it is easily quite fun and flows forward well and is certainly worth a look and infinity better than the big-budget excesses of its second sequel &#150; Once Upon A Time In Mexico. "}{"Title":"Excellent movie, for only 7,000 bucks?","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As soon as I heard about this movie, I knew I had to see it. Since I was already a huge fan of Desperado, I was very excited to find out that there had been a movie done before it. So I went and bought it, it was money well spent. This has great actors, an interesting story, and comedy. Robert Rodriguez tells a tale about a guitarist that gets mistaken for a murderer that just got out of jail, that carries around a guitar case with guns in it. And he must learn to defend himself to stay alive. The end of this movie also explains some of the Mariachi's flashbacks in Desperardo, I highly recommend this movie to anyone that like Desperado or Once Upon A Time In Mexico.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great flick for $7,000","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm very pleased Rodriquez managed to make this tiny movie for a mere $7,000. When you consider the difficulty of even making a film, any film for that matter, and then take into account the ability to properly tell a 3-act structure story, using actors with very little to no experience and do it all for this paltry sum, then it's not difficult to see why Rodriquez is a genius. He has really inspired me to shoot and edit my own projects, using the latest digital cameras and computer systems which Rodriquez himself emphasizes as well. I'm planning to shoot my own little movie this summer 2005. I'm so excited and it's all thanks to Rodriquez! I'm becoming quite a good editor thanks to him too. "},{"Title":"A Monumental Film, and It Only Cost $7000 to Make.","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  EL MARIACHI (1992) - Carlos Gallardo, Consuelo Gómez, Peter Marquardt, Reinol Martinez - Written and Directed By Robert Rodriguez - *****Premise An assassin, known only as Azul (Martinez) wiggles out of a hit put on him by the drug lord Moco (Marquardt), over a money dispute. Hell bent on revenge (or his cut), Azul, with a guitar case full of guns, searches out Moco and anyone who works for him, killing them on the spot. Meanwhile, a mariachi singer (Gallardo) comes to Acuña, Mexico looking for work. Moco's gang confuses the mariachi singer for Azul (thanks to his guitar case), dragging the mariachi singer in a gang war that would change his life, forever.Carlos Gallardo's performance was good. His expressions and emotions changed at the right moments, he did good. No problems here. You can also see Consuelo Gómez' character open up as the movie progresses. Reinol Martinez does a good job at making us root for a killing machine that isn't necessarily a good guy, a difficult feat to pull off. Peter Marquardt was okay. I found a few reasons to hate his character, and they were called for by the screenplay, not necessarily by his performance... Not bad, just nothing special.What amazes me most about the movie is that it was made on a $7000 budget. An original movie with good performances and John Woo-esque action sequences only cost $7000 to make. That's amazing.After watching the movie for the first time, I noticed something about the trilogy, and now I hold a greater respect for it. Desperado and Once Upon a Time in Mexico are both basically re-tellings of the same story, but at the same time, follow-ups to the films the followed. The concept was so original I had to point it out. El Mariachi became a legend, and in order for a legend to live on, people must pass on his story. Along the way, people started adding stuff to it, and eventually the legend grew larger than life. That's just one of those things that make Robert Rodriguez a filmmaking genius.El Mariachi is easily one of the greatest movies of all time, and anyone who appreciates a good western or a good action flick... anyone who appreciates film in general should give this one a look. *****  "},{"Title":"Underrated ?","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For a low budget movie(Rodriguez spent around $30 000) this film is very well directed and i think is underrated , many people have seen a dubbed version, however the original version subtitled is much better. Also i find many people take the film far too seriously, it has elements of comedy that people didn't seem to notice. "},{"Title":"Wheee...-this movie roxx!!!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  To all those, who criticize this movie in a negative way Take 7.000 bucks and ask people like Mr.Spielberg, Lucas, Stone or any other Multi-Million-Dollar-Producer to make a movie with this budget. What do you think will be the result? Did you see Rodriguez'10-Minute-Film-School? He didn't even have enough money to buy a can of black paint for the guitarcase!!! Not the best circumstances to make a movie. Not a single inch of film-material was wasted. The whole movie was taken with only 2 different lenses. Robert, you didn't show us how to make a movie...- you gave us a lesson in the ART OF FILM-MAKING!!!   "},{"Title":"Do you have remorse or not","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Remorse is a worthless feeling which never can in itself alter mistakes maked, unless combined with an ethical and moral conclusion.If you're equipped with the lack of the same, you'll never be able to loose anything Perfect, cold, clear, unsparing, all the artifacts of  a kind of power animal.This is the story of how the lesser/greater ego transforms to a greater/lesser of a ego, which lower the suffering but enhance it at the same time but for different reasons. "},{"Title":"Use your head.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you use your head, plan everything (pre-production), shoot with confidence (one or two takes only), and trust your instincts, you should be able to make a kick ass movie.Like Robert says, Everything you need to know how to make a movie can be learned in 10 minutes...Watch his ten minute film school, then his short 'Bedhead', and 'El Mariachi'...then go make your own because I am. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this film helped me understand that all you need to make a good film is an imagination and a couple of bucks.  I felt that every bit of this movie was excellent (hard to tell with the acting cuz I don't speak spanish and can't tell how *scripted* it sounds from their mouths).  Just watch and learn how unnecessary big budgets are. "},{"Title":"A Foreign Film at its Finest","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez's El Mariachi is an amazing film that each person (especially lovers of foreign films) should watch. It is evident that the movie's acting isn't great and the plot is easily understandable, however it's what was behind-the-scenes that makes the movie so fascinating.Rodriguez's funds for the film were limited to $7,000. Many of the props used in the film (including the guns) were either Rodriguez's own equipment or borrowed from friends. Most of the money probably was used for filming in general and not for certain actors or big scenes. This is what makes the movie so great.Rodriguez was capable of assembling an action-packed film for such a small amount of money that was still enjoyable. Yes, the special effects were not that of a Schwarzenegger film, but once again, consider the amount of money put into the film. Even in scenes that were evidently mistakes, Rodriguez was able to cover up the bloopers and actually make them into funny scenes. This fresh blend of action, comedy, a little romance, and suspense makes El Mariachi a classic.El Mariachi is on my TOP 10 Films of All-Time List not for its themes and how it touched me (because that's not its purpose), but for its capability to achieve so much using so little. Rodriguez's use of just $7,000 proves his genius as a director and the true lack of need for big budget films. El Mariachi is a must-see for all!  "},{"Title":"7G's goes a long way","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What do you get when you have 7,000 dollars, your own bus, and Robert Rodriguez? You get a great film by the name of El Mariachi. Low budget with actors without much acting skills is a great flick. It tells the story of a Mariachi who comes to a town feeling lucky, but gets mistaken for a rival of a local and powerful drug lord. The Mariachi carries a guitar case with a guitar and the killer named Azul carries a guitar case full of guns. He is forced to fight for his life. A great film that you can sum up with one word. Excellent. "}{"Title":"A very wonderful film","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In all fairness, El Mariachi should have been a terrible piece of filmmaking.  With a budget of $6,800, one camera, a broken wheelchair for moving shots, and a cast of no-name actors and actresses.  But writer/director/cinematographer/editor/ect. Robert Rodriguez took the story of a young man (El Mariachi) who just wants to be a musician like his father and grand-father, but gets caught up in a war between two very brutal drug dealers.  Forget special effects, focus on substance when watching this film.  The cast is wonderful, the story is powerful, and the directing is quick and catchy.  If you haven't seen this yet, do so as soon as possible!!  "},{"Title":"Better than many big budget films.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez has showed that necessity and creativity are the mother of all invention.  With $7,000, he made a movie that is better than many big budget films today.  Those up and coming films directors should take tips from this movie.  An excellent first effort. "},{"Title":"Rodriguez is my God","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rodrigeuz showed the world that Hollywood overspends on it's low budget 60 million dollar films by making a film for seven grand. He was a lab rat for 3 months so that he would have time to write a script and rake in 3 grand. He is one of my top three favorite directors. This film moves quickly and are fun something I feel lacks in many independant films.  "},{"Title":"Approximately 25% the budget of Blair Crud Project... 25 times as good.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this film on DVD and listening to the engaging commentary of Robert Rodriguez, I was truly stunned at the idea that people consider the Blair Nazi Propaganda to be a triumph of low-budget filmmaking. Here is the real thing it has less than a quarter of the budget, plus a plot, far better acting, and far better effects.Not surprisingly, Robert Rodriguez became known as the money man in Hollywood after this film and its sequel, Desperado. After making a film like this on an even smaller budget than what was expended on Mad Max, Hollywood would obviously want to beat down your door.Actually, my summary says it all it cost a quarter of a film that was overhyped beyond the point of becoming a joke, and the results look at least twenty-five times as professional. Says it all. "},{"Title":"What dreams may come","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First off, this movie is pretty good.  But I really don't think that is what I want to touch on in this review, after all anyone reading the El Mariachi page probably already knows about the film.  What needs to be said, and I know others have said it before me, but in my own words I have to say thank you.  Thank you to Robert Rodriguez for having the sheer will to make this film.  Every once in a while underdogs come around in film and they inspire many people to realize their dream.  In years past there were guys like Sylvester Stallone that wrote Rocky in three days after seeing an unknown boxer go the distance with the champ.  He held out selling the film because he wanted to play Rocky.  The rest they say is history.  In 1978 John Carpenter had a low budget of under a quarter of a million dollars and he scared the hell out of everyone with what I believe is the scariest film ever made, Halloween.  You have Spike Lee making the film School Daze on a shoestring budget only for us, the audience, to see what a gift he has behind the camera, the rest they say is history.  Then you have Tarantino that got his lucky break because someone he knew knew someone who knew Harvey Keitel's wife and she got a hold of the script and gave it to Harvey and then Reservoir Dogs was made and the rest they say is history.  Then there is Kevin Smith and his $27000 film Clerks that was made on credit cards and loans.  Now Smith is in the big time with movies like Dogma.  Kevin Smith in my opinion is one the best writers in the game today.  The rest they say is history with him as well.  And who can forget Daniel Myrick and Ed Sanchez.  With $35000 they redefined horror and filming techniques by making the Blair Witch Project.  Their filming techniques were completely unorthodox and the film went on to gross a staggering 140 million dollars in North America alone.  And then of course there is Robert Rodriguez.  A guy that was basically a lab rat for three weeks and used the money to film this film.  This is a guy that was just hoping his film would get some small Mexican-straight-to-video deal.  But then an exec sees it and decides that with a little work, this film could be quite good.  And the rest they is history.  Guys like Robert Rodriguez and all the other people mentioned here are guys to look up to, guys to admire.  They had a dream and they pursued it relentlessly and they succeeded.  Perserverance is almost a euphanism for success.  Maybe not at first but if you keep trying then possibly someday all your hard work will pay off.  Look at Matt Damon and Ben Affleck.  They have both been in Hollywood for years with small parts in various films.  Finally somehow Robin Williams gets a hold of Good Will Hunting and they are Oscar winners.  For every film like Titanic and Phantom Menace, you occassionally get films like El Mariachi and Clerks.  This is why the smaller films, although lacking in budget and technical areas, are sometimes better and more exciting and cared for than a studio sized budgetted movie.  Because the people that make them care.  Look at Tobe Hooper and Texas Chainsaw Massacre, no budget, no lighting, no actors and yet one of the scariest films ever made.  Sam Raimi, director of A Simple Plan and For Love of the Game.  Back in the early 80's he made a film called Evil Dead for $50000.  It was one hell of a scary film and people noticed.  Now he is not neccessarily an A-list director but he is thought of when projects are mentioned.  Wes Craven made Last House on the Left in 1972 with the future producer and director of Friday the 13th, Sean Cunningham.  While the film was a gut wrenching experience, it had no backing by the studios and it was made for next to nothing, yet it succeeded and now look at Craven.  His Scream franchise is one of the hottest properties in the game right now.  I mention all of these along with Robert Rodriguez because they all share a passion for film.  They all started off with humble beginnings and succeeded when they shouldn't have.  Rodriguez may be the best story of the bunch.  It's guys like him and others that are mentioned that should be remembered when you are going for your dream, whether it be with film or with whatever you choose in life.  I have been personally affected by guys like Rodriguez and Tarantino and Stallone and Affleck and Damon and Carpenter and Raimi and Kevin Williamson and so on.  You can look at guys like this and see them for the relentless spirit and passion that they have to get the job done.  They inspire me to pursue my dream and hopefully one day in the near future, people on the IMDb will be reviewing my work and saying how it was cool that the Dan guy pursued his dream and succeeded.  And if that happens then I can look to guys like Robert Rodriguez and say thank you for inspiring me to go for it.  When a guy sacrifices his mind and body for three weeks at a drug testing clinic so he make a movie, well that is about all the inspiration I need.  I just wanted to take this brief time out of my day to say thank you to Rodriguez and every other person that has given it their all and fulfilled their dream of film.  You have kept me entertained and you have given me a dream and hope.  That is the best education that you can give to anyone looking to fulfill their dream.  This film may have cost $7,000 to make but it has put Rodriguez on the map of Hollywood and it has inspired me and many others to go for it ourselves.      "},{"Title":"Rodriguez Starts off on the Right Foot","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of Rodriguez's films. Particularly 'From Dusk til Dawn','Planet Terror' and 'Sin City'. Then I bought the film 'Desperado' and learned it was a sequel to El Mariachi. Since I have OCD and everything must be in order, I told myself I had to see 'El Mariachi' before I would allow myself to see 'Desperado'. I looked all over and ended up buying 'El Mariachi', not knowing the movie experience I would soon get...'El Mariachi' is a low-budget movie and you can tell it is. But it is without a doubt much MUCH better than a lot of these excuses for movies they dump on us these days. The concept is simple enough; a traveling Mariachi player is looking for work and gets mistaken for a killer. He has to fight his way out of this one. The cast was made up of Hollywood nobodies but they gave performances so realistic and Oscar-worthy that you couldn't tell. El Mariachi (the character) was wonderfully played by Carlos Gallardo, who should have gotten an award for his part. You sympathized and rooted for him throughout the entire film. The lead actress, Domino was also professionally played by Consuelo Gomez. The REAL killer (with whom El Mariachi is mistaken for), Azul was probably my favorite character besides El Mariachi himself, played by the talented Reinol Martinez. There's also the antagonists, like the gringo mob leader who tried to kill El Mariachi and Azul, and has a crush on Domino. The leader, Mauricio Moco was played by the surprisingly good Peter Marquardt. There's also his main enforcer, who is always after Mariachi and gives a great performance yet doesn't speak a word, Bigoton, played by Jaime de Hoyos. Given the small budget, the used/limited props/equipment, and the cast, Rodriguez created a cinematic masterpiece. Many probably do not like the movie because of its lower quality and the fact that its all in Spanish. But these only make the whole experience even better.Fans of Rodriguez will not want to miss this one. Rodriguez starts off his movie career on a very good note with El Mariachi.This movie gets a 10/10. Check it out. Be sure to watch in Spanish with English subtitles, and not in English (audio). "},{"Title":"solid plan, horrid execution","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Learning that this film was done on a budget equivalent to $7,000 allows some pardon for this film being as cheaply done as it was, but it's not enough to call this movie good. The plot of this thing is as sound as any other action film, but the execution of making the film does not seem hardly worth the effort.There is some salvation in that this sets up the storyline for Desperado and Once Upon a Time in Mexico, which are both fun films to watch (especially with the films being done in English and starring Antonio Banderas as El Mariachi) and certainly more worth your time to see.I still fail to see how this waste of film turned out to be a success. Perhaps it was more successful outside the US. Then again, it would be nigh impossible for a film of $7,000 to not make more than its budget. Still, do not look to this movie for true entertainment unless you enjoy seeing the cheapest low budget films ever made. "},{"Title":"La pelicula es muy fabuloso!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While I doubt this film was made for  7,000 dollars the scope and story of  this film are quite astonishing. This  film was all made in one take, which  is amazing when one looks at the  difficulty some of the scenes. While  people always claim Pulp Fiction was  the first film to lusciously stylize  violence, this film beat the film by a  long shot. Robert Rodriguez started  out so well, but has hurt himself with  some of the films he has taken part  in recently. Nonetheless, this will  always rank as a great film by any  film lover. "},{"Title":"A much milder, unsurpassed mariachi","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first and the best of this trio of Mariachi films, totally removed from the other two, this low budget hit, stands on it's own, with one hell of a punch. This mysterious gentle soul of a guitar player, is mistaken for another guy, a badder dude, with a guitar case, where this one goes through a nightmare of dodging bullets, and near escapes, but more importantly loses the love of his life, the catalyst for the next two Americanized shoot em' up, sequels that carried on. This is a more gentler movie in comparison, with some unforgettable moments, haunting and comical, which balances out, perfectly, from a new young film maker, who like Tarantino, can show us how to make hits from low budget means. Still today, this debut is Robert Rodriquez's. Strangely enough, this star Mariachi, went onto play one of Banderas's explosive, gun toting trio in the following full action spectacular instalment, and the next one too. But truthfully, I liked the two much livelier action packed ones, but the truth be told, El Mariachi is Rodriquez's finest hour. "},{"Title":"Robert Rodriguez injects excitement in every shot","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi plays his guitar but is mistaken for a hit men. Lot of thugs with guns keep trying to kill him. The story isn't the big draw of this movie. It's really just an excuse to shot a lot of guns and make an action movie. Robert Rodriguez signals his arrival with this well shot indie. Sure the big draw when it came out was the low low cost of production. That didn't matter when it comes to the value of the camera work. Even the most benign scenes are shot in an exciting compelling way. It's a great sample of what Rodriguez would do in Hollywood later on.I recently watched it again after almost 20 years. I have to admit that I don't remember the narration or the dubbing. They sounded odd to me. It's very distracting. "}{"Title":"Cheap yet Effective","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi is a very cheap film. It was produced with a budget of $7000, starring a cast of amateurs, and directed by a then amateur Robert Rodriguez. Now I'm gonna make it clear, I'm not a Robert Rodriguez fan. I've only seen like a handful of his films(The Adventures of Sharkboy & Lavagirl, Spy Kids, Spy Kids 4D, and Machete) and none of them have particularly impressed me. But I have to say, I actually really enjoyed this film!The thing that makes this film work against the budget is the simplicity and tension. The film tells a very simple story about a mariachi who gets mistaken for a gangster so now, the gang that the gangster is going on a vendetta on now mistakens the mariachi for him because of his clothing and guitar case and now, he's on the run from them. It's very simple but that's what makes it work. It feels a lot like an Alfred Hitchcock plot with the regular, normal guy who gets himself into a wild goose chase. And it works because you connect and relate with him well rather than if he was like a cop, or an assassin, or something. The decisions he makes in this film are what a regular human being would make, he never decides to get revenge on them or anything like that which makes it feel all the more real and makes you feel like you are on this journey with him.The film also has a lot of tension and suspense. While El Mariachi is classified as an action film, our protagonist never becomes an action hero during the entire film. He shoots a few guys here and there but the main reason why he manages to survive these chases is just because of luck. So we have a lot of scenes in this film where he has to protect himself from the gangsters and it's very suspenseful because he's just a regular guy who uses nothing but his own wit. And even when there's no action on screen, the film has a lot of tension going on because you don't always know what the characters are up to. For example, there's a scene in the film where Domino makes a call and while she's an ally in the film and the only real ally for El Mariachi, we don't see her make the call, it's all offscreen and it works because it makes you question her alleigance.But there are problems with this film, as I stated before it's a very cheap film and it shows with the cinematography because it just looks really cheap and gritty. I know that it's an action movie but it looks gritty in an ugly sense rather in a beautiful sense like Licence to Kill(1989). There's also some shots in this film that look out of focus and awkward. It's hard to describe but if you've seen the film, you'll know what I mean.There's practically no score in this film. All we hear the entire time is this 80's movie score that sounds like The Terminator and it's just generic and cheap.The film could also use a little more gore. There's some small shootouts in this film and sometimes there's a blood squib and other times, they just fall down. It's really inconsistent.Oh, and there's one line in this film I find ridiculously stupid. After he murders four guys, he goes to the bar looking really frustrated and then the bartender asks him What's wrong? Had too much soda? and he replies with I just killed four guys. Who the hell would say that? I know that he's a really nice guy who doesn't like to kill but why would you say that? Next thing you know, he's gonna ask her How's your sex life?, lol.But overall, it's a nice little independent film that has a nice, simple plot but also a lot of suspense and tension so I'll give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Robert Rodriguez's beginning","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It is a surprise to see how far director Rodriguez has come from this movie. This particular movie involves probably the least amount of blood. But either way, it is still entertaining, even if it has English subtitles. I liked the majority of the film except for a few parts.This movie is the story of the guitar player, El Mariachi, who became the vigilante that he was from Desperado (1995) that Antonio Banderas starred in. Everything is explained. From why he became what he became, and how it happened. This movie is not particularly the jolliest of all films. Neither was Desperado (1995) but it did thread in some humor every now and then that did enlighten the spirits. This movie does have a little of it but the story is more focused on the main character itself.Carlos Gallardo plays the original Mariachi, as is his original girl friend, Domino, played by Consuelo Gomez. Both look great together as did Banderas and Hayek did in the sequel. But because the way the story is told, love never develops. Unfortunately, that was one of the things I wish did occur. However, I can't complain because it led up to a nice sequel. Turns out though, the beginning of the Mariachi's story is quite tragic. Like I said before, it explains everything.The fact that the actors spoke Spanish throughout the movie didn't bother me at all. I am grateful that there were English subtitles because I could still follow what was happening and what was being said. I also enjoyed listening to the dialog in Spanish. It's not often you run into a foreign film when you're in a English speaking nation. Every Spanish word that I heard sounded new and attractive, no matter what mouth it came out of.The music, which had many composers, sounded alright too. It wasn't as memorable as the soundtrack provided by Los Lobos in Desperado (1995) but it still had a good beat. Something I got confused over were the dream sequences that El Mariachi had. What did they represent? Past events? Was the child a younger version of him? Why the severed head? What did that mean? These nightmares were never addressed and there for left me frustrated because I did not understand the meaning of it.The introduction of the Mariachi franchise has the same trademarks by Robert Rodriguez but is also much different. Although it's in Spanish, it's still fun to watch and listen, even if the story is tragic. "},{"Title":"Greatest low budget movie ever","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First of all,let's not look for the needle in the hay here,this movie was made with fistful of dollars and by a 23 years old kid,today man,with not crew and that inspires the hell out of me.If someone out there wants to play Roger Ebert and criticize this flick he better take the camera,and go by himself back to Mexico and do it for 7.500$.Robert Rodriguez's camera work,angles,authentic locations,authentic cast and great editing job at end deserve big 10 stars for his effort.Even that some actors were lacking on their skills,it is still great work cause story unites them well and it was a breath of fresh air to see movie done with amateurs better then many over 1mil. dollar films from Hollywood.Over all highly recommended movie,very aspiring and worth having in DVD home collection.Enjoy the Rodriguez's work folks. "},{"Title":"Loved this one","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OH my lord, I actually caught this one by mistake way back when. Sometime like in '94-'95 I rented a VHS of I think it was rambo or sth, but this tape was it it instead. And I was instantly hooked. And was really pi$$ed off at desparado for making the sequel without giving this any credit.A truly low budget masterpiece, what it lacks in big budget, it makes up for in story and great directing. This film had excellent pace and directing, and the relatively unknow cast (atleast for me) was good as nobody tried to upstage anyone. Millions of reasons why I liked this way better than Once Upon a Time in Mexico, but to name a few, no fancy actors trying to out do each other, low budget so story doesn't go over the top, the mariachi is actually a normal person!!! A true gem of a film that you should try n catch if you can. "},{"Title":"So simple, yet so fire-breathing","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'El Mariachi' is a Mexican production which was an unexpected success (and still is). The secret of its success is very clear to me it is simple but effective. It proves that it's possible to make a good movie with a simple plot and simple settings, low costs of production and no special effects and still being possible to use the imagination despite all this simplicity.Yet, for such an inexpensive production, it has a lot to offer. The movie is quite violent, has more action than you might expect from such a low cost production, but with an advantage it isn't too explosive and noisy. That is, there is action, but in a good level, without excesses.The story is touching and depressing to a degree after all, the mariachi didn't want to cause any trouble. He just wanted to be a musician, but the terrible irony is that he is confounded with a local criminal... which makes life very difficult for him. He ends up losing everything in the tragic ending.The movie also has its moments of comedy, particularly the times when Moco lights a match on that guy with a mustache and sun glasses (that is hilarious).'El Mariachi' is a Spanish language film, but that's no problem for me. It's a Mexican production with local artists, so it makes perfect sense. Plus, the Spanish language is part of its charm. I'm not in favor of dubbed versions. I defend that each movie should be made in the language of its native country.As for the cast, it consists of unpopular but effective actors. Carlos Gallardo does a great portrayal of the mariachi (whose name is unknown) and Consuelo Gómez is great as the sexy Domino.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Rodriguez's One Man Show","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With $7000 writes, directs, produces, films, and just about does everything other than acting to make 'El Mariachi'. It is a fine example of sheer raw film-making and that one does not need millions of bucks to create something energetic and entertaining, even if it's an action film. Rodriguez sets a cold tone under the Mexican heat. The viewer is just as much a stranger to the village as the protagonist, El Mariachi. Rodriguez builds tension between the characters which is followed by some heavy energy. Moreover, the hand-held camera-work just works brilliantly and the fight scenes are well choreographed. Most of the actors were clearly not professionals but their amateur acting adds to the coldness of the characters. Carlos Gallardo is likable in the title role and does maintain a good chemistry with Consuelo Gomez (who is hot in an unconventional way). Now Rodriguez has become a very well-known filmmaker since and with more money he's managed to make bigger films but 'El Mariachi' was the acid test that has opened doors to bigger opportunities. A must watch for those looking for raw action and entertainment. "},{"Title":"Classical and Stylish!","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie certainly helps you understand Robert Rodriguez better. This movie is a good example of how you can establish your own unique photography but still utilize classical movie grammar effectively. The movie opens with some nice establishing shots with oblique angles, and intro scenes that use parallel cutting to effectively build the sense of suspense. Where the characters need to look intimidating, the director uses close-ups to establish this, and to give powers to the character, uses low angles. All these devices are movie grammars that are closely related to our human psychology, and i think it is interesting to see how Rodriguez, who is widely known as a young, often hip director, follows this classic grammar to a great degree. In the interior shots at the bar, and in the chase scenes, he uses lots of cross cutting to effective deliver speedy movements in this low budget film. It's astonishing to see how far he'd go to save money in the making of this film (This is well shown in the 10-min Film School featured on the DVD of the movie). You should definitely watch this movie if you want to learn about motion pictures. "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Like Peter Jacksons 'Bad Taste', any person who's ever thought of making a movie, or has made a short here or there, watching 'El Mariachi' fills them with with glee, because of the knowledge that this is a movie that they themselves could've made.I at first didn't know how good it was going to be at the start, as some of the shots didn't work as they were fully intended. But once immersed in the story, you really get taken away on the low budget action ride, that is Rodriguez's first film.Not too much I can really say that other people haven't, yes it's amazing that it cost $7,000. Yes it's an inspirational billboard of encouragement to all budding film makers, etc etc.The thing I liked about it best, was the pacing. The story just unfolded at EXACTLY the right pace. Because of this, it has a great re-watch value, (I only just saw it for the first time, but I can tell). When I get up tomorrow I'm going to go get out 'Desperado' as I haven't seen it in a long, long time. I haven't seen 'Once upon a time in Mexico' either so I'll have to grab that as well.8/10(reviewed after first viewing) "},{"Title":"Proves you don't need millions of dollars and CGI to create an entertaining action flick","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi is an above-average action flick thats made all the more impressive when you take into consideration the budget the crew worked with. Director Robert Rodriguez made this for around $7000, and its easily five times more enjoyable than either of its big budget follow-ups Desperado and Once Upon a Time In Mexico. His frantic direction style (along with some amazingly advanced editing for such a shoestring picture) ensures a lightning fast pace, and the incredibly brief running time of eighty minutes ensures this never becomes remotely dull for one second. In my mind, its far more fun to watch than any of the Die Hard or Lethal Weapon films.There are some flaws in the film, but most of them are derived from the low production values, so they're very easy to forgive. The performances aren't of great depth and complexity, but work very well with the film. As the title mariachi, Carlos Gallardo makes for a very likable and affable hero. Its interesting to notice that in the first film, the mariachi wasn't as much of a pretty boy bad ass as he would subsequently become. Consuelo Gómez is very sexy and Peter Marquardt makes for an appropriately hissable villain. The only major problem I had with the film was the downbeat ending, which seems very out of place with what had up to that point been a fun and light hearted shoot-em-up picture. Still, until that, El Mariachi is wonderfully entertaining and very inspiring to potential filmmakers. (8/10) "},{"Title":"All I wanted was to be a mariachi, like my ancestors.","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I bought this film and Desparados on Region 2 by mistake and so it sat on my shelf for a long time. Fortunately, my new computer plays Region 2, so I got to see it again in Hi Def.It was as good as I remembered. No, it's not high quality, but it is fantastic considering that it was written, directed, shot, and edited by one person - Robert Rodriguez. It was his experiment, and he showed his talent and what can be done for $7,000.He even used his friend to star in the film. The non-actor Carlos Gallardo was perfect for the role and made the film more believable. Even the little town of Ciudad Acuña added realism to the film.An inspiration to filmmakers everywhere. "}{"Title":"mariachi kills with ease","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi, while looking like and being shot on a budget, is a great film. It's simple and right from the the start having the scene with Mariachi land on the bus it gets right into the action.After a case of mistaken identity, a musician has to fend for himself.While it is hard to believe that a simple musician can turn into a killer in a day, he makes it look easy strolling down the street at ease. He doesn't feel any remorse after the kills, it feels like he's been doing this for a while. His guitar playing skills match his killing abilities.Great film, with another great film Desperado on the same DVD. "},{"Title":"The First Mariachi","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is indeed the First installment of the El Mariachi series. However, this is the most real of them all.The movie starts with a known drug lord and a vigilante at war in Mexico. The drug lord betrayed the vigilante and the vigilante simply wants his money back and he will go away or blood will be spilled. The drug lord is not going to comply.Then our hero is merely a drifter who is just looking for work. Bad timing. The vigilante carries a guitar case full of weapons. The drifter is just a mariachi with a guitar. The mariachi and the vigilante also dress the same. Mistaken identity. Here we go! The acting is great. It all feels so real. The story is pretty good. The action is the best part, it's not over the top. It's very good and feels real. Our hero is not a weapons expert, he has not used a gun in his life. He has to fend for himself. Well done. The dialog is good too.The Last Word Cool. The first mariachi film. This is the most realistic of the trilogy. The action feels real, the story is good, and the casting is great. Also the villain is just a roach. Entertaining. "},{"Title":"Bizarre And Brilliant","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" brilliant first work to director Robert Rodriguez to the same time a bizarre and fearless story it's so passioned and so bizarre to little exaggerate to put guns figths on the streets I know that my country it's full of violence but not so to nothing put attention on the happens but if got an amazing things whit an ac tings good (that no one it's past of that) and a great explosion it's a great movie it's crashing and amazing, the sad thing it's an amazing film like this it's f*cked for the next parts first in ''Desperado''' it change the story and the first character and the only thing of the story of ''El mariachi'' that in ''Desperado'' save it's exaggerated, in ''Once Upon A Time On Mexico'' that probably it's the worst picture of Robert Rodriguez after ''Spy kids'' shows the more mediocre sequel of all times And Ending another good movie f*cked for the sequels "},{"Title":"El Mariachi A solid action movie","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I went and rented this movie the other day.... and I couldn't be more happy I chose this one. it is definitely one of its kind and its such a good movie that its hard to believe Robert Rodriguez only spent 7,000 dollars in the shooting of this movie..... The movie its about a Mariachi who gets mistaken for someone else who the local Cartel is looking for to kill.... at first he doesn't realized why he is being hunted down but by the time he does he is to involved and has no choice but to see the matter thru to the end. I recommend this movie to any movie fan who likes their movies with a mix of action, comedy, romance and persons who are alright with the fact that movies sometimes can be unreal.... after all they are movies!! IF you are a Robert Rodriguez fan then this is a must have!! AND if you like good movies then this is a must watch! "},{"Title":"First in the El Mariachi trilogy","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" El Mariachi tells the story of the ultimate case of mistaken identity, as a Mexican gang look for an enemy with a guitar case full of guns, but lock their targets on an honest guitar player who is simply looking for work.Never really knowing whats happening to him, the Mariachi, is forced to put down his guitar and pick up an uzi in order to protect himself from a ruthless gang boss who fears the other guitar-case carrying Mexican is coming to seek revenge on him.Despite is incredibly low budget, Rodriguez turns this film into an awesome watch, which absolutely deserved a financially boosted sequel - although the third should probably be left unseen. Again Rodriguez' skill of framing each shot is superb, utilising a vast array of different camera angles, perspectives and methods. He was without a doubt one of the most important new directors of the nineties, doing just as much for extreme violent cinema as Tarantino did. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Nineties gave us a surge of impressive, stylish, innovative young film-makers from all around the globe, with Robert Rodriguez leading the way in his ability to make a low-budget film look like a Blockbuster. El Mariachi was filmed in a short time, with a minuscule budget but put him on the map. A solid story, good acting, great music and cinematography, confident and effective editing, and explosive action that many directors fail to achieve with a much larger budget. El Mariachi delivers thrills, laughs, good dialogue, and one of the coolest characters of the decade.Carlos Gallardo stars as El Mariachi, a travelling musician who simply wants to carry on his family tradition. The next town he wanders into is run by crime-lord Moco. One of Moco's former employees Azul has become a hit-man and is wiping out Moco's men as Moco had turned against him. His trademark is his guitar case filled with weapons. When El Mariachi wanders into the town he is mistaken by Moco's men and he finds himself in constant danger. He tries to find a way to prove his innocence, but when local woman Domino becomes involved the stakes grow. Soon a war erupts in the town.This is constantly impressive when considering the $7000 budget. Rodriguez ensures that every scene seems like it drips with gold and style. The action is swift and exciting, the performances (mainly by total amateurs), particularly from Gallardo, Consuelo Gomez, and Peter Marquardt are very strong with each portrayal making sure each character sticks in the head. El Mariachi is an innocent forced into a deadly game which will transform his life and haunt him forever. Domino is also drawn into the seedy world, is feisty but vulnerable. Moco is a cigar smoking, white-suited menace who oozes villainy. Truly one of the best low budget films ever.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"El Mariachi","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez's first film is a mistaken identity tale as the title character is confused by thugs working for a guy who looks like a young Christopher Walken. The real guy they want is out to settle the score with the CW look a like because he was ripped off. It's those damn guitar cases, I tell you.It manages not to look too horribly cheap by virtue of the town that it was filmed in. I guess we should give them all credit under the budget constraints (I hear they couldn't afford to let the actors have second takes). The film does feel like a student film though, like Rob was just learning how to work everything and depending on who you are that's either a good thing or a bad thing.Followed by Desperado.  "},{"Title":"well done considering the budget.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One loses a bit of the feel for the movie with the subtitles.  It was not a hard movie to watch with subtitles.  It was filmed like the old Spaghetti Westerns.  The film was interesting and artistically done well.  The budget hurts this film.  I could just imagine what could of been done with a larger budget and more time.  This film was surprisingly well; I have seen worse done on bigger budgets.  It shows how talent can overcome low budgets and no name actors.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Second Feature Film","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At the age of 24, Robert Rodriguez wrote and directed this low budget feature film which appeared to be a hit and impressed the likes of Quentin Tarantino (who in the same year made his debut feature film in 'Reservoir Dogs') and Antonio Banderas (who went on to appear in the sequel of the film, 'Desperado'). The film was raw and very much low budget, but not as impressive as everyone thinks. Rodriguez would go on to direct 'Spy Kids' (also with Banderas) and 'Spy Kids 2'. "},{"Title":"An overlooked Classic","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mariachi, as not many know, is the prequel to Desperado. Although Antonio Banderas isn't in Mariachi, Rodriguez does a great job considering his $7000 budget! Although in another language and in subtitles, the movie translates nicely and the humor comes across quite nicely. The plot follows an innocent mexican guitarist looking for a job when he is mistaken for a drug lord and the real drug lord is hiding out from his associates and want him dead, thinking that the 'Mariachi' is the guy they want dead. Just because its in spanish or something doesn't mean you won't like it; I, and others who have seen it recommend it highly for it's good action, smart humor and solid acting. But Mariachi (and the great sequel, Desperado) is all about revenge. "}{"Title":"Great alternative to Hong Kong, Hollywood action cinema","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very entertaining.  In the world of action films where the plot serves merely as a vehicle for the action, this movie stands out because it's the other way around.  The story is very engrossing and has so many unique twists that you're always on the edge of your seat, wondering what's going to happen next.  The film also makes use of genre archetypes, such as with the character of Azul, so that it can create audience expectations and then break them by showing that the person really doesn't fit an archetype at all.  However, at the same time many characters stay with their archetype, so you never really know what to expect from anyone in the film.Rodriguez's use of cutting is brilliant, and it really shows how much more powerful and evocative straight cutting can be than following people around with a steadicam.  The editing gives the film a Woo-like sense of pacing; the action is given in small doses between long intervals so you really savor it.  Rodriguez's use of subjective point-of-view, such as playing a tire-screeching sound as the camera stops tracking, adds a lot of humor to the film, particularly when you least expect it.  This is a rare action flick that doesn't take itself too seriously, and that makes it even more enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Energetic, entertaining, and with neat action sequences. The best thing $7000 could buy.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  El Mariachi is quite close to being a masterpiece of low-budget filmmaking. It may not be True Lies, but it is more inventive, clever, and entertaining.Shot on a $7 per minute budget, it sure is fun to watch. There is one standout action sequence where mariachi swings onto the front of a bus from a motel, while being pursued by the baddies.With lots of action, corny dialogue, and a great low-budget feel, El Mariachi is sure to give action fans and aspiring filmmakers a kick.PLOT 7 DIRECTION 9 SCRIPT 7 ACTING 7 VALUE FOR MONEY 10OVERALL 8 "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While in hospital, short-film director Robert Rodriguez decided to write the script for a feature length movie that he would make himself.  It took two weeks to finish, and with a budget of a mere $7000, the film was created.  'El Mariachi' was born.I am a fan of Rodriguez's work, and this debut effort is suprisingly excellent, considering the extremely low budget.  It contains a cleverly written storyline about mistaken identity, and has a tragic love story buried underneath the imaginative action sequences.  We are also shown several 'nightmares' that the lead character experiences, which are never explained but provide the film with an arty feel.The acting is solid, especially from the star Carlos Gallardo and the bad guy Peter Marquardt.  Don't doubt this film just because it is low budget and is in Spanish (with English subtitles) and watch it now.I rate it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Quality film, low prices!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has yet to see this film must!  Whilst watching the film one must look at it in the context of it only having cost $7000.  Rodriguez, a self taught master of the director's craft, who lacked the prerequisites to qualify for film school, decided to work his way into Hollywood on his own hand.  The result is a masterpiece.  Okay, so there are a number of repetitions evident in the film, he re-uses certain concepts over and over again in a bid to save money, but if one contextualises the situation then the true value of the film can be appreciated to a greater extent than just an appreciation of the plot.  This man deservedly broke into Hollywood and has contradicted himself in that he now a mainstream filmmaker, a concept that he openly criticised just a few years ago.   "},{"Title":"Great action. Great movie.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez does a great job of directing this budgeted independent movie. Takes a lot from Japanese gunplay films of John Woo. This highly stylized movie has great cinematography, acting, choreography,and writing. It could possibly be better then Desparado. Sometimes Desparado is considered a partial sequel to this. Very good. 8 out of 10. Warning sub-titles. "},{"Title":"More inspiring than anything I've come across yet","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you see this movie, you'll get an idea of how shoe-string a movie can get, IF you read the back of the box or read a bit about the movie. You won't know just how much, unless you delve deeper and read the book Rebel Without A Crew by Robert Rodriguez, the auteur behind El Mariachi. The book was a gift from a friend, for which I will be eternally grateful.There are plenty of nay-sayers, who will suggest that Robert's claims of doing what he did for how little he did it are erroneous or unsubstantiated. They should just read the book and then prepare to revise their statements. The finished version that we all see is not the end result of just $7,000, true. But it is not much different from the original film aside from cleaning up of the image and sound quality. As I said before, just read the book.It is difficult to say whether the film can stand alone without any back story into how it was made, but it is what it is. A famous story of an inexpensive endeavor to make a feature film.There is a must see DVD for Rodriguez fans, the El Mariachi/Desperado combo. It features among other things, some interesting behind the scenes footage on both films that will give you a better understanding of just how the film was made so cheaply. No second takes, no safety net, all heart. Being an aspiring filmmaker myself, I sincerely hope that one day I can meet the man and thank him for the inspiration and for all of his encouragement through his book.  "},{"Title":"If you want to make a good movie, you don't need a ton of money","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I read the El Mariachi was made for less than $7,000 and with only one camera (!!), I thought no way.  When I saw it, I was even more surprised.  The man is not so much a great director as he is a great editor. The film is action packed -some of the action is even better than your generic multi-million dollar blockbuster- and he does it with one camera.Sure the movie is not a masterpiece, but kudos to Rodriguez.  The story is good, the action is great and I forgive all the little plot holes.  This movie instantly became one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Camera Fun","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most fun anyone has had with a camera since Welles and Toland filmed Citizen Kane. Infectious and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"was that it?","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I finally got around to seeing this film, after all the hype, and I must say that it's hard for me to comprehend how this film could have kick started Rodriguez' career the way it is..The budget of $7000 clearly shows, obviously there was no money to pay REAL actors, so they used amateurs and it really bites. The plot is awful, almost non existent - so many plot holes, it's annoying..I can see Rodriguez has good fantasy regarding various angels and stuff, but too bad to so lacks just about anything else in this horrible flick..2/10 - only cause of the ridiculously low budget  "},{"Title":"Good, especially considering the budget.","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is interesting, isn't it? That in this world of multi-million dollar epics that a film can be produced for virtually nothing and still manage to be a better film than something costing 10,000 times as much to make.El Mariachi isn't a fantastic film, but is a decent, solid movie, that put me very much in mind of the kind of Straight-to-video films of the early eighties. Not all of those films were so good, but all had the shoestring budget approach that proves a movie doesn't have to cost the GDP of a third-world nation to be any good.So if money does not make a film good, then what does? A story, and decent characters. But, just as money can't buy you love, neither can it buy you a plot or characters. Those can only come from the writer, and from what I've seen of Hollywood lately, there's some pretty p*ss-poor writers out there.But enough of my rant. Is El Mariachi any good?Yes, but don't expect something fantastic. It's a fun, action movie that doesn't go overboard on the gore (unlike the later follow-ups) and which helps you to understand the journey that the Mariachi has undergone to get to the point he is in at the start of Desperado (which was the first of the films I saw). There is a plot, but nothing overly complex. But, at least it has a plot. In short it's a pleasant enough way to spend an hour and a half or so and the only way to fully understand the Mariachi's character is to watch this film, then Desperado, then Once Upon a Time.Worth a look in.  "}{"Title":"Gunslingin' guitar-player week Day 1 Not much guitar playing going on","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is almost common knowledge by know that Rodriguez made this film for a mere 7000 dollars back in the day. A few people do not understand though how it is possible to make a film, with that little money. Looking at the film for myself I find it not too hard to believe that there were only 7000 Dollars involved. There are no big stars in the film, nothing is wasted on make-up or costumes, Rodriguez did a lot of things himself (cinematography; film, sound and music editing; operating the camera; additional editing; still photographs and last but not least special effects). Another thing that struck me while I was watching the film, was that there was not much collateral damage, despite the amount of shooting in the film. I did not see anything being blown up, a car being crashed or even a car being punctured by some flying lead. This is not to say that the film is not professionally made. On the contrary. It is very professionally made, but with limited resources. Robert Rodriguez knew exactly how to keep production costs at a minimum without actually hurting his film. With the production costs at a low level and the quality of the production at an acceptable level, the only things needed to make this work are decent acting, a good script and good execution and I must say that El Mariachi has all of the above in my opinion. Although the quality of the acting is hard for me to categorize (since I don't understand Spanish and watched the film with sub-titles) I can assure you it was far from awful. The execution of the film is excellent. Rodriguez made every shot as perfect as he could with the few technical abilities he had and there is never a time that a cut in the film or something seems unprofessionally made. Of course you can see that this is a low budget production, but I must say that I've films with bigger budgets looking worse, because they tried to pull something off that was just not possible with the means they had. The translation of the story to the screen is good as well. The story is not too predictable, there is some humor and there is always a bit of a thrill about the film, because you are wondering what in the hell will happen next. Also there is some coolness about the film as, depicted in the match scenes with Moco. This is not only a hint at a level of coolness to come in the future mariachi film by Rodriguez, but also an hommage to Sergio Leone, who is one of Rodriguez' idols. Some things in this film are a reminder of that,  as is the title of the latest mariachi film Once upon a Time in Mexico. Therefore I suggest you watch A fistful of Dollars if you enjoyed El Mariachi, which is by all means a very solid debut. 7,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"La pelicula es muy fabuloso!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While I doubt this film was made for  7,000 dollars the scope and story of  this film are quite astonishing. This  film was all made in one take, which  is amazing when one looks at the  difficulty some of the scenes. While  people always claim Pulp Fiction was  the first film to lusciously stylize  violence, this film beat the film by a  long shot. Robert Rodriguez started  out so well, but has hurt himself with  some of the films he has taken part  in recently. Nonetheless, this will  always rank as a great film by any  film lover. "},{"Title":"Low budget film","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  El  Mariachi (Callos Gallardo) comes to town with his guitar in the guitar case. He has hopes to find a job as a musician in there, but there is a  killer in the town, who also has a guitar case.But the killer doesn't have a guitar in his case.His case is full of guns.But they think that el mariachi is the crook so he is chased by everybody. There is one local girl who helps him. El Mariachi was made only with 7 grand and the actors aren'tany big celebrities.So you don't need millions and millions of dollars to make a good movie.Robert Rodriguez knew how to safe money.The second part was called Desperado and they needed a little more money and Antonio Banderas for that.But El Mariachi proofs that anybody can make  a movie.All you need is a couple of dollars and a camera. But you can forget the special effects.  "},{"Title":"Great start to movie. But it finishes poorly.","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I suspect that the screen play was only partially written before filming started, or they ran out of money and decided to wrap up the filming early.I concluded the above because character development and the plot unfolded quite naturally in the first half of the film. Then for some unknown reason, some characters developed exaggerated facial expressions and mannerisms and the plot vanished into thin air.Further, bold characters become caricatures and meek characters become inexplicably heroic. One character who probably had never seen an automatic weapon is instantly an inerrant shot and a quick draw. Another character, who wouldn't be caught dead without his Uzi, takes on drug lord and his gang with only a hostage and pistol.In the first half of the film there were some very interesting cinematographic shots worthy of great director. In the second half, those dazzling techniques were few and far between.This could have been a very good movie, if more time had been taken in writing the screen play. "},{"Title":"El trasho","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, I say I'm not going to excuse trashiness on account of a low budget.  There was nothing interesting about this storyline, with paper-thin characters.  But oh wait...is a film like this supposed to run on storyline?  Of course not.  It's supposed to run on its *wink wink* dazzling special f/x.  Yes, I'm upping the sarcasm to the max.  When villains get shot in this movie, they appear as if tomatoes are exploding on their chests.  I think I had better f/x in those corny little home videos/action films I made with my friends back in early high school.  Maybe Mr. Rodriguez should've considered not having blood at all in the shooting scenes.  If you watch old movies, when people got shot they didn't show the blood.  Yet it didn't in any way decrease the film's realism.  Then again, filmmakers weren't all show-offs back in the day.  Please don't think I'm against all low-budget and indie flicks.  You want me to name all the films I enjoyed that were produced on a micro-budget?  You've got two hours?  Like I say about other experimental films of this sort, I would've been impressed if this were a student film.  I'm sure it would get top honors, and rightfully so.  But as a regular feature film...I can't help but view it as a pure trashfest.  There are some moments of humor--like the villain returning into the bar to pay for his drink--that are redeeming factors.  No, Rodriguez didn't take this movie too seriously, which is one step in making a trashy action flick.  But Rodriguez definitely has talent, and he proved that in his upcoming films like the sequel Desperado--with much more impressive special f/x--and From Dusk Till Dawn--one of my all-time favorites.  He's destined for success.  This just isn't one of his best efforts. If this type of campy action flick appeals to you--fine.  I can't dispute.  But this was too much trash for me.My score  5 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Low Budget doesn't automatically make it good","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"    This past Christmas my friend got the Desperado, El Mariachi two-pack (having seen desperado and thinking El Mariachi would be good too), and the other day we watched it.  As far as an action movie goes it's pretty poor.  The chase scenes were pretty much all the same and lifeless.  The actors were all pretty bad especially Moco (who was laughably horrible), and it lacked the humor of the other 2 (especially the most recent edition).  The only mildly funny part was when the mariachi tries to get a job at the bar only to discover that the bar already has a 1 man band. Now if you are one of those people who loves low budget/independent movies for the sole aribitrary reason that they are not multi-million dollar Hollywood films, then you will probably like this movie (or at least say you do, for that reason).  But if you look at this movie objectively it isn't that good.  The action is slow and boring (perhaps budget does matter in action movies, or at least action sequences), unless of course you like a slow chase through an empty street with no music and a fat mexican guy looking confused.  The story is nothing special, just a standard case of mistaken identity.  And if you think for one minute that the Mariachi falling in love with the girl whom he just met is not a Hollywood contrivance then you are sorely mistaken.  The end is pretty lame too though I did enjoy the overblown laughing of Moco.  Do yourself a favor, skip El Mariachi and just watch the other 2, they are much better movies.  However, I will say that this movie did make me glad that I didn't live in dirty poor Mexico, thank God.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"Downright boring first installment, which started off an overrated trilogy.","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" (Credit IMDb) El Mariachi just wants to play his guitar and carry on the family tradition. Unfortunately, the town he tries to find work in has another visitor...a killer who carries his guns in a guitar case. The drug lord and his henchmen mistake El Mariachi for the killer, Azul, and chase him around town trying to kill him and get his guitar case.Boring, low-budget, and poorly acted came to mind while I was viewing this movie. Yes. I mentioned the word overrated with this infamous Robert Rodriguez trilogy, but I did enjoy Desperado to some extents. I can see why people love this movie. It has a sense of style; they did what they could with the budget they had, but for this to have 7.0 rating baffles and befuddles me to the extreme.The Acting Carlos Gallardo is OK as Mariachi, but he doesn't have the presence of Banderas, and I didn't feel the qualities needed for him to help make this movie successful.Bottom line. I'll be honest with you. I watched this one over a month ago, and I'm struggling to remember things about it. Probably tells you the impact it had on me. Perhaps this one is for you, it clearly wasn't for me.3/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I don't see the huge buzz that this film made. The shots are amateurish, the acting looks weak, and the story seems stupid. Films like this deserve to stay on the foreign market and away from America's eyes. Shame to Sundance, shame.Again, I don't see the huge buzz that this film made. The shots are amateurish, the acting looks weak, and the story seems stupid. Films like this deserve to stay on the foreign market and away from America's eyes. Shame to Sundance, shame.Once more, I don't see the huge buzz that this film made. The shots are amateurish, the acting looks weak, and the story seems stupid. Films like this deserve to stay on the foreign market and away from America's eyes. Shame to Sundance, shame. "}]