[{"Title":"Brilliant Film!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"137 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is one of the most brilliant comedies ever produced. There is simply so much to love about this movie.First, this is not simply a slapstick comedy. Sure, there is some of that, including a few hilarious moments in the Alabama mud. But the dialogue in this film is terrifically funny. The writers were able to turn a courtroom script into an incredibly funny exchange of dialogue between lawyers, judges and witnesses. And the whole idea of an out-of-work hairdresser knowing about Positraction is simply brilliant.This dialogue is brilliant because of excellent performances by both Marisa Tomei and Joe Pesci. These two sell this whole load of nonsense so beautifully it should be mandatory viewing for first-year drama students. These two actors show how talented people can read practically anything and make it not only funny but wholly believable.Even all the side characters, from the judge to the D.A. to the defendants to the jury and witnesses are brilliantly played. Some of the exchanges between a local Alabama judge and a NYC poser lawyer would be completely ridiculous in anyone else's hands, but these people make it so real and so funny it's truly a thing of beauty.This is one of those rare films that I can watch over and over again for hours and not tire of it.10 out of 10 Barky "},{"Title":"Brooklyn lawyer Pesci tries to save the two yutes from frying in the electric chair.  Classic!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"104 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Cousin Vinny, along with the megahit Goodfellas, put Pesci on the map.  Of course, he's been in the Scorcese's previous hit Raging Bull, but didn't get a hell of a lot of recognition at the time.  Joe Pesci's character of Vincent LaGuardia Gambini is a landmark character in comedy history.  When his New Yauker street smarts collide with Southern hospitality--brilliant fish-out-of-water humor ensues! Of course, Pesci should've be given all the credit.  Marisa Tomei, who RIGHTFULLY won the Supporting Oscar for her excellent performance (please don't believe that urban myth about Jack Palance calling out the wrong name!!), is hilarious as Pesci's fiance with a foul mouth, a smart a**, the heaviest Brooklyn accent and an incredible expertise in automobiles.  This was also the movie that made Marisa a star, and a performance I commend to this day.What can I say?  This movie has some of the most priceless bits of comedy.  One, of course, involves Pesci's pronunciation of the word youth which sounds like yute.  One underrated bit is the one where Pesci first meets his cousin's friend (Mitchell Whitfield) in the jail cell.  His cousin (Ralph Macchio) is asleep and Pesci suddenly pays the friend a visit.  He doesn't know Pesci is the lawyer, and assumes he's some guy who...wants to make him his b**ch.  The comic dialogue in that scene is so perfectly executed and I feel it's one of the funniest in the movie.  I'm not going to give away any more of the film's slick, intelligent humor--You have to see it for yourself!!!If you're in the mood for a smart, well-written, well-acted comedy that will have you on the floor--look no further!  My Cousin Vinny doesn't disappoint in any of those aspects.  This is a truly memorable piece of comedy, and though it was released in 1992, I'm sure comedy lovers will pay homage to this movie in the present day.My score  8 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Underrated.","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"99 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Underrated. I won't belabor relating and describing the plot, because that's been recited nicely by numerous others. I'll simply return to my one word point. Underrated. Even though Marisa Tomei broke through and won Best Supporting Actress at the Academy Awards for her performance, an award she earned and much deserved, I still say underrated. This film really never got on the public's radar the way it should have, probably because there are no big-name actors featured as box office draw. Joe Pesci was as good as it gets that way. In 1991 he was the hottest name in the cast. But has Joes Pesci ever established himself as a leading man who could carry a movie by himself? I ask that in open-ended wonderment, and certainly not disparagingly. Just asking, is it fair, has it ever been fair, to expect Joe Pesci to carry a film?Regardless of Joe Pesci's latent starpower, this cast of players as assembled possessed remarkable chemistry in the performances they gave, not only in their interactions with one another, but also in the creation of a final product that excels way beyond the sum of its parts, beyond any of their individual levels of genius, certainly beyond anything that could ever have been reasonably expected of them. Competent though they may have been, these were not thespian heavyweights or comedic savants. You ever wonder why this singular performance 15+ years ago and counting remains Marisa Tomei's magnum opus? That might be one big reason why. The Germans have a word for this. It's called gestalt. My inclination is to give most of the credit for this winning final product to director Jonathan Lynn. It seems obviously to be his creation. Who else singularly deserves it? Along the way it would have been such a cheap trick and easy thing to surrender to the obvious, but Lynn didn't do it. This is a story built around stereotypes. New Yorkers. Ethnic Italian New Yorkers. Southerners. Small town southerners. Southern justice. Southern small town justice with New York Italians in the dock. It would have been so easy to traffic in those stereotypes, to over-the-top cash in on them, to submerge the movie in them and to exploit them for all they were worth. These people could have been made into cardboard cartoons of themselves. Surely the Englishman Lynn was thusly tempted, but it was a temptation he mainly resisted. Oh, almost obligatorily, he dances us over to that edge and gives us a big whiff of all that, but instead of jumping in and wallowing in the stereotypes, he deftly pulls it back and carries it all off and away in a new and different direction, indeed in an uplifting direction. Just as there are no cheap tricks in this movie, there are no cheap shots either. People are not ridiculed for who they are or where they are from. It rises above that. Lynn raises it above that. Yes, the regional differences that exist are juxtaposed. And yes, we get the fact that cultural differences divide these characters. But the beauty of it is that no one is treated unfairly. In fact, the viewer comes away with the feeling that these are all good people. Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei are given a broad canvas to create great humorous art, bouncing one, two, three liners or more off of each other, at the other's expense. It's the game they play with each other, the nature of their characters' relationship, and it's fun to watch. And this must be said not only does Marisa give an exquisite performance, she is an utterly delightful feminine creature to watch here. As for the southerners, in not taking the bait to exploit the southerners as dumb hicks, Lynne actually captures part of the true but rarely portrayed essence of the south polite gentility. Lane Smith embodies that essence. And Fred Gwynne? He practically steals the show, and would have were it not for Marisa Tomei.What has been going through Joe Pesci's and Marisa Tomei's heads for the last 15 years? What is wrong with their agents? These two needed a sequel. If not a sequel, then more film(s) together. The dynamic between them was too good to just be abandoned. We should have been treated to much more of them together.As a trial lawyer let me say that the portrayal of courtroom events, while certainly not perfect, is more than adequate and passable. One thing that is accurately captured is the fish-out-of-water experience of a city lawyer when subjected to trying a case in a far-flung rural county. This depicton conveys the essence of what that's like.This movie deserves more recognition. It is clever, funny, and fun. I recommend it. If you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor and indulge yourself. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"82 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the best way for Joe Pesci to follow up GOODFELLAS and JFK.  Those two were ultra-serious roles for him and to forray into comedy was perfect. It was a perfect role, perfect timing and a perfect opportunity to show people that he could play something other than the heavy or the bad guy. MY COUSIN VINNY is really just a distant cousin of his character in Goodfellas anyway.  Just imagine one of the guys in Goodfellas that didn't want to follow in the footsteps of the rest of the gangsters and this is him. Vinny is a foul mouthed, sometime violent, insecure but smart man.  He went to law school but took six attempts before he passed the bar.  They are definitely similar characters.  The difference is that Goodfellas was a serious film with a funny side and My Cousin Vinny is an absolutely hilarious film with a somewhat serious side.What makes the film work as well as it does, is many things.  First of all you have the fish out of water scenario with Vinny and his fiancee Lisa, wearing leather jackets and cowboy boots down in the south where it seems everyone is wearing overalls and they hang out in establishments where their best selling feature is chicken and pool.You also have a great supporting cast that features Lane Smith as a very animated D.A. that has to hammer home every point to his jury like they were morons.  He says the word truth is a word that comes down from England where all of our ancestors come, and looking at him incredulously is some of the black jury members.  Fred Gwynne supplies some of the best comedy for the film with his constant badgering of Vinny.  Everything from his suit, to his enunciation of words like youts, to his court room impropriety to his just plain dislike of him.  Gwynne and Pesci are so opposite as people. Gwynne being a giant of a man with a southern drawl and a long, virile face while Pesci is a short man with a distinct New Yawk slur and a pudgy, baby looking face.  They are complete opposites and much of the hilarity comes from their inability to see eye to eye on many things.It also has to said that Marisa Tomei is brilliant in this film.  There are people out there that try to demean her Oscar triumph that year because the favourite did not win like anticipated.  But her performance here is nothing short of Oscar worthy.  She is a gifted actress and her comedic timing in this film is bang on, or as she would say,  dead on balls accurate. This is one of the funnier films to come out in the 90's and it is well worth seeing again.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"63 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can watch this film over and over again. Joe Pesci plays Vincent LaGuardia Gambini, a Brooklyn lawyer who is asked to defend his cousin and friend from a murder charge in Alabama. Marisa Tomei as Mona Lisa Vito, Vinny's girlfriend, deserved the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, rare for a comedy to even be nominated for anything by AMPAS. I really liked Fred Gwynne as the no-nonsense Judge Chamberlain Haller, a great foil for Joe Pesci's laid back, easy going Brooklyn wise guy. Even his name, Chamberlain Haller, evokes seriousness. A lot of fun, especially the courtroom antics of Pesci. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The more I watch it --- the funnier it gets!!","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"47 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Definitely one of my all-time favorite comedies. Well directed, well acted -- priceless comic performances by Pesci, Tomei, Gwynne & Austin Pendleton. And more than comedy -- there's also a lot of genuine pathos and real tension and drama, especially in the final courtroom scene. And I really don't understand the controversy or brouhaha over Marisa Tomei receiving the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role in this movie. It's a crackerjack gem of a performance and a stellar comic portrayal. The only thing I can figure is that a lot of snobbery about serious dramatic portrayals somehow being more worthy of honor than great comic performances still very much lives on in much of the film community. "},{"Title":"A remarkable cast makes this satiric comedy fresh.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MY COUSIN VINNY is just one of those feel good movies delivering some grins that won't wash away. An excellent cast includes Joe Pesci in one of his best roles as a hotshot lawyer. Expect a few unbelievable surprises from the irresistible guy who's smart enough to make one hilarious movie after another. He is downright likeable, and so is Marisa Tomei, a sassy and stylish figurine who was amazingly superb to take home the Best Actress Oscar. Both Pesci and Tomei have the colorful wits and personalities to make a wild pair for themselves (almost like living in the 50s for sure!). Also, the movie's best moment arises when a freight train disturbs Pesci's sleep at five in the morning. The deep downside is the latter portion a climatic courtroom scene that, while up to the point of interest, runs terribly long and weak....until one of the film's cast members gets into the act! Still, it's worth plenty of good gags and good laughs that aren't so bugging. Pesci would look terrific in a torn-up leather jacket in front of the judge, to his ultimate disgrace! Smart comedy is smart thinking after all. "},{"Title":"A funny film with lots of laughs","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny was a great movie. I borrowed this film from a friend but had no idea what it really was but just knowing Joe Pesci, Ralph Macchio, and Marisa Tomei were starring in it. After seeing it, I really liked it. It was a funny movie. There were tons of laughs and I never knew it was going to be this funny but mainly Joe Pesci as Vinny was hilarious. He had the best role in this movie out of anyone but Marisa Tomei as Vinny's fiancée and Fred Gwynne as the judge did wonderful. I was surprised how good the movie was and overall it really entertained me. I highly recommend the film.Hedeen's Outlook 8.5/10 ***+ B+ "},{"Title":"Pesci, Tomei. Need I Say More.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Two dim-wits from New York (Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield) become the victims of circumstance in the deep south in this hilarious courtroom farce. Macchio knows that his one hope is the titled character (the priceless Joe Pesci) and his red hot girlfriend (Marisa Tomei in a well-deserved Oscar-winning turn). The two use street smarts to show the small-town folks that the case is not as cut-and-dried as it seems. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci rocks!","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the first film I have seen where Pesci is the lead role and he proved to sore beyond what his talents are, he's definitely one of the most under rated actors of all time, I feel like he's Hollywood's hidden secret weapon. ) I had heard a lot about My Cousin Vinny, I know this was the movie that won Marissa's Oscar and not to mention I heard how funny it was. My Cousin Vinny turned into a very intelligent and great comedic story.It's about two boys who have been accused of murder, with a lot of pressing evidence against them that can get them executed, but one of the boy's cousins, Vinny, is a lawyer, well, just graduated and starting his first six weeks. Not to mention, he's never fought a trial or murder case. Vinny has also brought along his Brooklyn talking fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito. With little experience and getting into a web of lies, Vinny must learn that good arguing is not just what will help, but he also has to learn how to be a lawyer.Joe and Marissa absolutely steal the show. I think my favorite part was when Mona Lisa was on the stand talking about which cars were involved in the murder case, she just got into a fight with Vinny and she refuses to help him, but she does and he kisses her hand and you can tell they made up, but it's just their looks that are just plain priceless! Everything about this film could make anyone laugh and make them fall in love with Joe Pecsi, he's just so awesome! 9/10 "}{"Title":"A comedy that you can see again and again!","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Some people really do lack a sense of humor and take life way too seriously. These are the people that will complain that this movie is not funny. The rest of us will find at least some genuine funny moments. In my case, I found several. My Cousin Vinny is a movie that I will play to cheer me up because it's hard to feel down while watching it.Joe Pesci who scared the hell out of us as Tommy Devito in Goodfellas takes on the role of wise cracking, inexperienced attorney Vincent Gambini. He is wonderfully matched with the nagging, street smart, and charming Maria Tomei as his girlfriend Mona. The two hard core New Yorkers wind up in rural Alabama to defend Vincent's cousin (Ralph Macchio) and friend on robbery and murder charges. There are plenty of funny moments created from the culture clash between the yankees and the southerners ranging from the fascination with grits to the colorful colloquialisms used by each. Some of the best moments involve the exchanges between no non-sense Judge Haller (Fred Gwynne) and Vincent who he can't understand due to his New York accent. However, this film does not rely on stereotypical southern slapstick comedy. It is actually smart and there's a real plot involving a court case that all but looks clear cut until Vincent and his girlfriend begin looking at the evidence. I love all the court room scenes and Pesci and Tomei have great chemistry.This movie is truly underrated; although Tomei did earn an Academy Award for her role in this film. I highly recommend it to those of us with a funny bone! "},{"Title":"Love It, Love It, Love It","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is another of my favourite films and I never get tired of watching it again and again and always laugh at the funny scenes.I can't imagine anyone else in those roles than Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei, I don't think it would have worked as well as it did. They are one of the best on screen couples I have seen. They act like a old married couple. They just work so well together and have the right chemistry. They make me laugh more than anyone else in this picture, the scenes I particularly laugh the hardest at is when Vinny has been invited by the prosecuting attorney to go hunting and he doesn't know what to wear and Lisa goes into a tirade about the deer being shot and his brain lying on the floor and not caring what the son of a bitch who shot him was wearing. Another is when Vinny is trying to prepare for a case and she heaps on more pressure by talking about her biological clock, it is a lot more funny in the film and you should watch it for just those scenes alone.What I find entertaining about Vinny's character is that he is not a practised lawyer, he hasn't had any cases and doesn't really know what he is doing. He doesn't even know about disclosure till Lisa tells him. He also has to convince his cousin, the cousin's friend and the judge that he knows what he is doing. On top of this, he hasn't had a good night's sleep because it keeps getting interrupted by loud noises throughout the night, the judge doesn't like him and keeps putting him in jail for contempt, a local idiot who wants to fight him for $200 that he owes Vinny so there is a lot of factors working against him. You cheer for him when he starts to do the right things in court and will him on to find evidence that will prove his cousin and friend innocent of murder.I have to say one of the scenes that has me falling about laughing is the scene where there is a stuttering lawyer who is trying to do his opening statement but keeps stuttering through it and the jury's face is a picture and really it is their expressions I am laughing at.I like that the film is unpredictable. You don't know how it will be resolved, you are in a way in the same boat as Stan and Bill as you watched them leave the Sac o' suds without killing the clerk and you wonder who could have done it and how the witnesses are so convinced that Stan and Bill did it and at least at the end, you have a satisfying conclusion when you find out they have caught the bad guys in another state.It was good to see Ralph Macchio in something else other than The Karate Kid. I hardly recognised Fred Gwynne without the makeup of Herman Munster. He was such a treat especially when he couldn't understand what Vinny was saying when he said yutes and couldn't understand some of the other words Vinny said with his thick Brooklyn accent.10 for the actors, 10 for the directing and 10 for the writing which makes this film a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an almost perfect film which works on so many planes. Ostensibly it is a fish out of water comedy but there's more to it than that.Director Lynn, known for his penning the Yes Minister series in Britain, does an excellent job here. Casting is impeccable. The actors too. Who but Pesci could have done this? And Tomei, who won an Oscar for her performance here, is almost always spot on.One thing that's always intrigued me how Lynn could have left the bite with the mention of the Corvette in and not redone it. Caught up in the impact of the scene, Tomei completely loses her accent. It's a jarring experience.Lynn, being British, is severely critical of capital punishment and tosses in the occasional barb against it, although most viewers might not realise what he's up to.And Smith, McGill, and the ever welcome Chaykin do their bit - and as Lynn himself says, there are no real bad guys in this one it's about a lot of people thinking they're doing the right thing - and about how screwed up things can get, about how innocent people can get convicted - and what having capital punishment therefore means in that context.The 'skits' are precious. The dripping tap, the biological clock, and Tomei's final foray before the end are such classics that people keep coming back to the movie to see these segments. The interplay between Pesci and Tomei is nothing short of fantastic.This movie is as close to perfect as it can be without really touching there. There is no '9.5' for the reviewer to give, and so because everyone on this project did such a top drawer job, they get the final '0.5' for pure effort and intentions alone.Normally the comments on the DVD version by the director are a total bore, but in this case they're a refreshing exception to that rule.The DVD is a definite keeper. You'll never tire of this one. Never. Beware of yutes. "},{"Title":"Talk about your fish out of water!","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The script is a perfectly ridiculous fish out of water story but the irresistible combo of Pesci and Tomei make this a terrific viewing experience. While Macchio and Whitfeld are rather bland as the accused that actually helps since too many strong characters would have thrown the focus of the film off. Marisa Tomei's controversial Oscar win for this performance is a matter of opinion, as most awards are anyway, and there were four other fine performances that year but without her sensational work the picture would be considerably less than it is. The supporting cast is peppered with fine actors doing good work, Lane Smith and Austin Pendleton are memorable but the real standout is Fred Gwynne as the judge in his last role, a great way to wrap up a career. A charmer that can be watched over and over and provide pleasure each time. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is a real gem, a perfect, funny, smart comedy, a very rare kind that I can watch and enjoy over and over again no matter how many times I've seen it and from what scene I watch it. This is one of my three all time favorite English language comedies along with Dirty Rotten Scoundrels and A Fish Called Wanda. When I think of it, all three share the same concept - playing the differences between the cultures, mentalities, ways of living, talking, doing things, even cooking - Europeans versus Americans, particularly British and Americans or New Yorkers versus Southerners in My Cousin Vinny. They also have in common a flawless, witty script with all pieces falling into right place, all guns firing, all characters developed and interesting. As with Scoundrels and Wanda, performances in My Cousin Vinny are simply terrific. Joe Pesci as a lawyer with no legal experience from Brooklyn whose first case just happened to be defending two youtes in a first degree murder trial, and Marissa Tomei in the dresses that are so magnificently out of place in the muddy Wahzoo City, Alabama but so deliciously fit her like a glove, make one of the best screen couples ever but I like the supporting characters and small cameos, too. Everyone shines in this delightful comedy. I remember three witnesses for prosecution - grits loving Sam Tipton (Maury Chaykin), the guy with seven bushes (Raynor Scheine), and sweet Mrs. Riley who just may need a thicker pair of glasses. Austin Pendleton as a stuttering public attorney was hilarious. Fred Gwynne, sadly in his last performance as Judge Chamberlain Halle, made his every scene (each of which he shared with Pesci) the double delight. Ten years after the film was released, Film critic and historian Mick LaSalle wrote in his article, Half of what made Joe Pesci funny in this comedy was the stream of reactions of Gwynne, as the Southern Judge, a Great Dane to Joe Pesci's yapping terrier. The film made me root for Vinny, wishing him victory in his first case, and he won gloriously with the help of a lovely, lovely expert in the general automobile knowledge in this lovely, lovely comedy. "},{"Title":"I can't let that previous comment stand....this is a TEN !","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've replayed this wonderful movie so many times that I think I've memorized the script. The nuances in it, the performances of even the bit players, and the direction are incredible. Examples (without screwing this up for you -- and I hope I' ve got the correct actors' names for the parts) defense attorney Lane Smith's confident rapping of fingers on the desk as he departs from his abysmal defense opening; prosecutor Austin Pendleton calculated pronouncement of heinous hy-eee-nus; the grits cook's (Maury Chaykin?) blank testimony; the tough guy -- Chris Ellis? -- in his confrontations with Vinny; and the incredible southern judge Fred Gwynne who is irresistible with his fancy southern/back east background against Vinny's Brooklyn approach; and Marisa Tomei's incredible performance such as telling Vinny you blend and the baby deah is drinking from the little brook and BAM.... No, this is a great movie and I can't let comments that it's anything less go unanswered. "},{"Title":"Outstanding entertainment","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of those films, which if you completely enjoy, is as much fun to see over and over as it was initially.It is simply a perfectly enjoyable and humorous piece of entertainment.The two primary leads, the two young defendants, the main co-stars (judge, prosecutor, sheriff) and the other cast, are all excellent.One of the best features as the story was presented is that every character seemed to contribute to its humor (e.g. the prosecutor, judge, other defense attorney, sheriff, witnesses - even the dolt whom the Tomei character had beaten in a game of pocket billiards) as well as Pesci and Tomei. So often in this type of film, there are either some characters/situations which cause lulls in the story, or the writers/directors give all the good stuff to the main star(s). Not so here.The many prior comments here have covered the plot line amply. For anyone who may come across this one, if you haven't seen this film, rent it, buy it or see it the next time it's listed in a directory. "},{"Title":"Obstacles","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A couple of Yankee youths take a trip to the deep south and find themselves being charged for murder . Thankfully one of the youths has a cousin who's a lawyer Did I say thankfully ? I'm not a big fan of comedies since the premise usually over stays it's welcome by at least half an hour , but screenwriter Dale Launer has crafted a very funny , well paced script that succeeds because of the amount of obstacles for the characters . Lawyer Vincent Gambini is warned by the judge to get a suit , so he gets a suit only to find there's an obstacle in the way . Vincent stays at a hotel , but there's an obstacle in staying there . Every time a character the audience feels for looks like they're going to get a lucky break ( Vincent especially ) another obstacle appears barring their way . A superlative example of pacing a script . Launer has also written things that at first appear throwaway at the time like eating grits at a diner but then incorperates them into the plot later on . Not only that but Launer has written a script with gags that are both credible and funny , even the skit involving possible sexual abuse in prison ( They'd have to be one of course ) isn't as silly as it could have been The cast are pretty good too with Joe Pesci showing that he's just as good as a comedy leading man as he is at playing Italian American wiseguys . Let's see you in another movie sometime quick Joe . I'm not sure if Marisa Tomei really deserved her Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role here but if the choice was between her and Vanessa Redgrave I'm glad the Oscar voters made the choice . The only real problem with the casting is that it's impossible to believe the short middle aged Vincent would have a hot leggy girlfriend like Mona in real life . But maybe I'm just jealous ?  "},{"Title":"Very good, but one reason to watch it...","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film is very good, pretty much what I expected. I expected a light, breezy, entertaining comedy and that's what I got, although I do think that the running time was just a bit too much. It could've afforded to lose maybe 20 minutes there. Joe Pesci is very good, but seems to be playing the type of usual character he's so known for. As good as the film is, the biggest, most absolutely sure reason to watch it is for Marisa Tomei. Already know that it's an all-time worthy comedic performance, and we don't get those often. She manages to come across incredibly natural, while still being brassy and fun. She manages to make her character a real person and not just for show while hitting all of her notes perfectly. "},{"Title":"The two yutes and their attorney were funny as hell.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"    This is the perfect example of a great comedy.  Making fun of courtroom dramas, it has you laughing from beginning to end.  This is one of Pesci's rare movies where he has the lead role and is perfect playing it.  It's a shame he didn't even get a nomination because he deserved one.  However, I would consider this to be Marisa Tomei's breakthrough movie.  She is excellent as Pesci's flamboyant girlfriend and totally deserved the Oscar she got for best supporting-actress in it.  Bill (Ralph Macchio) and his friend Stan (Mitchell Whitfield) are going to UCLA and decide to go through Alabama to get there. But they get arrested down there.  The only problem is that they don't have any money and don't know any lawyers.  But Bill learns that he has a lawyer in his family.  His cousin Vinny.  Now I don't want to spoil the fun of watching this movie for the first time so I won't tell you much about what happens but there are some classic scenes in this movie.  Great performances, great directing, and the funniest script ever are the three elements that make this one a sure winner for anyone who watches it.  Everything in this movie is funny and yet, it's all helpful for Pesci.  Jonathan Lynn May not be the most known director around and he may not have directed that many movies, but My cousin Vinny is a winner.  Marisa Tomei's costumes should have won the movie another Oscar for best costumes.  So for those of you who haven't seen it and are wondering if its any good, quit wondering, watch it, and laugh your head off.  "}{"Title":"i want Vinny as my Cousin","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the rare movies in comedy that i could watch over and over again,, this movie is sooooo , freaking funny it's like a laugh a minute,, especially how Vinny,, bag of donuts is woken up constantly every morning,, first the train,, then the pigs i think the owl, and o yeah the steam whistle... i can relate to that stuff, and living relatively close to N.Y. for years i can relate to the accents in the movie,, very Brooklyn if i'm not mistaken,, i loved Joe Pesci in this movie,, this is one of his finer moments ever in a comedic role,, Marissa Tomei however stole the whole show for me,, not only is she sexy and pretty she can act too, her accent fits her like a glove, Ralph Maccio,, hmm well, not everything can be perfect.. i Loved Fred Gwynne the judge,, he is so hilarious,, i just bust out every time he gets Vinny on Contempt of Court or something,, and order him to some jail time,, overall the plot was simple... yeah some of it's corny,, i guess you kinda have to be a Pesci, Tomei fan to appreciate all the slapstick,, but hey it's one of the funniest movies that you'll ever see and you won't regret watching it that's for sure,, "},{"Title":"Deserves all the good comments, and Oscar for Marisa Tomei.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It had been quite a while since I had seen this movie and all I really remembered was that the courtroom scenes were very funny. Fred Gwynne, who played the old Alabama judge, was actually the best actor here. I recall first seeing him 40 years ago in the TV show, Car 54 Where Are You. Sadly, he died just a year after this film was released. There is something about Marisa Tomei that puts her near the top of my list of women I wouldn't mind being deserted with on a tropical island. In this film she is perfect in a part that could have been written for her. As the sassy unemployed hairdresser, and former mechanic, her testimony for the defense proves the two boys could not have committed the murder. That's a bill$hit question. No one can answer that question. (The car did not have that type of engine until 1964.) I saw My Cousin Vinnny on a DVD my neighbor, Ron, loaned me. For a 10-yr-old movie, made long before DVD became a household word, the video transfer is very nice. There are no extras to speak of, but a good DVD for any collection that appreciated great comedies. "},{"Title":"Underrated. Entertainment at it's best. Seriously.","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. It's one of a handful (at most) of films that I enjoy seeing beyond once or twice. I've watched it well over 20 times and it never gets old. It's chock full of scenes that are so hilarious that they stay with you long after the credits roll. My friends and family have quoted some of the best lines at random on a regular basis for YEARS and we still crack up. Everything about My Cousin Vinny is well done and is and surpasses other films in its quality throughout..from casting, timing, storyline, the performing and directing....it's everyone giving above and beyond what is asked of them. They give the very best they have and the difference is what sets it apart from other productions. You gotta see it. "},{"Title":"One Funny Movie","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis movie is non stop laughs. Yes, I know the Karate Kid is in it, hey Macchio was always a good actor. Do not believe me? Rent the new crappy with one with Hancock Jr. From the opening frames, it is consistently funny. Hey, ma look it is so corrupt down here, you know how it is they all sleep with their sisters. The pace is great; all funny movies have slow parts, this one never stops being funny. They even put Austin Pendleton as a stammering spitting lawyer that has to be seen to be believed. I always thought Pesci could have made so many great comedies. He was wasted as a dumb sidekick in those awful Lethal Weapon movies. He is so believable as a bad ass. He really is able to covey menace despite his short size. While I am not a big fan of Marisa Tomei she does her best work here, I am not sure if it was Oscar worthy, but it is very well done. Gwynn steals the film; his exchanges with Pesci are the funniest parts of the movie. It is almost twenty years old and it is still as drop dead funny as it was way back in the 90s. I like MAD MAD WORLD but it is too long; it has parts that really drag. What makes this movie work is it is just the right length and what a great cast. Pesci and Gwynne are worth the price to see it; I own just a few comedies on blu ray but this is one of them. It is non stop laughs even the courtroom scenes that are always boring, watch THE VERDICT, are filled with lots of comedy thanks to Pendleton's performance. A GREAT COMEDY "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is difficult to speak too highly of this film. It is certainly one of the best comedies ever made.Four years prior, Dale Launer was one of the writers credited with Dirty Rotten Scoundrels--another great comedy. He wrote My Cousin Vinny alone. A remarkable comedy accomplishment.The film revolves around a court case. The defendants are two young men accused of killing a convenience store clerk in Alabama. They call upon one defendant's cousin, Vinny Gambini (Joe Pesci)--a rookie lawyer--to save the day. Vinny brings his fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) with him from New Jersey. It looks like the deck is stacked against the defendants. And Vinny only seems to irritate the strait-laced judge. But Vinny has a secret weapon--the Gambini family trait of being argumentative.This brilliantly written film allows Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei to deliver the performances of their careers. Their characters are so well developed and so likable. As the judge, Fred Gwynne also delivers a career-making performance. All of the acting is topnotch.There are a number of gags that run throughout the film, all of them hilarious.In my opinion, this is one of the top three comedies of the last fifty years. It is eminently quotable and never flags. The court case is cohesive. This is due, in part, to the fact that director Jonathan Lynn is an attorney. "},{"Title":"A great comedy that still keeps a firm grasp on realism.","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great comedy for people who hate comedy's. While it has it's laughs it never feels that it is over the top and disconnected from the story that its conveying. It never feels like the comedy is forced and actually portrays humour in a realistic way that flows naturally. Being a comedian I can only imagine is difficult work due to the generic type casting but every once in a while we are blessed with a movie that works with an actors comedic talents but still portrays them as real people with real emotions. Furthermore the script excels in another way. Not only does the characters even with their humour seem real but also it's a very accurate portrayal of how courtroom procedure really works. While other Hollywood films shamelessly elaborate on many different things for the sake of a good story, that is not lost in this movie. In fact this movie is used as a teaching tool for people studying law still to this day for its proper portrayal of the many different things that can go on in a courtroom, all without losing its fun. If you like movies such as Good morning Vietnam, 50/50, spanglish, or even thank you for smoking, then i recommend this for you but if you think that movies such as happy gilmore are the pinnacle of comedic genius then move along. "},{"Title":"Pitch Perfect Comedy in an era when comedy is no longer funny","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In contributing to the IMDb review database, I wanted to include a comedy that worked, that was funny, that was interesting, that made the viewer actually look forward to the next line or setup. And ran into a problem. Part of the problem is how broad the word comedy has become. It can include for example a Romantic Comedy of the type was pretty much standard in the 1930s and 1940s. It can include the insanity of a Jackass movie. It can include fanboy films that are star-centric, like the Jerry Lewis films (I did review NUTTY PROFESSOR, but not as a comedy) or the mostly-junk they have produced around ex-SNL stars; it can include endless riffs of the same theme like the SCARY MOVIE series, it can be merely a crude attempt to jam as many names into the same film as possible, like trying to stuff co-eds into a phone booth (MAD MAD MAD WORLD) or it can be almost exclusively situational as opposed to character-driven, like the Bachelor Party series. And this is not an exhaustive list! Anyway, after a lot of diddling with the database, I kept coming back to this film as perhaps the purest iteration of the original 1930s screwball comedy. Simple story. Only one or two leads, with a good supporting cast (Fred Gwynne as the judge). A beginning, a middle and an end (I have written before about the many many film-makers who have forgotten this most basic fact about telling a story -- you need all three elements!). A breakout performance by a prior unknown, to take it up a notch (Tomei). And here we are folks, one of the best comedies of the era and arguably one of the best of all times. The fact the the other ratings don't see to agree only reinforces my argument -- we have over the years lost track of what is funny, and what is not. "},{"Title":"The Importance of Physics","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two young men named Bill Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) are driving on vacation from Brooklyn and happen to stop in Beecham County, Alabama for some groceries. Bill accidentally pockets a can of tuna into his jacket and forgets to pay the clerk at the counter. As he and Stan are driving down the road, Bill realizes his mistake and tells Stan. Although both of them are somewhat concerned, they continue driving down the road. They are then stopped by the police and taken to the local police station. Figuring that honesty is the best policy, Bill makes a blanket confession. What he doesn't realize is that he has inadvertently pleaded guilty to the murder of the store clerk. When he realizes his mistake he panics and turns to a lawyer in the family&#x97;his cousin Vinny Gambini (Joe Pesci) who is only too happy to drive down from Brooklyn with his fiancé Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) to contest his very first trial. Ever. Anyway, rather than disclose the entire story I will just say that this is a film that is one of the best comedies of the modern era. I really enjoyed the performances of Joe Pesci and Fred Gwynne (Judge Chamberlain Haller) as both of them were hilarious. In addition to that, Marisa Tomei also put on quite a show and ended up winning an Academy Award for her performance. Now, having said all of that, I must warn viewers that some of the language may not be suitable for younger audiences. Be that as it may, if you are looking for a really good comedy&#x97;or if you're simply pondering the importance of physics&#x97;then you might want to check this film out. "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Vinnie Gambini has passed the bar exam at last, which is just as well because his cousin Bill and friend Stan find themselves on trial for murder in Alabama. So Vinnie and his mercurial girlfriend Mona Lisa Vito drive down to Alabama in order for Vinnie to defend Bill and Stan.Vinnie is a role made for Joe Pesci, who extracts every ounce of humour from the fish-out-of-water situation not only is the Brooklyn native out of place in Alabama, but the newly-qualified (and not especially competent) lawyer is out of place in a Southern courtroom.But if Pesci has fun, Marisa Tomei as his fiery fiancée has more. Having already paid substantial dues Tomei, in her breakout (and Oscar-winning) performance, is a delight. Not only is she unbearably cute, she is very, very funny.And the payoff scene in the courtroom is one of my Cinema's Greatest Hits sequences.My only niggle is over the unnecessary bad language. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy with Terrific Performances","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny (1992)**** (out of 4) Terrific comedy has two youths being arrested in Alabama for a crime they didn't commit but thankfully one of them has a cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci) who just happens to be a lawyer. The thick New York accent at first doesn't sit well with the South but soon his skills come out. A lot of people seem to forget that this picture did lukewarm business at the box office and had several negative reviews when it was first release. I enjoyed the movie at the time of its release but I didn't think it was anything overly great but this is a great example of how a movie just gets better with age. Today MY COUSIN VINNY is rightfully considered one of the best comedies of its time and the performances here are just downright classic and make the film so special. Of course you've got Pesci and that terrific line delivery that adds so many laughs. Just the way he's able be to over-the-top in some of his line delivery is just flawless and the chemistry he has with the supporting cast is where much of the heart of the film comes from. Fred Gwynne plays the tough Southern judge and gets one of the greatest roles in his career and he does a remarkable job with it. The back and forth between Pesci and Gwynne is just so perfect that it never grows old no matter how many times you see the film. Oscar-winner Marisa Tomei is flawless in her role as the girlfriend and we get great support from Ralph Macchio, Lane Smith, Bruce McGill and Austin Pendleton. The film has so many classic sequences that the long 118-minute running time flies by without any dry or slow moments. There's no question that the film contains some of the biggest laughs of the decade and it's also fair to call this thing a classic. "}{"Title":"A Courtroom Comedy","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is a comedy film starring Joe Pesci, Ralph Macchio, Marisa Tomei, Mitchell Whitfield, Lane Smith, Bruce McGill and Fred Gwynne. It deals with two young New Yorkers traveling through rural Alabama who are put on trial for a murder they did not commit, and the comic attempts of a cousin, Vincent Gambini, a newly minted lawyer, to defend them. Much of the humor comes from the contrasting personalities of the brash Italian-American New Yorkers, Vinny and his fiancée Mona Lisa, and the more laid back Southern townspeople.It was written by Dale Launer and directed by Jonathan Lynn.When sweet Northern college kid Bill and his buddy Stan are picked up and thrown into the slammer in a hick Southern town, at first it looks like no big deal. Then they are informed that they are accused of murder. Penniless and without a single friend in the area, Bill decides to call his goofy cousin Vinny, who has somehow recently become a lawyer. Full of family feeling and bravado, Vinny, who has never tried a criminal case in his short life as a lawyer, rides south to defend his trusting relative. He's an expert motormouth and street-level logician from the wilder reaches of metropolitan New York, complete with a thick accent and the attitude to go with it. Otherwise, he's much less well qualified than your average public defender. When he arrives on the scene with his equally brassy girlfriend Lisa, Bill is fairly sure he's going to be sentenced to death. His buddy Stan is even less confident of his legal representative, if that's possible, and the first thing Vinny has to do is to regain the consent of his clients to represent them. The local judge doesn't seem any too sympathetic to Vinny's verbal shenanigans either, and even the most optimistic supporter of the boys would begin to have doubts at this point and Vinny's no exception. With the insistent moral encouragement of his girlfriend, Vinny somehow accomplishes the impossible and wins grudging respect from all concerned, for once studying as if his life depended on it. Easily the most inventive and enjoyable American film farce in a long time, even during those extended patches when it seems to be marking time or when it continues with a running gag that can't stay the distance.Also,Joe Pesci is a total screen pleasure. Overall,this courtroom comedy will appeal to teens.While it's easy to imagine an infinite number of bad courtroom comedies based on this scenario, this movie turns out to be wonderful that consists of broad and low character comedy that's solidly imagined and beautifully played. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Film! Pesci & Tomei are Brilliant!","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'My Cousin Vinny' is A Terrific Film, that entertains from start to end. And Joe Pesci & Marisa Tomei are simply Brilliant in here!'My Cousin Vinny' Synopsis Two New Yorkers are accused of murder in rural Alabama while on their way back to college, and one of their cousins--an inexperienced, loudmouth lawyer not accustomed to Southern rules and manners--comes in to defend them.'My Cousin Vinny' works from Scene A to Z. The Screenplay Written by Dale Launer, is solid & extremely arresting. It never falters. Jonathan Lynn's Direction is picture-perfect. Peter Deming's Cinematography is eye-catching. Stephen E. Rivkin's Editing is sharp. Performance-Wise Pesci & An Oscar-Winning Tomei are simply brilliant. Pesci rips it up as Vinny & Tomei plays her part like a pro. Fred Gwynne is outstanding. Ralph Macchio & Mitchell Whitfield are quite good. Bruce McGill stands out.On the whole, 'My Cousin Vinny' is a wholesome entertainer. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"a memorable legal comedy","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Infectiously likable, appropriately foulmouthed, consistently funny fish-out-of-water comedy about two Brooklyn 'youts' traveling through the rural Alabama south when a series of circumstances land them in jail and facing a murder charge. With no other alternatives, one of them (Macchio) calls upon cousin and family attorney Vinny (Pesci) who's never tried a case and took six attempts just to pass the bar exam. A good setup, impeccable casting, plus memorable comedic lines and situations make this enjoyable throughout. Pesci and Tomei are perfectly matched, and Gwynne is also a delight as a stern, condescending judge. *** "},{"Title":"A crime to miss this film!","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this randomly when it was on TV, and I tell you by far (in my opinion) the best comedy ever made! the day after I went and bought it on DVD to go on my keeps shelf.Yes it's silly, but the story is great in it's stupidity. Joe pesci is awesome in this and some of the other characters. I don't want to go into detail with the plot, it's not complex anyway but all I can say is watch it - if you don't find it funny you officially have no sense of humour. It get's a well deserved 10/10 and I cannot praise it enough, people I have watched this with have been in tears of laughter watching it. "},{"Title":"PERFECT courthouse drama!  This is reality!","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm working in a courthouse for over 12 years, and in 2012, I finally watch this film. Everyone else I work with can't believe I've never seen it. They all love it to death. Now that I've watched it, I do, too! This is real life courtroom drama. I see lawyers hanging out in the private hallways, practicing their act, getting ready for the big-bucks drama they are about to initiate in the courtroom. The judges, who are under a lot of pressure, have many personalities, depending on the type of case they are about to become a part of, and it can be very varied and complex. Mr. Munster himself, god bless him, embodies every idiosyncrasy of all the judges I've ever known, and I know A LOT.Every scene in this movie is memorable! It took me over 3 hours to watch this movie the first time on DVD because I kept rewinding laugh scenes over and over.I wake up every morning and go to work in the courthouse, and My Cousin Vinny helps me get through the host of people every day now.Aside from Casablanca and this year's Oscar winner The Artist, My Cousin Vinny in my top list of 'movie with lovable characters' 10 out of 10. Take it from someone who works in circuit, district AND family court! "},{"Title":"I could watch this all day if I could!","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't know why this movie got so many bad reviews! Sure, I may be 14 and not exactly a political genius, but it was downright funny!!The lines were hysterical (this is where some of the spoilers are) Like when the other lawyer tries to see if what's her name is 'sufficient' as a expert in automobiles and she totally owns him with that answer about the engine thing! Or when Pesci keeps going I'm done with this guy. And I've always been fond of Joe Pesci he plays some of my favorite characters. Like the guy in Home Alone! He's just flawless, easily fits the part, and shows an overly cocky Italian man. It's just plain funny! Like is said, Tormei was great and she was just perfect for the part, the whole idea of an out of work hairdresser who's an expert in automobiles is really cool. I'll be honest, I am in LOVE with Ralph Maracchio, or at least when he was young. And he did a great job. I mean just the whole idea of a court case and this lawyer who's been trying to get a case for i don't what it was like 5, 10 years!Flawlessy done, good for all teens, but kids would laugh at it too and honestly, if I had to watch a movie straight for one day, I would watch this one. It just makes me laugh! "},{"Title":"Flawlessly Hilarious Comedy","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When two Yankees travel to Alabama, the trip takes a turn for the worse when they are arrested for the murder of a store clerk, all a misunderstanding over a can of tuna (literally). That's when they call Vinny (Joe Pesci in the perfect role), a less-than-perfect lawyer who has no experience whatsoever in murder trials. But his street smarts are a big help in the case, and to the flawless plot of the entire comedy. Marissa Tomei is equally perfect in her role, for which she garnered a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award. For any fan of comedies in general, this is perfect. --Bud Sturguess "},{"Title":"A fun movie!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie. Just sit back and enjoy Marisa Tomei and Joe Pesci do their thing. They are two brilliant actors who manage to keep up the momentum in the movie without losing their humoristic and personal style.  "},{"Title":"one of my favorite comedies","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If this movie won't make you laugh you must be dead or in a coma. Great script and great acting by just about everybody. As many other reviewers  have mentioned, Marisa Tomei won an Oscar for her role in this movie and by rights Pesci should have won one too. Speaking of Tomei, I really don't understand why she hasn't had a better career. She is beautiful, charming and can really act. Yet where are the big roles? What's wrong with Hollywood?Getting back to My cousin Vinny. The movie is great. Go rent it today. However, under NO CIRCUMSTANCES watch this movie when they are showing it on regular TV.  I made that mistake recently and was thoroughly disgusted. The problem is that the movie has a LOT of strong language and to accommodate the rating requirements   they had to edit it out. I don't know who was in charge of that particular surgical procedure  but somehow while trying to perform circumcision they ended up cutting off  patient's legs and a large part of the stomach. Understandably, the result was not pretty.  "},{"Title":"And the verdict is JOE PESCI is HILARIOUS!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not many people remember this film. It was funny, laugh out loud funny. It won an Academy Award for christs sake! Surprised? Marisa Tomei took home best supporting actress for a comedy. And that doesn't happen often! Joe Pesci should have won something for his performance in this one, oh wait he did... Funniest Actor in a Motion Picture from the American Comedy Awards. Gotta love the internet movie database!Its a change of pace for Joe Pesci after his roles in films such as Casino, JFK and Goodfellas. I read in a review that for many years Fred Gwynne attempted to disassociate himself from his role as Herman Munster, with no success. His role as Judge Haller was his last film appearance and is absolute perfection.This is a well written, flawless comedy! Probably one of the funniest films of the 1990's! If you want to laugh... SEE THIS MOVIE!Judge Peter's Verdict GUILTY of being absolutely hilarious! 8 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"I laugh every time I see it.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Simple recommendation The movie is funny, Movie GOLD. Not the shallow amusements that are funny the first time only. I laugh at the situations and deliveries every time I see it. Be careful - you may find yourself getting stuck on it again and again during channel surfing.  "},{"Title":"Makes you feel happy even when you are having hard days","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Your face muscles and chest muscles might hurt from smiling and laughing. The movie gives you a lot of positive charges that stay with you for days. I watch this movie over and over and almost know by heart. I often quote it and it puts everybody on a hilarious tune.The dialogs and acting are not artificially glued together, you see the natural flow. In many movies you can feel that the actors talks are shot separately and then put together in a sequence.The only part I did not like is when Joe Pesci falls in the mud, that lasts too long and is a bit exaggerated "},{"Title":"the best movie!","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" i have actually LOST COUNT as to HOW MANY TIMES i've seen this movie! for me, it gets BETTER EACH TIME I WATCH IT! we have cable (we're SOOOOO etc... spoiled! LOL!) and each time i 'channel surf' and it's on, i sit and watch it! PLUS, we have it on DVD too! i am from brooklyn, ny and I KNOW people who actually TAWK that way! i do, but i don't have THAT heavy a brooklyn accent 'cause i lived out of state for a few years. ( i learned how to 'tawk' properly... LOL!) anyway, the movie is great! very well written, very detailed characters, perfect actors for the roles! i LOVE how you can see vinny 'growing' as a lawyer each time he's in the courtroom! it's wonderful! joe pesci is wonderful as vinny! i CANNOT see ANYONE else in those roles! no way! honestly, each time i watch it, i find NEW things! very funny movie too! joe pesci & marisa tomei have great chemistry too! i LOVE them all! "},{"Title":"Colorful courtroom comedy is a bit overlong but still manages to please...","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" MY COUSIN VINNY is the kind of comedy that makes its point pretty early on when it's apparently going to be a battle of wits between a fast talking New York lawyer (JOE PESCI, who only passed his bar exam after six tries) who finds himself embroiled in the Alabama court system and a stern and uncompromising Judge Waller (FRED GWYNNE) who takes an instant dislike to his lack of courtroom decorum.The brash Vinny comes to Alabama to help his nephew and his friend, innocents accused of a convenience store murder who seek his help as a last resort. Vinny's equally brash and foul-mouthed girlfriend MARISA TOMEI is along for the ride and turns out to be the saving point of the trial when she exhibits a knowledge of automobile engineering that's hidden by her crude behavior and comes as a real surprise in the amusing and cleverly written courtroom windup.JOE PESCI is excellent as the lawyer who antagonizes the judge so much that he has him jailed twice during preliminary hearings. FRED GWYNNE does a masterful job as the disbelieving judge trying to get the lowdown on this clown in his courtroom. And MARISA TOMEI is priceless as the loyal girlfriend who pleads all along to be helpful to Vinny because she knows that his knowledge of the law is extremely limited. When she finally gets her chance to shine, she walks off with the film and it's easy to see why she copped a Best Supporting Role Oscar for her work here.The other supporting standout is the job done by RALPH MACCHIO as Bill, the nephew who sends for Vinny and then has second thoughts about maybe using a public defender. MITCHELL WHITFIELD as his friend Stan, accused of being an accomplice to murder, is also excellent.Enjoyable nonsense all the way through, never much of a lull except for a weak sub-plot involving a bully who stiffed Vinny's girlfriend for $200. It's unnecessary in a film that runs two hours instead of a breezy ninety minutes but the film only occasionally gets sidetracked and it never runs out of steam. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is what comedy is all about. Superb acting performances by everyone. A storyline which isn't beyond the realms of believability. The on-screen chemistry between Joe Pesci and Marisa is one of the finest you'll see. You'll find it hard not to believe they aren't a real couple! The pace of the movie is good and the characters are all funny with their individual quirks!! This is a fun movie to watch and will lift your spirits. And it is a movie that you can watch once every couple of years and still find it funny! This movie delightfully depicts the north and the south at their most extreme - the difference in cultures and speech is well defined. One of the best comedies around - and it will stand the test of time! Sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Bursting with guido charm","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Man, what's not to like about My Cousin Vinny? It holds up extremely well, the sense of humor on this thing is tremendous, and its got a colorful supporting cast to back up its leads. It might actually be my favorite Joe Pesci movie (yes, I'm aware of Goodfellas, let's not make a thing of it here). But the role seems tailor-made for Pesci's mannerisms and persona. And he has terrific comedic timing. It's definitely the movie that springs to mind when I hear the man's name. And let us not forget Marisa Tomei, the most gorgeous ball-buster to ever walk the earth.It's a winning movie all the way. Certainly doesn't do the legal system any favors, but it's a kickass underdog story - the kind of courtroom drama won by lovable theatrics.8/10 "},{"Title":"Gets better and better as it progresses","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Entertaining comedy that gets better and better as it progresses.At the start the movie looks like a low-brow comedy. Implausible plot, some cheap laughs (especially at the expense of the south and southerners) and B-grade feel to it. However, as it goes along it gets better and better. The plot becomes more solid, the cheap laughs turn into some clever laughs and a quality movie emerges.The final few scenes are quite wonderful, not just in comedy turns but, and even more so, in courtroom-drama terms.Decent performance by Joe Pesci in the lead role. Marrisa Tomei gives a very good performance as Vinny's fiancé and almost steals the show. Not sure her performance is Oscar-worthy (it got the Best Supporting Actress Oscar in 1993), however, but, either way, she looked very nice delivering it... Fred Gwynne is great as the judge. "},{"Title":"A solid and enjoyable comedy vehicle for Mr. Pesci.","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is an engaging, funny movie that if nothing else shows us just how talented Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei are. It's a superb showcase. The movie itself is an interesting case in how an amazing coincidence could serve to screw over two basically innocent guys. It would seem at first to be basically a one joke comedy - take an Italian American and drop him into the deep South - but it's developed in an entertaining way and has some real heart and charm going for it - although it does go on a bit long.Pesci stars in the tailor-made role of Vinny Gambini, a so-called lawyer who needed six tries in order to pass the bar exam. He's thrust into the unlikely position of defending his college age cousin Bill (Ralph Macchio) when Bill and his buddy Stan (Mitchell Whitfield) are accused of murdering the clerk at a convenience store. With his fiancée Mona Lisa Vito (a radiant Tomei) in tow, Vinny finds adjusting to life in the South - and adhering to the strict procedures of its courts - to be a struggle.Pesci and the Oscar winning Tomei are lots of fun to watch, and have fine chemistry with each other. They receive fine support from a well chosen bunch of actors. Macchio and Whitfield don't have much to do once Pesci enters the picture, but prove to be reasonably likable. (Macchios' character Bill, however, isn't too bright.) Top notch character actors Lane Smith (as the prosecutor), Austin Pendleton (as a stuttering public defender), Maury Chaykin, James Rebhorn, and Raynor Scheine (as witnesses), and Bruce McGill (as the sheriff) all do fine work. Fred Gwynne has some great moments as the stern, disapproving judge who doesn't care for Vinnys' way of doing things.Serious at times but never too, too serious, My Cousin Vinny knows how to end big, and send us away with smiles on our faces. It's worth noting that Jonathan Lynn, the director, is British, adding to the overall sense of the outsider perspective.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Absolute Classic IMO. Pesci is just fantastic. Old Freddy Gwyne is perfect as the strict Southern Judge and great to see him in a different role to Herman Munster, very interesting.this film gets better each time i watch it. very memorable, very very enjoyable. and underrated by far. much like Shawshank Redemption. both have a deserved cult following and were sleepers on release i think.so well written, a great mix of comedy and engaging plot to keep you wanting more and more and on the edge of your seat waiting for each new scene. Pesci court room scenes and battle with Gwynne steal the show. very funny and well acted and brilliantly portrayed by the cast. love it and highly recommend it to those who haven't seen it yet. do yourself a favor. ! "},{"Title":"The quintessential feel good comedy","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What can honestly go wrong when you put Joe Pesci in a courtroom and have him get upset at everyone for two hours? The makers of My Cousin Vinny apparently thought the same thing, because that's pretty much their entire premise. There's not much more to this movie when it comes to material, but thankfully Pesci and Marisa Tomei (who got an Oscar out of it) make all this stuff work. Everyone who watches this will probably know how the movie's going to play out (i.e. happily), almost scene by scene, but somehow it just doesn't matter here because for once you actually want the people in a Hollywood movie to be happy. Every single character in this movie has a certain likability to him, even the antagonists aren't the classic bad guys that lazier actors would have gone for. My Cousin Vinny isn't a great movie, it's not the funniest movie I've ever seen either, but somehow it still puts a smile on your face throughout. The very definition of feel good. "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember watching the Oscars when Marisa Tomei won For My Cousin Vinny. The clip that was shown was the scene of Tomei's character Mona Lisa Vito whining about her Biological Clock. Her character from that clip seemed cartoonish at the time and didn't tempt me to see the movie. However, thankfully, and gratefully, years later one of my relatives convinced me to sit down and watch My Cousin Vinny. What a gem!! I laughed so hard at times my sides hurt. And then, when the biological clock scene occurred it was so perfect and hilarious I thought I was going to pee my pants. Marisa deserved the Oscar for her portrayal of Mona. But, she is not the only one deserving of recognition. Pesci had to have been overlooked because his acting seemed so effortless and people assumed he was just playing himself. So not true. He was brilliant. And, all the other characters were played wonderfully by a great cast. Now, I am not a fan of the F-word, in the movies as well as in social settings. It is so overused to me and evidence of someone with a weak brain trying to express forceful thoughts. In most R rated movies I see it as lazy and unimaginative writing. The more the F-word and profanity, generally, the weaker the plot and lousy dialogue. HOWEVER, the F-word is used judiciously, sparingly, and appropriately, and flows right with the dialogue in My Cousin Vinny. Kudos to the writer for showing how it should be done. If you have never seen this hilarious comedy please watch it, and watch it with an open mind. It is a comedy. It is not brain surgery. But, it is comedy at its best, and if you don't find this funny you are either from another planet or have no sense of humor whatsoever. If nothing else watch the characters and the skill in which the actors portray those characters. And, listen to the fabulous dialogue which was skillfully written for the characters. Each time I watch it I come away with having discovered something new which I had missed previously. Watch this film!! It should brighten anyone's day. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever comedies , A Masterpiece!!!!!!","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is easily the most inventive and enjoyable American film farce in a long time, even during those extended patches when it seems to be marking time or when it continues with a running gag that can't stay the distance. The film has a secure and sophisticated sense of what makes farce so delicious, which may not be surprising, since its credentials are about as impeccable as you can find in the peccable atmosphere of Hollywood. The cast is very good. Mr. Pesci, recently the embodiment of out-of-control evil in Goodfellas and a burglar of singular ineptitude in Home Alone, is a puzzled delight as he attempts to gather his wits, being helped not at all by Mona Lisa's loudly articulated common sense and her ability to read law books and retain their contents. It was extremely hilarious and is great for anyone over the age of 10! From start to finish this film is comedy at its best. Highly Recommended,,,,10/10 . "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci on the right side of the law?? Or is he","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We've all seen Joe Pesci over the years - He's always excellent in the gritty roles like 'Goodfellas'. He's also had some average goes at comedy like The Super. As a comedy My Cousin Vinny(Vinny's a lawyer) is one of those films where absolutely everything comes right. It's a bit of a sleeper. It's alright when you first watch it but it's one of those films which I can watch again and again without getting bored because it has so much good stuff in it(Galaxy Quest is shaping up that way as well). The whole cast works a treat. Marisa Tomei is excellent as Pesci's foil(as well as goil), well deserving of her Oscar. Fred Gwynne as the local judge who can never quite get the measure of Vinny is outstanding. The 2 accused lads do a good job but they are really bit players in this marvellous film. There are so many scenes which have something special about them which makes this a quiet classic. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie!!!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I bought this movie not long ago (mostly just because Ralph Macchio was in it, which by the way, is oh so hot!), but I thought that it was really good. I think it was really funny, too.  I give it an 11 out of 10.  I think everyone did a really good job in the movie.  Ralph Macchio especially, though, because all he has to do is sit there, and I am entertained all day long!  However, I thought he, especially was funny.  My favorite scene was where he goes, Whoa! Wait a minute!  It is hilarious!  He sounds so countrified.  Which is a good thing since I, myself am from the country! Anyway, it was a great movie!  "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci scores as a cunning defence lawyer in this entertaining courtroom comedy","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bill Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) are arrested for murder while driving through Alabama. Although innocent they are put in jail and Bill's cousin New York attorney Vincent Gambini (Joe Pesci) is persuaded to defend them in court. The only problem is that Vinny has never tried a murder case before, has never actually been in a courtroom and has only been practising law for six weeks! In spite of his lack of experience Vinny accompanied by his girl friend Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) travel from New York to Alabama to take on the case. Judge Chamberlain Haller (Fred Gwynne) is not too impressed with Vinny but reluctantly agrees to him representing the two boys. The friction between Judge Haller and Vinny is one of the highlights of the film and the banter between them is hilarious. A running gag through the film is that Vinny and his girl friend keep changing hotels as they are unable to get a good night's sleep due to noises outside. In spite of his lack of experience Vinny puts on a good show but there are many ups and downs before the final verdict.Some favourite lines from the filmRalph Macchio (to Mitchell Whitfield) There's nothing to worry about until there's something to worry about. Just relax, please.Mitchell Whitfield (to Ralph Macchio) Ridiculous, all this over a can of tuna!.Fred Gwynne (to Joe Pesci) What are you wearing?. Pesci I'm wearing - er - clothes. I don't get the question.Gwynne (to Pesci) Once again the communication process is broken down!.Pesci (to Marisa Tomei) Thank you Miss Vito. No more questions. Thank you very, very much. You've been a lovely, lovely witness.Not a well known film but very funny with an excellent Academy Award winning performance from Marisa Tomei. Also a welcome change of pace for Joe Pesci after his psychopathic roles in films such as Good Fellas and Casino. Austin Pendleton as the public defender has some good scenes and creates a comic character in a small but effective role. Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield give excellent performances as the two wrongly accused boys and their bewilderment at the way Vinny is conducting their defence is a joy to behold.  10/10.  Clive Roberts. "},{"Title":"Always a hit","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've laughed and laughed at this film every time I've watched it.  Whenever I want a good pick-me-up comedy, this is at the top of the list. So many films leave you dry at some point; others are silly in their quest for a laugh, but this one gets me from beginning to end! The language may be strong to some, but I thought it was done in a very natural kind of way.  This happens to be how some people speak, and it isn't exaggerated as in some films. "},{"Title":"Justice Served","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A tremendously successful adaptation of cultural extremes as north meets south in arguably the funniest movie of the decade.  Joe Pesci plays a lawyer with a conscience in successfully defending two innocent individuals, including a relative played by Ralph Macchio.  The movie never falls victim to any lulls as the entire cast supports this comic genius.Marisa Tomei is the beautiful, witty and gritty girlfriend of Pesci's Vinnie who aids him in the case through her incredible knowledge of automotive craftsmanship.  Fred Gwynne plays an Alabama judge who can't quite figure out what Pesci is all about and has even more difficult time in understanding Pesci's New York accent.  A rib-tickler for the generations, if a time capsule was constructed for the 1990's this movie would be a mandatory addition.     "},{"Title":"Great acting and very humorous makes this a best in my book!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An excellent movie because of the great writing and acting of all the cast. I have seen this movie ~20 times and still love watching it.  It is hilarious!  Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei give superb performances and the writing is great! "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy Trial Case","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies that i have ever seen. I have watched it at least 20 times and its always funny.Merisa tomei is great in her role. Joe has never been better. This is a great movie.The beginning sets up for a great ending and everything in between is a treat. "},{"Title":"A delightfully out of order comedy","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A rough-around-the-collar Northeastern lawyer is asked to defend two young relatives wrongly accused of murder in a Southern town, much to the chagrin of the defendants, as well as the judge. The result is is a comedy guilty of exceeding the laugh limit.Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei are perfect as the New Yawk lawyer wannabe and his contentious fiance. Fred Gwynne also turns in an outstanding performance (his last) as the Southern judge who alternately antagonizes and encourages Pesci.The movie provides a number of sidesplitting moments. Pesci wearing the circus master suit in the courtroom is a classic. And Tomei's motormouth witness-stand finale (which likely helped secure her Oscar) is a scene to remember.I highly recommend this movie, one of the best comedies to come out of the 1990s.  "}{"Title":"A COMEDY OF THE HIGHEST ORDER? GUILTY!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this Lynn directed classy comedy, Pesci plays Vincent Gambini, a hot shot New Yorker, who has recently passed his Law degree at the sixth attempt. In defending a relative and his friend he must clear them of a murder of which they are totally innocent....but seems like the boys worst nightmare come true. This is a comedy that stands out alongside Dumb and Dumber and There's something about Mary as one of the greatest and most enjoyable comedy of the 90's. Tomei and Pesci, playing the bickering pre-marriage couple, and the superlative performance of the late Fred Gwynne as the judge, allow the film to often remain hilarious, even when there are no direct jokes being made. Indeed, it is the scenes involving the intolerant Gwynne and the naive Pesci that often lead to the films most comical scenes. The overall outcome is a little predictable, and the plot remains on a strict path, but this should not deter anybody against viewing this often remarkably funny, clever and original film. The turnaround of the seemingly useless Gambini and the manner in which he turns this Alabama state town upside down is a joy to behold as he often bluffs his way to a tense and cleverly crafted conclusion. This judicial comedy is a treat and deserves every accolade it receives. "},{"Title":"Brava, Marisa!","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie pits a couple of working-class Italian-Americans from New York against the genteel legal establishment of a rural southern town, and manages to do so without condescending to either one. The characters are mostly caricatures, as befits a farcical comedy, but they're drawn with affectionate respect. Marisa Tomei's Mona Lisa Vito is the exception. Tomei steals every scene she's in, and won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar because she took the raw material of the script and created a living, breathing human being. "},{"Title":"one of the best films of the 90's!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  my cousin vinny gets better every time i watch it. its gets better to the point that it's one of my favorite movies of all time. the movie is so well written,and well played-out. this is the best court room comedy ever made. it's very funny,and entertaining. i give my cousin vinny ***1/2 out of****  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, Very Funny, For All Ages Even Yutes","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie rocks! Joe Pesci outdid himself when he did this movie. This is way better then Home Alone I and Home Alone II but those were still pretty funny. Joe Pesci Rocks! If you have never seen a movie with this actor I suggest you see this very funny comedy.sOuL TaKeR  "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a repeat view for my wife and I. The movie rolls through a well paced and skillfully directed set of very funny circumstances centered around two college boys wrongfully arrested for murder in the deep south. Even the opening song fits well. Pesci and Tomei are great together! She deserved the supporting actress award for this, her character as a well-acted and fun to watch Brooklyn chick. Pesci is very strong in this and shows a good range. My Cousin Vinny keeps building to a very satisfying ending with big laughs, a cute side-plot and even a little love mixed in without gratuitousness. It is an execise in good comic timing. I highly recommend this film, especially for married couples who know what fun a good fight can be. "},{"Title":"A court-room comedy in which Joe Pesci tries to save the lives of two yutes.","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"    Vinny (Joe Pesci) tries to save the lives of two guys who get caught up in a murder deep in the heart of Alabama.  Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield are on their way to college when they get arrested for the murder of a convenience store worker.  Vinny and his girlfriend (Marisa Tomei) try to work their New York antics on the court system in Alabama.  The Judge (Fred Gywnne) doesn't put up with Vinny's tactics and Vinny gets to spend many happy nights in jail.  This is Vinny's first case ever and the movie flows along very cleverly while Vinny tries all the tricks of the trade to get the two yutes from being electricuted.  This movie is very funny and will keep you laughing the whole way through. It will defintely make you think about who you choose as a lawyer the next time your in trouble with the law. "},{"Title":"Liam's review to my cousin Vinny","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" well i watched this movie when i was growing up on spring break when i was out of grade school. i love this film because two adult got framed and setup by the law and Vinny the cousin in the family had to go represent both adult client's that they did'not do and for Vinny to win his first case and get hitched and not make the case look bad by making sure he give's his defendant's a good case. also great movie and i would recommend it to all my friend in family if they have not already seen it.this movie also had it's moment's because of the budget 4 the movie and it had a good line's and script. also this movie was funny and it made a ton of money at the box office. "},{"Title":"A Lawyer In The Family","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny if it does nothing else sets forth the proposition that it's a good thing to have a lawyer in the family. Can you imagine what a good defense attorney might have cost Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield if Pesci was not Macchio's cousin Vinny?Of course for a lot of the film that does not seem like a good idea because not only is Pesci a newly minted attorney, but he's a Brooklyn Italian trying a case among the good old boys in Alabama. The culture clash is shocking and Pesci can't seem to do anything, but irritate the judge Fred Gwynne with his manner and dress.These two 'youts' are in quite a jackpot. Driving through Beechum County, Alabama they stop at a convenience store and Macchio forgets to pay for some twinkies. When the cops stop them, they confess to the accidental burglary, but in fact the convenience store clerk had just been shot and killed by two other 'youts'. Macchio and Whitfield are arrested for murder and armed robbery.This very serious situation even while the audience never forgets how serious it is for the boys, the film concentrates on the culture clash between Joe Pesci and the residents of Beechum County from whom a jury will be chosen.Aiding and abetting Pesci is girlfriend Marisa Tomei, a beautician who has an encyclopedic knowledge of auto mechanics having been raised in a family of them. She also is a quick study on courtroom procedure and Alpha male that Pesci is, Tomei really does save him, especially during the trial itself. Not to mention the boys.So very few Oscars are given for comic performances and I think Marisa Tomei was as surprised as everyone else when she won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. I'm sure she thought she was there to round out the field, but she won it and she's nothing short of brilliant, especially in her scenes in the courtroom.I would also take note of prosecutor Lane Smith, the down home southern lawyer who's used to winning and doesn't like being upstaged by a Yankee in his home town. My Cousin Vinny also was the farewell performance for Fred Gwynne who until this last role was best known as Herman Munster. He and Pesci play off each other beautifully.So if you've got an argumentative sort in your family, encourage him or her in the direction of the legal profession. My Cousin Vinny is the best argument I can make for that proposition. "},{"Title":"Feel-Good Comedy that Breaks All the Rules","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny isn't the great court room drama because it's filled with things that are simply against the rules of court, but since the film is told in such tongue-and-check fashion, it simply adds to the great on-screen chemistry of the actors involved and themes of the film. People may argue that's its contrived, ridiculous, and all that garbage, but this film isn't to be taken seriously. It's a comedy. It's a feel-good-story of believing in someone, and it is incredibly effective. My Cousin Vinny delivers a ton of laughs, some great acting from Pesci, Tomei, and Fred Gwynne. Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei have a ton of fun with this role and really do a great job acting off one another. We become so invested in this story and so invested with their determination that we're sucked into these characters. A smile is brought to your face just listening to them talk. The court room scenes are dynamite. My Cousin Vinny is a classic feel- good comedy that's enjoyable from start to finish. "},{"Title":"A character driven comedy excellently played","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny could be a mess in the wrong hands. Thanks to Joe Pesci, Marisa Tomei, Fred Gwynne and the other main cast members, and to Jonathan Lynn, the film's director, it succeeds and is quite entertaining.Much has been said in a non-complimentary fashionabout several of the acting efforts in the film, but it's the acting that elevates the film from run of the mill ho-hum fare to one which keeps you laughing on repeat viewings.Recently, I watched the film on DVD and listened to Jonathan Lynn's audio commentary. I found his anecdotes to be charming, insightful and informative. Getting inside the mind of the director and reasons he used particular shots and dialog was fascinating and engaging, and I think listening to someone, other than one of the performers, is also educational.I would recommend the film to anyone who wants some light entertainment that really isn't mindless, but infused with good performances and a well done film. "}{"Title":"Comedy as it should be","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The reason I watched My Cousin Vinny was curiosity. Having heard the debate over Tomei's Oscar, I wanted to see for myself. The verdict is that she does deserve that Best-Supporting Actress Oscar. Her performance is brilliant - quick, spirited, but natural. She typifies the New York Italian, so common in film, without being a caricature. As for Pesci, I think he's one of Hollywood's most versatile but under-rated actors. To think that this is the same man who plays the psycho hit-man in Good Fellas! As for other performances, they are all excellent. F. Scott Fitzgerald said something to the effect that tragedy makes us feel, while comedy makes us think. Hopefully I'm not spoiling things by saying this, but I find myself dwelling on the movie and on the position it takes, whether inadvertent or intentional, on capital punishment. I keep wondering whether director Lynn and writer Launer want to make a statement with their film. Whatever, if you're looking for a funny movie to watch, My Cousin Vinny will have you laughing. "},{"Title":"The funniest American courtroom drama ever !","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I give this movie a 9 because I've watched this movie a record 32 times (if not more in bits and pieces) and still manage to fall off the chair laughing through most parts of the movie.I watched it first on a VCD and later found a featured DVD a few years later for a few extra quid. I would still pay for any material about this movie that I can lay my hands on.The confusion at the cell with Stan, the sleepless nights and their many reasons, the break-in break-off relationship with Mona, the intimidating judge 'who's just aching to throw Vinny in jail', and the twisted excitement in the end; all give 'My cousin Vinny' everything a serious comedy needs. It's quite surprising that Joe Pesci has never been set in the lead role in a comedy till date. The reel-life chemistry between Marrisa Tomei and Joe Pesci has been quite appealing and could never be any better or even the same if any of the actors were played by anybody else.The movie, however failed to get the recognition it deserves, but I'm glad I watched this movie soon after its release.I recommended this highly for anyone who visits this page and for those trying to make a decision to watch. "},{"Title":"Not to mention...........you're biological clock....!","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just watched My Cousin Vinny again on HBO. I can not count how many times I have seen it. I know the exact line that is coming and I chuckle every time. The reason I find it so watchable is the sensational performances by all cast members (OK maybe not Machio!). My most vivid memory of the movie was that after seeing the theatrical release and thinking it was hysterical, I rented it while on vacation with my folks. To be honest, I didn't remember the language being so... ah... harsh, and I sat there in shock thinking they would be mortified. Well, after 15 minutes my Mom was howling with every morning wake up, every confrontation with the judge, and we almost lost her when Austin Pendelton started his stuttering defense! She loved Marisa Tomei (who didn't?)! I will never forget that night.The movie itself is the classic fish out of water tale. Joe Pesci, who I always found annoying in his Mafia roles, is perfect as the New Yorker who will learn as he goes along. And Marisa Tomei, his long suffering girlfriend, creates a character so coarse, blunt, likable and drop dead gorgeous, I haven't seen her equal since. I am always amazed that people question her Acadamy Award credentials. The fact that comic turns are not often rewarded doesn't mean it wasn't a sensational characterization. And this was also a career capping role for Fred Gwynne. He captures the respectful Southern Gentlemen Judge, struggling to suppress his slow burn, perfectly. So tune in if you haven't seen it, enjoy it again if you have. This is great entertainment, but remember, its rated R for language!! "},{"Title":"Legal Based Comedy Film That Is Funny And Entertaining","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Joe Pesci is one of the very few actors who can play either the comedy role;i.e a slightly dimwitted yet funny character, or the serious role as a violent, erratic henchman/psycho; i.e in Scorcese's Goodfellas and Casino. In My Cousin Vinny, he excels as Vincent Gambini a so-called stereotypical New Yorker, of whom travels to the South with no prior knowledge in legal affairs, faking his way as a lawyer, as he attempts to defend his cousin and his friend, Stan on their behalf, in his efforts to clear their name. One of his clients is a relative from Vinny's family named Bill, played by 'the original Karate Kid' himself, Ralph Macchio, which was interesting to see. Joining Vinny in this travels to Alabama is girlfriend, Mona Lisa Vito played by Marisa Tomei, who undoubtedly steals the show. I cannot fathom exactly why,like the majority of film actresses, she hasn't received so many film offers to date. The term 'underrated' springs to mind when describing this actress, not to mention 'under-used'. And yet with Tomei in My Cousin Vinny, she brings to her performance an endearing quality, as well as a feisty attitude as Mona Lisa Vito- the fast talking, smart, no-nonsense woman with a Brooklyn accent to match. Her much coveted Oscar win was well deserved. Remarkably enough, she bears a striking resemblance to another actress going by the name of Amy Pietz. One of the funniest lines uttered by both Pesci and Tomei was this one Vinny What about these pants I got on? You think they're OK? Mona Lisa Vito Imagine you're a deer. You're prancing along. You get thirsty. You spot a brook. You spot a little brook. You put your little deer lips down to the cool clear water. BAM! A f***in bullet rips off part of your head. Your brains are lying on the ground in little bloody pieces. Now I ask ya, would you give a f*** what kind of pants the son-of-a-b**** who shot you was wearing? Unlike many of his Scorcese roles to name for example, Pesci as Gambini comes across to audiences as likable, humorous and sociable. For once, you want to sympathise with him but also, you want him to succeed in the end and Pesci has given this character a lot of credibility and scope to work with. There are some great scenes such as when the freight train disturbs Vinny's sleep in the early hours of the morning; when Vinny is wearing a white tracksuit and a pair of white sneakers and he slips on mud whilst pushing the car, and thus, his outfit and his suit for the court case is ruined, as a result. When Mona Lisa was in court sitting on the witness stand, having to testify and had to describe, visualise and identify in detail the models of the cars and everyone Apart from Vinny was left astounded by her knowledge of motor vehicles. Another great moment was when the lawyer was about to read out his opening statement- only for him to stutter along the way. It was so funny, the reaction from the jury based on their facial expressions said it all. That was just hilarious. British director Lynn has worked wonders on this movie and the cast, particular the supporting actors all shine in their roles. 'My cousin Vinny' delivers on all accounts, successfully taking what is perceived to be a serious and somewhat complicated situation and subject area, and turning it into something that is farcical- yet entertaining. This is a great film with fantastic acting and comedic moments brilliantly thrown in and utilised for good measure "},{"Title":"We're Gonna Put Enough Electricity Through You to Light Up Birmingham","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Only someone who has ever lived in Birmingham, as I have, would find that amusing, but I thought that was one of the funniest lines in the movie. As a rule, I only watch comedies once because they tend not to age well. But I can watch this movie all day. I also tend to cringe when I hear about Hollyweird making a movie that is set in the Deep South. But this movie does a fairly accurate portrayal of Alabama as I knew it when I was a kid (I live in Maryland now.). I was very impressed with the movie's portrayal of Alabamians without stereotyping them. It's true, many Alabamians think New Yorkers are as stupid as they think we are, and the movie brought that out very well.Fred Gwynne's last role as the no-nonsense Alabama judge was one for the ages. He didn't exaggerate the Southern accent, in fact, he sounded like one of my uncles. I was almost convinced he was from the South until I read somewhere that he was originally from New York City. Very impressive, Mr. Munster. I only have two minor criticisms of the movie. Here goes (OOps. Sorry. Forgot. POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT) (1) Joe Pesci's character would not have gotten out of that pool hall the first time without at least three or four of those guys ganging up on him and giving him a good old fashioned Alabama butt whuppin'! They would have sent him packing, and if he survived the experience, he would never go back in there again. Him decking that redneck after two or three meetings with him would not happen, assuming he lives through the first encounter. There would be no two or three meetings.(2) I would like to have seen a scene where Joe Pesci and the Alabama D.A. go deer hunting and Joe Pesci dresses up in that ridiculous outfit he wore. I would love to have seen them expand on the idea that when you go deer hunting in Alabama, you wear a sturdy pair of jeans, a warm flannel shirt, and some sturdy work shoes or boots, not an outfit that makes you look like you're taking a stroll down Broadway or something. (Yes, folks, it does get cold in Alabama, believe it or not. Sometimes, it even gets below thirty.)Except for these little things, a great movie. My hat is off to the writer for doing his homework on Alabama, and to the actors for finally playing Alabama natives realistically. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Class A comedy","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As Vincent La Guardia Gambini, the relatively slow learning attorney who comes to his nephew's rescue when he's falsely accused of murder in the deep South, Joe Pesci landed his best ever comedy (and leading man) role.He's aided heavily with a terrific script and a superb supporting cast. Not only does Pesci shine in the lead but Tomei, Fred Gwynne, Lane Smith, Bruce McGill and even Ralph Macchio deliver dynamic comic performances. The script gives each and every one fantastic lines to deliver and every one is up to the task.Director Lynn handles the proceedings well, photography is nice and the music appropriate, it's only demerit is that the film is possibly a tad overlong. But in most respects My Cousin Vinnie is a class A comedy. "},{"Title":"A Solid Comic Screenplay and a near Perfect Cast Make this one Sparkle...","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" MY COUSIN VINNY is an entertaining and laugh-packed comedy confection that stars Joe Pesci as a New York tough who somehow barely passed the bar exam but has yet to try a case, who is asked to come down south to redneck country to defend his young cousin (Ralph Macchio)and his friend (Mitchell Whitfield), who have been wrongfully accused of murder. Pesci shines in this twisted fish-out-of-water story as the inexperienced lawyer with the mafia sensibility, completely clueless about the ways of people down south and their ultra-conservative methods of upholding the law. Marisa Tomei won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her scene-stealing performance as Pesci's brash and loud-mouthed girlfriend who accompanies him down south. The late Fred Gwynne gives the performance of his career as the judge on the case and the late Lane Smith is effective as the prosecuting attorney, though Austin Pendleton is a bit much as a public defender with a stuttering problem. This is a minor quibble though in one of the best comedies ever made. Tomei won an Oscar but Pesci still commands the screen in one the most perfectly timed comic performances to grace the silver screen in a long time. Pay particular attention as he questions a severely near-sighted old lady and offers the jury lessons on the preparation of grits. A supremely entertaining comedy that just gets better with multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"No Kidding,The Best Comedy after Meet The Parents","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Can't believe it!i never noticed this movie before.Yesterday,one of the channel television in my country was turning on this movie.And you know what,i can't stopped my laugh and my tears which it came on and on..again and again...until the end credit showed up! Without a doubt,This is the Greatest and Magnificent hilarious-comedy of all time.I never saw the Great Comedy as funny as Meet the Parents until i found this one as the Next Brilliant Comedy after all.This movie was giving us everythingGenius Directing,Magnificent Casting and Smart-Funny Plot.For Cast,Marisa Tomei truly deserved get the Oscar for her role as Lisa,Vincent's Bambini fiancé.Aside her,pesci was giving his Top-Notch performance as Genuine Comedian in Hollywood Cinema.Ralph Macchio still didn't lose his Charms and Brilliant Acting as like as his leading role in Best Martial-Art Drama Karate Kid trilogy.GOD..Everybody who loves very much with comedy,Needs to see this one!You won't regret it!I guarantee 100%! Wants to buy it in DVD.Grade10 from 10 "},{"Title":"Buy the DVD","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think I first saw this movie on an airplane and I was chuckling all the way through. The basic premise of the movie seemed hackneyed (two northern kids get falsely arrested in the deep south) but somehow all the stereotypes were funny rather than silly.Well, I saw the DVD in the cheap bin and I decided to buy it to watch again. It was a good decision. Now, we watch it when there's nothing else on. This movie can be appreciated over and over. I laugh at the lines and laugh at the fact that I'm laughing at them again.They say that the difference between irony and sarcasm is the presence of an audience and this movie demonstrates that. And for awhile, I thought the movie was funny because the script plays on so many stereotypes, reversing some. After repeated viewings, I think the movie works because of the play of the main actors Joe Pesci, Fred Gwynne, Marisa Tomei (Oscar winner for this role, well-deserved) and the minor characters, Austin Pendleton and Lane Smith. In many movies, any one of these characters would have been remarkable, but here you get them all together. "},{"Title":"One of my Favourites","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Billy Gambini and Stan Rothenstein are accused of Murder in Alabama, after confessing to the crime (thinking that the charge was stealing a can of Tuna) They find themselves in a little more than the Deep South.Luckily Billy has a lawyer in the family, His cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci) too bad his speciality is Personal injury. He and his Girlfriend (Marisa Tomei) take up residence in the area and find even the simplest things, like sleeping, pretty hard to do.Half asleep and a little unpractised in the courtroom, Vinny's first case doesn't exactly go to plan, at least not without some help from his girlfriend.With some really good Dialogue and some clever plot twists, you'll find this movie and its cast great fun to watch.Both Pesci and Tomei are brilliant, although Tomei steals it for me.9/10 "}{"Title":"Great Modern Comedy","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADThis is one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen - it plays as a court drama with some police investigation in between, but in the end it's just a great parody of all those serious court drama sub-genre. The plot is as straightforward as possible, and what's special in this movie is the dialogue and the character relationships - Pesci's Vinny and Tomei's Mona are a great foul-mouthed, wise-mouthed couple that are in a constant battle of wits. The actor who plays the judge - and I remember him from The Cotton Club - also steals many scenes for his funny performance as a no-nonsense judge whom you'd think almost has a personal grudge over Vincent, the way they never get along.There are all sorts of jokes here - visual jokes like when Vinny shows up in court with a ridiculous suit; court procedure jokes like Vinny doesn't know he's allowed to see the case files until Mona points that out, fish-out-water jokes because Vinny isn't used to the country life, great misunderstandings like when Vinny visits the defendants in prison and one thinks he's there to rape them, and just great witty dialogues.I love this comedy so damn much it's so uncompromising and honest, hardly PC and it's full of genuine laughs. Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei as the souls of the movie have created one of my favourite movies ever!8/10. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best court room comedies...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   MY COUSIN VINNY lived up to my expectations. When I first saw it I laughed really hard. It's one of those rare films where despite what critics thought, or how other films are doing at the box office, you know that you found a great film, despite how much cash it's raking in or not. There're tons of laugh out loud scenes, to name a few are the two yutes and the the jail scene. MY COUSIN VINNY is an excellent comedy, and proved that Joe Pesci can be more than a wonderful supporting actor, Marisa Tomei is a fabulous actress, Ralph Macchio is more than a karate kid, and Fred Gwyne had a knack for comedy other than the munsters. So see this film, it's worth the rental price. You might even want to buy it after you've seen it. 3.5/5 stars--JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":" A funny little comedy that is rather slight but has plenty of fun sequences and benefits from some very good delivery","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As they pass through Alabama, young Bill and Stan stop off at a garage where Bill accidentally steals a can of tuna. When they are arrested by the police they assume it is for this offence and confess to it &#150; only to find themselves accused of murder in the same garage. Desperate for help, they are grateful when Bill's cousin Vinny comes to defend them. Having just passed the bar on his sixth attempt, Vinny is able to bluff his way into the court but his street-attitude and relaxed approach (not to mention bad luck) puts him on the wrong side of the judge from the very start; not a good thing in a case where everyone is pushing for the death penalty.If you are looking for a sassy little comedy that is sparky fun despite not amounting to much then this is a good a place as you could start as this film is a lot of fun and has stood up well over the ten years since its release. The basic plot is about a murder case but if you are coming to this film looking for a courtroom thriller then forget it because, although the plot is enjoyable it is pretty slight. However what it does do well is deliver a consistently funny tone as well as a good collection of laughs spread over the film. It won't have you rolling in the aisle but for me it did have me consistently amused and that is as good as a film that has a lot of hit and misses &#150; the humour is nicely pitched and it was fun to watch. The script is well written and provides fun although some viewers will miss the highs of other comedies or will bemoan the fact that the film appears to lack energy and just roll along slowly.However a big reason it all works so well is the great delivery from a great cast. Pesci's career is a strange one of mostly support roles and here is one of his few leading roles and easily his best. He plays against his crazy Italian type well to reveal a more vulnerable character that creates a mood that suits the self-deprecating humour that asks us to find him funny but still like him. Of course, he comes very close to losing the film to Marisa Tomei who deserved her Oscar (and how much more of a surprise was it for a comedy role to win one of the main awards?). She is very funny in a clichéd role that she still manages to make feel fresh and witty &#150; others have done similar Italian-American characters but made them annoying, she makes it funny and sassy. Macchio and Whitfield are OK but really they are just a plot device and they fill that role well enough. Gwynne is a delight; Lane Smith is well played; McGill is a familiar face and the various small town characters are all well played and convincing.Overall this is a fun film that may not across as high energy or having a hilariously funny script but it produces a consistently amusing tone with plenty of enjoyable sequences and has stood up very well over the past decade. Pesci plays it perfectly, Tomsei is wonderfully sassy and Gwynne's support makes the courtroom scenes even more fun.  "},{"Title":"Probubly the best courtroom movie ever made!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The is a great movie, with both comedy and some drama. Joe Pesci plays the role of an inexperienced, foul mouthed lawyer perfectly! I dont think anyone could have pulled that off the way Pesci did. Fred Gwynne was also great as the judge.        This is one great movie, that everybody should see at some point.. "},{"Title":"Marisa Tomei wonderful","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bill Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stanley Rothenstein are friends from NYC on their way to UCLA driving through Alabama. Bill accidentally takes a can from a convenience store. When the cops stop them, they think it's for shoplifting. It turns out that they are getting charged with murder. They have no money so Bill's mom gets cousin Vinny Gambini (Joe Pesci). Vinny brings his car expert girlfriend Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei). It's Vinny's first murder case and his first trial. He only passed the bar six weeks ago after 6 times trying. He starts lying to Judge Chamberlain Haller (Fred Gwynne) for his approval.Vinny is not simply a brash Italian New Yorker. He's filled with doubt and trying to bluff his way through it. He's not necessarily the most appealing character at the start but he grows on you. Marisa Tomei was the big discovery at the time. She's absolutely wonderful. She puts a fair comedy over the top. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Excellent is an understatement. This movie from 1992 is an all time masterpiece. Simple, Real, Subtle realistic humor, Intelligent and Superb actors put together this is a fabulous piece of art. Love the story, sequence of events, direction and attention to detail in the movie. Although the forensics are little dated, i bet even in the era today you cannot argue Marisa Tomei ) on automobile technology. Jo Pesci is simply fantastic. Love the art, simplicity and realism behind his dressing, posture, mannerism's and quick thinking. What a court room drama depiction with such a honorable mannerisms shown in the court. Jutice prevails ! Definitely worth one watch and you will see this movie many more times i bet ! If you are the story reading types, who loves healthy argument, sarcasm and subtle sense of humor , go for this movie for sure ! "},{"Title":"Don't judge by the cover....or preview","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" How many times have you seen a preview for a comedy and decided I've seen all the jokes, I'm not going to waist my time. In this case you would be way wrong. Marisa Tomei's best movie by far (considering I hate chick flicks) and this was Joe Pesci in his prime. The lovable Fred Gwynne's last performance as he plays the unlovable judge. Ralph Macchio finally grew up (sort of he's still a 32 year old playing a 20 year old) but thank goodness doesn't have enough screen time to annoy you. It's a simple movie that uses every cliché in the book but pulls it off with great performances given by all. It's a classic and a must watch with a significant other as you will be reciting the lines as inside jokes for years to come. "},{"Title":"Most classical movie of all time","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Warning this review are only for the people who watched this movie.This is so funny and classical. I thought the judge was a stupid version of this. The acting was hilarious, the jokes were. And Vinny was an awesome lawyer. So the two UT, then judge says what was that word? Sorry the two UT's, then he goes on. The dear joke was the funniest of them all. They should make a Vinny 2 but that might do bad. It was said that the actor who played Vinny retired. It was even worse to hear that the judge died. Still, such a classical movie. Oh let's not forget with the public defender who got so nervous. Then when Vinny does, he's fired I get a little nervous. More than a little that's for sure. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is simply so much to love about this movie. An intelligent script, with direction that does it justice. Two New Yorkers are accused of murder in rural Alabama while on their way back to college, and one of their cousins--an inexperienced, loudmouth lawyer not accustomed to Southern rules and manners--comes in to defend them. Even all the side characters are brilliantly played. This movie never grabbed the public's attention the way it should have, likely because there are no big names featured here. I can watch this film over and over again. Everything about this film could make anyone laugh. My rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"Solid, sharp, charming!","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a crime comedy about New Yorkers Bill Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) who, traveling south to a quiet town, find themselves caught in a first degree murder case which lands them in jail. They turn to Bill's attorney cousin Vinny Gambini (Joe Persci), a wise-talking and foul-mannered New Yorker who appears initially incompetent to get the guys' case dismissed.This movie initially wasn't on my list to see, but a buddy of mine loaned it to me and it became a great way to spend a quiet night with and became one of the best crime comedies I've seen. Dale Launer's script of the movie is amazing and clever, giving us a motion picture that is original and non-cliché that is full of entertainment value. The plot gains traction all throughout the film, from the guys getting arrested to the introduction of Vinny onto the screen, giving the audience a surprise and laugh to think that this stereotypical New Yorker in a mild-mannered town will be able to pull off defending the Bill and Stan successfully in court.The scenes of Vinny attempting to study the case and law books while dealing with seasoned prosecutor Jim Trotter III (Lane Smith) and his clingy and frustrated girlfriend Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) are amusing to watch, two subplots that coincide well with the main plot point, which leaves you ponder what Vinny has planned up his sleeves to crack the case and save his cousin and his friend. The loving but sometimes fiery chemistry between Vinny and Lisa was spot on with a great dose of humor that balances just the right amount of drama and comedy.All the actors did a superb job in their roles, each giving a sharp and charming performance that keeps this movie interesting from beginning to end. Jonathan Lynn did a solid job directing a captivating story with believable acting. Highly recommended.Grade A "}{"Title":"Joe Pesci Brings a Lot of Life in to a very Simple Character,","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is a good movie with a well developed storyline and a great comedic cast.Its mostly very funny,I think there are many scenes that miss,but the scenes that are funny are hilarious,the scenes that are cringe comedy are definitely the ones that work the best in this movie.Joe Pesci does a great job as Vinny Gambini,the character was very basic for a comedy film and easily could have been played by any random comedy actor,but getting someone as talented as Pesci to play this character brings much more life in to the Vinny and makes him so much likable.Marisa Tomei also does a fantastic job in this movie,her character was funny,clever and very independent,I honestly don't think she deserved an Academy Award for this movie but her performance was certainly the movies best.I don't My Cousin Vinny is laugh out loud from start to finish,but the scenes that are funny are very funny,and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy.When two New Yorkers are accused of murder in rural Alabams,one of their cousins,an inexperienced,loudmouth lawyer not accustomed to Southern rules,comes in to defend them. "},{"Title":"Funny, with characters you care about","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny was a hit when it was released in 1992. Two youths from New York are wrongly accused of murder while traveling through the Alabama and one of them (Ralph Macchio) calls on his inexperienced lawyer cousin, Vinny (Joe Pesci), to defend them. Vinny roles into town with his hot fiancé (Marisa Tomei) intent on winning his first big case.I've heard a lot about this movie over the years, but never got around to seeing it till the other night and was pleasantly surprised. It's part fish-out-of-water comedy and part courtroom drama. The hulking Fred Gwynne plays the staunch judge, an excellent performance. This was Gwynne's last film. The movie is filled with laughs throughout, but it's more than just a goofball comedy. At some point early in the second act I strangely found myself liking Vinny and wanting him to succeed. I also found myself warming up to Vinny and his fiancé as a couple. They're an odd couple, but they somehow click. I guess this is where Marisa got the reputation for liking short, stocky men, huh? Speaking of Marisa, she's just stunning here, although I prefer her more as she gets older, e.g. 2008's The Wrestler.The film was shot in Georgia and runs 120 minutes.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"oh pesci, you and your yutes","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was actually surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. Joe Pesci (am i spelling that wrong?) is a delightful fiery munchkin and Marissa Tomei does a great job at speaking rather loudly. the plot is.. well rather simple like most comedies (comedies aren't usually my cup of tea) but it really doesn't grow stale. I had a lot of fun with Pesci's obliviousness of legal procedures. His obliviousness wasn't hyperbolized to the point where if one really thinks about it you would wonder 'what is this fellow doing as an attorney? this is complete balderdash! arg!!!!' like lesser writers would of done * see Liar Liar*. I kinda felt like I was learning alongside Pesci and trying to prove their innocence myself which was fun. I'm a sucker for any story which tugs at the heartstrings of my schoolboy crush on critical thinking and detective work. *i'm blushing just thinking about solving a case....what? ain't nothing' weird about that. There was a delightful sinister vibe concerning the case and the peeps accusing the defendants for a while which at the end turns out to be nothing more than a teaser but it added to the fun of the film. The music is cheesy, the resolution is a tad absurd (marissa tomei knowing that much about cars, tire tracks, and every car model ever? really? come on.) and ...well.. actually thats about it for the flaws. All in all a fun movie. Not great but fun. 6.9/10 haha yutes "},{"Title":"A movie to take your mind of from work","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am newbie to IMDb and this is my first review. This film is kind of the one which takes you off guard at the end. If you like Joe pesci from casino then you are gonna love him in this film. He is a typical guy who has screwed up his life pretty well. But he is obligated to take the task at hand. He is a attorney in the film. Marisa Tomei is his girlfriend and has done justice to the role. All the characters have turned out well. The film has humor in a Joe pesci sort of way. A must watch for guys who love a beautiful twist at the end. Just relax a little bit, stretch your arms on a Saturday night and watch the movie. You would have a sound sleep and a good mood in the morning.P.S - I know that you think this is crap and gonna click NO! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Comedy All Around","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Without any argument here, flocks come to watch My Cousin Vinny is because Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei just chew up every scene that they are in. This comedy from 1992 is brilliant humorous (at times stereotyped) overview of contrasting American lifestyles between the Yankees from the North and the Rednecks from the South.The story is set in Alabama as two New York college young men from New York Billy Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) are wrongfully accused of a murder they didn't commit. These two young men haven't a chance with the strict laws implemented in the redneck South. The cost of a lawyer is very pricey, therefore Billy and Stan hire Billy's smart-mouthed attorney, Vinny Gambini (Joe Pesci) a grease monkey from Brooklyn who has no experience in the courtroom and needs seven tries to pass the bar exam.With the death penalty for the two young men progressive within their reach, at the right moment Vinny makes his dramatic entrance along with his much younger girlfriend who's also a fellow car mechanic/hair stylist named Lisa (played by well-deserved Oscar winner Marisa Tomei). Once upon entering the the South, they end up getting culturally trained in dirt roads, eating grits, and the 5am wake up calls. One of the more memorable scenes is when Vinny gets escorted into Billy and Stan's jail cell. While Billy's asleep, Vinny strategically plans with Stan who believes that he's a ruthless prisoner instead of a legal adviser This scene alone shows why this movie is an Oscar winner.As the trial goes into progression, Vinny's courtroom antics light up the entire movie as he has several run-ins with the book-obedient Judge Chamberlain Haller (Fred Gwynne) and the snafus between the two were very engaging. The exchanges in dialogue between the two provide entertainment that will have you laughing in tears. The real scene stealer goes to Tomei who was poetic in her performance as Mona Lisa Vito. The chemistry between Tomei and Pesci was very sublime was enjoyable all around. This movie clearly demonstrates that a good comedy is played through heart which means they didn't depend on scatterbrained scenes and the plot was executed in an immaculate fashion. That's something you don't see very much in movies these days. "},{"Title":"Mona Lisa","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" For me one of the best scenes in the movie which I don't see a lot of people talk about is the hotel where Lisa and Vinny are discussing the dripping faucet. The whole scene is erotic as hell, one of course because of Lisa but that line of dead on balls accurate was out of this world. I would like to know if that line was actually written in the script. Same goes for the scene where she is telling Vinny about the deer, and then finally the court room scene where she talks about her expertise as a mechanic. The Lisa character is amazing with the accent and her style, very sexy. I was very pleased that Marisa won the Oscar. My cousin Vinny is one of my top movies of all time, great comedy. "},{"Title":"Can a movie be one of the funniest and have an enjoyable story?","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have watched this a few times so I will base it on this first time I ever saw it. One of the best comedies I ever saw, and for a comedy it was surely very interesting with an outstanding hilarious story. A true masterpiece with all actors giving their life time performances. If I was asked what could be done to make this movie better, I would say absolutely nothing it's already excellent. It always says a lot for a movie when you wish it could have been longer. Don't expect it to be anything like the comedy in The Naked Gun, although an outstanding comedy also, not so much the slap stick type comedy, as it is a story with constant funny incidences. This is a great must see movie. "},{"Title":"Good funny comedy with wit and intelligence. A good showcase of the north and south culture wars!","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I must say 1992's My Cousin Vinny is a wonderful film the acting, and plot along with the wit and funny moments combined with a culture clash make for a good enjoyable film. Going away from this film you take away and appreciate the cultural differences of the north and south. Being raised a southern I knew what to expect, and visiting up north I saw as you see with these Yankee folks their way of life is different.Two laid back and wild out to seek adventure New York college students are taking a sight seeing tour thru the deep south. And while in Alabama, they are arrested and accused of murder! One of the boys(Ralph Macchio)has a family friend who's just finally became a lawyer after six times of taking the bar! That's Vincent Gambini(well done by Joe Pesci)a Brooklyn guy who's a former auto repair guy, and guess what this is his first court case! So Vinny arrives in Alabama with his hot and sexy strong spoken smart girlfriend Mona(in Marisa Tomei's best role). And this is the start of big lessons in law and most of all southern culture! Thru it all with wit and common sense intelligence rightful justice is served. Most rewarding is the lessons of culture shock for Vinny and the boys, it's so comical hearing the southern accents, and it was funny seeing Vinny ask southerns what are grits! Great supporting work from Tomei a nice eye candy treat. As this was one comedy to laugh at while appreciating the cultural differences. "},{"Title":"Perfection!","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the few movies that no one can afford to miss...Yeah, I've heard of many who didn't like the movie, didn't find it that comic or didn't like the choice for the cast. Trust me, they don't know what comedy is...The movie starts off well with no indication of what is going to happen...All part of the hilarity, the two boys (played by Ralph Macchio & Mitchell Whitfield) find themselves at the wrong side of the law. They think they have been arrested for shoplifting a can of tuna ....but the police had more sinister suspicions!!!! They desperately need a lawyer...Enter Vinny, an inexperienced lawyer played by Joe Pesci very ably portraying a New Yorker...Right from the word go, his acting is as sharp as a razor edge...The transition of Vinny from ignorance of 'procedure' to a confidence in his abilities is complete and a treat to watch. This combined with many extremely funny, embarrassing, misunderstanding, etc. moments catapult the movie to a 9 rating in my book..Much controversy has been generated on Marisa Tomei's performance & her Oscar for supporting Actress...I don't know why...Marisa gives a performance of her lifetime portraying Lisa, Vinny's girlfriend....Watch out for the deer speech and the courtroom scene right at the end....!!! "},{"Title":"A Classic!...","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are very few comedies I find funny, if you read enough of my reviews you'll eventually find out which ones I like. This is very much one of them! For me is has everything, great acting, an excellent script and, most importantly, it's funny. But more of my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters please consider yourselves in contempt while I write the next paragraph).Two college students, Bill Gambini and Stan Rothenstein, from Brooklyn are on their way to LA via the South when they stop off in a small town in Alabama. They are mistakenly identified as the murderers of a clerk in a small store they had visited. Unable to afford a lawyer, they turn to Bill's cousin, Vinny Gambini, who has only been practicing law for six weeks. Vinny has brought his fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito, with him but he is determined to win the case on his own. Judge Chamberlain Haller is suspicious of Vinny's credentials but allows him to defend the two boys. Vinny immediately falls fowl of the accepted procedure in court and finds himself in contempt (more than once). The prosecution seem to have a strong case but Vinny is determined to find as many holes in it as he can. Will Vinny prove the boys innocence? Will the judge discover he is only a novice? Will Vinny ever get a decent night's sleep? All these questions and many more will be answered&#x85; but not here.First of all, hats off to Jonathan Lynn, I love the way he just lets the story unfold and the way he allows the characters to develop. Yes, there are one or two clunky bits, but for the most part I also very much liked the dialogue. Finally, great casting, I couldn't imagine anyone else apart from Joe Pesci playing the part of Vinny. Also, I thought Marisa Tomei was excellent as Mona Lisa Vito, a role for which she won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar, and it was great to see Fred Gwynne (yes Herman Munster) as Judge Chamberlain Haller. Honourable mentions should also go to; Ralph Macchio as Bill, Mitchell Whitfield as Stan and Lane Smith as Jim Trotter III, the prosecutor.I may be biased, but I saw this film many years ago and fell in love with it then. It's one of those I always get great pleasure from watching. If anything, it is a little long, but I can forgive that, I think when you're invested in the story the time factor becomes less important. Over all, a very well scripted film with some really great comic performances and one which I highly recommend.My score 8.2/10 "}{"Title":"2 Yoots fly by the seat of their pants with attorney(?) Pesci....","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A very funny, eminently watchable film. Pesci and Tomei create the proper chemistry in this farce about two young guys driving on their way to college, who take the southern scenic route, and wind up in the clink for a murder rap. Short money means they may not be able to afford competent legal representation...but...ta-da...Cousin Vinny is a family member who is a lawyer, and comes to the rescue. Only thing is...he's only been practicing for six weeks, and has only done personal injury. Plus, his big city ways clash with this backwards , sleepy, southern town. The main point of the movie is how Pesci keeps a step ahead of the game with lies, mis-statements, mis-representations...and a a girlfriend in Marisa Tomei, who is not only a sexpot...she's smarter than he is. Especially about cars. He gives Judge Fred Gwynne (in his final film) apoplexy...and Gwynne gives him time for contempt. Finally, Vinny gets his legal legs and decides to face this thing directly...just like a full fledged criminal lawyer...though he's NEVER tried a case before...not even personal injury. You know it's got to be hilarious, and the joke is on Pesci, even though he manages to fool everyone. Intelligently funny without going over the top completely, this is a film you will want to watch more than once and possibly...like me...you will want to add it to your film collection. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This very funny there are lots of stupid jokes about grits, train times, what people are wearing when hunting, not being able to sleep and even stupid jokes in the courtroom.Bill gets his cousin Vinny to defend him and his friend for murder. Thats the simple plot. A simple plot can make a great film. Vinny gets help from his girlfriend to try and win the case.Pesci steals the show with his funny and sarcastic jokes. This was the best comedy for seven years and I do not need to say what beat it.Anyway if you've time to kill and you want to laugh, see this. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A delight","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has all the makings of a real dud. The big-city guy tries to defend two kids charged with murder in the South. With this scenario, it could easily have degenerated into hopeless stereotyping.What a nice surprise to discover that the film resists the temptation to deal in stereotypes, and instead presents the characters as real human beings. The big-city guy (Joe Pesci) tries to learn some things about the Southern culture, and is then able to use this to his advantage during the trial. The Judge (Fred Gwynne) and the prosecutor (Lane Smith, known for playing the newspaperman Perry White on Lois & Clark) are appropriately bemused by Pesci's attempts to represent his clients (it is his first case), but instead of making it impossible for him to function, they maintain a tolerant attitude, keeping in mind that the overall purpose of the proceeding is to do justice.SPOILER Marisa Tomei is absolutely fabulous as Joe Pesci's girlfriend, and her Oscar for Best Supporting Actress was well-deserved. She tries to support him as best she can, but the inevitable stress and strain of the trial causes a strain on their relationship. When Pesci puts her on the stand as an expert witness on car mechanics, she is mad at Pesci and it shows, prompting the Judge to ask Do you two know each other? When Pesci explains that they do, the Judge says That would explain the hostility. A hilarious moment, but her subsequent testimony is quite serious and turns out to be a key to the defense case. In response to her testimony, the prosecution expert witness admits that Tomei is right. Here again, the filmmakers could have degenerated into stereotyping by having her testimony attacked, but do not stoop to this. The key is the pursuit of truth, which, after all, is what a trial is supposed to be about. Unlike other films about trials (The Verdict comes to mind), where the desire to win seems to take precedence over anything else, this film gives a balanced portrayal of the legal system. Joe Pesci is one of my favorite actors, and he does not disappoint here. The film is a nice breath of fresh air.9/10 "},{"Title":"Not hilarious, but constantly funny","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just watched this movie, and I really have to comment it. A truly successful comedy I would have to call it. Joe Pesci pull this one of magnificent, with help from a lot of other successful performances. I won't give it 10 out of 10 because it is a well known story. But I really don't have any bad things to say about it. Maybe not hilarious at any time, but constantly funny. * 8/10 "},{"Title":"Funniest Joe Pesci Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS          Bill Gambini and Stan Rockenstein are driving through Alabama. They stop at a convenient store and buy some things. Bill put's a can of tuna fish in his pocket accidentally. They leave and Bill realizes he forgot to pay for the tuna. They're soon pulled over by a cop with shotgun in hand.          At the police department, they find out they're being booked for murder, because the convenient store clerk was killed. Everyone says they did it. They need a miracle, or a real good attourney. As it turns out, Bill has an attourney in the family His Cousin Vinny!         Vinny and his fiancee Lisa drive into town from New York.They're both wearing leather outfits. When Vinny has a meeting with Judge Chamberlin Haller, he tells him he's done many murder cases, but the truth is, this is his first one.        He get's in contempt at the arraignment and he's awakened very early the next morning by a very loud steam whistle. At breakfast,he learns about grits. Then in court, there are three witnesses who say it was Bill and Stan who did it. The judge didn't approve of Vinny's leather jacket.         Vinny and Lisa move into another motel room. Vinny is awakened that night by a restaurant next door that was free-ranging pigs. So they move into a cottage into the woods and don't get much sleep. Vinny is awakened by a screech owl and it pours rain. Next morning, the car is stuck in mud and Vinny's new suit and tie get's flung into the mud. He's got to buy another suit because the trial was today. Lisa found him a suit at a secondhand store, it was fine accept it looked really ridiculous.         At the trial, Vinny has the witnesses proven wrong about their testamonial. They then bring in an automobile expert, but luckily for Vinny, Lisa is an automobile expert and she finds a bad link in the chain. Soon the charges are dismissed and Bill and Stan arefreed, due to new evidence found. Vinny's first case is won and as it turns out, he wanted to win it without help, but Lisa helped him.       This movie is real funny! Especially the vulgar language Joe Pesci uses. I laugh all the time, so I recommend this movie! You'll love it!  "},{"Title":"Fun film with great performances","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an enjoyable film that pokes fun at the south, Brooklyn, and the legal profession.  I know that Marisa Tomei won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for this role, but, to me, the real star is Herman Munster himself, Fred Gywnne as the judge.  He is terrific and gives you a feel for how talented he really is. "},{"Title":"A laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just saw this movie three Fridays ago, and, in my opinion, MY COUSIN VINNY is a laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts! In my opinion, Judge Haller's (Fred Gwynne) face looked like a mask. I don't mean that in a negative way. As a matter of fact, I thought it was a nice-looking mask-like face. I laughed really hard every time Vinny (Joe Pesci) walked into the courtroom wearing something unusual got awakened by a loud noise, such as a factory whistle, and yelled, What the f*** is that?! Please, don't say I have a twisted sense of humor. That's just the way I am. One person that sort of annoyed me was Lisa (Marisa Tomei). This was because she was a little snobby -- Especially when she was on the stand. Plus, she should have treated Vinny with a little more respect while he was defending Bill (Ralph Macchio) and Stan (Mitchell Whitfield). Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that this is one of the funniest films of 1992! Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Joe Pesci and you haven't seen this laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts, I HIGHLY recommend it! "},{"Title":"A laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just saw this movie last Friday, and, in my opinion, MY COUSIN VINNY is a laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts!  In my opinion, Judge Haller's (Fred Gwynne) looked like a mask. I don't mean that in a negative way. As a matter of fact, I thought it was a nice-looking mask-like face. I laughed REALLY hard every time Vinny (Joe Pesci) got awakened by a loud noise, walked into the courtroom wearing something unusual, or yelled, What the f*** is that?! Please, don't say I have a twisted sense of humor. That's just the way I am. One person that sort of annoyed me was Lisa (Marisa Tomei). This was because she was a little snobby. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that this is one of the funniest films of 1992! Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Joe Pesci and you haven't seen this laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts, I HIGHLY recommend it!         "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci's funniest Movie to Date!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Two friends from New York, William Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield)are mistakenly charged with a murder they didn't commit. William Gambini sends for his cousin Vinny played by Joe Pesci to defend them.  One of my favorite character actors Lane Smith plays the prosecutor Jim Trotter III. Joe Pesci shines in this movie as Vinny Gambini and Marsia Tomei plays his girlfriend Mona Lisa Vito. If your a fan of comedy you should see this movie it is a 5 star classic.    "},{"Title":"one heck of a comic gem","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great performances abound in this terrific comedy as Joe Pesci tries to free his nephews from an Alabama prison. Problems     a)this is Pesci's first case, as he has just passed his bar exam on the sixth try,    b)his leather jacket and Manhattan attitudes clash horribly with the southern town and the conservative judge, and     c)all the cirmcumstantial evidence points to the nephews. Other than that, things get off to a great start!Marissa Tomei deserved her Oscar for this film. I think you'd like this!*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Lt Colombo turns lawyer?","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I came upon this film by accident this evening on TV. It's very, very funny. After a half an hour or so into the movie a question popped into my mind Does anyone else see a resemblance between Pesci's characterization of Vincent La Guardia and Peter Falk's Lt Colombo? The body language, the mannerisms, the feigned stupidity concealing intelligence...Just a thoughtBTW I give the movie an 8/10. It really is one of the jewels of the 90s.Bobhttp//welcome.to/columbo "},{"Title":"JOE PESCI IS THE MAN!","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Automotives Teacher said that he wanted to watch this video because it had some important stuff about cars, RIGHT AT THE END! But what I didn't know was it had Joe Pesci, a legend of comedy! THIS WAS HILARIOUS, and if you love comedy or Joe Pesci, you will really love this movie! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Didn't know Pesci could be so funny","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The title, I think, suggests a less than memorable film. But dont let it mislead you. This is an original take on big city goes to the country (or vice versa) theme. Turns out to be an funny and entertaining movie. Vinny's (Pesci) sarcastic attitude throughout the movie is comical. And Tomei is EXCELLENT supporting role! (not to mention her other qualities).  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Modern Comedy and A Must see","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For many years Fred Gwynne attempted to disassociate himself from his role as Herman Munster. People forgot about anything else he had done, including the classic Car 54 Where are you? and harped about The Munsters.. He would not discuss it and walked out of interviews when asked about it. His role as Judge Haller was his last film appearance and  is absolute perfection.  Once you see this you will no longer think of Fred Gwynne as Herman Munster, you will think of him as Judge Haller and if anything would have pleased this versatile actor in his last moments this would have been it "},{"Title":"I hire this guy if I needed a lawyer!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Joe Pesci is dynamite as the title role! He plays Vinny Gambini,a fledgling attorney from Brooklyn, New York, who has to defendhis cousin Bill and his friend Stan after they are mistaken fora couple of killers in a backwoods Alabama town. So with thehelp of his feisty girlfriend Lisa (played with fire by MarisaTormei), Vinny overcomes troubles from sleepless nights, anuptight judge, and krusty rednecks while trying to save hisclients from being shoved to the chair. Pesci and crew arefantastic. My Cousin Vinny will guarantee you a hell of a goo "},{"Title":"Good cast, great comedy.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I once heard you know you chose the wrong lawyer when a prison guard is shaving your head. Two of the main characters in this comedy begin pondering that after one of them obtains the services of his cousin as their counsel when they are jailed on a murder rap.  Joe Pesci usually puts in his most brilliant performances under the direction of Martin Scorsese while some of his other films are usually so-so.  This picture however Pesci is fantastic as the Brooklyn born Attorney Vincent (Vinny ) Gambini. Pesci's Gambini and his girl friend played by Marisa Tomei who won an Oscar for her role in this movie  arrive in the Deep South town and lock horns with local rednecks and the judge played by Fred Gwynne.  The story never drags as all the characters are well cast and played.  When watching this film it amazed me that the career of the late Fred Gwynne stagnated for so long.  A fun comedy that holds up well after repeated viewing.  "},{"Title":"Funny, watch it!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A New Yawk lawyer(Pesci) goes to a deep south courtroom for his first case.  This is Pesci's character from Goodfellas becomes lawyer in a comedy. He's great. Marisa Tomei is excellent as his girl(won Oscar for this one), she's one of the most beautiful women in movies today. Ralph Macchio is okay as the young cousin who is wrongly arrested for murder, although his buddy, Rothstein, is funny. Herman Munster(Fred Gwynne) is excellent as the judge. Pesci, Gwynne and Tomei couldn't be better cast for these roles and mesh together perfectly. The comic timing is excellent.You wanna laugh? Watch it. If you enjoy and understand New Yawk accents, you'll appreciate My Cousin Vinny.  "},{"Title":"A smart, funny courtroom caper.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A delicious courtroom comedy with fantastic performances and impeccable comedic timing. Delightful fish-out-of-water humor reigns as fresh-out-of-law-school New York lawyer Vincent Gambini (Joe Pesci) takes on the southern legal system.  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This comedy has it all. The thing I like about this movie is that Vinny (Joe Pesci) gets caught up with a lot of other problems than just this trial, which is about to put 2 innocent guys in the chair because of a murder they didn't do. Vinny can't get any sleep at night because there is ALWAYS some annoying sound that wakes him up and he has to win 200$ back in a fight against one big guy who's just looking for a fight. And all this is so funny! I really recommend it!! "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci best comedy","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is without doubt the best Joe Pesci comedy (Goodfellas is the best Joe Pesci movie). He is just perfectly cast as Vinny Gambini. Marisa MY BIOLOGICAL CLOCK IS TICKING Tomei also delivers a convincing performance as his girl friend - Mona Lisa.If you want big laughs from a movie - this is one for you.Rating 8 of 10. "}{"Title":"a pleasant surprise","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In this smartly directed but otherwise unassuming comedy two young city slickers are wrongly arrested for murder in rural Alabama after a bizarre (but not illogical) misunderstanding; one of them, 'Karate Kid' Ralph Macchio, hires his amateur lawyer cousin to defend them. The title role belongs to 'Goodfella' Joe Pesci, doing what he does best playing a street-smart, overage New York City punk, who (eventually) outguesses the DA, an unsympathetic jury, and hard-nosed hanging judge Fred Gwynne. Sure, it's lightweight stuff, but never as stupid or crass as the multi-plex fodder it sometimes resembles. At times the scenario calls to mind a bubblegum parody of Sidney Lumet's 'The Verdict', with Vinnie losing every legal battle on his way to winning the courtroom war. Credit director Jonathan Lynn and writer Dale Launer for proving that a routine commercial comedy can be enjoyable if it doesn't insult the viewer's intelligence. "},{"Title":"A comedy of Trial and Error and a truly hilarious one at that!","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This engaging and hilarious comedy from Clue director Jonathan Lynn, is an absolute delight from start to finish. The direction is top notch, and there is a fresh and irreverent screenplay. The film has plenty of priceless moments, the courtroom scenes were particularly strong, but the gag about Vinny being woken up by something everywhere he sleeps, and the argument about the dripping faucet were hilarious. Plus the ridiculous looking suit Vinny wears in one scene. The plot tells of two youths being accused of first degree murder, and here comes the film's ongoing joke, what is worse than being accused of murder? Why having Vincent Gambini as your lawyer of course! Moving on, there is lovely scenery and photography, but for me the best element of the film was the perfect performance of Joe Pesci as Vinny, a performance that ensures plenty of laughs whether in or out of the courtroom. Out of the supporting performances, Ralph Macchio and Fred Gwynne were both great, but Marissa Tomei was just wonderful here, sexy and feisty is what Tomei does best. I for one never doubted the innocence of the defendants, but the film's conclusion was so exceedingly clever, I felt completely satisfied at the end of the film. Although I didn't see this until recently, My Cousin Vinny is up there with Clue and Oscar as one of my all time favourite movies, that's how good it is. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the Better Early 1990s Comedies","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" After getting accused of murder, a young Italian-American (Ralph Macchio) hires his hoodlum cousin Vinnie Gambini (Joe Pesci) to be his lawyer. With the help of his girlfriend (Marisa Tomei), the illegitimate lawyer goes up against the questionable justice of a small, southern town. Who will prevail? In one of Pesci's less violent roles, we see his more humorous side... and it's not bad. Still in something similar to his Italian mafia character (as seen in Goodfellas and other films), he mocks himself and the stereotype, wearing a leather jacket to court and pronouncing youths as youts. For those who like a good satire of Jersey culture, this film is right up your alley.The story plays out in a predictable way, and that's not a bad thing -- the focus here is the humor, not complex plot. There are some funny subplots -- the $200 fight, for example -- but nothing too complex. Even the twists aren't anything out of the ordinary. But this is early 1990s humor, a time when 1980s simplicity and innocence spilled over into the next decade.The second time I watched this film, it was with my friend who also happens to be a law student. It was interesting to have her critique the plot on its legal merits, and explain which parts might or might not happen in real life. But, as with any court show or movie, you cannot really be too strict or you disrupt the flow and humor of the story.This film used to play regularly on cable television and probably still does. I think I caught it the first time on TBS. If it's on and you haven't seen it, check it out. Sure, some of the language will be bleeped out, but you don't need that to get the full effect of the story. Pesci, Macchio and Tomei in one film? When will we ever see that again? "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is a classic. Joe Pesci and Marissa Tomei are excellent in portraying a quintessential Brooklyn couple. The dialog is hysterical and the portrayal of Brooklyn characters is brilliant. In addition, the storyline is excellent. It's often hard to achieve a good storyline and have a hysterically accurate and funny movie at the same time. In nearly every movie I've ever watched, I always find something to critique or criticize about the movie. I couldn't find one flaw in this one. It was a mere demonstration of sheer brilliance on Jonathan Lynn's part. I would recommend this movie to anyone, particularly a Brooklyn resident. "},{"Title":"Pesci's fish out of water story. He actually survives.","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Really good comedy that relies on mostly intelligent observation rather than gross-out humour.The story is a bit far-fetched but we somehow buy it because of the execution of the law scenes. Joe Pesci may not look anything like a lawyer but as Ralph Macchio's character Bill states He loves to argue.Several scenes are priceless. Take the first scene with such signs as Free horse manure. Is this south bashing? Absolutely! But it does give you a laugh.Then there is the scene in prison between Mitchell Whitfield and Pesci. You're getting' f..... either way! And you can't get enough of all that southern charm that just oozes out of the prosecutor, Lane Smith.The bit with the stuttering public defender is a bit sick but I guess the director needed a positive argument for Joe Pesci's character to be the more competent of the two. Austin Pendleton does it well too despite objections from his part.And yes. One of the few comedies that was rewarded with an Oscar to an actor, the gorgeous Marisa Tomei (you can understand why George Costanza was so obsessed with her). Many jokes has been made at her expense and that only fuels the speculation about her being the rightful winner that year. In my mind it couldn't have been a goof. She absolutely nails the character and does it without the stereotyping in which these characters are usually played.Joe Pesci's career have had more downs than ups. Remember the tremendously awful The Super but here he gave us a really compelling character. He is smug, selfish and yes a bit of a tool but he plays it with such tongue-in-cheek that you can't help loving the guy. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy from the early 90s!","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" You know what the definition of a great movie really is? A film that you ALWAYS want to see whenever it is shown on cable or TV. You've just got to stop what you're doing to watch it. And MY COUSIN VINNY is that type of film. It's really one of those overlooked gems because it seems so small in stature and on the surface looks like a lightweight comedy, but in actuality it is a comic masterpiece! Coming out in 1992, and starring the great Joe Pesci, fresh off his Oscar-winning performance in GOODFELLAS (in 1990) and another impressive performance in the decade's best film JFK (in 1991), MY COUSIN VINNY was the completion of a trifecta of great films for Mr. Pesci. Up until this point, Pesci had been strictly a supporting actor. But finally in VINNY, he was allowed to carry a movie all his own, and carry it he did! Pesci is 100% absolutely memorable as newly-crowned lawyer Vincent LaGuardia Gambini (as classic a character name as you'll ever hear!). Vincent is tasked to defend 2 young men (his cousin Billy and friend Stan, played respectively by THE KARATE KID's Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield) falsely accused of armed robbery and murder in a sleepy Alabama town.MY COUSIN VINNY is a sublime comedy. It doesn't try to be laugh out loud and throw a bunch of zingers at you like most comedies, yet for much of this film, I find myself laughing out loud again and again! The story, the situation, the characters are what bring it to life. In addition to Pesci's brilliant performance, we the viewer are treated to some exceptional supporting work by Best Supporting Actress Marisa Tomei (as Vinny's hot, smart girlfriend Mona Lisa Vito), Fred Gwynne (Herman Munster himself!) as Judge Haller and Lane Smith as DA Trotter. A great cast! Also the minimal characters are hilarious as well.Pesci really deserves much of the credit. He plays the fish-out-of-water role to perfection here. Vincent Gambini, while new at law and very green about a lot of the law, makes up for his lack of book knowledge with an amazing array of street smarts, guts, guile, and confidence. He's just so likable. Tomei was ironically ridiculed for winning her Oscar here, but she is terrific as well, although I do think the rest of the supporting cast, especially Gwynne as the judge, is great as well. I find Gwynne and Pesci's pairing to be the best of the film. The way they go at it is a wonder to behold.MY COUSIN VINNY is one of those flicks that you just can't stop watching because it is constant laughter throughout and the payoff is worth waiting for. Watching this lovable loser Vincent Gambini win in the end always makes me smile! "},{"Title":"Very funny movie","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When two New York youths (youts), William Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) are arrested and charged with murder in a Southern town, it is up to Willy's cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci) who is a lawyer and his beautiful girlfriend Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) to defend them against a serious judge and the death penalty. It doesn't help their case that Vinny has never defended a murder case before or that he can't sleep because of outside noises near his hotel.My Cousin Vinny is a witty comedy that works on several levels. It incorporates different styles of comedy with a witty script that succeeds in making it funny. The chemistry between Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei is hilarious and the altercations between Fred Gwynn and Joe Pesci very funny. The acting in this movie is great by all parties, not just Pesci and Tomei, which has been commented on before. But I like Fred Gwynn's role as the judge, and Lane Smith's as the DA, as well.I've watched this one several times and haven't been bored by it once. The witty script, great acting and fun plot all make it work. "},{"Title":"'Wise Guy' city slickster defends a fellow urban 'criminal' in a progressive and rather impressive court room comedy.","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think it's interesting to look at the title of the film and then to observe from whose point of view we see the events through. The word 'my' in the film's title 'My Cousin Vinny' suggests that William Gambini (Macchio) is the person we'll be seeing the film through the eyes of after he and his friend Stan Rothenstein (Whitfield) are arrested on serious criminal charges. But the Vinny of the title, who is played by Joe Pesci, is the focus here; he is the best character, the most interesting and if anything he is the one that endures the longest journey despite the two suspects having to endure jail, accusations and emotional anxiety.The overall gag of the film is one that is thin on the surface but lasts the duration of the film. Two years previously, Joe Pesci played Tommy deVito in Goodfellas; a psychotic gangster who was always on the edge and never one to be made a fool of. So here, it is only natural that we should see him playing the clown or the fall guy for what the unfamiliar surroundings has in store for him. At first, it is the 'mud' that catches him out as it gets stuck on his cars tyres, rendering his car faulty. From here, it is a shrill whistle that occurs at 5 a.m.; a freight train that consistently passes at the same time and herds of animals being moved at equally early times &#150; this is not New York. Who said the country side was easier to get some sleep in over the city? So Vincent Gambini is there to defend a relative and his friend from some pretty serious accusations, only thing is they aren't guilty and we know that from the very beginning it is Vincent's case to loose because we assume the evidence to be so lacklustre that they surely cannot be charged. There was no gun found on their person after all, but such things are overlooked.Onto the case and during the early exchanges of the film, I actually assumed the entire thing was fake; a sort of sick 'Truman Show' stunt that tested weather characters would be able to help others out of trouble and discover themselves, simultaneously. Maybe it was a deliberate attempt to get some 'city-folk' framed so that they could send 'em to the chair and it be up to the city lawyer to get them out of it. Not to be. In fact, the whole thing is so ludicrous and seemingly false that thinking back, it is more of an establishment of helplessness and imminent catastrophe with an emphasis on scaring the characters and audience with the death sentence should they be charged. This aids with the dark atmosphere but is juxtaposed with the fact you cannot help but find it rather amusing that a crime they so obviously didn't do is being pinned on them.But then again, point of view can be re-applied here. What would the film be like if we had begun in the police station and hadn't had the point of attack involving the two kids and their road journey segment; including trip to the store? Would we be as sure as the rangers that they'd done it? Would the film be able to tiptoe around the fact there was no gun found? Something would have to have given way. But the film is really a focus on fishes being out of their water. Vincent is an informal and wise-talking guy thrown into a poor and rundown setting but tossed into an extremely formal situation in the process ie; the courtroom. The judge is Chamberlain Haller, and is brilliantly acted by Fred Gwynne, and its his rules or the jail house if you do not appreciate them. Then there is that acknowledgement that you can get a bar full of guys dressed like hillbillies who hustle and lack intelligence and yet can share the same space within the town that a man as decadent and educated as Judge Haller.So if Vincent is a fish out of water, how can he possibly utilise his ways by which he usually succeeds in a place that does the same theoretical thing but in a different manner? That's the film's question. Vincent is a character with big charisma, not ego and the two should not be confused. Vincent can talk the talk and he can walk the walk but in order to succeed in his mission he must do it by way of the book and not in his casual, carefree manner; something he learns through dress-sense, addressing those 'higher' than him and controlling his charisma as ill-timed profanities come out. Rather than do a 'wise-guy' act and 'big, bada, boom' your way through it all, Vincent learns to calm it down and address the situation more formally. There are two things that highlight this the first is the gradual manner by which Vincent addresses the judge by standing up more and more to talk during the trail (he also addresses other people, as well) and two; the scene in the bar when he is talking to a barfly hustler and uses a string of formal sentences to sum up the situation and engage in conversation. The wise-guy would have done the same but in a lot less formal manner ie; hit the guy as soon and as hard as possible.If My Cousin Vinny works as a character piece in progression then it works overall because there is not much else on show. The comedy is there for those that look on the surface and, whilst I did not laugh consistently, there are one or two laughs overall. But it's the 'funny' events that tie in with Vinny's progression as he tries to save the day, even though William's 'confession' evidence disappears after the opening. Such questions should not be asked in a film as enjoyable as this one. "},{"Title":"Fun film that never outstays its welcome.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As everyone knows, comedy is a very divisive genre, but My Cousin Vinny seems to be one that unites more than it divides audiences because it has such affable charm, there really isn't much not to like here.Bill Gambini & Stan Rothenstein are driving across country on their way to college, after a shop stop in Alabama they mistakenly get arrested and find themselves on trial for murder. Bill enlists his cousin Vinny Gambini to represent them in court, Vinny is only 6 weeks a lawyer and has never seen the inside of a courtroom. His city ways and mannerisms do nothing but rile the judge (a bang on form Fred Gwynne), and he finds himself firmly up against it whilst having the lives of the two boys in his hands. Excellently scripted, the film is paced perfectly to allow the good writing to come to the fore, and although the ending is never quite in doubt, it does however bring about an unusual twist that is a shot in the arm for the film's denouement.Yes this film is another in the line of city folk falling foul of rural America's lawmen by being oblivious to their plight, but this film has the bonus of Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei on sparklingly comic form to see it home safe. I have probably watched this several times since its release and the long standing charm never ceases to amaze me, to me it's one of the best comedy films of the 90s, and I say hooray to Marisa Tomei's Oscar win for it was fully deserved. Comedy always gets a raw deal come awards time, here the interplay between herself and Pesci is not only funny, it's also cheekily precious, just like the film, actually. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Joe Pesci, Marisa Tomei, Ralph Macchio, and Fred Gwynne are very fine actors who make this movie a total success. Joe Pesci plays Cousin Vincent Vinny Gambini, a upstart lawyer from New York who goes to Alabama to defend Billy(Ralph Macchio, The Karate Kid and The Outsiders) and his friend from being executed for a murder they didn't commit. First, they thought they were arrested for shoplifting, instead the clerk was shot to death. Vinny and his fiancée Mona Lisa Vito(Tomei) goes to motel to motel. Tasting hominy grits for the first time, meeting a judge(Gwynne) who doesn't play around, and dealing with his argumentative fiancée. Vinny's inexperience cause problems, yet when he does get the taste of courtroom drama, he gives out his serving of justice to the platter. When the pictures of the car tracks racks his brain, his sudden sense of getting the answers get his cousin and friend out of the hot seat. The judge was impressed with his work, yet he doesn't agree with his methods. A masterpiece of comedy, well done! 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Marisa was a hoot","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Marisa Tomei, from this years Wild Hogs, won an Oscar for her performance in this film. Joe Pesci, in a change from his bad boy gangster image was absolutely hilarious. Add in the Karate Kid (Ralph Maccio) and you have a movie that will have you busting a gut. This was Fred Gwynne's last movie and he was a hoot as the judge that couldn't figure out how to deal with Pesci as he defended the youts accused of a crime. The dialog between Pesci and Tomei was snappy throughout and made this one enjoyable experience. Don't look at the obvious errors like the fact that the judge should have known about Pesci's legal status and the tire man, just sit back and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny, My Love--Marisa Tomei","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen My Cousin Vinny a thousand times, and it always does the trick...it entertains me to no end. I still laugh at the same scenes I laughed at when I first saw the film over fifteen years ago.Marisa Tomei is flat out FANTASTIC as Mona Lisa Vito--the wise cracking, marriage wanting, car fixing, pizza chick who accompanies Vinny (Joe Pesci--also brilliant) to Alabama in order to get his cousin (Ralph Macchio) and his friend (Mitchell Whitfield) off from murder charges when their car matches the suspect's car in a Sac-o-Suds homicide involving the clerk.The comedic exchanges of Pesci and Fred Gwynn (the stuffy, Southern Judge) are gut busting. Tomei and Pesci, on paper, would appear to be the oddest coupling around, but, once you see the film, you quickly become aware that their pairing is a casting triumph.In short, everyone pulls out all the stops to make this a movie you just can't get sick of no matter how many times you watch it (I just saw it AGAIN last night). I, personally, would like to Thank the Academy for honoring Tomei with a Best Supporting Actress award for her performance. If you can find a more worthy recipient--that year, or any other, for that matter--I'd like to know who you'd come up with. "},{"Title":"Very funny if a bit too long","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Comedy about two guys (Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield) traveling cross country from NY to CA. While in Alabama they are (unjustly) accused of murder and need a lawyer--fast. Macchios' cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci) arrives from NY with his girlfriend (Marisa Tomei) to defend them. The problem is that he has only six weeks of law school training and the judge (Fred Gwynne) hates him...Huge comedy hit which made Pesci even more popular than he already was (he had just won the Oscar for Goodfellas) and gave Tomei a Best Supporting Actress Oscar. The setup is familiar, it's way too long, not all the jokes work and some of the characters are unlikable (Whitfield got annoying quick and Gwynne was TOO mean) but, all in all, this is a fun movie. The parts that do work are hysterical--the verbal matches between Pesci and Gwynne, Austin Pendleton's opening speech in court (you can see Pesci, Macchio and Whitfield breaking up in the background) and just about anything Tomei says.Acting--Macchio and Whitfield sort of fade into the background--they aren't given much to do. Pesci is is just great as Vinny--loud, obnoxious, swearing nonstop and very funny. Tomei matches him word for word. A lot of people seem to think that Tomei doesn't deserve the Oscar she won--but comedy is much harder to do than drama and she takes a stock character is makes her realistic, sympathetic and very funny. Her testimony in court at the end probably won her the award. Gwynne is terrific (if a bit too stern) as the judge. This was a last film and it's great to see he went out on a high note.So, I recommend it. The only debits are its over length and the nonstop profanity may offend people. I give it an 8.Best line--Oh yeah--you blend. "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny - Great","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I first saw My Cousin Vinny, I then realized the difference in those movies that were done pre-2000, and those done today is like comparing a juicy orange to a glass of rancid milk. My Cousin Vinny was from start to finish outstanding in story line and acting. One cannot find one actor in the movie that failed in any way in his or her part. Of course Pesci was great - the woman in it, Marissa Tomei not only was quick, witty, gorgeous, but acted the part easily - and I think was the #1 actor in the movie. There's no doubt that My Cousin Vinny will be my favorite repeat picture in my library. The social conduct of Northerner or Southerner left you with a love for both (allowing that some have leanings either way). It definitely is a must see for anyone, and definitely keeps your interest from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Non Stop Laughter","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Without a doubt, this is the most entertaining and funniest movie I have ever seen in my entire life. The side jokes are hilarious, the main punch lines are even funnier, and last but not least- every word out of Vinny Gambini's (Joe Pesci) mouth is absolutely hilarious. From start to finish, this film will have you cracking up and laughing so hard that you'll rewind a majority of the parts a million times and recite every word in each selection. After that point, you'll have the whole movie memorized in about 2-3 nights. I am in utter disbelief that not everyone has voted this movie a perfect 10. The only thing that I can think of that is a negative point for this movie is that after you watch this, Comedy is RUINED...because NOTHING is funny after you watch this. Nothing even comes close to 1/2 as funny as this masterpiece! "},{"Title":"The movie is simply great.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is by far the most entertaining and best movie I have ever watched. I happened to see it on an Arabic television channel MBC 2 two years ago, and I cannot forget it to date. How I wish I can have my copy! I have checked allover the Kenyan video shops, but to no avail. To me, Mr. Gambini and his fiancée' makes it extremely funny, but all the other characters like the judge are a force to reckon with.This is a great movie by any standards and many people in my village whom I have informed about this movie would like to watch it.It is by far the best movie I have ever seen.....I can watch it every other time without boredom. How to find a copy is the problem in this part of the world.I must salute all the characters who produced this great piece.Basilio Chabari, Malindi, Kenya. "},{"Title":"Wish Cousin Vinny was my eternity","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is about 2 guys on a road trips through the south. they got caught by the police thinking they were responsible for a crime they didn't even committed.Held in jail in the state of Alabama the duo needs an eternity to get themselves off their trail.luckily one of them has a cousin who's a lawyer.Vinny is a third rate lawyer from New York. And the only one who can help our duo out of their mess. The only trouble is he hasn't work any actual trail before and has no experience in winning a trail.But when he studies more about law and order and having more faith in himself he'll be able to help our duo out of trail.It's a very cool movie. Plenty of laughs and jokes. Joe Pesci is excellent with his role too. It's worth seeing if you like Joe Pesci. "},{"Title":"Pesci at his Best","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have seen Joe Pesci in a few films delivering Great Performance. Some of his great work include Goodfellas, Casino, Lethal WEapon series and Home alone. My cousin Vinny is Joe Pesci as the main lead character. Pesci is All the way Funny and entertaining, I'm surprised he hasn't made more movies. It was Pesci that provided the entertainment in Lethal Weapon series. In My cousin Vinny Pesci delivers a Brilliant performance. This is simply one of the most funniest movies of all time. It is packed with plenty of jokes, its almost impossible to laugh. Pesci plays a lawyer, that just passed his law degree after failing 7 times. He is given his First murder case by his Cousin. With no experience in lawyer work, Vinny has many obstacles in court. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Marisa Tomei..... AWesomeeeeeeeee!!!","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you like subtle comedies then  My Cousin Vinny is for you. One of the best comedies that i have seen.The basic premise is simple enough. Two young guys wrongly accused of murder! What follows is a effortlessly funny effort by Joe Pesci( Vincent Gambini) to save those guys, one of them who happens to be his cousin.The highlight of the movie for me was the Awesome script and the equally extraordinary performances that the cast delivered. Joe Pesci( Gambini) was adorable and hilarious, Marisa Tomei( Mona Lisa Vito) who plays Gambini's fiancée deservingly got an Oscar for making that little role so memorable.The Judge was also great.As for the script, this movie is a perfect example of situational comedy at its best. It hooks you from the very first scene in the Shop and then what follows are little misunderstandings and small twists aided by some classy dialogues.People tend to forget Comedies over time compared to the Emotional ones. Well this movie will stay with you for this leaves a smile on your face. My all time Favorite comedy along with  Meet the Fockers and  There is something about Mary "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. it was hilarious and very great. i cant get over how funny it was. when Bill and Stan are going off to collage in Alabama bill steals tuna and then after they leave, the clerk gets shot and they get accused.Joe Pecsi is Vinny and he was hilarious. so funny. my favorites were Vinny and Mona Lisa, which is Vinny's girlfriend. Mona Lisa is hilarious and i think that she deserved that Oscar. i recommend this for people who need a good laugh, or if your upset, watch it and you'll be happy again. i cant stop quoting it and i bet that u wont either if you watch it. "}{"Title":"Pesci at his best hour!","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen a lot of movies starring Joe Pesci and I thought he did a really good job in all of them, but My Cousin Vinny would have to be his best. The movie stars Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield as two buddies who are on vacation, traveling through Alabama. They stop at a convenience store and buy a few things, and than they hit the road. All of a sudden there's a cop after them, and there charged for murder. O oh...what's gonna happen next? Well, Ralph has a cousin, Vinny, who's an attorney, but he's never been to court, never even been in a courtroom, and he's currently a personal-injury lawyer. Joe Pesci plays Vinny, and he shows up with his girlfriend Marisa Tomei (Mona-Lisa Veto). Marisa is hilarious too, and she even won a Best-Supporting Actress award at the Oscars. I gave this movie 10 out of 10, because this movie is hilarious, it's the best movie I've ever seen, it's one of my favourite comedies ever, and it's one of the best law-flicks ever too. So watch the movie, and see if Vinny can save the day! "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny - Superb Humor","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When the term classic is used to describe a film, I believe My Cousin Vinny is more than deserving. The casting of the film was excellent, with special kudos to the great exchanges between Vinny and the Judge.The physical humor was a nice touch (Vinny slipping & falling in the mud, etc.). My personal favorite of all scenes, though, was in the motel with the dripping faucet. Mona Lisa's description of how she torqued the faucet handle was genius!Joe Pesci pulls off the role of the fumbling attorney at law was great. Imagine your favorite wise guy from The Sopranos who decided to go to law school - and flunk his bar exam multiple times. Then, put him in the courtroom for the first real trial of his life. Would you really want him to represent you? I guess, in this case, blood was certainly thicker than water. The utes ultimately hung in there with him, and (thanks to Mona Lisa), justice prevailed.Marisa Tomei most certainly was the show-stealer, and most deserving of her Oscar. Each time I see her, I appreciate her more as an actor - and more as a woman. What a great addition to any film (particularly, in recent times, as Lola in What Women Want!I own this movie, and never tire of watching it. Vinny's outlook on life is priceless, and his relationship with Mona Lisa is wonderful! My Cousin Vinny ranks very high on my list of romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have a list of movies that I consider my favorite movies of all time. This one is definitely on the list. What that means is during the holidays when the gang gets together we'll watch several of my favorites (which happen to be a family favorite, too). It's by popular vote. Movies such as Miracle on 37th Street, It's a Wonderful Life, Trains, Planes, & Automobiles, and of course My Cousin Vinny will be some of the most common selections. I can't think of anything negative to say about the movie, except maybe profanity. Some people may be offended! If you can overlook that . . . it's a delightfully hilarious movie! I don't know anyone who's seen it that doesn't agree with me on this comment! It should be rated a lot higher! I'm really surprised that it's not on your list of Top 250!  "},{"Title":"A few can really match to comic timing of JOE Pesci......","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a perfect movie on those really down in the dumps day... It will really make you laugh and forget outside world for the entire length of the filmA few scenes to look out for....1. See the expression on the Judge (Fred Gwynne) when Vinny (joe pesci) lands up in the court for the first time, to fight the case.2. The Statement by Vito (Marisa Tomei in an oscar winning role) will make you jump and clap.3. The Jail scene.**** 4/5 ***** "},{"Title":"Fish-out-of-water personified; delicious Tomei","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MY COUSIN VINNY (1992) *** Joe Pesci, Ralph Macchio, Marisa Tomei, Fred Gwynne, Mitchell Whitfield, Lane Smith, Austin Pendelton.  Comedy hit with fish-out-of-water Pesci as Brooklynite lawyer who goes south to help his young cousin and college pal get off a mistaken identity murder charge.  Very funny with Tomei the epitome of Italian Princess as Vinny's smarter-than-you think girlfriend, which won her a Best Supporting Actress Oscar; she steals the show. "},{"Title":"really amazing!!!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i have to say that the story in this movie is very hard to convince me, but, i still enjoy the perfect performance of Marisa Tomei and Joe Pesci, and even Fred Gwynne, the judge. when Marisa Tomei finished her amazing statement on court, i can't help clap my hands, oh my god! it's brilliant! i think you have seen a few good men before, if you'd like to see some different kind of court movie, my cousin vinny is a good choice.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the 90's finest comedy","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great comedy with all the right ingredients! A very funny plot, great acting performances. I fell in love with Marisa Tomei as Mona Lisa Vito in this movie. Brooklyn accent has never been this sexy! And Joe Pesci is as brilliant as ever. And there is a lot of funny details and they work! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those rare, nearly flawless films.  Pesci plays a perfect role as Vincent Gambini.  And Marisa Tomei?  Whoa! She is HOT in this film. None of her characters in her other films, even comes close to Mona Lisa Vito!  She is gorgeous, and HOT!  And you've got to love her accent! "},{"Title":"Some great moments in a sea of mediocrity","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Despite having been made in 1992, My Cousin Vinny has a distinct 80's feel in its first half - I'm not sure if it's the mere presence of Ralph Macchio, or the staggering amount of mistaken-identity gags (three of them in the first twenty minutes, none of which has any real point). As long as Macchio and Whitfield are the center of the film, it's achingly bad comedy. Thankfully, the movie does get into its element once it turns into a courtroom farce, when Joe Pesci and especially Marisa Tomei take center stage and allow their characters to grow. They're not great characters or very clever ones - how Tomei won that Oscar over Judy Davis and Vanessa Redgrave is a bit of a mystery - but they both do a commendable job with their roles, and make the second half of the movie watchable and even very entertaining, but still completely forgettable. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In one word  HILARIOUS! Joe Pesci is a hoot as a fish out of water attorney trying to save his cousin and his friend on trial for a murder they didn't commit. Marisa is equally hilarious as his fiancee, Mona Lisa Vito (love that name!). Watch and laugh your a** off! You're gonna shoot a deer!  "}{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Cousin Vinny is a very entertaining comedy. The film has about three or four absolutely hilarious scenes and it is always entertaining even if it's perhaps twenty minutes too long. Of course, Marisa Tomei was really good as well. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Court Room Drama/Comedy Can Be Inspirational","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Spoilers I have watched this movie almost every time it is played on TV. It is one of my favorites. It is funny at times, but not quirky or silly. In the end, the movie gathers good momentum toward a good climax that makes one feel like cheering. If one listens to the inspirational climax without watching the screen, at that point you still feel like cheering.There are some very minor plot flaws, that one has to get past to enjoy the ending, but they are hardly noticeable and are not worth pointing out.The movie shows two guys Bill Gambini and Stan enrolled in UCLA who happened to be an Alabama store just prior to the store clerk being shot. They are arrested and questioned and they believe they were arrested for shoplifiting a can of tuna and confess to shoplifting, but are arreingned for murder of the shop clerk. Bill Gambini enlists the services of his cousin Vinny, who has passed the Bar and wants to be a lawyer. Vinny knows nothing about trial law and is therefore thrown into jail on his first few nights on the case, by Judge Haller.In the end Vinny and his Fiancée Mona Lisa Vito recognize an error in the identification and we see Vinny shine as a lawyer. "},{"Title":"Good one.","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" All i can say after watching it yesterday night was, wowser...one of the best films made in late nineties, the era dominated by rambo's and terminator's. My cousin Vinny comes as a fresh breeze in a full moon night. A perfect entertainer. I can watch this film over and over again. Joe Pesci plays Vincent LaGuardia Gambini, a Brooklyn lawyer who is asked to defend his cousin and friend from a murder charge in Alabama. Marisa Tomei as Mona Lisa Vito, Vinny's girlfriend, deserved the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, rare for a comedy to even be nominated for anything by AMPAS. I really liked Fred Gwynne as the no-nonsense Judge Chamberlain Haller, a great foil for Joe Pesci's laid back, easy going Brooklyn wise guy. Even his name, Chamberlain Haller, evokes seriousness. A lot of fun, especially the courtroom antics of Pesci. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the funniest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is a hilarious movie that everybody should see! Basically, it's about two college boys from New York City who take a trip through the deep south and get falsely arrested for murder. After realizing they can't afford a good lawyer, one of them discovers that his cousin Vinny is a lawyer, and he is willing to defend them for free.I'm not going to say more about the plot because that might ruin it for some people. The cast is great, the script is great, everything about this is great.Warning This movie has a lot of foul language. Don't let young kids watch this. Also, don't watch it on TV unless it's on HBO or some other channel that allows lots of language. The profanity is half of what makes the movie funny.But whatever you do, you must see it. "},{"Title":"excellent comedy","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As a family we never tire of watching My Cousin Vinny, and every time accompanied by unstoppable belly laughs. When I watch a movie repeat, I am acutely aware of the acting - not so with My Cousin Vinny; on repeats I only get a sense of how natural everything progresses and how easy the comedy flows. I have now watched this movie 9 times during the past 7 years.The gags and the humour are always fresh and undated. It never looks down on any sect/race/gender and always stomach achingly funny, with a sense of unforced humour - fantastic acting by Joe Pesci, Marisa Tomei and Fred Gwynne simply the best comedy I have watched and one which is most understated. "},{"Title":"One of My Family Favorites from Childhood That Never Gets Old","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Even Andre Bazin and Jean-Luc Godard surely had films they found difficulty watching objectively. We all are attached to at least one certain movie that resonates with our childhoods, holidays, families and different circles of friends. My Cousin Vinny is at least one film that I watch in pure vegetation no matter how exorbitant my film snobbery gets over the years. I know a guy who seems to watch nothing but gangster and samurai movies, and tends to mingle with similar guys, but will always have a place in his heart for Bob Clark's A Christmas Story, just like so many others who cannot watch it without all the signifying perspective of all those Thanksgivings and Christmases. I cannot watch My Cousin Vinny without thinking of my parents, how we all love it when Joe Pesci refers to his defendants as yutes, much to the bafflement of a courtroom full of small town Southerners who may have never before heard a Brooklyn accent, how Marisa Tomei's Oscar-winning scene on the bench as an expert witness automobile aficionado never seems to get old to us.What does change over time is my view of Joe Pesci's performance. It doesn't weaken. Rather, it carries different associations now than it did when I was younger, before he had much such a huge impact on me playing Tommy in GoodFellas and Nicky in Casino. I had only known him as a relative comic actor playing the pushover in the Lethal Weapon series, a handful of other films that I doubt I could revisit with an eye impartial to my memories of being obsessed with them in grade school. I'd also seen Raging Bull when I was quite young, and it had a definite impact on me as well, and I got to see My Cousin Vinny in a much darker, much more dejected ambiance. Now, I enjoy Pesci's Vinny Gambini for a different reason, how it's a complement to Pesci's work with Scorsese in terms of the background of the actor's associations as we see him here.There has been lots of dispute over the years as to whether or not Marisa Tomei deserved the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her work here. It is certainly an unlikely film to garner any Oscars, an unlikely role as well. There have been many actresses similar to her in presence like Gloria Grahame, who did powerhouse work before the Academy finally acknowledged her with an Oscar for The Bad and the Beautiful, in which she has ten minutes of screen time at best and plays a role far from the ballpark of central characters. Marisa's career, however, seems to have worked in reverse. I think that here, as Mona Lisa Vito, she was acknowledged because she, having merely appeared on A Different World and a sparse amount of bit parts, stuns us not only with her staggering physical beauty but with her ability to steal each and every frame in which she appears, even from Pesci, the lead, who had recently won the same award she was to win, and essentially for stealing every scene of GoodFellas, a film with a powerful cast. This is all theoretical, and as I said, it's difficult for me to be objective with this movie.Pesci's lead is in part a typecast, as an Italian-American Brooklynite who thinks a black knit shirt with a gold chain necklace under a black leather jacket is proper courtroom apparel. He might be right if he were a defendant in the Bronx, but the movie takes place in Alabama, and he's the defense attorney for his Italian-American Brooklynite cousin Ralph Macchio, and his Jewish friend Mitchell Whitfield, two innocent college students on their way to school, suddenly having found themselves charged with the murder of a convenience store clerk. The circumstantial evidence looks ruinous, but the worst thing they have going against them is Pesci's all-around absence of legal familiarity.Even though this classic fish-out-of-water story is set in the South and has an early shot of a sign that says Free Horse Manure, this is not really a hick bash. The judge, played by Fred Gwynne, Mr. Munster himself, prosecutor Lane Smith, Perry White to Dean Cain's Superman and the arresting officer Bruce McGill, D-Day to Belushi's Blutarski, are normal Southern men who aren't trying to hastily sandbag anybody by means of false charges and insufficient evidence, but after gunshots were heard, three different witnesses made a positive identification of the two suspects, fleeing the store in a conspicuous late-1960s Buick convertible. (Cue Marisa.)The movie stores most of its best laughs for the extended climactic courtroom sequence, in which one witness after another forges together the prosecution case, and the guiltless youngsters look decidedly bound for the electric chair. Gwynne's surly functioning in his scenes scenes is outstanding. The defendants are for all intents and purposes a foil. Macchio and Whitfield sit at the defense table and look scared, and that's essentially that. Pesci and Tomei, on the other hand, have an ironic relationship that I liked. Neither one is played as a lunkhead, or a contrast to the other. They're very clever, in their own ways that the by-the- book Southern court isn't used to, but in the middle of a legal undertaking for which they are totally unschooled. Basically, it's a great culture clash movie, not only in the courtroom scenes but in Vinny and Mona's struggle to get any sleep or find a suit or get breakfast or duke it out with a classic barroom redneck for the money he owes them. And I think that's probably it's biggest charm. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of Comedy!","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many movies come along and many are labeled comedies even when they are not funny at all! This one is! The story is well conceived and believable. Things like this have and do happen. I know we all consider ourselves to sophisticated to get caught up in a pickle like these 2 kids in a small southern town but it could happen! I know that in the South there are people who act and talk like these people! I know that the Law is more a mans word and a handshake usually is all you need. Joe Pesci was brilliant and funny in his Brooklyn Guido type of way and Marisa was awesome as his girlfriend. She is downright beautiful and her lip-smacking style of talking was dead-on. She deserved that Oscar and not too many win Oscars for comedy but she proved you can do it and do it well! "},{"Title":"Funny film","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny proved to be a very funny movie. Just the idea of the plot, with an inept lawyer who finally passed the Bar exam having to win over his first case, is a great concept. Joe Pesci is as funny as he was in Home Alone several years before. Marisa Tomei, however (in her Oscar-winning performance), actually ends up stealing the show and becoming the most entertaining character in the film. Her New York accent and funny dialogue with great methods of delivery are hilarious, and I have to disagree with anyone who feels she did not deserve her Oscar. Some of the funniest material in the film is watching Pesci and Tomei try to adapt to the courtroom setting and the new town they are staying in. This is not monumental film-making, and it's not a perfect movie. The story takes a little too long to get going, and it's not until the end that the plot finally starts to build. Nevertheless, it's still a great way to spend a few hours, and this film is sure to entertain.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Possible the funniest movie I have ever seen","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is so hilarious I can not even put it down on the comment box, that is just how insanely funny this movie is. This is one of the funniest if not the funniest movie(s) I have ever seen in my life. The movie is hilarious from start to finish that I barely had time to breathe during scenes. This movie has a good bit of cursing but overall the movie was phenomenal and I loved every second of it. Joe Pesci has always been extremely serious when he needed to be, and also very funny when he needed to be and by God in this movie he is one of the funniest actors in one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I loved this movie so much that there is no way I could give it any less than 10 stars. "},{"Title":"one of those movies to watch, at least most of the time, when it's on TV","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Taking aside when it's edited down for its content and for time, this is really a neat movie to watch when it comes on TV, which- if you have cable- is pretty often. It's also one of the best vehicles for Joe Pesci that was ever made (even if it didn't technically originate with him), and will probably make for part of his great standing as an actor years later through all the other Scorsese movies. It's sometimes very ridiculous- i.e. the suit Vinny wears to Court following no choice, always brilliant- but it's also got a sincerity to it that works. It's original in its characters and dialog even if it always takes some liberties with Southern and New York clichés. The best example of the former would be with the grits part in the courtroom scenes (no respectable Southerner would make instant grits). And the cast surrounding Pesci always makes it worth watching. Marisa Tomei- maybe a little unnecessary of an Oscar win- is in her prim here as Vinny's girlfriend-would-be-fiancé who ends up helping him out more than he could've thought. Meanwhile four of the more talented character actors, some seen more than others, bring up the courtroom scenes perfectly- Fred Gwynne as the judge, (the late) Lane Smith as the prosecutor, Bruce McGill as the Sheriff, and Austin Pendleton as a stand-in defense attorney. They bring both professionalism and a few laughs in measure with the very sharp, unpredictable script. That it also sometimes leaves it onto Pesci's shoulders to keep up entertainment wise is not altogether unexpected. But at the end of it all it's a very watchable, endearing piece of work, where the case itself in the story is not as worthwhile as the memorable lines of dialog or the bit players. And there's even a bit of good craftsmanship that goes unnoticed by some in it as well (the first scene at the bar shows this if you look close enough). Whether you've seen it in the theaters or not, it's probably one of the true enjoyable movies to watch on a weekend afternoon with nothing to do. "}{"Title":"courtroom comedy","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Joe peso excels in this piece of courtroom comedy where he takes his first murder case as an out of town lawyer in the deep south. there are the usual errors of a new lawyer. though the judge is suspicious, the judge accepts Vinnie the lawyers assurance of an impressive record of some wins and losses and permits Vinnie despite reservations to try a case where the ultimate penalty hangs over both defendants.Fred Gwynn a long time comic actor plays the part of a Superior Court Judge eloquently with reserve and detachment.while this is a romantic comedy, the comic aspects of the story are adjunctive to the seriousness of the charges for which both defendants face death. though utterly inexperienced before an hostile court, Vinny manages with a little help from his girl friend Mona to draw victory in a case of mistaken identity from the jaws of defeat.the harshness of the new yawk accent is tastefully in this film executed as the perfect counterpoint to the sense of dignity and propriety of the ever staid southland. the film qualifies as a classic comedy as it ends with a promise of marriage. "},{"Title":"As funny as it gets","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If someone asked me to recommend something funny and enjoyable, probably this will be the first movie that i will recommend. I myself have watched it several times, sometimes from the beginning and sometimes just from any scene randomly but it never fails to amuse and entertain me and i always get up feeling good. I think a court room drama blended with humor works really great in this one. The dialogs are really funny and the situations at times are hilarious and last but not the least Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei's performance and the chemistry as a couple is amazing.I am sure with so many repeats everyone must have seen it tens of times already but if you haven't you might want to check it out. Don't expect a great movie but this is a sure shot entertainer guaranteed to give you your evening's worth. "},{"Title":"Joe  Pesci  Is  Great  In  This  Movie","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny (1992).This movie is about how two young men (Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield) and they are driving through Alabama and they stop at a convenience store to get some food.And as they are driving away the cops pull them over and they charge them for the murder of the convenience store clerk who they did not kill.The 2 men can not afford a lawyer so one of the men calls his cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci) who is a lawyer and Vinny defends them.And Vinny does not know much about being a lawyer because he has only been doing it for 6 weeks and this is his first case.so will Vinny win the case or will the two innocent men go to jail.The plot for this movie is great and i like court room drama movies and i like comedy movies and i like it how both types of movies are in one movie.If u think Joe Pesci can not act u should watch this movie and u will find out that he is a really good actor.Marisa Tomei gives her Oscar winning performance in this movie and i think she deserved it and Ralph Macchio aka The Karate Kid is good in this great movie.Over all every thing about this movie is great.And this is one of the best movies of the 90's and my rating for this movie is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very  funny and exciting movie, my all time favorite","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies because of the exceptional talents of Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei. Joe is a master communicator who will keep you listening attentively to hear every word he has to utter in his unique special accent. He was not only very funny but also intelligent and pragmatic despite all the odds he faced in winning the case. Marisa, was not only sexy but also unforgettable. (One of the top 10 most attractive women in the world.) She deserved an academy award for her role as Joe's girlfriend. Very entertaining and exciting movie that will keep you laughing from the beginning to the end. You could watch this movie many times in a day without being tired. I highly recommend this movie to all readers. Ikey Benney, New York City "},{"Title":"A laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In my opinion, MY COUSIN VINNY is a laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts! In my opinion, Judge Haller's (Fred Gwynne) face looked like a mask. I don't mean that in a negative way. As a matter of fact, I thought it was a very nice-looking, mask-like face. I laughed really hard every time Vinny (Joe Pesci) walked into the courtroom wearing something unusual got awakened by a loud noise, such as a factory whistle, and yelled, What the f*** is that? Please, don't say I have a twisted sense of humor. That's just the way I am. There was only one person that sort of annoyed me, and that was Lisa (Marisa Tomei). This was because she was a little snobby, especially when she was on the stand. Plus, she should have treated Vinny with a little more respect while he was defending Bill (Ralph Macchio) and Stan (Mitchell Whitfield). Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that this is one of the funniest films of 1992! Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Joe Pesci, and you haven't seen this laugh-out-loud comedy that will leave you laughing until it hurts, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"No one should yell Objection! at this movie.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think that this is one of the funniest movies that I've ever seen. After two young men are arrested for murder in a backwards Alabama town, wise guy lawyer Vinny Gambini (Joe Pesci) and his sarcastic hubby Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) come to the rescue. The only problem is, Alabama is a lot different from New York. Judge Chamberlain Haller (Fred Gwynne, in his final film role) can't understand Vinny's Brooklyn accent and doesn't like Vinny's clothes, the local hicks try to taunt the two New Yorkers, and other wacko things happen. As it is, this movie is sort of a good lesson about circumstantial evidence, but you still gotta wonder how anyone could come up with something so hilarious. A true comedy classic. "},{"Title":"A Funny Comedy of Trial and Error!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My cousin vinny is another hilarious comedy that I have to tip my hat to. Joe Pesci is great for the role. He's a (so-called) attorney from New York that travels down to Alabama to defend his cousin Bill (Ralph Macchio) and his friend Stan (Mitchell Whitfield) and get them cleared of the 1st degree murder charge the state has on them. Now he says he's an attorney but, he has very little experience. He has never had a murder case before nor has he done any other case, nor has he EVEN gone to court, EVER! Vinny really starts having a really hard time down in the south, other than the case; he has his impatient girlfriend Lisa (Marisa Tomei) who is really getting tired of waiting for Vinny to marry her as soon as he won his first case. Yet he's really having trouble with the case, because every time he's in the court room he looks like does not even know what he's doing! Not to mention the court's judge who just flat out hates him and as Vinny says he's just aching to throw me in jail. I don't want to say much more but, he does happen to say that he went to law school in Brooklyn, New York, yet he really never has gone to law school. Anyway, this film a Comedy of trial and error is a hoot. I recommend this film to comedy lovers as well. I give 8. "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci delivers big laughs in this Yankee in the deep South comedy.","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Starring Joe Pesci, Ralph Macchio, Marisa Tomei, Fred Gwynne One of the classic tried-and-true comedy formulas is to have some sort of character mismatch. Throw one type of person or group of people in with another person or group who is totally different, and there are all sorts of things that can be done with it. My Cousin Vinny borrows this formula and does a pretty good job with it if I do say so myself.Bill Gambini (Macchio) and his friend Stan are driving back to New York, taking the scenic route through Alabama. They stop at a convenience store to get some gas and a few groceries for the road. Bill stuffs a can of tuna into his pocket because his arms are too full with other stuff and forgets to pay for it at the front, then they leave and get back out on the road. A few miles down the road, a cop is on their tail, the flashers go, and they get pulled over. They think it's for shoplifting the can of tuna, but little do they know that the clerk at the convenience store they were just in is now freshly murdered. So they get hauled off to jail on the assumption that it's for shoplifting a can of tuna, all the time wondering why there's such a fuss over one simple can of food.When they do eventually find out that they have been charged with murder and accessory to murder, the jaws drop and panic sets in. Bill uses his phone call to call his mom, who informs him that they have a lawyer in the family. His cousin Vinny (Pesci).So Vinny and his fiancé Mona Lisa Vito (Tomei) drive down to Alabama. Two New Yorkers clad in leather in the middle of Alabama. There's a really funny scene when Vinny goes to visit the boys in jail and Stan thinks that it's some inmate who has come to make them their sex slaves. Vinny at one point says, quote, So let's do our best to just make this a simple in and out procedure. Sure it's a little bit dirty, but dang if it isn't funny.That's pretty much the most important plot points of the movie. The majority of the movie focuses on Vinny, who is completely inexperienced as a trial attorney, trying to win this case that could save the life of his cousin and his cousin's friend. The chemistry that Vinny and the Judge (Gwynne) have on the screen is truly hilarious as they are constantly at each other's throats and on each other's nerves.As usual, it's the kind of movie where you know the ending long before it gets there, but it's not like we're watching a suspense flick. It's a comedy, and a highly entertaining one at that.Bottom Line 3.5 out of 4 (definitely worth a view) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable & original movie","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie is about 2 young men mistakenly blamed for a store clerk's murder and how one of the young men's cousins, Vinny, represents them in court. The plot doesn't sound hilarious, but how it plays out is very hilarious. The cast is excellent, most especially Joe Pesci. Although Marisa Tomei does a fine job with her script, I think her 20 year age difference with Vinny (Joe Pesci) is too much for their relationship to be believable. Also, Tomei looks 10 years younger than her age so that doesn't help! However, I wouldn't change Joe Pesci as Vinny and Marisa Tomei won an Oscar for her role as Lisa, so what do I know?! Some of the best humor comes from Vinny's way with words and how people misinterpret what's he saying. I can relate well to both sides of the humor since I have lived both in the both the Northeast and the South.My Cousin Vinny is an enjoyable movie with many good laughs. "},{"Title":"Alabama, not Georgia","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie takes place in Alabama, not Georgia. Follows the story of a pair of New York Italians journeying through the south when they suddenly find themselves charged with a convenience store robbery and murder. One of their cousins (hence the title) Vinny comes down with his fiancée to defend the pair. The film's major theme involves Vinny overcoming not only the cultural gap that exists between him and the Alabama legal system, but also his inexperience with the law. Over the course of the film Vinny has many epiphanies, all of which impact the trial in various ways, some positively and some negatively; most of these involve at least a few comedic elements. One of the graces of this film is that it uniquely utilizes the local color of both Alabama and New York simultaneously -- not just accents, but also the norms of both regions are well represented. At times these references may border too close to stereotype for some, but ultimately they are within the spirit of the film. "}{"Title":"Great movie about the sharp contrast between the big city and the deep south","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great movie with excellent comedic performances by Pesci & Tomei. Their chemistry is apparent. I loved Joe Pesci's character, who had many of the Italian stereotypes (big dark hair, big jewelry) but was much different from his many roles as a tough mafia gangster. I'd say this is my favorite performance of his.I've never been to the deep south, and enjoyed seeing a little bit of a small town buried in the middle of Alabama. I know it's fake and it's a movie but it was still enjoyable to see the free manure sign, dirt for sale sign, hubcap shop and the little local country bar.I recommend this movie if your in the mood for a light comedy! "},{"Title":"WHAD I SAY....WHAD?","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The real measure of this movie is that it remains fresh and funny even though it's rerun on TV almost as much The Shawshank Redemption. I usually watch it straight through at least once a year --it's an easy, LIGHT comedy --The type of movie that is sure to age well -It should never become dated. The acting performances are universally winning --from Pesci and Tomei on the top end down to the townspeople.This movie has a double fish out of water motif----First- Pesci and Tomei as New Yorkers thrown willy nilly into the life of a small Southern town and then Pesci again as a fledgling lawyer on his first trial.Pesci is the lynch pin here -- I like Tomei also-however-like others who have posted -I really question her getting an Oscar for this performance--the only character her character effectively plays off of is Pesci's character---rather a huge concession to make for what would be considered worthy for an Oscar. Gwynne is outstanding as the judge--I liked Lane Smith's prosecutor also -Machio's character is only incidental--The plot is sharp and intelligent-the course of the trial is surprisingly logical and well formed---I know that a couple of posters have had problems with the technical details of the ending -but it makes good enough sense for the 99 out of 100 people who know little or nothing about cars--My favorite scenes include the interaction between Pesci and Gwynne---Pesci blowing away the prosecution witnesses on cross examination-----Pesci charging out of the cabin -gun blazing after hearing an OWL hoot.....The stuttering public defender is good for a chuckle also------ "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an awesome movie. As a matter of a fact, I'm watching it now as i write this. This movie is a great movie to rent, own, or watch if it's on TV. They have movies that you watch or save on rainy days, this is not one of them. This movie you will want to watch over and over i mean common it has Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei, you CANT go wrong. I've seen this movie about 15 times (I SWEAR) and i still love it and laugh every single time i see it. It's one of my favorite movies. All in all, if your looking for a movie to watch and you want to laugh your pants off, then this is the movie to watch!!!PS. Don't GO HUNTIN' hehehe  "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci is once again great in this court comedy.","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have watched this movie plenty of times and i still like it just as much as i did the first time. Joe Pesci stars as the fast talking, foul mouthed Italian lawyer (who has never been to court). He has to try and prove that two guys, being on trial for murder didn't do it. Of course this has some hilarious consequences in which Vinny (Joe Pesci) does a fantastic role. Marisa Tomei plays the part of Vinny's girlfriend with a love for automobiles. The chemistry between the main characters is great and the jokes are fresh and really funny. One of my favorite characters besides Vinny is the judge, masterfully portrayed by Fred Gwynne. I rate this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"Yo, cousin Vinny! Is there anything that you could do for me?","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  IMDb mark 8I like the song. And I like the movie even more. It's very interesting when you see it for the first time, and it's still lots of fun when you see it again. This is a funny, witty, oftentimes sarcastic film that makes you really like the main characters. It entices you to wait and see exactly how the movie is going to end, even though the outcome seems fairly obvious from the get-go. But in the case of this movie, it's not about the finish line, but about the path which leads there.-Humour The dialogue in 'My Cousin Vinny' contains a lot of swearing, but the swearing is so funny and so well mixed in with the action, that the film invariably seems dull if you try to see the syndicated TV version. Some lines are so smart and full of clever irony that you will laugh even if you've seen the scene before. It's not all funny, like the Naked Gun movies, though. 20/25-Physical Comedy There are a few funny bits of physical comedy; most from Joe Pesci, naturally. And it is quite entertaining to see Marisa Tomei in a backless, one-piece, flower body-suit arguing with Mr. Pesci about her biological clock. 12/20-Plot This film has a very interesting plot, that keeps the viewer's attention until the end. A couple of innocent-looking boys from New York are being trialed for murder in a town in Alabama, and they call Vinny, one of the boys' cousin, who is a lawyer, to help them for free. 15/15-Ending I liked the ending very much. Of course, taste varies. 10/10-Theme What can happen to strangers in a small town in the countryside, and the conflict between two completely different types of people. It's very interesting to see sparks fly due to this conflict. Of course, if you want to see this theme taken to the extreme, there's always 'Nothing But Trouble' ('Valkenvania'). 8/10-Nudity There is no nudity in this film. 0/8-Cast Joe Pesci, Ralph Macchio and, of course, Marisa Tomei are not only well-known actors, but they are also awesome in this movie. Fred Gwynne, as the judge, and Bruce McGill, as the sheriff, are great, too, and practically all the actors are very believable. 7/8-Genre This is a comedy. 4/4-->Overall 76/100To sum it up, this is a very good movie to watch whenever you can, because it's very hard to get bored of it. For some people, it might seem even better the second time. From Swordlord, 3 swords up!  "},{"Title":"Quite perfect","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Possible spoilers withinThis is so even, so funny, there is a feeling in this movie that I haven't felt in any movie before. Really great. It never looses it tempo, in fact there isn't a tempo. It is more of a powerful force that drives this movie. Perfect. "},{"Title":"Realistic Portrayal of the South Wins","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While this is a movie about a murder trial of two wrongly accused New York youths, it proves to be a taughtly written and acted story (with a comedic edge) about people.It is so wonderfully refreshing that the Southerners are not portrayed as morons. One character J.T., played by Chris Ellis, is only a poolroom bully - and those exist everywhere in every culture.The entire cast is wonderful to watch. Excellent movies start with excellent casting.Fred Gwynn, who plays Judge Chamberlain Haller, is incredibly wonderful to watch. I always knew that his acting ability was stellar, above and beyond any of Hollywood's finest. And this movie proves it. The subtley of his looks toward Joe Pesci's character, and his other gestures are gems that all aspiring actors should *study*.Mitchell Whitfield as Stan Rothenstein, Lane Smith as D.A. Jim Trotter, III, and Bruce McGill as Sheriff Dean Farley were true to their characters to the utmost. As I said, an excellent movie starts with an excellent cast.Great movie, great entertainment, great writing, great direction, and great acting - see it as often as it airs. (Closing song is a real toe-taper.) 9/10-Zafoid "},{"Title":"It's one of the classics.  One of my favorites!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's funny!  It's intriguing!  It's one of those movies that you'll want to add to your collection and about once a year get it out and watch it all over, again.  Whenever my permanent college student son comes to town for the holidays that's always one of about a half dozen movies in my collection that's sure to be watched and maybe watched again before He goes back to school. "},{"Title":"Not deep but perfect","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Have just finished watching this for about the 10th time in as many years. It never fails to delight and each viewing reveals a new small perfect detail. Lack of energy in the acting by the two 'criminals' makes them non-entities, which is OK, because everyone else is perfect and the movie clicks like a well-oiled machine. Marisa Tomei wears her part as perfectly as she does her outrageous New York outfits, and this tends to obscure what a great job the other major actors and director have done in polishing this gem. See it when you want to walk away feeling really good. One caution your 'street language tolerance' must be at least medium, although the language used by all the characters (from street to stately) is an essential part of the film's flavor. "},{"Title":"Deserving of all the kudos","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Really a terrific film..difficult to make a courtroom comedy without it seeming too over-the-top but this one manages it. Great performances from Pesci, Tomei (well-deserving Oscar winner), Fred Gwynne (in his last film), and a downright hilarious, side-splitting cameo by Austin Pendleton. His courtroom sequence, which follows another great scene, is one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen in a film. Recommend this one.   "}{"Title":"Captured, Georgia","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, this captures Georgia all right. Small-town Georgia, with its loblolly and slash pine forests and red clay earth, and its baked-brick buildings, and hard-charging justice system. The South in many ways is one of the most laid-back areas of the country; everybody's friendly-like, elderly neighbors visit newcomers and bring them home-made pies. But, don't laugh, it reminds me a bit of Inuit life. People can get away with quite a lot in a traditional Eskimo community as long as they generally stick to the norms. When they don't, they get killed. Not shunned, not fined, not chastized, not remonstrated with, not exiled -- killed. My Cousin Vinny is a movie that I find myself enjoying each time I watch it, although the story is simple enough and could easily be done poorly. Fortunately, given that the escapade depicted isn't by its nature hilarious, the picture is rather smoothly done, with advantage taken of every opporunity for humor. The underlying drama wears thin after the first viewing, but it's still filled with laughs. Joe Pesci can't help his presence seeming ridiculous, even in his heavy roles for Scorcesi. He simply SOUNDS funny. Marisa Tomei is slender and sweetly appealing. Her relationship with Pesci is a nice mixture of love, frustration, and resignation. She's smarter than he is, as well as much better looking. Fred Gwynn and Lane Smith are the local authority figures, judge and prosecutor respectively. But no one could accuse them of playing Southern stereotypes. The Judge is sharp, a Yale graduate and chess player, and allows no tomfoolery in his courtroom, although Pesci provides plenty of it. Smith, playing a Southern lawyer for the one-hundredth-and-fortieth time, is at least as good as he's ever been. Here, he's affable and full of principle, going out of his way to help Pesci and Mona Lisa find a quiet place to live. His roller coaster of an accent is a delight to listen to. And, like the others, he has some good lines. Verdict, he tells the jury in his summation, it means the truth. Comes down to us from our lil IL' ancestors in Europe, and the director gives us a brief shot of an African-American woman in the jury box listening intently. Ralph Macchio's part is rather small, which doesn't detract at all from the movie. He has one good moment. Interrogated by a sheriff, he thinks he's being arrested for stealing a can of tuna fish and knows nothing of the murder he's thought to have committed. He admits to the sheriff that, yes, in fact he stole the tuna. The sheriff says, Was that before or after you shot the clerk? There are about two exquisite seconds while Macchio continues staring straight ahead as this query sinks into his understanding, then he looks up as if doubting his senses, and says, I shot the clerk?, which the sheriff immediately grasps as a straightforward confession.If you get a chance to see this, you might as well do so. I hope you can get the unexpurgated version so you can pick up on one of the films funniest exchanges after Pesci has repeatedly made a fool of himself in the courtroom. Counselor, says the judge, I'm holding you in contempt. And Pesci mutters under his breath as he sits down, What the f*** else is new?Fred Gwynn's jaw drops and his expression of incomprehension has me smiling just thinking about it. It isn't a masterpiece of comedy, but it's a pleasant way to get through a few hours. "},{"Title":"Joe Pesci can be funny.  Marisa Tomei can...win an Oscar?","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is an OK comedy. Nothing spectacular but it's reasonably amusing and all in all pretty fun. It's the kind of movie which comes along, provides a few chuckles, and then disappears, destined to be more or less forgotten. But this particular movie will always be remembered because of one of the great Academy Awards upsets of all time. Marisa Tomei took home the Oscar for best supporting actress and to this day it still seems a little hard to believe. That's not a knock on Tomei, her performance is indeed very good. But it's not the type of role, and certainly not the type of movie, which generally attracts Oscar votes. The fact Tomei even scored a nomination seems surprising. That she actually won boggles the mind.While Tomei got the glittering golden statue it is Joe Pesci who has the central role in the movie. Here Pesci gets a chance to show he's not just the tough guy you know from Goodfellas. He's funny. Pesci plays Vincent 'Vinny' Gambini in what will prove to be one of those classic fish out of water tales. His young cousin and a friend were traveling through rural Alabama and they have rather unfortunately found themselves charged with a murder they did not commit. The evidence against them appears strong and the two youths seem destined for the electric chair. Who will defend them? Enter Vinny Gambini. OK, so he's just passed the bar after six attempts and he's never actually tried a case and this stereotypical New Yorker is completely out of his element in the Deep South...but I'm sure he'll do a bang-up job right?There are some pretty good laughs as we see Vinny try to build a defense despite all the obstacles in his way. Of course no obstacle being greater than the fact that he appears to have no idea what he's doing. Along for the ride is Vinny's girlfriend, Mona Lisa Vito. No, really. You couldn't make that name up. This of course is Tomei's role and she does quite well with it. The verbal salvos being lobbed back and forth between her and Pesci really work. There's certainly nothing about her performance that screams out Oscar but that would be the end result. Giving just as good of a supporting performance as Tomei is Fred Gwynne, playing a judge who will find himself often butting heads with Vinny. Other than that there's not much. Playing the two youths on trial Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield don't have much of anything to do after the film's first few minutes. They're just sitting at the defense table watching Pesci do his thing. Pesci has to carry the movie and he proves up to the task. It's a mostly entertaining story, there's some snappy dialogue and good comedic bits sprinkled throughout. But at times the movie does struggle to maintain momentum. You get the sense 15-20 minutes could easily have been trimmed off the two hour running time to produce a much tighter, more focused story. In the end it's no comedy classic but it is amusing enough. "},{"Title":"truly hilarious","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My cousin Vinny is a story about two boys who steal a tuna can and confess for murder. With no money, they rely on their inexperienced cousin Vinny to be their lawyer. The story and picture of this movie is pretty dull. But does standup comedy have a story or punch-line to it? Joe Pesci does a superb job in playing a dumb hot-tempered never-graduated lawyer, and Marisa Tomei does an extraordinary job playing Joe Pesci's wife with an overdone Brooklyn accent. There is no steering in this movie, and definitely doesn't need concentration. It is fast paced and well, just plain funny. My overall rating, 2.5 out of 6. "},{"Title":"Smart and funny!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like character comedies. I like talkative comedies. I like comedies that take place in standard areas that serve simply as a backdrop allowing for characters to get into intelligent comedic arguments and/or discussions. I like intelligent comedies. My Cousin Vinny is smart and talkative; in one of the better scenes, Vincent Gambini (Joe Pesci) and his fiancée Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tommie) get into an argument over a dripping faucet. I love this stuff.That's not to say that I don't enjoy other forms of comedy. I respect them when done correctly. But for me, character-driven stories and conversations has always been the strongest example of pure filmmaking; of getting inside the heads of others.Billy (Ralph Macchio) and his buddy Stan are traveling through Wahzoo, Alabama, when they are unjustly picked up for the murder of a local gas station attendant. Thrown into the slammer, their only hope is one man Vinny (Pesci), an energetic, smart-mouthed little guy who happens to be Billy's cousin and a lawyer. He assures them that he'll get them off the hook, despite the fact that he's never even entered a courtroom before. How long have you been practicing? Stan asks. Almost six weeks, Vinny says.Vinny's brought his fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito (Tommie), to Wahzoo with him. They rent out a room at a local motel and get into heated debates whilst the fate of Vinny's cousin and his friend rest with him. At the first day of trial, Vinny says absolutely nothing to help his case. The prosecution's lawyer (Joe Don Baker) makes Vinny look like a schmuck, quizzing witnesses over important eyewitness accounts. Vinny just sits there.He's not a very good lawyer, as we can tell from the start. And the court judge (Fred Gwynne in his last film role) isn't too enthused with his courtroom manner. But he gets better as time goes on, with the help of his smart fiancée and with the cheering of his cousin. Vinny proves he's a pretty good lawyer by the time everything's over.I didn't enjoy My Cousin Vinny as much as I should have. Taking everything into account, it is a very good comedy. It's built with a strong foundation of a witty script; funny characters and clever dialogue, not to mention an overall joyful feel to it. Nevertheless, I wasn't as enthralled on my first viewing of the film as I had hoped I would be. My second viewing, last night, was better.Joe Pesci is perfect as Vinny, a lovable clown who prides himself in the fact that he thinks he knows everything, but most of the time his pride backfires when he finds out he's not quite as clever as he thinks. Marisa Tomei (who won an Oscar for her supporting role) is hilarious as the straight guy (or gal) of the story. Fred Gwynne is great; this was his final appearance on film, as he died soon after filming wrapped.The movie has some very funny cultural comparisons, the most evident one the argument over the meaning of the word youths, which Vinny pronounces yutes. There's also a good scene when Vinny and Mona Lisa first arrive in Wahzoo and step out of their car clad in leather and jewelry and general city clothing. You stick out like a sore thumb around here, he says. At least I've got cowboy boots. Lisa looks at him and says, Oh, yeah, you blend.Another fine aspect of this film is how strong the courtroom scenes are. Instead of serving simply as a premise for the film to induce chuckles, it has some very interesting and thoughtful scenes, probably enough to go around for ten courtroom movies. There's a discussion towards the end about cars and their tires that had me wondering how the scriptwriters did such detailed research.In many ways, this movie reminded me of the 1987 comedy Planes, Trains and Automobiles, which I am always bringing up in my reviews. But somehow they're closely related. I think it's the dialogue. It's like John Hughes himself said I always liked character stories best - put two or more people in a room and get them talking. I like those movies, too. I've always liked them. I like when characters get into lengthy, deep debates about trivial things. I love comedic conversations. My Cousin Vinny has a lot of 'em. It's a nice distraction from the overblown goofball comedies flooding the market today that lack any sort of cohesion and wit necessary to make a strong comedy. My Cousin Vinny has got it all.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Very funny.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Cousin Vinny is a very funny fish-out-of-water comedy. Joe Pesci's performance is brilliant and Marisa Tomei deserved her Oscar. Solid direction and nice shooting locations make it a standout film in the genre. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, but was hoping for more laughs.","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" MY COUSIN VINNYI have been wanting to see this film for many years, but never really got round to it.It was OK, but not as good as I was expecting.The film is about 2 lads who go to a gas station whilst on a road trip, they leave buying a lot of items, but realise in the car that they have a tin of tuna that they didn't pay for. When the police pull them over and arrest them, they think they have been booked for theft... but they are booked for murder. They are broke and have no-one to defend them... except Cousin Vinny. It is then comedy from there.The film is funny in places, but not really laugh out loud funny. It was amusing and fun to watch, but I didn't laugh out loud at many points.The film stars Joe Pesci as cousin Vinny. I like Joe. He has made a lot of good movies, but this is not his best. He also looked like he had his face pinned back. His eyes looked stretched back. I wonder if he had surgery or something? Joe was good in this film though... his character was the funny character in the film. I loved his attitude and the language he uses.Other cast members were Ralph Macchio, Marisa Tomei, Mitchell Whitfield & Fred Gwynne.They all did well. The acting wasn't brilliant, but it is a comedy, so the way they played it was really good.A lot of the film is set in a court room which can be boring sometimes, but not really here. Joe carries the film through. He is brilliant at keeping you entertained and that is what he does here.I will give this film 6 out of 10.I did like it, but I was expecting more.For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"My Cousin Silly","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A lawyer who lies more than Pinocchio is elected to help two guys who've been mistakenly accused for murderer. The outcome is visible lots of troubles. Whilst Ralph Macchio's character could have contracted a decent lawyer, he prefers to contract his Cousin Vinny because he is family. Obviously, this counselor is worse than anyone else would be in this profession. He doesn't understand what the Judge says and builds a strange relationship with him. Marisa Tomei's character (Vinny's wife) is as annoying as it could be, but she has an oddly charisma which made me like her.The first hour of the film had some funny jokes involving irony and naivety, but the other hour forgot it was a comedy film. Instead of that, the writers insisted in building a silly story with a bizarre lawyer. The movie is entertaining and interesting once you realize this is just a low-budget film with an original situation, but won't be much real or believable. "},{"Title":"Order in the court!","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't see what the fuss is all about - I just didn't think this was all that funny. With Joe Pesci in the cast I was looking for some snappy banter and terrific one liners but I'm still waiting. As the two mistaken identity criminals, Ralph Macchio and Mitchell Whitfield seemed relatively lifeless; their situation could have been played up for more laughs as well. And when I read some other viewer reviews and learned that Marisa Tomei received a Best Supporting Oscar for this, I had to go and check. Not that she wasn't competent for what the script called for, but Oscar worthy? Come on. Probably the cleverest bit to come out of this picture was the name of the town where all these folks were stranded, somehow fitting that it all came down to the old Wahzoo. "},{"Title":"HOOOOOOOO HEEEEEEEEEE HAH HAH!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Is there a person alive who does not LOVE Joe Pesci?  Is there anyone who does not emit howls of laughter every time Pesci opens his mouth????  What more can you say?  A great comedy, a classic. Pesci and Tomei play off each other exquisitely.  Best line miniskirted-legs-down-to there Tomei's comeback to Pesci as they arrive in Alabama, Oh yeah,Vinny, like you BLEND.  HOOOOO HOOOOOO HEEEEEE "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this film. Made me laugh from the moment Joe Pesci arrives on screen. Vinny, his girlfriend and the Judge all give wonderful performances. I wore this ridiculous thing for you. is worth the money alone. Brilliant! 10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Screen Chemistry","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The actors are great in their parts and convincing as a couple. The movie is your standard fish-out-of water story.  But Pesci and Tomei are so good that you forget the plot is so weak and underdeveloped. "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.All movies are about other movies. Some movie comedies -- those that aren't just skits  with funny characters -- exploit movie stereotypes.That's the game here and it is simple to read Pesci as minor league goodfellow, with his  lowlife girlfriend both from New Joisie. Alabama as the intolerant, ignorant hicksville we  know, also from movies.Neither place exists, in fact to extent that they do it is in people subconsciously  mimicking film.What makes this project successful is that it is a gentle reference each of the characters  only brushes with their stereotype, except for Tomei. She's given the room to play a  real (relatively real) character.The result is a simple, relatively pleasant space-filler. The problem with these things is  that the current of film images is strong and deep. If you are not inventing, you are being  invented. This is not as harmless as it appears.You can see the mechanics the screenwriter used he needed a vehicle with traction that  would balance both sides without slipping. So that -- and the esoteric knowledge to  know that -- is what the plot turns on.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"A witty comedy","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Cousin Vinny is a screwball comedy, and while it's consistently amusing, its humor factor is more wit, rather than side-splitting gags. That's okay, because this is a movie that would play best on cable TV.Billy Gambini (Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Mitchell Whitfield) are two friends on their way to college. Along the way, they stop at a little shop in small-town Alabama, and after a few misunderstandings (including a forgot-to-pay-for can of tuna), the two of them end up being charged with the murder of the clerk. To avoid getting fried, Billy's mom hires the lawyer in the family, his cousin Vinny (Joe Pesci). Unfortunately for Billy and Stan, not only Vinny new at the job, he has absolutely no idea what he's doing! My first exposure to Joe Pesci was when he played the inept criminal Harry in the Home Alone movies. There he made it clear that he's an adept comedian. If you were to take his buffoonery in that movie, amp it up way past the eleven and throw in a huge does of Fran Drescher from The Nanny, you'd get Vinny Gambini. He's rude, crude, and totally clueless. Fortunately, he's got his fiancée, Mona Lisa Vito (Marisa Tomei) to help. She may be as Brooklyney brash as he is, but she's no ditz. Marisa Tomei is delightful as Lisa. She's interesting because while she has the energy and the personality of a brainless bimbo, she's smarter than Vinny, and frequently saves his neck from the messes he gets himself into. Fred Gwynne, in his final film appearance as the procedure-loving judge, is perfectly cast. His imposing size and deep voice make him an imposing figure, but Gwynne uses that for humorous purposes. The banter between him and Vinny are some of the film's highlights. The other cast members, Macchio, Whitfield (who is still funny despite playing the stereotypical Jewish neurotic), Austin Pendleton and the late Lane Smith, are good as well.But for all the good qualities it has, My Cousin Vinny isn't that good. It's amusing, but barely diverting. It's one to watch on TV, but not something to rush out and see. "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There was one main reason I heard about this film, it was for the surprise and minor controversy surrounding the then unknown supporting actress winning the Academy Award against actresses Judy Davis, Vanessa Redgrave, Miranda Richardson and Joan Plowright, so I had to see if she really deserved it, from director Jonathan Lynn (Clue, The Whole Nine Yards). Basically New York University students and friends Bill Gambini (The Karate Kid's Ralph Macchio) and Stan Rothenstein (Friends' Mitchell Whitfield) are driving through Alabama, and stopping at a local convenience store, and moments after they leave the store clerk is shot dead, and the two young men are pulled over by the police and arrested on suspicion of robbery and murder, and unless they can prove their innocence they will face execution. With no money to pay for a lawyer Bill calls his mother, he is told that there is an attorney in the family, Bill's cousin 'Vinny', Vincent LaGuardia Gambini (Joe Pesci), who travels to help them, bringing his fiancée Mona Lisa Vito (Oscar winning Marisa Tomei) with him, but the Brooklyn based cousin is a personal injury lawyer, not an experienced attorney in trial, but he is able to fool the court judge Chamberlain Haller (The Munsters' Fred Gwynne) that he is qualified to go ahead with the case. A game of cat and mouse progresses trial, with Vinny being ignorant to basic court procedures and dress code, an often aggressive attitude, and not cross- examining any witnesses brought onto the stand, Jim Trotter III (Lois & Clark's Lane Smith) seems to have the case on his side, only missing a murder weapon to convict the young men, Stan fires Vinny and hires public defender John Gibbons (Austin Pendleton). The trial opens again, Vinny has been given another chance by Bill who he defends, wearing a snazzy secondhand tuxedo that is an improvement compared to his leathers, while Gibbons defends Stan, but Vinny does make up for his inexperience and ignorance paying close attention to witness statements, especially shortsighted Sam Tipton (Maury Chaykin), using his aggression to his advantage with penetrating questions, Billy's faith is restored and Stan fires Gibbons, while Vinny does get some needed sleep resting in a cell for contempt of court. In trial Vinny continues to be a more than capable cross-examiner, but Trotter brings in surprise witness FBI analyst George Wilbur (Independence Day's James Rebhorn) who analysed that during the crime a car drove away, and the tyre tracks and chemical analysis match and are identical to Billy's car, and going to lunch Vinny thinks the case is lost, and has a bad argument with Lisa that seemingly breaks their engagement. Looking through some of her photographs however Vinny spots something that could be key to the case, Billy's car does not have all the same mechanics as the getaway vehicle to make the tracks found at the scene of the crime, and he uses an initially not happy Lisa as a witness, as she has great knowledge of car mechanics from working in her father's garage, and she confirms that the vehicle in question can easily be mistaken for another of the same colour and same type of tyres. Wilbur confirms this testimony, Sheriff Farley (Bruce McGill) also confirms that two men matching the descriptions of the witnesses were arrested in another county driving a stolen car and in possession of a gun of the calibre used to kill the clerk, Trotter dismisses all charges against Bill and Stan, they are released, and Vinny and Lisa leave bickering about their wedding plans. Also starring Paulene Meyers as Constance Riley, Raynor Scheine as Ernie Crane, Chris Ellis as J.T. and Michael Simpson as Neckbrace. Pesci is great fun as the wisecracking and lovably aggressive title character, and Tomei does indeed almost steal the show as the Brooklyn girlfriend who comes across like a typical snobby bimbo but actually knows more than she lets on, this is definitely an alternative to the more serious and dramatic court case films you would come to expect, this one definitely mocks the law system in a way, the best laughs come from Pesci being incompetent in court and Tomei with her eccentric behaviour, I think she is a good unusual choice to win an Oscar, a funny and watchable comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"Funny, But The 'Youts' Could Have Had Cleaner Mouths","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like most people, I loved this film when it came out. I watched it and laughed all the way through it several times. I got a kick out of about all the characters, particularly Fred Gwynne, whom I always enjoyed in his two old TV series The Munsters and Car 54, Where Are You? Joe Pecsi provides most of the laughs as the defense attorney. A lot of people also laughed at Marisa Tomei's character here, too.Watching this 10 years later in 2002 was kind of a shock. I had changed and now was totally offended at the extremely large amount of profanity and particularly the high usage of the Lord's name in vain (five in the first five minutes alone). It's funny how you can deaf to that sort of thing. Tomei's super-Brooklyn accent, which also was funny 15 years ago, now sounds like chalk on a blackboard - just brutal.However, if the profanity or accents don't annoy you, this is a very, very funny movie and one of the more popular ones of its day. Gwynne made the word yout (for youth) funny by mocking Pecsi. It isn't just that word; the whole film is well-remembered. I was talking about this movie to several people in recent and all of them had nothing but fond remembrances of youts and other humorous scenes and words in this movie. "},{"Title":"An Insult to Automotive Enthusiast Everywhere! (Major Spoilers Herein!)","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Prior to watching this film some years ago, I was told on numerous occasions and by various individuals, how painfully funny it was. It was painful all right, but in my opinion, it was anything but funny. In fact it's only equal in terms of heralded comedic disappointment is the disastrous Get Shorty.First of all, hat's off to Ralph Macchio who took yet another step toward becoming one of Hollywood's all time whiniest actors. Secondly, Joe Pesci his agent or someone at the studio should have known better. I have a great deal of respect for the man and all that he's accomplished, but let's face it, he's tried on a number of different levels and comedy simply isn't his forte.Marisa Tomei's performance was refreshingly amusing, but not nearly enough to make the film worth watching, much less earn her an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. This brings me to the first of two reasons that I decided to Contribute my two cents toward such an awful movie. I recently saw a film in which Tomei plays a similar comedic yet provocative supporting role. Slums of Beverly Hills is a must see for her many die-hard fans, it's far less popular than this one, but considerably more humorous.The second reason for my commentary is Tomei's trial testimony, which leads to the immediate acquittal of Macchio and his partner. The fact that the case was closed with no evidence other than the positive traction tire marks from a crime scene photograph is absolutely ludicrous, not to mention an insult to anyone who knows better.The film was released in 1992 and set in the same time frame. The car they choose to use was manufactured the late 60's or early 70's. Under normal circumstances, there's probably a fifty percent chance that the rear end in this automobile would have been changed in that length of time. The chances of someone making such an upgrade to the drive train of this particular vehicle are unlikely and would probably be purely incidental, but far from impossible. I grew up in the Mid 1980's, a time when working on your own car was not only an option, but for a teenager it was a privilege and in many cases a necessity. I'm not a mechanic, nor do I play one on TV, never the less I performed this very function by myself at age sixteen.I realize that this was supposed to be a comedy and that hauling the jury out to the impound lot for a test drive could have further enhanced the awkwardness of its ending, but if that doesn't work then try something else. Here's a thought, have Macchio's Auntie Em, or whomever, remind him prior to leaving for his vacation, that the car he's taking has less than fifteen miles on it and that it's only been driven to church, (next door), and to the grocery store, (next door&#133; other direction). Bottom line, the filmmakers had the opportunity to give us the benefit of not assuming that we all share the same degree of automotive ignorance. By failing to do so they further damaged an already irreparable film and have successfully wasted a little more of my time.  "},{"Title":"What Is So Good About This Movie?","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are load of positive review about this movie and some of them even make a fan club, I really don't get it why this movie is so great to them. Tell the truth IMHO this is one very average movie.The story about Vinny, a phony lawyer trying to save his innocent cousin and his friend from the first-degree murder charge.It took two times for me to actually enjoy the movie. The acting was good but not the Oscar material and that left me highly doubted how did Marisa Tomei could even ran into the nominee (before having won it).The movie is okay but it is not that good as what people have been saying.Recommendation Watch It Once Or Twice Rating 6/10 (Grade C+) "},{"Title":"Waste of the plastic it's printed on.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is weak on ideas, the 'humour' is unoriginal & heavy-handed and the lead character played with all the subtlety of a sledgehammer.I would have switched off as soon as I saw the writer using the pits of plot devices - i.e. the character digging himself a hole by having the protagonists each talking about different things while each believing they are talking about the same. Unfortunately I was not in control of the TV and had nowhere else to go. But then, the writer did the same it AGAIN about three minutes later! After that I thought it completely obvious where the film was going. I was wrong, it went even further downhill. "},{"Title":"A thinly disguised anti-death penalty court-room drama.","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Is this supposed to be a comedy? There was very little to smile at, let alone to laugh out loud to. This is merely a political Hollywood drama posing as a comedy; yet another attempt to sway all us vile, wretched, pro-death penalty souls into believing that practically every person accused of a major crime is innocent, while the real killer/rapist/whatever is hiding somewhere, safe and happy. All the humanity! All the conspiracy! Apart from its blatant liberal leanings, this movie has another purpose, albeit a less conscious i.e. intentional/relevant one to yet again mock the people from the South of the States, portraying them as dumb and evil hicks. After all, the New York characters are all likable - even smart - whereas MCV's townsfolk are all either borderline morons or corrupt/immoral. But of course as we all know, New York nearly always votes Left/Democrat - plus, it's the second-largest center of the film industry in the world - so OBVIOUSLY New Yorkers must be superior to those damn Southerners with their retarded twang and lack of morality and common-sense. What a load of b...Pesci is quite solid playing an unreal character. Tomei tries hard with HER unreal character, but fails because the part was written in such a stereotypical fashion that it was impossible even for much better actresses than her to make that role seem as if it had any basis in reality. She is a caricature, not a character, hence she is neither funny for the supposed humorous bits, nor believable for the dramatic bits. She reminds of Lesley-Anne Warren's ditzy character in Victor/Victoria, but without being nearly as funny or likable as her; plus, that was an actual comedy, not a political-statement movie. Tomei talks like a typical dumb NY harlot, and yet her vocabulary shames even those absurdly eloquent young characters from Dawson's Creek. You can't have your cake and eat it too have a character that behaves like an utter moron, and yet imply that there is some fantastic unrealized intellectual potential lurking behind the extremely silly exterior. It wouldn't even work in a REAL comedy (which this isn't at all), let alone in a comedy drama with some quite serious social pretensions/ambitions.To make things worse, there are long court scenes which, as we all know, the American audiences adore so much. The fact that most Tinseltown court-room movies don't have an iota of realism in them doesn't seem to bother anyone - i.e. people aren't even aware of this obvious, simple fact. Just stuff your face with popcorn and whatever you do, don't think, please...So why did Tomei get an Oscar? Well, obviously, this is a political film - Leftist, as always - and Hollywood likes to reward its sheep-like obedient film-makers in propagating its way of life and thinking.If you want to make it in Hollywood, all you need to do is shout how liberal you are, for as long as your throat can bear it. Success is guaranteed...Please punish me hard, very HARD, by clicking no below. That'll teach me... "}]