[{"Title":"A very under-rated movie","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"58 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies that I still pull out every once in a while and just pop in.  It's absolutely entertaining, with great performances from pretty much everybody, but especially Andy Garcia and Lance Henrikson.It plays out like a good mystery/thriller should Frustrating twists and turns, brooding atmosphere and music, and layer after layer of clues that you know are building to a big time climax.  I really can't find anything to criticize about this film and I'm surprised it's IMDB rating isn't higher. If you haven't seen it, you'll be doing yourself a favor by bypassing the new releases for just one night at blockbuster, and picking this one up. "},{"Title":"UNDER-RATED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"51 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I cannot and will not for the life of me comprehend why people do not like provoking and complex movies, (ya know, WHERE YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO THINK).Jennifer 8, is a great movie, it is daring, smart, witty, scary and....a bit on the real side. There are a lot of movies which people that due to reading their reviews should not watch movies that are beyond their simple mind and well, IQ. This movie is well on the top of the list for under rated serial killer flicks. Rent, Buy, Borrow but must see this excellent movie. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, haunting movie","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I like a good suspense story as much as anyone else, but this one really stands out. If it doesn't get the recognition it deserves, maybe because it's a quiet thriller, without shocking or gross-out scenes ; it relies mainly on characters and atmosphere - very moody and autumnal. For once, the killer's identity is logical and honest, but there is so much more to this, especially a graceful photography. Okay  I love this one. This is no brain candy or beer-and-popcorn, just honest, straightforward stuff, which reminded me very much of literary thriller writers like Ed Gorman or T. Jefferson "},{"Title":"rent first, ask questions later.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is easily one of the most underrated Hollywood films of the nineties - it's got a compelling script, beautiful performances (particularly from Andy Garcia, Uma Thurman, and John Malkovitch in a short but unforgettable cameo.), some of the best cinematography ever set on film (director of photography Conrad Hall later went on to shoot 'American Beauty'.), and one of the greatest scores ever written by underrated composer Christopher Young. As it is, this film is heaven from a filmmaker's perspective and a pretty damn good drama to boot. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"To the Point.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer 8 is an underrated movie of some of the greatest quality I have seen yet. Andy Garcia, Lance Henrikson, Uma Thurman, and John Malkovich all give extraordinary performances in a novel script that involves intriguing and very deep characters. The music mixes with the dark directing style perfectly to set the thriller atmosphere, and there is just enough action to make anyone happy. Behind the murders involved and the tense atmosphere, the movie also tells a romantic love story of a blind woman and a cop returning from the badlands. It is a movie that draws you in - and I'd recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Decent, complicated thriller","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's a long and complex movie. Complex not because there are too many subplots. (There are only two interwoven plots the solution of the mystery and the mating of Andy Garcia and Uma Thurman.) It's just that we follow events in considerable detail. That's okay, in itself, but the climax itself -- the revelation and killing of a serial murderer -- isn't well adumbrated. The climax pivots on the finding of an antihistamine capsule and everything falls together in the last fifteen minutes without any previous hints.The director follows most of the rules. Nothing fancy. He does give us two outstanding scenes. In the first, Uma Thurman, who has been blind since childhood and sequestered in a bleak institution is taken to a Christmas party by Garcia, the detective investigating serial murders, in one of which cases she is a witness. A friend dresses her up and covers her with makeup for her debut. (I liked her better as a lean lanky-looking Bohemian with a cello. Dressed up she looks a little whorish.) The party begins well. But later she finds herself standing alone in the middle of a dozen drunken guests who bump into her from unexpected directions. The record player is blaring Louie Louie, and everyone ignores her. Her anxiety is manifest as she is slowly encircled by the camera, and we are as confused and frightened as she is. Thurman and the director do a polished job here.Another memorable scene is the interrogation of Garcia by John Malkovich. Malkovich hams it up as usual. He seems to be constantly sniffing and speaks as if he had a cold. You got mbarried but byew had a bad mbarriage, didn't byew? But that's okay too. It must have been a hard scene to shoot. It's full of tight close ups of the two faces, sometimes only inches apart. Sometimes Malkovich even whispers into Garcia's ear. Garcia is tense, grief stricken, and angry. Malkovich is sly and insinuating. There is no music in the scene. Aside from the dialogue everything is perfectly quiet, except for the squeaking of wheeled office chairs or the harsh breathing of the actors. One wrong move, one errant jactitation, one delinquent vocal chord, and everything goes back to Square One. Whatever troubles the scene might have given the film makers, what we see on screen is about as good as it gets. Two real professionals at work in front of a camera.I'll make the rest of the points kind of quickly. Conrad Hall is a great cinematographer, and he gets some of the scenic locations down neatly. But -- man, is this gloomy. Okay, we don't expect it to be otherwise when it's a howling blizzard and three in the morning. But the interiors are almost as dark. (Enough with the symbolism!) Why is a police laboratory so dark we can hardly make out the faces? There is no contrast between interiors and exteriors. Somebody turn on the lights!The director should get no more than a gentleman's C for the introduction of the institute's janitor. An elevator door opens. We see a man's back. The man turns around. Jump to a close up of his bald head and gargoyle face with glasses like coke-bottle bottoms. It would have been fine in a movie with a title like I Dismember Mamma. There us some gratuitous nudity too. I found it objectionable for two reasons. One is that there wasn't enough of it. Second is that a body double is used. Much better to have had a long long scene of gratuitous nudity using the lissome blond herself.Maurice Jarre evidently had his score thrown out. The replacement is pretty good. This murky and rather solemn film is unimaginable with a loud action-y score full of electronic percussion and unceasing in its torture. It's nice that Thurman plays a music teacher at the institute but I kind of wish the instrument we had seen her with had been something other than a cello. It must be played in an undignified position and is the second most preposterous instrument in an orchestra, the first being the Glockenspiel.Oh -- and by the way, Garcia tracks the murderer down by following a trail of clues to a house many hours' drive away, in Oakland. While he's riffing through the drawers, he's caught by the murderer and framed. How did the murderer know that Garcia would be there?Eureka's not a bad little town, although it's rainy all winter and foggy all summer. It keeps the riff-raff out. My ship used to dock at Field's Landing. I wonder if the Ranchotel is still open? Very friendly patrons. "},{"Title":"Intense Thriller That Has Always Been Ignored","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer 8 is a solid suspense thriller that is smart, inventive, and a success overall.  Cops Andy Garcia and Lance Henriksen are trying to stop a serial killer who seems to always be one step ahead of them.  They are positive that the next victim will be a blind woman (Uma Thurman).  She is basically the bait, but it still appears that the killer is just a little smarter than the cops.  In the end, an unconventional conclusion will bring everything together.  Jennifer 8 has a smart screenplay, strong direction, and a great cast.  John Malkovich and Kathy Baker, in particular, are strong in short supporting roles.  4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The blind leading the blind.","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer 8 is written and directed by Bruce Robinson. It stars Andy Garcia, Uma Thurman, John Malkovich, Lance Henriksen, Kathy Baker and Graham Beckel. Music is by Christopher Young and cinematography by Conrad Hall.The small town of Eureka and John Berlin (Garcia) is the new cop in the precinct. When a severed hand is found at the local dump it leads Berlin to believe a serial killer is at work. One who has a penchant for blind girls.The problems quickly mounted up for Jennifer 8, it flopped big in America and went straight to home format release in the UK. Problems back stage got so bad that Bruce Robinson quit Hollywood and never made another film for 19 years! In spite of these facts, it's not the monstrosity it was originally painted as back on its limited release.It's a frustrating film in many ways because it promises so much. There's bags of moody atmospherics wrung out by Conrad Hall's superb photography, where he filters most things via minimal lighting. Much of the play unfolds in ominous surroundings, where dialogue exchanges are either hushed or laced with harried fervour, and the writing is actually quite smart as it blends psycho thriller staples with strong characterisations that are in turn boosted by committed acting performances. Yet these things can't compensate for the too long run time, a rushed ending and some awkward tonal shifts that often take you out of the required mood. The rushed ending is particularly galling, after asking the audience to stay with the pic for two hours, it's not unreasonable to expect a good long and dramatic finale, sadly that's not the case.Fans of neo-noir type visuals have some interest here, as does anyone who likes the type of serial killer movies that dominated the late 80s and early 90s before Fincher's Seven raised the bar. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Very underrated gem","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer Eight is one of those movies that flies under the radar. For whatever reason, it never got the accolades I feel it deserves. It is a beautifully filmed, haunting movie that showcases some very fine performances. Uma Thurman is remarkable as the blind Helena, and one would be hard pressed to find fault with her very realistic performance as the would-be next victim for the serial killer. Likewise, Andy Garcia, is excellent as the tough, big city cop who is working through his own personal issues. One of the most compelling performances is that of John Malkovich. Arguably one of the best actors we have today, his commanding depiction of the hard-grilling FBI man is superb, and worth the watch just for his few cameos alone. But don't get me wrong. This movie is very, very good. It will leave you guessing to the end. Overall, beautiful cinematography, beautiful score, great thriller. Highly recommend this underrated gem. Very much worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"a solid enough thriller that unfortunately has a lousy ending.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer 8 is a great thriller up until the last 10 or so minutes when the movie completely unravels and almost falls apart. But, the strong performances and solid writing up until that point make up for that weakness.the plot is your basic cop-(Andy Garcia)-protecting-a-beautiful-blind-woman-(an appropriately cast Uma Thurman)-who-is-being-targeted-by-a-sadistic-serial-killer.the film does manage to add some nice twists and turns but as previously mentioned the last 10 minutes or so are so overblown and ridiculous that you're left shaking your head in amazement that it was the best the filmmakers could come up with for an ending.But, on the other hand, the acting is very well done especially by the two leads and the film has quite a few genuinely suspenseful moments.SPOILER AHEAD just thought i would correct a misconception about a scene in this film. that IS NOT Uma Thurman nude in the bathtub scene. the neck down shots are a body double. she was refusing to do any nudity at this time in fear of getting typecast as a sexpot after Dangerous Liaisons and Henry and June. so the director just used facial close ups of Uma combined with nude shots of another woman's body.a suspenseful film that almost holds up until the end and worth checking out if you're in the mood for a well done thriller.rating8  "}{"Title":"Robinson Crusoe (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have no idea what did Bruce Robinson in with critics of this movie.  While it's so that the ending is perhaps abrupt, and that there are some small inconsistencies of plot, much of the caviling and carping about this film seems pointed in the direction that the identity of the killer was obvious.'Jennifer 8' is not an upbeat film, nor is it a standard cop drama.  It is a compelling portrait of a professional on the edge and a longstanding co-dependent relationship collapsing under fire.  The acting is uniformly superb, and the script up to the task.  A genuine insight into the limits of human relationships is Robinson's forte, and he doesn't disappoint here.It's important to remember that small towns protect their own.  That being said, I applaud Robinson for successfully evoking the closeness and claustrophobia of small towns, thus making the protective impulse, to this viewer at least, believable.  Robinson succeeds with 'Jennifer 8' in ways that Sam Raimi failed in both 'A Simple Plan' and 'The Gift' Robinson convinced me that willed blindness (get it?) hindered the search for a dangerous killer.As with his classic, 'Withnail and I,' Robinson scores with textures, tones, and very subtle attitudes.  Another commenter singles out the 'junk mail' line Garcia quotes from his dream about God (God tells Garcia in his dream that God sees prayers as junk mail) as 'sophomoric'.  First, that's part of the point about Garcia's character.  He's a bitter, adolescent guy.  Although fans of Garcia's might not want to embrace it, he's not a very nice person in this film, and remains substantially unredeemed.  Perhaps this resolution explains some of the hostility to this film.  John Berlin (Garcia) is not an anti-hero, but his is fundamentally weak in some critical way.  His healing has made him rigid, not clear in his thinking, self-righteous, but not necessarily right.Second, the dream about God is a very telling moment in the film because Robinson keeps it so small.  It's almost a throw-away scene, but it gives great insight into both the despair and the essential shallowness of Berlin's self-reflection.  It is these tendencies that lead Berlin to make a terrible mistake that nearly destroys everything in his world.I rate this a strong 8/10. "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated! PLEASE read SECOND paragraph!","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK this movie isn't perfect, in fact I remember one plot hole that really bugged me. It's already mentioned in the Goofs section so no need to go into it here. There is also a VERY BIZARRE scene where a cop is holding a baseball bat FOR NO APPARENT REASON. END SPOILER WARNING. Now please don't let that first paragraph deter you from watching this movie, it's just to explain why I couldn't give this movie a ten. As a lot of people here are saying this film is horribly underrated and has a lot going for it. It shows that being blind is not some gift but a horrible disadvantage. The friendship between detectives Berlin and Ross is actually believable and the movie manages to be gritty, cold and beautiful at the same time throughout. And finally the ending. Apparently the ending in the film was added after the original didn't make sense because important scenes were edited out by the studio. Not everybody here likes it but I did. In it's own gritty way it's a happy ending, of sorts. "},{"Title":"No, not the seventh sequel to Jennifer, the Snake Goddess","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer 8 is a passable thriller with an exceptional cast and a relatively cohesive story, but much like the gialli of Dario Argento, it's a film that doesn't have the good sense to quit while it's ahead, and expects to tie things up with a reveal that is just so much hastily-assembled pop-psychology cliché. Set in a pervasively dreary New England state, Andy Garcia plays a LA cop who's transferred in order to be under the command of mentor Lance Henriksen, and discovers a bloodied brassiere and a severed hand at the scene of an apparent suicide; thus is unearthed a casefile on a string of murders targeting blind women as a masked assailant goes back into action, stalking attractive music teacher Uma Thurman (who gives a performance better than the material deserves). While some of writer-director Bruce Robinson's plot points feel tangled (or lost completely) as the film progresses, and much of the staging is without flair (even a cat-and-mouse chase through a deserted dorm midway through doesn't play as suspensefully as it could have), the stellar cast really recoups the shortcomings, just barely earning my recommendation. While Andy Garcia's sometimes-frantic line readings and bug-eyed expressions make him a dubious choice for the lead, he plays well off his more seasoned costars, particularly Henriksen (whose profane, hard-boiled zingers remind us why he is one of cinema's best-kept character-actor secrets); additionally, John Malkovich shows up late in the game for a brilliantly-performed interrogation scene that, while seemingly extraneous to the ongoing plot, is nevertheless worth watching for the man's undeniable chops (like Charles Bronson, he basically plays the same character in each film--but does it quite well). And, as stated earlier, Thurman exudes the likability, intelligence, and beauty that would rightly launch her into stardom. As a thriller, Jennifer 8 might be lower-drawer, but as an actor's showcase it holds up pretty well. "},{"Title":"underrated with quite a few original ideas","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has a lot of things going against him. The mystery is quite obvious, there's too much formulated writing (like who dies, who falls in love, who takes the falls, what happens when)and you can mistake it for just another detective-thriller. But there are several key ingredients that make this movie worth watching.Take for example Uma Thurman's character. This is the best depiction of a blind person in movies. She's not psychic, she doesn't have radar senses, she's not clairvoyant, she's not one-with-the-universe. She's blind. Its very crippling to be blind, its one of the worst handicaps and this movie shows an actual blind person who has a hard time coping with all of the action going around her.I'd love to mention the end of the movie which brings into climax the uniqueness of the film. Its quite surprising and it gets to you. But I'm not the spoiler kind of guy. so I can only recommend the movie. An intelligent thriller, very mindful of realism, with a good performance by an impressive cast. Something worth renting. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Who Can Be More Vulnerable Than a Blind Woman in a Bathtub While a Creep Unknowingly Takes Photos of Her?","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer 8 is one of those serial killer thrillers quite common in the 1980s and 1990s. Dead Aim (1987), Whispers in the Dark (1992), Blink (1994), and Copycat (1995) are several that come to mind. The movie may be broken down into three parts (1) the mystery build-up, (2) the romance, and (3) the recovery (back to the thriller). Andy Garcia stars as LAPD cop John Berlin who relocates to an old farmhouse in Eureka, CA to flee his cheating ex-wife and to lick his wounds. Fred Ross (Lance Henriksen) is Berlin's partner and brother-in-law. On his police radio, Berlin learns that the local cops are at a dump examining the body of a derelict. He arrives and soon the police discover a severed human hand and a bra with dried blood; later they deduce that the fingers were severely scratched because the person was a young blind woman who had used Braille. Learning of seven unsolved cases involving murdered blind women dating back to 1985 that drained police resources to no conclusion, Berlin becomes convinced that the deaths are all related. He wants to reopen the old cases. Of course, no one in the PD believes him. Berlin and Ross drive to the blind people's institute to interview the roommate of Amber, one of the missing women. The roommate is cello teacher Helena Robertson (Uma Thurman), who earlier had been in the dormitory room briefly with the bad guy (called John) while he moved out with Amber. Helene remembers just a few details, like the sound of the car engine. Berlin comes to believe that Helena is Jennifer 8, the eighth (intended) victim nicknamed Jennifer. Helena resembles Berlin's former spouse. In this second phase, angry dark-eyed Berlin and soft blue-eyed Helena eventually fall in love.Berlin wants to go back to the dump, but Ross says to him, No way. I'm not going back. You might find someone's p---- in a hot dog roll. But go they do, and find a clue. But police chief Citrine (Kevin Conway) and others are adamant to close out the case because the evidence is so scanty. Of course you know that Berlin, like a pit bull, will not let go. There will be other trips to the institute, and the situation will be even spookier for Helena, as most folks would have departed the grounds to spend the Christmas holidays at the residences of their families. Even when she stays at the farmhouse, the atmosphere is eerie. Then, on a snowy and fateful Christmas Eve at the institute, a main character is bumped off, and suspicion falls entirely on Berlin. Enter FBI agent St. Anne (John Malkovitch) &#x96; smug, unyielding, insufferable, but effective. What a scene-stealer! Chomp! Chomp! Then again, you know that Berlin will clear his name in the end.There are lapses in credibility, like Berlin's release while charged with a capital offense (murder one!), his odd motive to rummage through an Oakland house, and even his atypical second arrest. Minor plot holes or some crude editing do not really detract from the movie, because we can visualize that such and such happened although it was not shown. The climax, appropriately creepy, is somewhat turgid. Although some have questioned Uma Thurman's interpretation of a blind woman, the acting is commendable. Michael O'Neill as cop Angelo Serato, seems miscast. Does he really look like an Angelo? Then again, that is just a tertiary role. A big plus for Jennifer 8 is the on-location wintry shooting, for Eureka is cold, dreary, and darkly atmospheric. The ominous background music adds to the eeriness. But, with some better editing and a better ending, the movie could have been even greater. So is it worth seeing? Of course! "},{"Title":"Okay, But Nothing Special","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With Andy Garcia, Uma Thurman and John Malkovich all playing intriguing characters, this should have been better than it was. It was okay, but nothing special. Had the main character, Sgt. John Berlin, (Garcia) been more likable to me, perhaps I would have rated it higher. He was just too excitable and profane in parts, yet remarkably composed when grilled by Malkovich's character near the end. Malkovich played Agent St. Anne, an annoying, nasty investigative cop who you hate. His acting is usually so good that you have no trouble believing his roles.Overall, this thriller is fine for one look, meaning more of a rental than a purchase. Note That is not Thurman nude in the bathtub, but a stand-in. That kind of sums up the film, too - okay, but not the real thing. "},{"Title":"A sadly neglected film","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really adored this film and have watched it a few times. Such amazing acting from such incredibly diverse actors Andy Garcia is just perfect as the police sergeant (and incredibly sexy in this role); Uma Thurman plays a blind musician very convincingly and some scenes are truly terrifying; John Malkovich has a stern, unrelenting style that is seemingly perfect for him in this role (St. Anne). It is, really, a love story, set amongst a brutal serial killer's shadow. The dialog is clear and lucid, the photography very fine and often very close to the actor's faces. For Andy Garcia, this is great as he is so damned sexy. If it's a film you've thought about watching but have not, please do so. Terribly underrated. "},{"Title":"Dark, Moody & Absorbing","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer Eight is an absorbing crime thriller about a burned out homicide detective who, whilst trying to get his life back on track, uncovers information which suggests that there's a serial killer on the loose who specialises in killing and dismembering blind women.Police Sergeant John Berlin (Andy Garcia) transfers from the LAPD to the small rural town of Eureka in the hope of finding a quieter and less stressful way of life. At the local police department, he meets up with his old friend Sergeant Freddy Ross (Lance Henriksen) and immediately gets embroiled in a case involving a severed hand which was found in a garbage dump. His investigations reveal that the hand belonged to a blind woman and further computer checks suggest that the nature of her murder was similar to a series of others in the same locality which were never solved.Berlin's enquiries bring him into contact with a blind woman who could potentially be a useful witness. Matters become more complicated however, as he falls in love with Helena Robertson (Uma Thurman) and soon recognises that she could be the serial killer's next victim.Berlin's senior officers aren't convinced by his findings and are also dubious about the value of a blind witness. His determination to continue with the investigation brings him into conflict with his colleagues and then things get even worse when he's accused of murdering a fellow cop. Berlin eventually discovers the identity of the serial killer before the culprit's activities are brought to an end in an unconventional way.Jennifer Eight is a dark and moody film with a great deal of suspense, interesting characters and a number of unexpected plot developments. The cinematography by Conrad L Hall is absolutely magnificent and the strong performances by Garcia, Thurman and Henriksen are complemented by John Malkovich's memorable cameo (as a weird FBI agent) and consistently good contributions from the supporting cast. The pace of the movie is considered and thoughtful and this fits perfectly with the carefully created atmosphere of the piece. "},{"Title":"Darkness descends on a small town","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The pounding monsoon here in Vancouver today reminded me of the slightly forgotten, excellently dour serial killer mystery Jennifer 8. In a torrential downpour, the body of a blind girl is discovered in a scrapyard, in one of the film's best sequences. Freddy Ross, sergeant on scene (Lance Henriksen in a rambunctious, really underrated performance) calls in his old friend, big city Detective John Berlin (a haggard Andy Garcia), to help investigate. Henriksen and Garcia strike up a believable buddy rapport that becomes the backbone of the story, and is nice to watch. They suspect that someone is specifically preying on blind girls, when they find related cases, and they must narrow down suspects before he strikes again. They find a lead in blind Helena (Uma Thurman) a cautious, fragile girl who may be able to, help them, and who John very quickly falls in love with. Soon the killer orchestrates clues that lead straight to John, and he has to deal with an obnoxious internal investigator (John Malkovich in full Christmas ham mode, showing up for maybe five minutes but chewing scenery like the Cookie Monster). Time starts to run out as the killer gets closer. Now, I guessed the identity of the killer halfway through the film, but that's mostly because I know the actor quite well and could just tell by certain distinct features, but don't worry, the surprise should remain intact for you. There's nice work from Lenny Von Dohlen, Kathy Baker, Graham Beckel, Bob Gunton and Kevin Conway too. The film relies on its two leads to get the job done, and they don't disappoint. It also has an advantage in its gloomy, rainy northern setting (much of it was filmed here), which gives that distinct atmosphere that these type of movies need to succeed. Well done. "},{"Title":"serial killer suspense mystery genres","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" why did this movie get only a 6.2 rating on IMDb? are people dumb? this movie has great stars( Thurman, Garcia, henriksen & a great cameo by malkovich( he is so good that i wanted to put my hand thru my flatscreen & just choke him). this movies also got great winter scenes and what a great musical score. this movie definitely is gonna get multiple viewings from me. i consider myself a huge fan of movies & will just about watch anything, but.....people...this is a nice little  diamond in the rough . this is in my top 10-15 serial killer, suspense, thriller movies. i think most people will like this movie if they try it. oh btw....is Andy Garcia a Al Pacino clone or what..LOL. seriously if u like a well-made movie, give this one a try "}{"Title":"SO Underrated..who rates these movies anyways?","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am watching this movie right now. Underrated is not the word. It blows away many movies. I just saw a couple movies rated eight, and this movie was far better. The plot is very convincing, the acting by Uma Thurman, Andy Garcia, and Lance Hendriksen are excellent. The supporting cast is excellent. There is violence and action, but it is highly believable. I am so tired of over-the-top action and violence. Many a good movie is spoiled by heroes, they can get buried alive, hung by a rope, his hand smashed by a huge monkey wrench , stabbed in the kidneys, and shot in the head, and still they come back teach scores of heavily armed bad guys a lesson. (This is a actual plot of a 8 rated movie) . The music is good, the mystery believable and deepening. Just great. You will not were regret the time you spent watching this movie. One of the best I have seen in a long time. I liked the ending a lot. It is very hard to guess how it ends, to solve the mystery before it's over. I didn't see it coming. This movie is something that could conceivably happen in real life, rather than your cyborg werewolf vs. ninja vampire affair geared toward sixth-graders. It seems like many of these get high ratings these days. The wilder it gets, the more people like them. "},{"Title":"A little hard to watch, because I only have one eye","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennefer 8 is one of those movies that can't be duplicated. Uma Thurman was wonderful. She's beautiful even when she's blind. the movie seemed to center around the fact that she could hear better than folks who can see. The movie boggled my mind to such an extent that I was actually tired when it was over. I don't think I've ever involved myself in a movie to the extent that I did this one.I could never stop thinking about the blind lady, as handicapped as she was, and how hard she was trying to help solve the murder.This is a very easy movie to get involved in, and very well worth watching. "},{"Title":"I remember red ... and I like this film.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  No, this film is not as good as it should have been -- but it isn't nearly as bad as some of the so-called thrillers that have excellent reputations.Personally, I would rather watch this film, which includes good music and a solid cast, than watch such wildly overpraised films as Se7en or Resurrection (1999). "},{"Title":"Great Thriller","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent whodunnit, with great performances by Uma Thurman and Andy Garcia, shot mostly in the dark to emphasize the blindness and the horror in which the characters are involved. Note the good performance by  Lance Henricksen, in a role he will explore much further in Chris Carter's Millennium. "},{"Title":"I feel dumb.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Boy, everyone sure seems to hate this movie.  Roger Ebert said it was bad (but what does he know...he gave good reviews to Popeye and Titanic). Some of the comments on this site say it's dumb and that the identity of the killer was obvious, and that the ending was bad.  I dunno, I thought it was pretty good, and I remember that the ending made me jump right out of my seat.  It's a little far-fetched, and I guess if I had my thinking cap on I wouldn't have enjoyed the movie so much, but what the heck.  John Malkovich was pretty slimy and wicked--hell, he didn't even offer Andy Garcia a cigarette.  Now THAT'S mean. "},{"Title":"Good thriller that manages to overcome some of its flaws","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In Jennifer 8 Andy Garcia plays an L.A. detective who goes to a small town to find a women's killer who seemed to return after two years without making new victims. This new investigation will lead to more conclusive clues on discovering that this murderer always female targets who happen to be blind and the only one who can help the police is an blind teacher (Uma Thurman) that might be the next victim.Moving with great thrills and some twists and turns, the film is incredibly good in its drama, in its effective suspense, only losing some credibility towards its conclusion of unbelievable situations and some deranged slowness when it comes to show the questioning of Garcia's character as the main suspect of his partner's murder while solving the case. However, the main problem was that writer and director Bruce Robinson seemed more concerned about making a great opening and a great middle but stumbled with some annoying mistakes towards the conclusive moments that might ruin the experience for the viewer. Example when the detective is considered suspect of the crimes, he's interrogated, arrested for a brief period, the his bosses decide to release him so he can prove his innocence (?). Then, he's arrested again, after a strange sequence of cuts that don't make any sense after he meets the killer that smacks him down, and all of sudden comes the news that the detective was the criminal, case closed. And on a strange whirlwind of events, he gets the chance of being released (again!) on bail (? #2). It's really unbelievable.Jennifer 8 manages to do some good on us viewers thanks to the great cast involved that besides Garcia and Thurman also has John Malkovich, Kathy Baker, Lance Henriksen (very good here), Graham Beckel, Lenny Van Dohlen, Bob Gunton and Kevin Conway. As for the plot, it was quite a news when of its release, now it's so overdone in films like Blink (1994) that it might not impress most audiences. The great thing, really, is to know the killer commits such crimes and not really knowing who he is (if you look carefully you'll get who's the person right away after the first clue given by the teacher). Lots of thrills await you on the horizon even though it's quite a forgettable film and just like its title it gets an 8 with me. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Mystery Thriller","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Enjoyed the great acting of Uma Thurman,(Helena Robertson),Prime,'05, who plays a blind gal who has some connection to another young girl who disappeared and is being investigated by a detective. This detective is played by Andy Garcia,(Sgt. John Berlin),The Lost City,'05, who has just transferred from Los Angeles to a small town in Northern California and his first assignment leads him to a garbage dump and all its smells in the pouring rain. There is a scary scene where Helena Robertson is taking a bath and there is a guy unknowing to her, taking pictures of poor Helena in the nude and she does not even realize it. John Malkovich,(Agent St. Anne), plays a short role, but you will really get to hate him in everything he does and says. Kathy Baker,(Margie Ross),Nip/Tuck TV plays a great supporting role. Great Mystery and thriller which will keep you glued to the TV screen. "},{"Title":"Strong characterisations; knotty plotline","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not your usual cops-and-baddies stuff a strong, satisfying US debut from the English director of Withnail & I.  American audiences mostly gave this film the go-by - annoyingly, since it's one of Garcia's best and easily the equal of anything else coming out of Hollywood in '92.  The plot is neat and satisfyingly knotty - Garcia (excellent as always) plays a big-city cop looking for the quiet life in upstate California, only to stumble right into an ongoing serial-killing case.  Uma Thurman does very well as Garcia's blind love-interest who unwittingly provides the information that's needed to crack the case - but at what cost?  All this and Old Granite-Face, the great Lance Henriksen - what else did you want, America? "},{"Title":"Slow film with a decent cast","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As soon as I began to watch this film on Netflix I could not focus on it, I found myself doing other things and seemed to not be drawn into the film. I got about half way through the film before I realised I did not really know what the film was even about, expect that fact that it involved a blind Uma Thurman and a stiff Andy Garcier in which they are supposedly meant to like each other, although I do not see a very effective connection between the two actors. I feel the actors within the film are B-list featuring Andy Garcier, Uma Thurman, Kathy Baker and John Malkovich.I just felt as though the film was very slow and not very intense at all, with a mellow romance meant to be budding between the two main characters of the detective and the witness. Although, I did not find the film very predictable and even though it was not very tense I still attempted to work out who was the killer, so they did create some motivated for me. "},{"Title":"Sadly, not very good at all - it's got most of the bits but none of the finish","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After his 'cult hit' with Withnail & I, English writer/director (1988), went on to write and direct How To Get Ahead In Advertising (which I haven't yet seen) a year later (1989) and then, this, Jennifer 8 in 1992. It then wasn't until 19 years later, in 2011, that he directed his next film, the - for me, at least, underwhelming The Rum Diary. And I think you have to ask yourself why.Both Jennifer 8 and The Rum Diary suffer from the same failing most of the bits and pieces are there, but they don't seem to be assembled in the right order. And crucially some still seem to be missing. That is especially the case with Jennifer 8. After a strong beginning, it seems to limp along, hinting at what kind of film it should be rather than being that film.Our central figure - the hero - is a cop who has moved to the styx from the LAPD, apparently once had a drink problem and was abandoned by his wife. I fancy these details are meant to make him interesting. But they don't here they just mark him out as a certain kind of hero in a certain kind of film, and no more.Then there is the obsession Garcia, for he's the hero, has with tracking down a putative serial killer. It isn't explained why, and there's no particular suggestion as to why. And despite his boss informing him that there is a lot of other detective work to be getting on with, our hero seems simply to ignore anything else and get on with chasing the serial killer he is so certain exists. He is not popular in the department, but why is never obvious in one rather jarring scene that is made clear, but why exactly.There are other, quite drastic signs that this just isn't a very good production set in winter, the country is covered in snow one minutes, then the fields are green the next. There is one particular, quite crucial, scene which even takes places in a blizzard. The following day, the ground is as dry and snow-free as one might not hope for if you are a director with a real eye for detail.One gets the feeling that Robinson has seen a lot of these kind of 'psychological, suspense' thrillers and has set out to make one. Sadly, he simply doesn't succeed. There's precious little psychology and no suspense whatsoever.Finally, Garcia is just too nice to be the dedicated cop with inner demons. This role demanded someone of the calibre of Al Pacino and his ilk. Sad to say, but if you get the chance to watch this, pass it up. "}{"Title":"Underrated thriller that could have been a masterpiece","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I knew once I had started watching this that I had seen it before - a long time ago as a teenager watching a late night movie. I enjoyed it then and I enjoyed watching it now again. Some of the performances are brilliant. John Malkovich gives a mesmerising turn as the prosecuting detective. Andy Garcia is convincing overall and Uma Thurman was very believable in a part that's hard to play. Lance Henriksen and Graham Beckel are great and tend to be those guys you've seen in lots of movies but can't quite place. Overall it is engaging and builds up to a thrilling pace. Unfortunately it does go over the top as too many twists and turns take us to a very abrupt ending. I couldn't help but expect more from it. The plot is terrifying - a serial killer of blind women. It started right. It just took off at some stage into the realms of the wildly unbelievable. I think that the plot and the cast probably deserved more. If it was more measured, brooding and clean in it's execution it could have been a great. This isn't to say that it's not a good movie. It is and it's worth a watch if you like your thrillers. "},{"Title":"A Very Slow Pace","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Berlin (Andy Garcia) is a police detective who has recently moved from Los Angeles to the small Californian town of Euricka further up north. As soon as he gets there he encounters a certain degree of hostility from one of the cops named John Taylor (Graham Beckel) who feels the position should have gone to him. He also discovers that a possible serial killer is murdering women but nobody in the police department seems willing to support him except for his old friend and mentor Detective Freddy Ross (Lance Henriksen). Now rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say that it had a pretty good plot. Unfortunately, the pace was much too slow and there appeared to be too much detail given to various mundane issues to the detriment of suspense and action. Even so I liked the performances of both Andy Garcia and Lance Henriksen and for that reason I have rated it accordingly. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"good mood but too long","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Police detective John Berlin (Andy Garcia) moves from L.A. to the small town of Eureka. There's a dead body before even he starts his job. A suicide is found in the garbage dump. Freddy Ross (Lance Henriksen) is his partner. Then they find a hand. There was a girl nicknamed Jennifer found a couple of years ago without a head or hands. Mike Blattis is the local reporter. John Taylor is a cop who thinks that Berlin stole his promotion. His boss Citrine is gun-shy after the last debacle. Berlin is staying with Ross and his wife Margie. The excessive scars on the hand leads them to the victim being blind named Amber studying at a local institute. They interview her blind friend Helena (Uma Thurman). Only Berlin believes that there is a serial killer.This is a rather slow murder mystery thriller. I like the mood. Uma Thurman is gorgeous as the blind girl. However 2 hours is simply too long for a simple murder mystery. There aren't enough twists and turns to justify spending so much time. Written and directed by Bruce Robinson, I think another filmmaker would have cut the movie shorter. He's probably more used to movies with much more stuff to squeeze in. There are too many sections where not much happens in the investigation. "},{"Title":"Using a Dream as Propaganda for Atheism","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I did not like this movie's dream version of God portraying Him as being a little old man who lives upstairs and then alleges that prayers are like God's unopened junk mail. What a cheap shot by the writer-director to try and ridicule our Creator by using a fiendishly foul insult that embodies the kind of blatantly unjustified accusation one might expect to hear coming from the likes of Lucifer or Caligastia. Perhaps the pathetically sad little creature who penned this small collection of painfully pitiful scribblings of a babbling blasphemer had been praying for a box-office hit and when this flick only grossed a little over half of its $20 million dollar budget, he chose the I AM WHO AM to be the innocent target of his poison arrow of blame. You know, it is generally not a good idea for a planetary mortal, despite having the spiritual potential to be immortal, to pick on some One who is exponentially if not infinitely bigger when viewing things through the undiluted cosmic perspective that transcends time and space let alone unwisely choose the eternally existent Creator of all things and beings to be the intended victim of such a reprehensibly irresponsible word-weapon attack. And the very fact that God didn't hire a robustly verbose lawyer and sue for defamation of character is proof enough for me that He is not like human beings who often forget that we were created in His Image and not the other way around. When God expressed Himself as a Man among men through the mysterious bestowal of Jesus a little over two thousand earth years ago, He demonstrated once and for all that He is a full-time God. He doesn't have a part-time job somewhere else doing something else on nights and weekends not to mention religious holidays. Being a loving and merciful God who is genuinely concerned about His created sons and daughters is a divine choice uninfluenced by any external conditions. Despite the fact that His infinite nature becomes a very real obstacle to being fully understood by less-than-infinite beings such as ourselves should not in the least lessen our faith that opens the door to a deeper understanding that will progressively lead us closer to the indwelling Spirit of God who resides within the minds of all mortals until eventually an up-close-and-personal, face-to-face encounter with our Universal Father will become a past event instead of a future possibility. "},{"Title":"Jennifer #2","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The prime character in 'Jennifer Eight' is blind but everyone in the film might as well be blind, deaf and mute to be able to miss the obvious indications that lead right to the killer from the moment that individual is on screen. Everyone seems to look the other way to avoid the person who turns out to be the killer maybe because the movie still has an hour or so to pad out, the time that it becomes crystal clear to the audience who that person is.The movie stars Andy Garcia as a cop with a movie cop name &#x96; John Berlin. He goes to investigate a murder, which leads to him digging through the trash to find body parts. He finds a woman's severed hand and after an analysis turns up that the woman was blind because the fingertips have worn down from reading Braille and that the hand spent some time in a freezer.He is soon on the trail of a killer who stalks blind women because several blind women have been killed in the area with that same M.O. Garcia interviews Helena (Uma Thurman), the woman's roomy who is herself blind. She and the cop fall in love not because of a mutual attraction rather because they are a man and a woman thrown together in a movie in which her life will eventually be in danger and he will have to save the woman he loves.Thurman is usually the luminous element to any movie but here her character is so pitiful that she doesn't need protection so much as she just needs a big old hug. The movie might want you to have sympathy for her but it doesn't back out when opportunity arises to have her slip nude into a bathtub while the killer skulks around her apartment.'Jennifer Eight' almost counts down the minutes to the next inevitable move. The movie is set up in a series of unbelievably predictable vignette so familiar to this genre. The movie is one part thriller, one part love story, one part police procedural written by people who obviously believe that you can't have one without the other. "},{"Title":"A Passable Thriller, not an underrated gem!!","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I would not have seen this movie, if i hadn't seen some of the reviewers calling it an 'Under-rated gem'. This movie claims to be of the Crime/Drama/Mystery genre. Here are some of my thoughts on the movie. John Berlin(Garcia)discovers a derelict's body in a landfill site who is suspected to have offed himself with a knife. He also finds a brassiere & a hand. I was surprised that Berlin was going after the hand & the brassiere instead of the derelict who was in one piece. Garcia ends up falling in love(quite unsurprisingly!!) with the blind, Helena (Uma Thurman, as great as usual). And obviously the serial killer is after Helena, and Berlin is hell bound on protecting her. That takes care of the drama. As for the mystery, if you follow the movie close enough you get a good idea who the killer is, 24 minutes into the movie. And you know who it is for sure, another 20 minutes later. An hour later, the movie just abruptly ended. It seemed so rushed (i mean come on, i had to wait another hour, to know why the serial killer, kills and to know how he will be caught) and i found myself saying *beep*, who killed the *beep* derelict ?? So watch this movie for the good acting. Garcia, Thurman,Henriksen & Malkovitch put up a great show. It was a treat to watch St.Anne, interrogate, Berlin. "},{"Title":"Overlong mystery","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" To me a good thriller is basically this a detective spends an hour and a half looking for a killer, then when he finally reveals who it is you feel stupid for not knowing sooner. Jennifer Eight seemed to be that kind of movie, but unfortunately the script is rather uneven and poor. The plot is rather clumsily handled, many scenes are redundant. The audience never really gets any clues, right up to the last fifteen minutes it still could be anyone in the world for any reason in the world. Also, why is the climax so damn quick? You look the other way for a second and suddenly the credits roll. Luckily, this movie is still rather stylish and very well-acted. Andy Garcia and Uma Thurman make a convincing couple, their romantic subplot might just be more interesting than what the movie is actually about. The dark tone this movie carries is also very well-done, such a shame the material isn't any better. This movie isn't bad, but could have been a lot more. "},{"Title":"Decent thriller","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After moving from the big city to a smaller town, forensic detective, Sgt. John Berlin(Andy Garcia) finds himself immediately thrown into an important case when a human hand is found at a local rubbish tip. Berlin believes the crimes are perpetrated by a serial killer, but he finds his progress stifled by red tape and his work colleagues who don't believe his synopsis of the case, in fact they seem to go out of their way not to help. After his partner is shot while tracking a killer he finds himself under suspicion of murder, then it's a race against time to solve the case. Decent thriller with a few surprises and some nice set pieces. "},{"Title":"To the Point.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer 8 is an underrated movie of some of the greatest quality I have seen yet. Andy Garcia, Lance Henrikson, Uma Thurman, and John Malkovich all give extraordinary performances in a novel script that involves intriguing and very deep characters. The music mixes with the dark directing style perfectly to set the thriller atmosphere, and there is just enough action to make anyone happy. Behind the murders involved and the tense atmosphere, the movie also tells a romantic love story of a blind woman and a cop returning from the badlands. It is a movie that draws you in - and I'd recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"a confused mess","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a thriller with a good concept, good acting, good photography and good intentions all around, but which is confused and disjointed in execution.Garcia stars as John Berlin, an L.A. forensic detective who has moved to a small California town at the behest of a friend of his on the force there. He soon becomes involved in the investigation of an unsolved murder which leads to his theorizing about the existence of a serial killer whom no one else believes in. The known victim is theorized to be blind, which leads to a romance with a blind girl - believed to be a witness - at a nearby school for the blind.Despite a basically intriguing story there were too many quantum leaps and plot holes in this movie where I found myself wondering, 'how the hell did we wind up here?' or 'how did we find this out?' I found it confusing and disjointed, despite the good acting, etc. John Malkovich has a small part toward the end as an F.B.I. investigator out to get Berlin.Not recommended. "}{"Title":"As good as its more well known serial-killer counterparts","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer 8, panned by critics upon release, now finds itself being compared to some of the better films in the genre (The Pledge, Silence of the Lambs, Seven, Manhunter etc).The film stars Andy Garcia as Sergeant John Berlin, a detective hot on the heels of a psycho sexual serial killer. The killer's next victim is Helena Robertson, a blind girl played by actress Uma Thurman.The film owes much to Nicholas Ray's groundbreaking, influential, On Dangeous Ground, another film in which a romantic relationship blossoms between a cop and a blind girl. Here, like in Ray's film, Garcia's character is painted as a disenchanted, burnt out cop, whose heart is healed by the faith and confidence of a graceful blind woman.The film eschews most of the easy shocks and jolts typical of the genre, and focuses instead on character, detail and milieu. Writer-director Bruce Robinson (who wrote the Oscar winning script for The Killing Fields) is more interested in capturing the mood of small town America, the ambiance of a perpetually dark, snow and rain swept community (foreshadowing the incessant rain of David Fincher's Seven), and the everyday horrors of a blind woman's world. In this regard, standout scenes find Uma Thurman terrified of being left alone at a party, and scared of being taken to unfamiliar, new locations. The film's supporting characters are also atypically fleshed out.The film works better as a romance (Robinson's one of the few directors to capture the unusual beauty of Uma Thurman) than it does a thriller, thanks to some fine, graceful acting by Thurman. Garcia does less well, his accent slipping when his character becomes angry. The film's ending is rushed and handled poorly, reportedly due to studio interference. Everything up to this ending works well.The film's cinematographer was the legendary Conrad Hall, who won an Oscar for Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. 8/10 &#x96; Though an excellent genre film, underrated, low-key, atmospheric and romantic, Jennifer Eight wastes an opportunity to better delve into the worlds of both a blind woman and an invisible cop. Of course, virtually no serial killer movie has taken things beyond bogeyman plots and personal obsessions. Makes a good companion piece to The Pledge and Manhunter. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"..I Remember Red..","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Interesting but flawed entry in the Se7en and Silence of the Lambs-inspired serial killer cycle of the early to mid 90s, blending police procedural with uncatchable killer.Recommended reading to anyone who wants an insight into the troubled history of this film, 'Smoking In Bed - Conversations with Bruce Robinson', edited by Alistair Owen (Bloomsbury, 2000). In it, the writer/director candidly spills the beans about his experiences of pitching a mainstream project to several Hollywood studio bosses 'by mistake', and then battling to deliver a movie against all the odds, while secretly regretting all of it. The chapter '6 - Spewing at the speedometer' explains in detail Robinson's research with the LAPD, the back-story of the John Berlin character (a back-story not really developed once Andy Garcia was cast), working with actors Garcia, Thurman and Malkovich, the production difficulties faced by Robinson handling his US producers and crew, and why the film's climactic third act is as confusing and unsatisfying as it is.According to Robinson, I Remember Red is Thurman's last line from the (now) end of the picture which he considered as an early title for the film, and the actual long-shot used of Thurman and Garcia together down a lane was just filmed on the fly by Conrad Hall during a quiet break between set-ups. Just goes to show how these 'accidents' can sometimes work!The book also covers all the film and writing projects that Bruce Robinson has been involved with, including 'Withnail & I'. "},{"Title":"Boring thriller, not an underrated classic or hidden gem!","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer Eight seems to often get described as a 'sleeper' - and I agree with that description, although not for the same reason. This film is not a hidden gem; the reason it hasn't matured with a good reputation is simple; for a thriller, there's just not enough excitement. Bruce Robinson's film is very well made; it has a good cast and they all perform well, but that really counts for nothing when the story is not interesting enough to keep the audience interested for the overlong two hour running time. Our central character is John Berlin; a police detective on the trail of a serial killer. The severed hand of a young girl has turned up in a parking lot and the detective soon starts to believe that the murder may be connected to an unsolved case that happened in the town some years previously. His investigation leads him to a blind institute where he meets and is attracted to a young blind girl named Helena. His suspicions about the new murder being connected to the old are not well received by his fellow cops; although he soon fears that Helena may be in danger.Director Bruce Robinson is best known as the writer and director of the seminal classic Withnail & I, but apparently his writing skills don't lend themselves to the crime genre very well. Jennifer Eight suffers from far too many drawn out and boring scenes where nothing really much happens, and even the film's most exciting moments aren't exactly exciting. The major problem is the fact that the film tries to blend two big story lines and doesn't have the capacity to do so. The romance between the police officer and the blind girl takes up far too much time and is both boring and plotted out in an unlikely manner. This leaves the murder plot almost a spare wheel in it's own film, and the way that the plot takes another turn midway through only helps to distract more, meaning that by the end we don't really care who the murderer is. The film's saving grace is the acting. I've never been a fan of Andy Garcia but he's solid in the lead role and gets good back-up from the always reliable Lance Henriksen. Uma Thurman doesn't really get to do much other than play the token 'victim' blind girl, and John Malkovich steals the show once he gets on screen. Overall, this film really is a big disappointment and doesn't really deserve digging up any time soon. "},{"Title":"Complete crap","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Starts out great. Good cinematography, good music score and good performances.But if you expect an exciting serial killer movie think again. In a scene where one of the main characters is killed off, by the killer who he mistakes for his partner (it's never explained why he thinks it's him, they look nothing alike and the killer doesn't even speak before he shoots the partner) you expect the serial killer to be killed off soon after and the movie to end. This is after an hour where the main character chases a serial killer that only he thinks exists. We never See the serial killer kill anybody and the blind girl that the main chaser thinks is the next victim only seems to be in danger in one scene. In a scene where the killer threatens the blind girl, you would expect her to not recognize the voice. But nobody bother to take her statement after wards. After that we get another hour of boredom where the main character is framed for his partners murder. He is of course innocent and when the real killer finally emerges, it makes no sense what so ever that he is the killer, of all people. The obvious killer however is not the killer. Avoid this incredibly boring movie and Watch Copy Cat instead. "},{"Title":"Sped Up, Slowed Down, Then Went Lame","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The thing that stands out in my mind in this film (sadly) is the introduction, where John Berlin (Andy Garcia) is driving into town. You see his Mercedes pass on a winding road through a forest that looks like its loaded with Redwood trees. It's quite beautiful. As to Andy Garcia playing a character with the last name of Berlin, well...Andy is just too hispanic/Latin for it to be passable. Maybe a caucasian father married his Spanish mother for this story? Who knows. But I can tell you that when you put him in a town of farm folks and hicks, he stands out like a sore thumb, especially with his accent that flares up when he gets angry. Yeah, I know, big deal right? He's still a good actor.The title concerns a serial killer who nicknames his victims Jennifer. All of the victims are blind and he dismembers them. The killer has taken a hiatus but suddenly resurfaces when a blind witness (don't ask) appears, Helena Robertson (Uma Thurman). Thurman does a good job of playing a blind person, to my surprise. When I saw Lance Henriksen playing Sgt. Freddy Ross I got worried. Henriksen's played in some pretty strange films, especially of late. I still can't forget him in the bloodbath movie, Pumpkinhead. Berlin movies into a small town from L.A. as a detective. He begins investigating the Jennifer murders after finding body parts in the local landfill. His brilliance in discovering one of the victims was blind seemed far-fetched. So did the irony of *SPOILER* Freddy's murder, with the recording and name similarities. I got very confused as to the logic of how there came to be eight Jennifers. And the motive of the killer as simply deranged didn't pack much of a punch. In retrospect, this film is probably more true to life in showing an unsuspecting individual as capable of murder simply because they became a little wacko over time or maybe were born looney toons.John Malkovich does a stupendous job in his interrogation of Garcia! Albeit no cop would legally be allowed to press someone that hard and egg them on without rightfully get knocked out. As to the ending, it is a bit of a surprise, but is highly arguable, much like Sgt. Ross' murder. The killer chooses to walk after his running victim, opting instead to frolick I guess.And there are so many opportunities he has in killing her that it's ridiculous. I won't ruin the very end because despite it's shakiness, it's a good surprise. Afterward though, you'll probably say, as I did, boy was she lucky! 4/10 "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This could have been one of the greats ! Great cast, gripping storyline, a convincing love story... but it's ruined for me by two problems. First, the killer's back-story is absurd. We're expected to believe he bears a murderous grudge against blind women because... he was sent to a school for the blind as a young boy ! And second, the movie ends far too abruptly - the last minute or two left me scratching my head in confusion. A little more explanation at this point would be great. What a shame the film-makers didn't spend time tying up this interesting story a little more carefully.  "},{"Title":"Good popcorn flick for sofa spuds.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer 8 is a decade old noirish whodunit which tells of a burned out L.A. detective (Garcia) who moves to a small town force where he finds himself obsessed with a serial killer case and in love with a potential victim. A good old fashioned suspense-mystery, J8 is a solid C+ watch which features good cast performances, above average cinematography, and enough plot twists, clue discovery, action, and somber romance to keep most viewers interested all the way through a 2+ hour run to a surprise conclusion. Recommended for those into the mystery genre who missed it first time around and are looking for something on the small screen. "},{"Title":"Badly Written Script","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The title refers to various blind girls killed presumably by a serial killer. Andy Garcia plays cop John Berlin, on the track of said murderer, despite the belief of other cops that there is no serial killer involved.In the first ten minutes the visuals are truly ugly, as Berlin plows through a big garbage dump in adverse weather looking for clues. Throughout the film, lighting is consistently terrible. In some scenes, the visuals were so dark I couldn't even tell who the characters were.But it's the script that makes this film bad. The plot is torturous, gimmicky, and clichéd. Berlin is not likable, as he tries too hard to be a lone hero. Other characters are uninteresting.There are a few spooky scenes, accompanied by spooky music, especially in the second half. In one segment Berlin and his cop partner investigate an old building at night with a howling wind providing for some tension.Overall, Jennifer Eight is nothing but a poorly written film vehicle for an A-list actor. It tries to be a police procedural but fails, owing mostly to a bad script, populated by unlikable characters, the most unlikable being the cop played by star Andy Garcia. "},{"Title":"The Silence of the Blind.","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Serial Killer movies started popping up like weeds after The Silence of the Lambs. This is one that doesn't stand up very well. The script is jumpy, cutting corners all around and the movie is still two hours long. Everything is dark in this movie as well. It is the standard cliché of a mystery or thriller, everything is shadow and darkness. When you can anything happening, it looks good. The staircase scene at the end is possibly the best in the movie. The ending is abrupt, there is this buildup and then the movie just ends. I wanted to know how it all sorted out, the movie needs that kind of an ending. The one thing that really saves this movie is the actors. Andy Garcia, the under-rated Lance Henrikson, John Malkovich, and a young Uma Thurman are all fine. There are a lot of lesser known actors who support them well. Stick with The Silence of the Lambs or Sea of Love, this is a poor imitation. "},{"Title":"NO ONE KNOWS WHAT JENNIFER SAW!!!!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer 8 was very good. A great thriller. The shower scene when the killer was stalking the blind lady was very good. The movie has one good scene after the other. Why do people hate this movie? This is a good thriller period. "}{"Title":"Except for John Malkovich, a snooze","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Midway through the murky thriller Jennifer 8, a bit of much needed life is injected into the proceedings when John Malkovich, bald, somewhat effeminate, and eerily charismatic, turns up to interrogate detective Andy Garcia, stringy haired, hyper, and about as charismatic as your local grocer.  Malkovich isn't much different here than he has been in most of his appearances on screen;  there's a vaguely fey quality to his manner but that feyness is only a cover for a sadistic edge that always cuts through to give you the creeps.  He displayed it when taunting Clint Eastwood in In the Line of Fire, and does so again in Jennifer 8, a movie that depends on his relatively brief appearance for its entertainment value.  It's not a completely successful performance since Malkovich is required to smoke a cigarette, and way in which he handles the killer weed is a bit unconvincing, which suggests to me that he is not a smoker.  It's a bit distracting though not nearly as much as Dustin Hoffman's puffing in Straw Dogs (Hoffman clearly doesn't smoke, and his relentless chain-smoking in that Sam Peckinpah bloodbath was very unconvincing).If Malkovich had been on screen longer, it would have been more deserving of its 127 minute length.  Nothing of interest occurs until he appears, and little of interest occurs after he's gone.In addition to Malkovich, there's Uma Thurman as a blind woman who has witnessed a murder, Kevin Conway as a gruff detective, and a lot of indecipherable dialogue, as well as cinematography that attempts to be moodily noirish.  Other than Malkovich, the performances are okay, but the script is a bore and the direction indifferent. "},{"Title":"It should have been better","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Atmosphere can really make a movie and lord knows I'm all up for moody little cop thrillers when they work and I wanted Jennifer 8 to work. In fact, I saw no reason it's shouldn't have. Set in a small rural town where it seems everybody knows everybody could make for a claustrophobic feeling when you start talking murder. Having it all take place around Christmas time - with the snow and all - just adds to the desolate feeling and atmosphere. So why am I left feeling depressed? Because for all the setup and ample atmosphere this film could have built from Jennifer 8 just falls apart in the end.Andy Garcia stars as John - a tired weary cop who moves from the big city to the small in hopes of rebuilding himself back up. There knowing a fellow detective (played by Lance Henriksen) he takes a job in the local police department. It's not long before things go astray however and the likelihood of a serial killer starts to become evident. It's soon after this he befriends a blind young woman (Uma Thurman) and doing so unknowingly opens her up to be the killer's next victim. Then it's around here that the movie takes a turn. John's force friend is murdered and the finger points at him as the killer.... and there's the problem. What could be a decent setup with atmosphere quickly becomes predictable and ultimately what kills the movie. I found it almost drifted from scene to scene until it reaches it's very unsatisfying conclusion. I think the right elements we're there - it just doesn't add up. Somewhere in the mess of the movie is a little sleeper of a film trying to get out. Unfortunately somewhere along the lines things got derailed and that leaves the final project somewhat of a mess. So while I had high hopes and the cinematography is beautiful in places, the end product is not. A for effort, D for execution as they say. "},{"Title":"It was boring but...","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well its because I like Andy Garcia. He's passionate in all of his films and I can count on him to give an outstanding performance. The problem is the kinds of films (like this one) he chooses just happens to be a bit boring and on the slow side. And thats okay because I like Garcia no matter what.This one was okay. I never wanted to see it. The trailers never interested me enough to begin with. But its a dark murder/mystery/whodunnit crime thriller of a depressed burnt out cop who tries to solve this murder mystery and ends up becoming a murder suspect himself. During all of this he falls for one potential victim played by Uma Thurman.  John Malchovich really did a good job playing a sinus/conjested jerk who was the interrogator. He's such a good actor. I mean other than that, you know when your bored check it out.  "},{"Title":"no insights here","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 120 min.Jennifer 8 starts out well but gets slow and flabby a little past the half way mark causing the movie to waste any built up tension while it spins in neutral for 20 minutes or so. Once Malkovich appears things pick up again.The actors do a reasonable job although Truman seems more than a little in the dark about her character.6/10 worth watching but could do with some serious editing. "},{"Title":"You need an antidepressant to sit through this dud.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Eight is 2 hours and 7 minutes too long.The plot is boring,way too talky and confusing.I saw this in the movies and at one point i actually closed my eyes thinking that i could kill some of the time by sleeping some of it away.In fact towards the last 20 minutes or so i got a little paranoid and thought this film was never going to end.To make matters worse they added a little love story to it and you know whenever they do that it ruins the interest of the film because you have to sit through all that mushy crap.John malkovich also got on my nerves with his long talky scene.When the movie finally ended and a disappointing ending might i add,I walked out of the theater feeling as if i just been parolled from prison.And ladies,don,t ever let your boyfriend rent this movie for the 2 of you to watch.I gaurantee you will end off the evening slapping his ears off. "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one is bad. A really bad and boring crime movie that has nothing out of the ordinary in it. A series of crimes, the killer that you do not see throughout the whole movie, the classic investigations. And also the classic tale about a cop who figures out what's going on and isn't believed by anyone, so he has to fight by himself to reveal the truth. Not too much in this one. Vote 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"You Are Not Human!","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Law Enforcement seems to be made important as a way of life however the way of life that is preserved is what provides the inability of the film to take a serious look at one of its own in Detective Taylor.The need to put one and one together for some reason never is developed beyond Detective Berlins dogged pursuit of an at large Killer.The film has a real reservation about this dangerous if you will predator with revelations at a later point suggesting that Detective Taylor may very well have obstructed justice or at the very least damaged the ability of the department to protect a witness.That scene was useful because as the audience participates in a second guess as to Taylors motive, Det.Berlin was perhaps close enough but did not know quite what was necessary to question Taylor with what I would of frightened Taylor with.Taylors mal-intent was correctly suggested by Det.Berlin in the interrogation but Detective Berlin needed help and help was only coming from sources other than rather than from the respective police department.It certainly did seem that there was more important things to do with one of those things being at the very least not providing the kind of care that the truth requires.Detective Berlin was being dealt with improperly because some suggested,perhaps even Taylor that we have already been over all this and wished ultimately to remove the search entirely.When the FBI agent reveals to Berlin that they found this capsule in his car,I felt what a smart point!I think Berlin thought so too!That was excellent.Berlin should of thought that even further when he had the scene with Taylor over the witness tampering because the interrogation room yielded that Taylor again was involved in obstruction.This attempt was of a willed calculation and it is part and parcel what this film looks like from time to time.That in fact there is a willed attempt to circumvent the truth for another way(commonly referred to as a mis-direction).The inability to properly prosecute the grounds keeper for such conduct was evidence that someone else was being either willfully ignored or deliberately denied and further denied what, Denied a honest position.The Robertson girl was indeed ignored beyond belief as I no more believed the Principal when he suggested that he did not know any of the people who attended the school than,I believed the grounds keeper did not know more than merely committing that kind of salacious crime.This indeed is evidenced of having power over another and there being a willful attempt to deny ones right as a result.There is a most certain shared perhaps even complicity is a better word in almost anything that Detective Berlin attempts to establish.The initial interview at the boarding school suggests that Det.Berlins buddy was unfair and there did not seem to be a point where to start.The relationship between Det.Berlin and Helena Robertson was perhaps inevitable though as truth would have it things were just getting started.This film does not believe and as such we are asked to consider what does this film not believe,? It does not believe in the rights of the other.It as well as a film does not allow more of the truth to be the truth rather it wishes to portray something of a different ideology.This film has the potential to be subversive and perhaps even onto an ulterior purpose.Would it surprise anyone that there may very well have been an attempt that disguised its deviant underpinning with as well an attempt upon the basis of the law entirely.There may very well be a condoning of such conduct and it is this suggestion that this film provides it most important attribute.The scene in question provides the ability whereby a empowered authority is caught in the throes of violating the invisible with the ulterior purpose of allowing for the accomplishment to become common place.This attempt made upon reality is suggestive of the loss that such an empowered servant provides for,it further serves to illustrate that this is not about the Law but about the power had over our inability to be persuaded otherwise.It is further suggested that the power of suggestion is the source of this scene and represents indeed a hidden purpose as to a servant of this way of society.The life herein has been given an unmistakable illusion and with which we are asked to know why such illusions exist at all? What is the greater power and what capacity does such a servant possess? How does such a servant provide for such a witness whereby that witness is the crime itself? Is this networked servant an embedded feature of this film? I do not believe we are looking at nature but I do believe it is an un-natural affront to our place entirely that has been undermined with such as there is illustrated.The illusion of having power over another is qualified even more so when that number is quantified by a magnitude of 10,then perhaps its ultimate ability as a suggested provider allows for an influence that is both convincing and un-natural.The inability to have the where with all to properly place such undue influence is only an early place whereby ultimately who are we or what are we under the influence of is yet to come.This motion picture is not as much of a motion picture as the crime is that it told of.It,this motion picture therefore provides an entertainment ability with a necessary word of caution.It is not representative nor is its conduct in keeping with matters as such but with matters of other concerns,in other words it is not all there. "},{"Title":"Junk Mail to God unopened","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was seriously flawed by the adolescent angst Andy Garcia shows when he talks about God not reading his junk mail.  I have never heard anything (outside of a comedy where it might have been tolerable, even meaningful) so sophomoric. It sounds like something the screenplay writer wrote when he was in high school, and then dug up to fill in the dialogue.  I was surprised Andy Garcia, who seems intelligent and sensitive, lacked the judgment to refuse to go through with that scene, written as it was.  There are complaints against the gods that all humans have, which I could understand and respect, which I have even shared in. That is not one of them.   "}]