[{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"61 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is terribly misrepresented by critics.  True, it is not an insightful social critique.  It is not a moving analysis of human nature. It is not a philosophical masterpiece.  But it makes no pretensions to be any of these things.  Hero is pure Hollywood, and is the very best of what Hollywood means, or meant at the time.  The plot is clever, the writing is witty, the characters are interesting, and the acting is decent (Dustin Hoffman is great).  The development is not meant to expose new subtleties of human emotion, but rather strongly to evoke obvious ones -- in this case, pride.  In other words, it is meant to make you happy.  That is not to say that the audience is barraged with heavy-handed judgments, merely that it does not require a degree in theater to like the film.  It is interesting enough to be enjoyable after several viewings, but not subtle enough to require serious study.Hero is perfect for the intelligent moviegoer who wants to watch a film for fun, and that is the context in which it should be understood.  It is Hollywood at its best. "},{"Title":"Funny, smart, underrated comedy (8/10)","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  HERO is a funny, smart, vastly underrated screwball comedy about mistaken identity, and what exactly it is that constitutes heroism.Dustin Hoffman plays Bernie Laplante, a small-time crook and generally unpleasant individual, who one rainy night is reluctantly drawn into helping rescue 54 passengers from a burning plane, after it has crashed into a Chicago bridge right in front of him!  One of the survivors is Gale Gayley (Geena Davis), a glamorous news reporter, whose TV station decides to offer $1 million for an exclusive interview with the mysterious Angel of Flight 104, who simply disappeared into the dark of the night before his act of bravery could be recognized, leaving one of his shoes behind amid the chaos.However, the Mr Cinderella who subsequently steps forward to claim the reward, and thereafter becomes lionized by both the media and the public, is not Laplante (rather inconveniently locked up in jail at the time), but John Bubber (Andy Garcia), a handsome, charismatic, though destitute Vietnam veteran, who intends to share his new-found wealth with the city's homeless and other charitable causes.  Bubber is able to convince as the real hero, because he gave Laplante a lift immediately after the accident (and is handed Laplante's second shoe as a thank-you, to pay for the gas), and thus heard the full story of Laplante's adventure firsthand.British director Stephen Frears' third American outing (following 1988's DANGEROUS LIAISONS and 1990's THE GRIFTERS) was not a particular success at the box-office, and neither was it especially well-received critically. But I find that difficult to understand, as I think that HERO is probably the most downright enjoyable of all Frears' movies.  The three leads are terrific - Davis looks sensational, Hoffman is suitably sleazy (and unexpectedly moving in scenes with his ex-wife, played by Joan Cusack, and his young son, James Madio), and Garcia injects his impostor role with warmth and credibility.  The script (by the screenwriter of BLADE RUNNER and UNFORGIVEN) is bright and snappy, and there are fun, uncredited cameos from Chevy Chase (as Davis's pushy boss), Edward Herrmann (as a suicide victim - in a comedy? but yes it IS funny) and Fisher Stevens (as a film director, making a TV movie of the plane crash and using the real survivors as the actors).HERO was known as ACCIDENTAL HERO (a more appropriate title, in my opinion) in various territories (including the UK), echoing, of course, one of Davis's earlier film triumphs, namely Lawrence Kasdan's splendid THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST (1988).  This was also where Davis reunited with Hoffman, 10 years after the former made her brief film debut in the latter's cross-dressing smash TOOTSIE.  Finally, the excellent song played over the end credits is Heart Of A Hero, written and performed by Luther Vandross. "},{"Title":"People should give this movie a chance","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hero is the story of a not so nice man that performs an extra-ordinary act of courage.  He rescues a crashed plane full of trapped passengers.  And after he does, he disappears into the night, never to be seen again---that is until a T.V. station offers 1 million dollars for the man to come forward and identify himself.  Someone else takes the credit through a funny series of events that should remain unsaid.This film is a true treasure.  It not only examines fragile human issues like family responsibility, love, our stigmas that we set upon heroes and morality, but it is a damn entertaining movie.  It is also a tearjerker. Not many people gave this film a chance but now that it is out on video, check this one out.  You will be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"Under-rated movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dustin H is at his brilliant best. Listen carefully to his closing speech to his son(delivered with passion in the zoo). Words of wisdom about the state of the human zoo we live in. The movie has humour, pathos and some great lines. One of my favourites. "},{"Title":"Uniquely Rewarding","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I disagree with the suggestion that this movie is fluff; just the opposite. It is truly unexpected. There's no phony character development&#127;, no sitcom silliness. What you have here is what I would call TRUE GRIT.&#127;&#127; &#127; Dustin Hoffman gives one of his all-time best performances. Andy Garcia is equally true to character, and both actors get a chance to portray genuinely interesting characters. Yet, the ending could not be more perfect. Likewise, I'd argue that this movie does have social commentary. You'll see Chevy Chase at his best (although he doesn't appear in the credits). He illustrates the unholy alliance between news and show business in today's America. There's a great father-and-son story and an implied love story with Joan Cusack, someone who is underrated for her emotional expression. There's also a nice examination of truth and reality. Watch they boy from the plane. He can't remember what the hero said, so he is proud and excited to come up with what he thinks will sound good. Likewise, the hero's son finds the perfect answer to an awkward question for the news camera. We're all searching for that perfect answer if a news mike is stuck in our face. The hero sees this, and he is the only one in the movie who seems immune to it. He is my hero for remaining true to himself--as flawed as that is. No, this ain't Disney--it's Dustin, at his finest. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies of all time.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie six times, or so, and look forward to seeing it again. I think Dustin Hoffman is one of the great actors and this was a great role for him. He and Geena Davis have real chemistry.I always regretted that the movie didn't get the recognition it deserves.  "},{"Title":"A cast of great actors in a teasingly great film","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With a cast of the best actors of our time and one of the great ironic scripts, second to none in adventure story line, this film is relentlessly powerful. Hoffman, Garcia and Davis misunderstand and misrepresent each other to a fine tease in a magnificent display of the highs and lows of being human in America in the late twentieth century. "},{"Title":"A very good satire","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It has already been a while since I've seen a movie with Dustin Hoffman in it, which is really a shame. I've always admired his work and once again he proves to be a very talented actor with this movie.This time he's playing Bernie Laplante, a little criminal who hasn't really had much luck in recent times. He's constantly having a fight with his ex over his son, he lives in a miserable apartment, he drives an incredibly old car... But than a plane crashes just right in front of his nose. And even though he has always been described as antisocial, he saves the lives of 54 people by opening the airplane's door and helping everybody out.One of the people he has saved is a TV reporter. She immediately sees a good story in it and wants to interview him. But because she, nor her news station know who he is, they will give him one million dollar in return for an interview. All they know is that he has lost a size 10 shoe in the mud. Of course hundreds of people claim to be him, but one homeless guy, who got the other shoe from him, really can make them believe he's the true hero. He gets the million and makes up a beautiful story on how he all did it. Of course Bernie sees this (when he is in jail) and decides to confront the man with the truth.This movie may not appeal to everybody, because not everybody may appreciate this kind of humor. Personally I find this a very good satire, that has actually a good point. In their search for sensational, touching news, TV stations will do really everything and seem to forget that the most important thing is still reality. If you are looking for a good comedy, with some fine acting and a good story, than this movie is really something you should try. I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Fun, feel-good movie","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Hero when it first opened in theaters, and tonight was the first time I saw it in 10 years.  It's one of those amiable films that is virtually impossible to dislike.  It's not the funniest comedy, nor are there any big laughs, yet I can't find anything lousy about this movie.  And as a big plus, Dustin Hoffman is the star!  He's one of my favorite actors, and I'm eager to see him in anything.  He gives a fine, underrated performance that's both funny and touching, in an unpretentious way.  His character of Bernie Laplante is no angel.  He's rude, cranky and selfish.  But he loves his son very much, and simply has trouble expressing his true emotions.  It's always fun to see a serious actor in a comic role.  And the advantage of it is serious actors approach comic roles in the same way they do any other roles.  Like Gene Wilder said, I approach the role of Leo Bloom in 'The Producers' the same way Olivier would approach 'Hamlet.'  Hoffman doesn't act goofy or ham it up, but simply plays it straight and lets the laughs come to him with his natural delivery.  Andy Garcia delivers an endearing performance, and Joan Cusack is amusing as Hoffman's ex-wife.  The plot is predictable and some of the characters are cliched, but overall the film is entertaining and at times moving.  Though it is basically a comedy, it has its human elements that add an earthy quality to the film. My score  7 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"interesting premise, well executed","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies. Its basic message is that no one is either 100% good or 100% sleazy, as Hoffman and Garcia's characters show. Hoffman plays a two-bit thief who rescues a bunch of people from a downed airplane (including news reporter Geena Davis), and Garcia, a seemingly noble Vietnam vet, winds up taking credit for it.Basically, the movie shows the dangers of our need for a hero and the media's glorifying of such a need. I liked this movie a lot.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Quite good, more subtle than it seems","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While the plot and the music sort of gives it an inspirational theme, Hero is actually more subversive than that. Over everything is the recurring theme that it's all playing in front of cameras. People acting as heroes in front of the camera, people lying in front of the camera, people avoiding the camera, people trying to have a confidential discussion in front of cameras and hundreds of people watching below. The camera makes everyone act weird because it scares them or it turns them on. I think what puts off most viewers is the syrupy music, heroic, uplifting, telling people how to feel and I can feel myself being manipulated. I personally think it's a very, very sly choice. It goes to show I can't believe anything I see in the news, and I can't believe this movie either, because it's manipulating me too by telling me not to believe. My son watched it, and I asked him, okay, who's the hero? The jerk who saves hundreds of people or the the liar who, when given the chance, goes forth to inspire and help people anyway? Both of them are undercut by their actions. I guess they both are. And I guess none of our heroes are really clean. They probably hide some sins in their pasts. Which makes the theme, if that were the theme, more realistic to me. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful movie that is simple and fun to watch.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hero is a film that deals with morals and life in a comedic manner. The main protagonist, Bernard Laplante (played by Dustin Hoffman), a down-on-his-luck thief, is about to be sent to prison as a consequence for his many failed wrong-doings (credit card scams, etc). Though he may appear to be a no-good, cursing, emotionless human being, in actuality, he is a kind, sensitive soul with heroic traits residing inside of him. His countenance may suggest a weak, greedy man to the audience at first, but as the story progresses, the viewer is able to see how contrary that image is to the real Bernie. One rainy day,Bernie is minding his own business, pretty much contemplating how to dodge his prison sentence, when out of nowhere, a burning plane crashes down in front of him. With no one else to rescue the trapped passengers inside, Bernie does the unexpected and saves the lives of those on board. Being one who doesn't like to be bothered much, he manages to get everyone off board (while complaining of course). Unfortunately,with all the smoke and fire around, no one gets a detailed look at the mysterious hero that vanishes. Not one who likes attention, Berniedoesn't mention anything until he hears there's a monetary award supplied by a news channel for the life-saver if he/she comes forward.At this point, the story takes a similar form in the tale of the boy who cried wolf. No matter how loud and repetitive he is, Bernie fails to gain recognition and acceptance as the miracle hero.I only have positive things to say about this movie. The acting (see the scene where Bernie searches for his lost shoe), the touching moments, and funny plot makes this a strong movie in all aspects. Though underrated, I do recommend it to those who want to see a simple, thoughtful comedy with a superb cast and story. "},{"Title":"A bold statement.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt not only well entertained by this film, it also reinforced my disdain towards the way media makes heroes out of people with media flair, instead of the people who really deserve it. As Bubber, the imposter, played in the film by Garcia so emphatically puts it We're all heroes if you catch us at the right moment. The falseness of this otherwise bold and inspiring message brings out a seldom heard truth about the way lies have sold so well in this century. And how most people are willing to sell their souls for the supposed joy of being a celebrity.The similarity with the fabulous Fearless (starring Jeff Bridges) is striking, in spite of the completely different realization and overall mood of the film.  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.........","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stephen Frears made a fantastic film in 'Hero'.... the underrated Masterpiece of Hollywood from the year 1992. The film is engaging, interesting, gripping, enjoyable almost everything you want to see in a film, when you grow up.There is a hero in all of us, says Andy Garcia in the film, the film leaves you happy, that even in some ways everyone is a hero. A quality in all of us, that has or can make us a Hero! Laura Ziskin, Alvin Sargent & David Webb Peoples the writer's of 'Hero' deserve a pat for their hard work and brilliant writing. And the director's understanding and execution is just a cherry on the cake.Performance wise Dustin Hoffman excels as Bernie. The legendary actor steals the show with a outstanding performance. Andy Garcia is excellent. His character might look Grey, but when he takes up the deeds, you route for the so-called hero. Geena Davis looks gorgeous and delivers a first-rate performance. Chevy Chase is wonderful. Joan Cusack is just right. Kevin J. O'Connor, Maury Chaykin & Stephen Tobolowsky are efficient.on the whole 'Hero' is heroic indeed. A must see for all cinema lovers. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"A Very Good Film","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this little gem in the bargain bin and liked the theme, so I thought I'd give it a try. And it more than delivered.Here is a truly thoughtful satire that considers what it really means to be a hero. More important, it seeks to find the heroic in everyday peoples' actions in the midst of a media culture that is constantly on the lookout for genuine heroes and, finding none, manufactures grandiose imitations instead.The theme of heroism is everywhere in this film, and it might even sound like it is preaching a bit at times, particularly in Andy Garcia's final monologue on the subject. But it all comes together quite well and ends with a lot of heart. The acting is superb, the screenplay is focused, and I was amazed how well Hero combines the entertainment of fiction with the thoughtfulness of a documentary. If you are interested in the theme of heroism I would highly recommend this film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A Modern Aesop Tale Highly Underrated","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the movie, after receiving an award, Gail Gayle mentions Life is like an Onion, you peel away and the story becomes different, but when you peel everything away, everything is all a lie as part of her News acceptance award speech. The speech represents the entire story that is like a modern day Aesop fable. Dustin Hoffman plays small time criminal who accidentally saved the life of 54 people when the plane crash landed in front of him, but someone else took the credit. Our life is basically conditioned to think that people should be given credit where credit is due, in real life, credit isn't given where credit is due. The other problem about events or historical events is that life is like an onion. When you peel them all away, nothing is really there. Things we view as hero may be not we think it is, because of our prejudices in what we view them as a perfect hero. A real hero may have none of that, we humans are full of gray areas, some we are good, some we are not so good. There's not such thing as 100% good guys and 100% bad guys. So if you have to watch this movie, what we know what we see, is not what we think it is. If you should die one day, become a spirit, you will realize that everything we hold dear and true, we're not even close. That's the Aesop of the movie. The best part of the movie is Dustin Hoffman's is at his finest, there's simply not enough screen time for him because he's just so interesting to watch. This is a highly underrated film and if you keep the idea mentioned here in perspective, you will enjoy the movie more. Just peel away your onions! "},{"Title":"A heroic movie inspiring many, including Mariah Carey's #1 song","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great, inspirational, and underrated movie. Mariah Carey's song Hero was originally written for the movie by Carey to be sung by Gloria Estefan. Between Mariah being persuaded to keep the song for herself and the people working on the movie thinking the song didn't quite fit the film, Mariah Carey kept the song for herself... eventually making it one of her signature songs. The movie itself is a signature in my life, no matter how corny it may seem. It has so many beautiful moments between all the cornball scenes. This film is pretty heroic in its own way.The film touches on a variety of concepts that I've explored in my own life. The worst of people can do something great, the greatest of people can do something bad. It's knowledge like that that gives us hope to become a better person and it gives us warning to remain good. Life and reality and all those things try to place us in roles where we're meant to act a certain way and be a certain way because of who we are. But we are all individuals living in individual moments. Just as no two people are the same, no two moments are the same. Change is always available... We just have to figure out a way to use it for our good.Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Just a dandy movie all around!","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released in 1992, and it was money well spent. The story line is deceptively simple and not too convoluted. The characters are very believable and engaging, even the minor ones. However, I have to say that the greatest tribute goes without question to Dustin Hoffman. He delivers one heck of a performance. This was the one for which he should have gotten an Oscar, and not for Rainman. His acting here is smooth as silk, very natural and very believable. It is kinda like the work he did in Midnight Cowboy or Straw Dogs. But then it is the material of the story that has to work for the actor to flesh out a truly believable character. Supporting cast also matter a great deal, and here we have the wonderful Andy Garcia (not Tom Cruise) and Geena Davis. I want also to commend the director of this movie, Stephen Frears, who although not quite a household name, consistently makes top-notch movies. "},{"Title":"Very very Good Flick","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was one of my favorites of all time. Dustin Hoffman is great in this movie and Andy Garcia is an impostor, but he resembles the BEST LINE in the movie. When Hoffman says(to his son), Joey, Life's a just layers of bullshit, and you just have to peel away until you find a layer you like and that's your bullshit. One of my top 20 movie lines of all time, because not only is it true it sums up the whole gist of the movie in general but it was a great entertaining movie, just like they should all be.Another funny thing was the fact that Davis's character was blinded enough to believe that Garcia actually saved her when I don't think he said one cuss word the whole movie, but the guy who saved her was swearing like a sailor. Rent it, Buy it, or Tivo it you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Comic study of the nature of heroism.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A star-loaded cast and one of the best-written screenplays ever. When you first meet Bernie you think he is one of the lowest species of vermin. By the end of the movie you love him. A great philosophical study of who the real heroes are and why. Some great linesDon't reach out! Never Reach out! (Spoken several times with different connotations).A good story is like an onion.We are all heroes in our own way.For Chrissake, who's responsible here? The last line is fabulous Watch my shoes. (Bernie's shoes are a major factor in the plot.) "}{"Title":"Hoffman has a style","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" like all the great ones, Hoffman has a style. Hard to put a finger on but he portrays a life style of take care of yourself and life is not that big a deal. When he's standing on the bridge and he hears the passengers screaming for help he says what's your problem pal? I mean isn't that a bit facetious? Pretty obvious they have a problem. Great line. Great writing. This movie is funny, witty with several heart felt moments like when Chic the bartender asks him if he has a kid? When his ex has to admit in times of adversity Bernie Laplanta forgets about his own safety and rises to the occasion or when Gail Galley asks him if he was the one who pulled her out of the plain. I've watched this movie so many times I could watch it with the sound turned off and know every line. Got a really good feeling for Geena Davis in this movie. She shows so many different emotions in a really great acting job I forget it's a movie. Hoffman at his best only in this one he's better. "},{"Title":"Clever satire with people's obsessions with the hero","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSThere are two types of people in this world. There are those who will do whatever they can for other people and are the eternal optimists, and there are those who hate life, hate people and will always look out for number one. In this film, that second character has a brief moment of weakness and changes everyone's lives.In Hero or Accidental Hero as it is also known, Dustin Hoffman plays Bernard Laplante. Bernie is a self obsessed, miserable guy, who thinks everyone is out to get him and is constantly moaning. One day on the way to pick up his son to take the kid to the cinema, Bernie is stopped by a plane crash. Walking inside to rescue everyone, whilst simultaneously cursing and swearing that he's lost his shoes, Bernie is a hero. Walking off however, nobody knows who this mystery hero is. That is, until John Bubba (Andy Garcia) steps forward with one of Bernie's shoes. Taking on this role of idol and inspiration for the nation, John is instantly transformed into a modern messiah. Understandably Bernie is not happy about this and as John's life gets better and better, Bernie's goes in the opposite direction.This film is a bit of a strange one really. With a lot of hidden criticism and satire for how the media obsesses over certain hero figures, it hits the target, at times making us grimace about how true to life it can be. At the same time however, despite it's negative outlook on life, it is simultaneously a feel good film which shows us that even the most negative people in the world can do something incredibly positive. With Hoffman as this pessimist, it adds an element of humour to the proceedings, whilst Garcia appears to represent the man who has tried to play the media and social games but is failing. Finally, adding Geena Davis to the mix as the news story obsessed Gale Gayley, the creators present us with a character who is so happy about this feel good story, that she refuses to accept the truth until countless different clues have been presented to her.With all the media attention placed on Garcia's character, this film is at it's satirical best. The secondary, more enjoyable story regarding around Hoffman is wonderful, but it's the constant television exclusives and the cameras following Garcia around constantly which is the best part.Hero is a clever film. It combines the pessimistic and the optimistic in a suitable manner whilst satirising the american media. Admittedly it's perhaps not as funny as it could be, but Hoffman works as hard as he can to put in a brilliant performance. If someone was to watch this movie, they'd probably come out of it feeling as pessimistic about life as Hoffman, whilst simultaneously feeling optimistic. This film is just that mixed between the two. "},{"Title":"One of Dustin Hoffman's Best","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dustin Hoffman is the real star in this quiet classic.It starts with a quiet and interesting plot line and develops to a quiet climactic ending that personally actually is one of those rare movies that make you feel really good after watching it, and upon watching it over and over.Gina Davis' character is the perfect complement being the epitome of a character used by the filmmakers to slap parody on the hyper competitive media industry.Andy Garcia makes this trinity complete with a flawless performance of a flawed man who glows in the gap he's entered, and redeems himselfAll in all, the point of the film is about-- in Garcia's words, though corny it is true-- the hero in all of us. Garcia-as-fake-hero-who-redeems-himself to be a true hero in his own right truly shines vis-a-vis Hoffman's character of being a lowlife who is still able to do heroic and noble deeds when life throws it at him. Both accidental heroes, both real heroes.All of whom show us how we can somehow relate and empathize with the film in being flawed individuals ourselves, but also have that inherent spirit of hopefully rising up to the challenge when our turn is called. Showing us that in hopefully seeing ourselves, we become the people in their shoes, the accidental heroes.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem of a Movie","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This highly enjoyable movie starring Dustin Hoffman, Andy Garcia, and Geena Davis is a modern morality play. To paraphrase the Andy Garcia character , we all have a hero in us if you find us at our best, and we all have feet of clay if you find us at our worst. Further, the movie emphasizes that appearances are deceiving and the person we look down on may in fact have heroic qualities that we are not aware of.The movie is presented in a somewhat stylized way, hearkening back to Capra in its oddly old fashioned characters, the overlapping scenes, the symbolic lighting, the characters' constant quest for some idealized goal.I thought that the trio of Hoffman, Garcia, and Davis played off of one another very skillfully and really seemed to be enjoying themselves in this movie. Joan Cusack and Chevy Chase steal scenes with their (deliberately) over the top acting, and the movie in the end is quite satisfying in its combination of humor and moral lesson. "},{"Title":"Deserves the highest praise for its relevance, humor, and intelligence","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bernie LaPlante (Dustin Hoffman) is far from an ideal citizen of New York City. He's a two-bit crook and his chickens are finally coming home to roost, that is, he will be sent to prison. However, his young lawyer secures him a week to get his affairs in order. This includes saying goodbye to his ten year old son, Joey, ditto to his ex-wife, Ev (Joan Cusack) and getting his boss to write a letter of recommendation for him before sentencing. However, one night, chaos reigns. Bernie is supposed to take his son to the movies but, in a severe thunderstorm, a plane goes down right in front of Mr. LaPlante. The door to the aircraft is blocked and a fire has started. Unbelievably, Bernie gets the door open and rescues the passengers, including hotshot reporter Gale (Geena Davis). After doing this heroic act, however, LaPante quietly heads over to his son's house. Its way too late, as Eve informs him, and she sends him packing. On the way home, further trouble arrives when his car breaks down and he must hitch a ride from homeless vet John Bubber (Andy Garcia). It is there that Bernie tells John about his courageous act, with John duly impressed. As Bernie has only one shoe from the ordeal, he leaves it with Bubber for a one-legged man of John's acquaintance. Ho, ho! Soon the press and Gale, especially, is looking for the hero and they offer a reward of a MILLION BUCKS to help entice him into the limelight. However, Bernie has set up another crooked meeting and gets whisked off to jail. Its John, instead, who comes forward, for he has the Cinderfeller shoe that matches the one the press has found. Now, everyone believes Bubber is the hero, and in all sincerity, his former past as a hero of Vietnam is revealed, along with other charitable acts. But, once Bernie is sprung on bail one last time, will he spoil the story by giving the press the real scoop about which one of them is the true hero? This is a terrific movie that belongs on a list of 100 best films. It is intelligent, humorous, and very relevant. The cast, too, is superlative, with Hoffman giving one of his best performances ever as the grumpy, law-bending Bernie. Davis, Garcia, Cusack, an uncredited Chevy Chase and all of the others are great, too. The direction of Stephen Frears is also topnotch while the script, sets, costumes, and camera work are fantastic as well. In short, this one is a genuine keeper for the ages. Be a hero or heroine to someone who has never seen it and arrange a showing soon. "},{"Title":"Clever and brave film, with a Capra-esquire element to it","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some parts may a little slow, and perhaps Accidental Hero(or Hero) is a little too long, but other than that the film is very clever and very brave, and I think underrated as well. It does have a great story concerning a Mystery Samaritan(or The Angel of Flight 104 as Andy Garcia claims himself to be), very well-constructed and written with a Capra-esquire element to it.Accidental Hero is wonderfully filmed, with great cinematography and the plane crash is well staged. The direction is assured, and the writing is very funny, yet deeply cynical and even pessimistic. The acting is top notch; Dustin Hoffmann shows what a great actor he is as he recalls his Ratso Rizzo role(basically a loser-turned-hero type of character), while Andy Garcia plays a true slime-ball to perfection and Geena Davis and Joan Cusack both convince as the journalist puzzled by the truth and Evelyn. And out of the cameos, Chevvy Chase's gets my vote as the funniest.Overall, an underrated and very good movie. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"very very funny because","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" it draws on aspects of human nature.Bernie is an unrepentant thief, he even empties the cash out of his attorney's purse right in his bail hearing.a low life who rescues a planeload of people and no one believes him, who steals and fences the credit cards of one of the passengers he rescues.a fraud who takes credit and is overwhelmed by guilt despite inspiring others and saving a young hospital patient with words of encouragement.the list goes on. I had a really really good laugh when I first saw this when it came out and then picked it up at the DVD 2nd hand store for a measly 4 bucks.it doesn't have the usual high drama and tug-the-heartstring bunk like other 'happy ending' fluff. its just packed with the day to day screw ups and story line based on the randomness of life and how we all try to deal with our own situations.Geena Davis was really good as was Dustin Hoffman. "},{"Title":"Excellent, underrated film!","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never understood why this film wasn't a greater success. It has a great story and screenplay, with fabulous performances by Dustin Hoffman as the loser turned Hero, Geena Davis as the truth-seeking reporter with a heart, and Andy Garcia, as the every-homeless-man with a talent for zen-like philosophy. Perhaps the only negative thing I can find is the awful, cartoon character performance of the newsman, played by Chevy Chase. I can't help but think that Chevy was envious of the actor who played J. Jonah Jameson, the newspaper man in the Spider Man films; a performance that brought a genuine cartoon character to life with unforced humor and credibility. I would recommend this film to all, but parents might want to be wary of unedited versions for foul language. "},{"Title":"A truly nice little movie","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read two full pages of comments on Hero, and I was surprised not to see any mention of Frank Capra, although one writer did mention Mr. Deeds Goes to Town. Hero is pure Capra, modernized for the '90s, and Dustin Hoffman fills the Jimmy Stewart/Gary Cooper role to perfection. I'm surprised to see so many people miss the point and say they were angry at Andy Garcia's character for stealing the limelight; it was very apparent that all he really wanted to do was use the reward money to do some good for people.I don't usually write spoilers, but this is one I can't resist. One of my favorite moments in a movie came when Geena Davis's reporter character finally gives up on getting Hoffman to confess that he was the hero.As she turns away, she says, Thank you for saving my life. Hoffman replies in little more than a whisper, You're welcome. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Even rats can be heroes.","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You might want to compare this film with a film called Hero At Large, staring John Ritter. Both films are about ordinary people who perform extraordinary actions, thereby becoming heroes. In Hoffman's film the main character is a sleaze who's philosophy is do unto other before they get a chance to do unto you. Ritter, on the other hand is a nice guy who is seduced by the glory of being heroic. Hoffman spends most of the movie trying to avoid recognition for his heroic acts while Ritter becomes caught up in a scheme to capitalize on people's need for heroes. Both men's lives are held up as evidence that all of us have the capacity to be a hero under the right circumstances. Both films are inspiring with important things to say. Hero At Large however is a small film while Hero is a big budget film with major actors. I thoroughly enjoyed both but by comparison, Hero beats you over the head with its message. I can't help liking Hero At Large just a little better. "}{"Title":"There's a little bit of Hero in us all.....","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be refreshingly entertaining. Dustin Hoffman plays his role to the hilt as a ne'er-do-well guy that is perpetually down and (just about) out until one particular situation defines the true nature of his personality. For a guy whose motto is never get involved he reluctantly goes against his own credo, lives to regret it but ends up warily accepting it. A man who by his own admission is nothing more than a loser, who holds nothing sacred and is loyal to no one, not even his self. Yet all this changes, albeit just as unintentionally as it began, until Bernie has an epiphany that maybe all of the events which led up to his present predicament might not yield too bad of an outcome after all. It makes you feel good to realize that even in the worst of us, lives the potential for each of us to be a true Hero. This is one movie to watch whenever you begin to feel down on yourself, the days you are feeling blue and nothing seems to be going right. I promise, you'll begin to feel better about yourself after watching it. "},{"Title":"Great comment on mass media","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film makes a better analysis of the media than acclaimed films like Network. The punch probably gets diffused because the film is a comedy of sorts.I loved Dustin Hoffman, though his performances in Rain Man and Midnight Cowboy were close variations of this one. When he is on screen, you forget the director and the rest of the crew.This is the second Frears film I have seen (the first was Mary Reilly) and direction was not extraordinary in both. But as in the case of Mary Reilly, Frears' obvious strength is in choosing great materials to film and working with good screenplay writers. The story has punch but it could have been better.    "},{"Title":"interesting and thought provoking","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this film years ago and have always wanted to see it. It looked good, but that is what trailers are for. To make films look so good that you will spend your money on their movie and not someone else's.I actually bought this film and THEN watched it. It was not what I expected. You know that it is about a jerk who ends up saving lives and someone else gets the credit for it. As the film rolls by, we learn all about Bernie LaPlante(Hoffman). How he is constantly thinking of himself and ways to screw others so he can get what he wants. Basically, he is a REAL A**. So when his homeless buddy, John Bubber(Garcia), assumes his hero's shoes we don't care that Bernie missed out. Bubber is what we all think a hero should be, a kind thoughtful and giving person. Even though he gets the million dollars reward, he is STILL thinking of helping others. What a great guy! Right?? But he IS a liar!! Stealing the limelight and money away from Bernie. Who cares?Learning that Bubber has taken his hero status and money from him, he gets upset. We think we know what he wants. To take it all away from Mr. Nice Guy Bubber. When he finally confronts Bubber and tells him what he wants, his request is really quite thoughtful. It really shouldn't matter what kind of person Bernie is, the important thing is that in time of trouble he helps others. The lesson is that there is a little good in all of us, even if they're a Bernie. He may think of himself alot, but does cares about his son. He is a loving dad, but not a good one. In the end, Bernie is still Bernie though we have learned to like him. The ending of this film is cute and only goes to show what he regretfully is.This has a good smart script that plays up and puts down the hero worship made by the media. Terrific acting from Hoffman who really makes Bernie LaPlante such a mega jerk but a human with some heart. Geena Davis and Andy Garcia are good in their roles, as are Joan Cusak(In & Out) as Bernie's ex and Kevin J O'Connor(Peggy Sue Got Married) as the living eye camera man.It may not look so good in the beginning, but give it time and learn a lesson about real life. I love a film that makes you think!!  "},{"Title":"a good movie deserves more credit good cast!","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good movie which had actors Dustin Hoffman, Geena Davis, John Cusak, Andy Garcia, Chevy Chase and Tom Arnold star in this movie about a news reporter Dustin Hoffman who is about to loose his job but ends up saving a person's life and making all the headlines. Pretty good flix. "},{"Title":"Funny commentary on media heroes","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Darkly humorous, wonderful comedy about a nerd (Dustin Hoffman) who performs a heroic act but isn't photogenic enough for the TV cameras. With wonderful turns by Hoffman, Geena Davis, and Chevy Chase (in the first movie I've seen where I actually enjoyed him "},{"Title":"contrast in talent between Dustin Hoffman","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a great movie. Overall it was excellent with great acting - with one very obvious and distracting exception. I found it hilarious to watch the contrast between the great acting of Dustin Hoffman and a laughable Chevy Chase. Chase is just AWFUL. He comes across like some ham doing a bad impression of J. Jonah Jameson from Spiderman. Whoever told this guy he could act? Apparently the producers felt the same way. Never has an actor with such a large part and so many lines been uncredited. Maybe they wanted to forget he was in the movie too! You'll notice that he had one of the key roles in the movie but received NO credit at the end of the movie and even here on IMDb he's away down the list well below some extras and one-liners. Stick to falling down Chevy. "},{"Title":"I liked this.","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It might be my fault or it may only be bad luck, but I've seen very little films with Dustin Hoffman in it. I used to be one of those people that watch movies to see violence and action and cool scenes and all that crap. But I changed. The problem is, I changed not that long ago, and in that time, never had the time to see a Dustin Hoffman film. (The last one, I think, was the abysmal Sphere.) So I went into this film expecting a good actor, but sort of blindly groping because I can't rememeber Dustin Hoffman.Hoffman plays a two-bit named Bernie Laplante who steals stuff to get by. He's on probation, his wife left him, all in all, he's pretty miserable. One day, as he is getting to his son, to take him to the movies, a plane inexplicably crashes in front of him. He goes in to save a boy's fatehr and ends up saving Gale Gayley (Geena Davis) a news anchor. Laplante goes off without recieving any of the praise, but when a 1 million dollar reward is offered, an impostor hobo (Andy Garcia) which Hoffman met that night, steps in as the real saviour of Flight 104.Hero is a comedy at heart; Hoffman is very good and very funny, if somewhat,yes,miscast. But the movie awkwardly shifts between drama and comedy, and although both are very well implented, together they sort of have trouble clicking. However the performances are very good and Chevy Chase has an amusing cameo. There are many funny jokes aimed at the business of television. All in all, this movie is worthy of a cold, frozen afternoon. 7/10P.S Despite its PG-13 rating, Hero contains a lot of profanity.  "},{"Title":"E For Effort","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are some people out there that wouldn't even blink an eye before helping out another person for no personal gain what so ever. They are good people through and through. Then there are some people that aren't going to lift a finger to help you or anybody else. It's human nature. There's so many types of people in the world and we all fit into some level of classifiable mold of sorts. I'm the kind of person that will help when help is clearly needed, but I won't go out of my way either.Bernie Laplante (Dustin Hoffman) is the opposite. He doesn't help out unless there's some deep motivation -- usually cash or credit. See Laplante is basically a low level everything. Crook, father, employee, person. He's divorced, never there for his son and works at a carpet factory that soon he won't work at anymore. Did I mention he's got legal troubles? He's looking at a stint in prison for selling stolen goods to boot. His son and him eat a meal at a restaurant and a joint trip to the washroom yields a lost wallet. The son asks the obvious. Shouldn't this be turned in? Bernie's answer is why turn it in when the manager will just end up pocketing the money. The son doesn't know any better, but we do. Next thing, he's fencing the stolen credit cards at his pub. That's Bernie Laplante in a nutshell.Later on his way to pick his son up from his ex-wife's to go see a movie his car breaks down on a bridge. Next thing you know a plane has crashed landed right in front of him. It's unbelievable. After some thought, he gets out of his car takes off his stolen pair of two hundred dollar shoes and gets dirty. The plane's exit door is jammed and he's able to force it open after a try. The people pile out in a clear panic stomping him right into the mud. He tries to get up, but he's just driven back in by the next panicked passenger jumping out of the plane. Next thing you know this kid's telling him of his father who's still on the plane (hint hint). Bernie resists, the kid's goes please and he grudgingly decides to help. Inside some passengers are caught, some unconscious. He pulls them all out. Basically ends up saving the lives of everyone on board including a popular television reporter Gale Gayley (Geena Davis). He does however steal her purse on board while dragging her out -- but that's another matter. With the fire department and police on scene, he goes about finding his shoes he took off before he got dirty in the muck. Drat! He can only find one! Those were $200 dollar shoes! Bernie laments.The whole crash thing quickly becomes big news when it's discovered the person who saved everybody is a mystery. Gale being the head strong award winning reporter that she is smells ratings galore. Soon their dubbing Bernie the Angel of Flight 104. Bernie knows nothing of this though. Then the News Station Gale works at offers a cool one million dollars for an exclusive interview with the Angel. Too bad Bernie's in lockup awaiting bail on another case of selling stolen credit cards. These being Gale Gayley's.Hero is a weird tale at that. It's trying to work on so many levels at once that it could be easy to get lost for the average viewer. We got Bernie and his personal problems; legal, family, and otherwise and then we've got these other plot lines. Gale and the rabid news business and the mysterious indignant ex-Vietnam veteran, John Bubber (Andy Garcia) who comes forward claiming he's the Angel Of Flight 104. The key nemesis of the movie is it doesn't always know where it's going and neither do the characters. Bernie's philosophy is to always keep a low profile and he repeatedly passes this on to everyone - especially his son. Bubber is obviously an impostor, but his reasons are a mixed blessing. Meanwhile Gale and the news cronies are hungry for the person that has captured America's heart and more importantly the ratings and money spinoffs. When Bubber surfaces, they don't prod or investigate. Gale in fact is taken up with Bubber, who is rather cute and in fairy tale like world an almost perfect hero. Easily shapable and very easy to sell to the home audience no work needed. Meanwhile Bernie has to find a way of making things right -- in more ways than one.Hero is a good movie that could have been better if it could have been tighter. The cast does their job and the direction and writing is generally on course, but it feels too long and a tad implausible that only at the end does anybody really figure out what's going on. What Hero shows beautifully is the best and worst of people. That and Chevy Chase has possibly put in one of his best performances in a unbilled role. "},{"Title":"Insight into the complexities of heroism-fit for all ages","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorites and definitely underrated. A unique and timely story of heroism and its perception in society. I want badly to give this movie a ten, but some parts of it are, well, just too corny. Despite this flaw, the plot is complex and realistic-projecting a message that few want to hear in real life but one that is often welcome in the theater things get complicated (as Bernie LaPlante puts it). Do we often try to simplify our perceptions of people by labeling them as either good or bad because it would be just too much work to do otherwise with the many complex people we meet in life? Or are we all good or bad in certain situations or according to the environments we come from? "},{"Title":"There's a hero in all of us -- Feel-Good Family Movie!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dustin Hoffman in his familiar underdog role, the little guy who just can't get a break, with Gena Davis, the aspiring TV journalist and Andy Garcia, the down-and-out forgotten War Hero, surrounded by a supporting cast of Hollywood's best comedians, deliver a twist-and-turn comedy drama that soon proves to be a pretty good member in the feel good movie category.With a little bit of John Doe as well as a few sprinkles of Mr. Deeds Goes To Town, and several more borrowed elements from the Hollywood Magic Store, Hero is a very pleasant change from recent formula comedies. There is good in all of us, and to be labeled as anti-social or simply bad news can break the spirits of anyone. Just to know that one is wanted and loved can make all the difference. I can highly recommend this film for all ages! "}{"Title":"Funny story with convincing performances ...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 7/22/1996 - (Dir-Stephen Frears) Funny story with convincing performances by Hoffman, and Garcia.  Starts slow , but picks up pace when false hero comes forward. Unusual for a comedy to include these two actors but it works out pretty well. "},{"Title":"good satire, but needed trimming","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A small time Chicago grifter (Dustin Hoffman, doing a broad variation of Ratso Rizzo) rescues the victims of a plane crash, including hot-shot TV journalist Geena Davis, but watches down-and-out Andy Garcia take the credit and, more importantly, the million dollar reward offered by Davis' newsroom to help milk a great story. The set up is clumsy and the ending is unforgivably anticlimactic, but in between is a compact, subversive black comedy, mocking the common daydream of being an anonymous hero by showing the headline hungry press and gullible public going hog wild over an impostor. Some of the dialogue (ignoring one embarrassing speech by Davis using an onion as a visual aid) has the same myth-kicking satire of a classic Preston Sturges comedy, but the script (by the author of the similar but much more serious 'Unforgiven') is too often let down by the counterfeit screwball touches and typically glib style of director Stephen Frears. The perfect ending is also spoiled by at least ten added minutes of surplus resolution; just ignore everything after Hoffman and Davis finally confront each other during the climactic scene at the Drake Hotel. "},{"Title":"a near-miss Capra-esqe classic","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Would be a classic if they had cast Danny DeVito or Joe Pesci, or anyone who could do lovable villain in the title role.Instead Dustin Hoffman hams it up something awful and turns a would-be classic into a near-miss.Dustin is an all-time great, but something went awry with this performance (or with the direction).Geena Davis is pitch-perfect, and Andy Garcia is well-cast as the bum with movie-star looks and the heart of gold.Chucky the camera-man is classic. Blink and you'll miss Danny Baldwin foreshadowing Backdraft as a firefighter.Awaits a remake, I think. "},{"Title":"Accidental Hero","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like The Shawshank Redemption it was a box office flop, and it has now become known as a good (underrated) film, from director Stephen Frears (Mrs. Henderson Presents, The Queen). Basically Bernie Laplante (Dustin Hoffman) is down on his luck with a jail sentence, a divorce and a son in her custody with limited access because he doesn't keep his promises. Then one day, out of the blue, on the way home for his son's birthday, a plane crashes, and he helped open the door and carried out many of the survivors, including reporter Gale Gayley (Geena Davis), but he was obviously drunk, not thinking straight, and stealing what he can. The camera guy was paying more attention to a fire fighter, but looking back at the footage, learning of 54 survivors pulled out, and Gale claiming there was an Angel of Flight 104 the news are going hysterical praising and wondering who this hero is. Then in the campaign they decide to reward the unknown hero $1,000,000. Before hearing about this reward, Bernie told his experience to homeless John Bubber (Andy Garcia), and mentions not wanting any recognition. So Bubber takes the opportunity to lie and gets his fame, by not only by referring back to Bernie's story, but getting close to Gale. Eventually, after an arrest and bail, Bernie gets the chance to sort the situation with Bubber, even when Gale thinks Bernie is scheming and holding something over him (because he stole her purse). The film ends Bernie settling with Bubber staying the hero, getting some of the money, and Gale finds out the truth (off the record) and keeps to this decision also. Also starring Joan Cusack as Evelyn Lapante, Kevin J O'Connor as Chucky, Channel 4 News Cameraman, Maury Chaykin as Winston, Bernie's Landlord, Stephen Tobolowsky as James Wallace, Channel 4 Station Manager, Christian Clemenson as James Conklin, Channel 4 News Reporter, True Lies' Tom Arnold as Chick, Bartender, Warren Berlinger as Judge Goines and James Madio as Joey Laplante, Bernie's Son. The acting is good, it is annoying with the hold-backs (i.e. not getting to the truth), but it is a good film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Almost, but not quite.","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The right ingredients were all there. A great cast, some interesting characters, a timely concept, but somehow they just weren't mixed together properly. The story is actually believable to some extent. That wasn't the problem. More than anything the most disappointing thing they did was make Hoffman's character such a grouch.Hero is the story of a shady and down-on-his-luck guy who happens to be in the right place at the right time to rescue an entire plane load of passengers after a crash. Trouble is, he leaves the scene before anyone can figure out who he is, and another down-on-his-luck guy (Andy Garcia) ends up taking the credit for the rescue. This credit includes a million dollar reward and all the admiration from the public. Meanwhile, Hoffman has been put away for fencing stolen credit cards. He cannot get out in time to prove to anyone that he in fact did the heroic deed. Any time he tries he is basically shouted down, and nobody would really believe such a shady guy like him would do such a thing, anyway. A subplot involves Hoffman trying to win the admiration of his son who lives with his mother and her new man. Garcia, in the whirlwind of public attention also wins over a newswoman who was also on the plane played by Geena Davis. The comedic aspects of the film get bogged down in too much sentimentality, and the message aspect of the film ends up brooding over things.Hero has it's good parts. Davis and Garcia are actually pretty good. Davis being the plucky reporter who has the most insight into Garcia's situation. Garcia is obviously no saint, but he takes the opportunity to try and help inspire other people to become heroes themselves. Chevey Chase, uncredited, is hilarious as a network news big shot. There are some very memorable scenes. The plane crash was obviously done on the cheap, as we don't even see it until it is already down, but the scene where Hoffman rescues the passengers is somewhat believable. Hoffman has some funny scenes, but he should have had more of them. And that is the main problem with this film. Hoffman is TOO unlikeable. I don't know how many times he says goddamm, but it's just too many. He has a funny scene in a court room where he suggests the judge double his bail since he thinks he's about to cash in on a big reward. This scene has the right tone for his character. Joan Cusak as his ex-wife is excruciatingly annoying. And there is a cameraman who takes his job way too seriously and is also annoying. In addition, it just isn't logical how Hoffman's character is unable to properly explain to anyone that he is in fact the hero and not Garcia.In sum, this film is watchable but should have been better. At least funnier. We as a society do in fact worship people who do not in any way deserve such admiration. There is no doubting that. I just wish this film could have told this to us with more pizazz. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Anti-Lord Jim","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Joseph Conrad's Lord Jim tells the story of a person who is a hero in every way possible except he fails to perform any act of heroism. Instead acts like a coward.Hero is like a version of Lord Jim that fell through a freak worm hole in space and time from a dark matter anti-universe because it tells the story of a person who is NOT a hero in all ways except that he does perform a great act of heroism.Bernie (played by Dustin Hoffman) is the sort of guy you can't really trust. His life is not really that great and he lies and cheats a little bit to get life. He is not the sort of guy you would trust. Especially when he turns up late to work without any shoes and tries to explain that he just saved everyone from a plane accident.What makes matters worse is that someone else is taking credit for his heroic deed. So of course the question is, what makes a hero? This movie is a fun way to explore that question in a feel good manner. "},{"Title":"THE AWFUL TRUTH","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life is very complex as Bernie La Plante tells his son, when they grow up, people think they're going to have a supply of truth in the closet, like toilet paper...but the real truth is that there's nothing but one layer of bulls*** after another. So, when you grow up, you just pick your own bulls*** and live by that. Maybe that's not an exact quote of the script, but it's my bulls*** recollection.I have such praise for this film, I only hope that my praise is going to the right people. First off, it's a story that's an extraordinary combination of THE BOY WHO CRIED WOLF, CINDERELLA and CITY LIGHTS. No one would believe that Bernie the Plant's a hero; The missing shoe was worn by the wrong person; the man who gave sight to the blind (meaning all the regular suckers who wanted a hero) was not a rich and noble man but, like Chaplin in City Lights, just some bum.The City Lights reference is quite clear in the telephone conversation that Bernie has with his son and wife when he talks about going away on a business trip and offering support to his wife (for the benefit of his son and her) when he's really going to prison. The screenplay, by David Webb Peoples, is just about perfect. Dialogue that's the best in a movie since Preston Sturges - and that's REALLY SAYING SOMETHING. Peoples, whatever he's doing now, had an astounding year in 1992 when he had, produced, two of the best scripts ever written by anyone - HERO and UNFORGIVEN. Then, we have Dustin Hoffman's perfect performance. Finally we have Stephen Frears. He did a great job with his material, which, presumably, he would have been willing to cut off a foot to have the opportunity to direct.This movie is what America is really about - total bulls*** that has a beautiful heart at its core. "},{"Title":"One of the Year's Best Comedies.","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I decided to watch Hero because I love Dustin Hoffman. I actually almost picked this up a few times while I was after the Jet Li movie of the same name. I am certainly glad I watched this. This is one of the most underrated comedies of the decade. After all, this is a satire. It reminded me of Wag the Dog which is also a satire starring Dustin Hoffman that was released a few years afar this. One thing Hero does better is sell its believability and accuracy.Dustin Hoffman's role of lowlife Bernard LaPlante reminds me of many people I grew up with-- all the way down to his core. He is a mean, dumb, hated loser who just wants money and spending time with his kid. One rainy night, his car breaks down and he witnesses a plane crash yards away from him. He pops the door open and reluctantly saves everybody just before the plane explodes (the plane had 54 passengers). It is funny the way he does it because since he doesn't want to save anybody. He did the right thing, but was it really in his nature? He loses one of his hundred dollar shoes in the event and gives the other to a bum (Andy Garcia) the next day. Bernie wants to keep a low-profile and not attract much attention because of all his felonies and criminal ties.Geena Davis plays a reporter who is always in search of a good story and happens to be on the plane. Nobody gets a good looks at Hoffman, so a search for a lowlife with the other shoe begins. Bernie is in jail due to stolen goods and Garcia claims to be the hero as he is a lowlife who has the shoe. The movie is nice and fun up until this point, but Garcia stepping up to the plate is where it really starts to sizzle. Garcia is awarded one million dollars and becomes a nationwide sensation, renowned hero and inspiration to millions. Garcia is humble and uses the money for good, but Hoffman--who is the actually hero of the crash--would have kept it all for himself. So the viewer must decide who is more worthy. The publicity the Davis starts is exactly how the media works and people are manipulated. That is how it is similar to Wag the Dog. The first component that makes this movie great is Dustin Hoffman. He is one of the best actors in film history and his role as a complete loser is both funny and heartrending. That is hard to do. He is also the protagonist and changes the least out of the three leads. In every movie there is chemistry, and Hoffman slightly changes but still stays to to your average thug from the ghetto. It is rare that a character stays the same throughout a movie but is still great. I did touch base on how the media is affective, but the big picture and moral is what makes a hero. Bernie LaPlante is a hero because he saved people from a plane crash. Andy Garcia is a hero because he is a selfless inspiration. This feel-good dramedy is one of the most underrated movies of the decade. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"excellent movie with two serious miscastings","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this movie when it first came out and still like watching it when it plays on TV. Hoffman is one of our greatest actors. He's a joy to watch. This isn't his best work or his best movie but it's still worthwhile and holds your attention.I can't say that I think Andy Garcia was a good pick for John Bubber. He's literally unbelievable as a homeless guy-cum-hero. After they clean him up, he seems all too comfortable in the five star restaurant and signing autographs. That's miscast #1.The other notable odd casting is Chevy Chase. Even though he is uncredited, he seems like is playing a role in Fletch (which is one of his few good movies).Geena Davis is good as the reporter that realizes that Bubber is a fake and Hoffman's LaPlante is the real hero.That said, watching Hero is a great way to spend a couple of hours. It bogs down in a couple of scenes but it's still fun to watch. "},{"Title":"The Angel of Flight 1516","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" They were looking out for a hero&#x85;and had to settle.Later, I will discuss the magnitude of importance this review has for me, but for now, I searched for a 1992 movie I had seen, meant something to me and I haven't reviewed yet. Surprisingly, upon going through the IMDb list of 1992 films, I found over 40 great movies, but only about 10 I had previously reviewed. I couldn't believe how many GREAT movies to masterpieces were released during that year. And though I had stories for many of them as I recall where I saw them, with whom and how the films affected me, this one really stood out.I remember seeing this opening weekend, that first weekend of October 1992 and absolutely gushing over it. Insta 10/10 stars. I praised it to everyone and practically begged people to see it. But&#x85;that's where my memory of this movie ends. I don't ever remember seeing it again during the 23 years between then and now. Funny. Usually when I loved a movie this much, I would've seen it on repeat back then, or at very least, *gulp* add it to my vast VHS collection.So, I had to see it again, and hopefully relive that joy I remember back in early October 1992. Did it live up to my own hype? Did it hold up after over two decades? Eh, not really. But, still, it was a very good movie.I did find myself laughing out loud &#x96; it was a straight up comedy, though feel-good comedy. And as bad as the three main characters were &#x96; man, our title character was such a horrible citizen, their turns at having a conscious were inspirational. Lifetime criminal Bernie is trying to balance being a good divorced dad to his son, hocking stolen goods and credit cards and attempting to stay out of prison when all of a sudden&#x85;a plane nearly drops on top of him. To put it very mildly, he reluctantly helps the people escape the tragic crash and even some trapped survivors. One of which, is Reporter Gale who makes it her mission to find the unknown hero who vanishes. A one-million-dollar reward draws out Bernie's bum friend to fake being the hero the Windy City needs.Those three, Bernie, Gale and the bum, John, all really turn the light- hearted comedy into something much better. All three have baggage and are technically bad people, but through the well-written script, signs of light shine through and it's a joy to see their bits of selflessness.Again, I didn't go all 10 stars with even more stars in my eyes this time around, but it's worth it to see it&#x85;even if just to see how many other stars showed up in minor roles. Maybe we all have a little bit of heroism in us, I'd like to take from this and hopefully believe in real life. ***Final thoughts In truth, I don't recall the actual flight number from the movie, but I used that number for the special reason I chose this film. It's been my lucky number most of my life 1516. And this is my 1,516th review. So, I had to make it special and count.Back in my day&#x85;ah-hem&#x85;not too long before the interwebs, we had in college THE ELECTRONIC FORUM, or ef for short. This is where college students could electronically talk with each other and their teachers on the old, plain green screens. It was basic, of course, but came with many, many different forums from the serious to the fun to even the meet-your-match ones. When I signed up, that fall of 1992, right around the time this movie opened, I was the 1,516th user (it eventually went up to the 10s of thousands) and hence, that was my destination ef1516.I've adopted that number for my life since &#x96; though, no, I don't use it as any of my PINs or passwords as that would be too easy for anyone who really knew me or my past. THAT was a long story on how I came to pick Hero as my 1,516th movie review. It was just perfect that I remember loving this movie at about the same time I claimed my lifelong lucky number. "}{"Title":"The satire saves this film","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of all the reviews I've read to the time of my writing (June 2015), only half a dozen seem to have caught the satire of Hero. Otherwise, most reviewers saw it as an inspiring story, or as a comedy/tragedy, or just as an entertaining film. It surely has some of all of these things in it. But with those aspects alone, Hero is only a fair movie. It's the satire that lifts the film and gives it some life and interest above just fun viewing. The satire is considerable &#x96; very subtle in places and not so in others. It's social commentary on the public adulation of heroes. It's the stereotyping of people who might be able to be heroes. But, mostly, it's about the TV news media and its piranha-esque drive for sensationalist news. And the film has some other aspects that are treated lightly, as if to be OK. Stealing, lying and deceit top the list. These aspects are interwoven with a hero who says selfless things and who acts in kind ways. So, he's inspiring. But the morality is a mixed bag with the dishonesty of the situation. That's part of the story and part of the satire. It's also the part that can be confusing for young people. They may ask, Do we applaud dishonesty or not? Or, Does the end justify the means?I can't agree with those who see characters miscast. I think the cast were all excellent in their performances. Dustin Hoffman is spot-on as Bernie. Gena Davis is very good as the once-sure and later conflicted news reporter, Gale. A couple people thought Any Garcia was miscast as the homeless, down and out person who turns around as the hero. But did they see that much turn around? I spent several years in soup kitchens and charity work for homeless folks an got to know a number of them. Garcia's John Bubber is an ideal character &#x96; much like half a dozen young men I met over the years. They each had a different story of a past that led them to their current state. I think Chevy Chase gave the best supporting performance as Deke. He played the hard-nosed, cynical, amoral, sensation-seeking, driven, uncaring and impersonal station news director perfectly. Are all such people that way? Probably not. But this was a good satire of the industry that competes that way. Kevin O'Connor was very good as the self-impressed TV cameraman, Chucky; and Stephen Tobolowsky was good as Wallace, the apparent station manager. The screenplay and plot were not spectacular. The rest of the technical aspects were OK to good. A big distraction to me was the excessive use of profanity by Hoffman's Bernie. It wasn't necessary for the character or story, and was enough of a distraction to lower the film's overall rating by a notch. And that's reason also to keep older children from watching the film &#x96; or for advising the more mature teens on the subject. Besides the satire, I think the smattering of witty lines or very funny comments make the film most enjoyable. Someone said (perhaps it was in a movie that I watched years ago) that there's a little bit of larceny in everyone. In this film, Garcia's character says something like that and adds that there's a little bit of hero in everyone. This film makes both points clearly. But it leaves the matter of truth and honesty up in the air. Here are some clever scenes and lines. In his hotel room, the new hero has all sorts of gifts from prominent people. He opens the card on a large fruit basket that reads, To John Bubber from Barbra Streisand. A good pun of the celebrity industry showing its support for the hero &#x96; otherwise to get in the act. The bartender says to Bernie, Don't be depressed, Bernie. You don't have to be a hero to be a human being. The news director, Deke, watches John Bubber on camera make remarks about decency and helping the needy, and turns to Wallace, Have you ever heard more BS or drivel coming from someone who isn't even president? Bernie, to his son, The thing about TV is, you don't want to believe what you see. Not always. Not if you're smart. "},{"Title":"Silly, but enjoyable.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, guys, let's give this movie a break. Of course it's not very realistic, of course it's silly, call it shallow, and I won't argue, but there is a HUGE redeeming factor this movie is not trying to be more than it is. At times (may be not often enough) it mocks itself. So those `messages' get delivered gently, with a better result. I'll tell you this if you don't know how to deliver them serious and important messages cleverly, deliver them lightly, gently, laughingly, and at least you won't annoy your audience, which will give you a better chance to get through. Watch this flick and then compare it with `The Contender' and you'll know what I'm talking about. It's enjoyable. If it drags at times, you get sufficiently compensated by watching charming performances by Hoffman, Davis, Andy Garcia and others. Part of me agrees that Hoffman is just not nearly revolting enough for his role, but hey, it's good to see him anyway. Come home after a long workday, leave your brains at the doormat, sprawl on the couch and enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now I like Dustin Hoffman. The Graduate - Lenny. Say no more. But in this film he seems to have it all wrong. He plays it like a Ritzo Ratzo looking for laughs. The shambling walk - the mildly inconvenient crashing of a 200 ton airliner whilst driving on the freeway. 'Oh jeeze, better not be Quantas' he might have said. I tried seeing the whole thing as 'satire' - all those media types selling their souls for a buck but in the end the film falls between the stools of comedy and drama. The bee-stung lips of Geena Davies may hold your attention but you can only squirm as you watch Dusty sleepwalk through this production.  "},{"Title":"Heros come in all shapes and sizes","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting little movie this is. On the top it doesn't seem to be that much, but when one begins to look deeper one sees that this movie is very scathing of the media and the way they turn people into celebrities, even though they did nothing to deserve it. The major theme of this movie is that of appearance and reality - what is real, and if television says it does that mean that it is true? And are those heroes we see on television really heroes or are they just foolish people who were damn lucky? Bernie Le-Plant (Dustin Hoffman) is the typical everyday cretin. He has just been convicted of receiving stolen goods and he is to be sentenced in six days. During the trial he steals a heap of money off of his lawyer, who is only a court-appointed lawyer that he does not like, and then goes off to make himself look good in the eyes of society by seeing his son. While going to get his son, a plane crashes in front of him, and because he cannot drive over the bridge as there is a burning plane in the way, he rather reluctantly goes and opens the door, after removing his $100 shoes. After letting the people out, a kid asks him to find his dad, so rather reluctantly Bernie goes into the plane and saves those trapped in there, but there is no Fletcher, as he has already escaped. While rescuing a journalist, he decides to steal her purse. The twist evolves when he loses one shoe and gives the other to a vagrant, John Bubba (Andy Garcia), who lives out of a truck. Bubba is a nice and honest guy, but when the television station offers a million dollars to the person who rescued the people from the plane, Bubba cannot resist and takes the shoe and claims the prize. Unlike Cinderella, Bubba is not the real princess, yet he turns out to be the most deserving one. Now that they have their hero, the media sets about turning him into a god. Everybody loves him and literally hangs of every word he says. Everybody by the real hero, Bernie Le-Plant. The thing is that Le-Plant is not the hero type - Bubba visits hospitals and give people hope, while Le-Plant just simply wanders around stealing credit-cards and landing up in jail. Though Bubba is not the real hero, he conforms to the people's idea of a hero and thus finds himself trapped in the role. He tries to get out by trying to speak the truth but nobody really wants to listen to him - he is the hero and nothing is going to change their minds about it. The most interesting aspect of the movie occurs at the climax where Bubba is standing on the ledge of a building wanting to jump off. He is fed up with living a lie and Le-Plant is haunting his dreams. He knows Le-Plant is the real hero and the guilt of his lie is tearing him apart. Le-Plant gets out onto the ledge to save Bubba, and they begin to talk, but as they talk, the media slowly begin to twist things around - what began as Bubba wanting to jump and Le-Plant talking him down, becomes Le-Plant wanting to jump and Bubba saving him. Bubba is the hero figure and the media want to milk it for as much as they can. By the time they are back into the building, everybody has forgotten that it was actually Bubba out on the ledge originally wanting to jump. The movie shows us a very cold and indifferent side of the media. The quote about suicidees is not trying to talk them down - that does not make a good news story - but not catching them least they pull you over as well. The journalist comes slowly to see this side of the media as the person whom she has come close to - Bubba - is now the target of the media's sensationalism. Her cameraman still does not understand, and simply wants to see somebody making a red mark on the ground. As the news stations buzz with activity at the action occurring on the skyscraper - the talk is not about bringing them down, but digging up information regarding the people on the ledge. When another station discovers who Bernie Le-Plant is and slowly manipulates the story around to suit them, the executive has a fit as they did not get the information first. As what was said in Wag the Dog, a movie with a similar theme, if it is said on television then it must be true - one cannot contradict a story that has been developed by another station, unless the contradiction reveals even more sensational evidence. "},{"Title":"Kind of good and annoying at the same time.","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie and have watched it a few times. Something about the movie is rather good. I also find it very annoying in a sense as well. Runs the table between being good and not so good all at the same time. A guy who is a bit of a small time crook and con man is really having a tough go of it. He ends up at the scene of a plane crash and ends up helping a large number of the passengers off the plane before it explodes. He does not want to be recognized for this partly due to the fact that the little boy who asked him to help his daddy. The guy rescues all these people, but did not stumble across the kid's dad thus he thinks that the father did not survive. Basically this guy seems like a bad person, but in reality he does have a soft spot. Well another man ends up taking credit for this rescue, a man that got a hold of something that linked the guy who did the rescue to said event. He basically gave the real hero a drive and the guy gave him a shoe as he lost the other at the crash. The film has good stars as Dustin Hoffman plays the person who did the rescuing and Gena Davis is the one that launches the search for him when he does not immediately step forward. Andy Garcia plays the one who takes the credit. There are funny moments, but I did not care for parts of the ending mainly the ledge scene and how it got turned around on who was helping who. Still it was an okay comedy/drama, liked the part with the father and son and the zoo. "},{"Title":"Fluffy melodrama........","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie could have been much better. The basic idea is sound and intriguing. The execution however, comes across as less than sincere, and that is a serious flaw. Dustin Hoffman carries Hero on the back of his unsympathetic character, who is constantly sending out mixed messages. Andy Garcia is totally miscast as a street bum. Geena Davis manipulates the story in a sugar coated fashion that weakens the entire production. The film drags in places, and probably would have benefited from trimming. Bottom line. Hero is watchable and an above average movie. It is however, a contrived melodrama that comes across as somewhat insincere. - MERK "},{"Title":"Don't Confuse Heartwarming with Great","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of those mediocre films that many people are fooled by because it is heartwarming. It is not a bad film. It is just not much better than average. It is a pleasant film, an enjoyable film, but it hardly ranks with It's A Wonderful Life, the paragon of this type. If IAWL is a 10, this is a 6. Look at the demographics of the vote. The highest ratings came from females under 18. Older viewers rated it as just above average. That is predictable. The older a viewer is, the more likely that the viewer has seen many films of this type. We have seen it all before - and better done. Films of this type were common during the Depression, films to buoy the spirits of a nation on the ropes. "},{"Title":"Good Idea. Bad Movie.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The idea is very good. The execution and most of the casting is horribly out of place.Among the most obnoxious unbelievable characters is that of Chevy Chase, who after so long in showbiz, has never learned to act.Only Hoffman and Davis seem to me convincing. Everybody else is AWFUL! including Andy Garcia.But the worst sinner is the director. It was clear he did not know what type of genre he was working on.And so it goes. McQ "},{"Title":"Accidental Film","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you try to forget the fact that you are actually watching Hoffman then you can enjoy certain parts of this film. It is disappointing to see a man who performed admirably in such great pictures as The Graduate, Papillon and Rainman stoop so low as to accept a part in this second rate script.There are lots of parts that I found un-enjoyable, including Davis' harangues and Hoffman's more than lame character, but it does have one or two saving graces. I like the many scenes with Hoffman that are not related to him being a hero, including steeling money from his lawyer, claiming that the homeless play the stock exchange, advising his son to keep a low profile and his many other moral philosophies on life. It is probably worth watching for these bits alone, in much the same way as it was worth watching Conspiracy Theory not for the main story, but for hearing Gibson's theories and seeing his lifestyle.The main theme of the film does, however, get very old very fast. We know from the beginning that he wont get credit for his endeavour, but we find out that the guy who did is a far better bloke, so it is hard to feel sorry for Hoffman. It portrays the American public as being a stupid bunch of easily persuaded unimaginative sheep when it comes to role models, so I suppose that there is a message in it. Aside from the dialogue that he gets, we can see that Hoffman struggles to keep the film going, and the hollow script is barely enough to sustain the near 2-hour running time.The Chevy Chase cameo, and seeing that guy Bing from Groundhog Day were mildly amusing, but really this film was of an largely banal nature. Possibly worth watching once, but that is about as strongly as I could recommend it.  "},{"Title":"this is a terrible, terrible movie","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" directors/writers, watched too many Frank Capra pictures, when they concocted this awful adventure.Dustin Hoffman sleepwalks through this accountant-approved wonder, the mellowed out homeless guy, who casually saves a lot of lives, in the only good scene in the picture. SEE THE PICTURE.Chevy Chase, as the newsroom Director, who must keep an eye Hoffman and Garcia (they sit out on a high ledge, Garcia's suicide perch - he's the guy who took credit for Hoffman's heroicS) who is so bad....I can't go on...anyway, consider that his name does not appear in the movie credits.all due respect to the reviewer who called this thing a satire...but I'll call it a sad tire. (no such inspiration in the script). "}{"Title":"We don't need another hero ...","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The premise of Stephen Frears' Hero is a Capra movie written by a cynic, which is good. Yet it ends like a Capra movie, which, by the 90's standards, isn't so good.TV replaced newspapers as domineering media. Journalists are modern vultures in quest for sensational stories. Geena Davis is one of them, Gale, the wisecracking Jean Arthur-figure, fantasizing about THE scoop while crossing her legs on her boss' desk. And Andy Garcia is John Bubber, Gary Cooper's John Doe, the bum toyed by the media to become an instant hero, for a public hungry for models.Hero asks insightful questions about our need of heroic figures as scapegoats to vent our social anger on. The most thought-provoking question it asks is to which extent we're ready to accept a phony yet pleasing reality rather than a non photogenic truth. And the cynical aspect of the film is embodied by the main character Dustin Hoffman as Bernie LaPlante, perhaps the only person in the film who doesn't inspire a dj-vu feeling from a Capra film, although he looks like an older version of Ratso Rizzo, the depth lacking.LaPlante is a small time crook specialized in pick-pocket and gold cards selling. To say that he's a loser is an understatement he's divorced, her wife married with a fireman, his son loves him but hasn't got much to admire. To accentuate the pathos, LaPlante steals the purse of his lawyer during the trial that makes his jail sentence imminent and having his free days numbered doesn't make him remorseful at all. Not only he gives his son the kind of advice to show that a Father-of-the-Year, he ain't, he also keeps his stealing habits. We get it, LaPlante is unredeemable.Is he? Maybe the portrayal of LaPlante flirts with one-dimensionality to better prepare us for the film's pivotal moment when he saves, all alone, 54 passengers from a crashing plane by just opening the emergency door. A panicked boy begs him to find his father, LaPlante's son reflecting in these sad-looking eyes decides him for once, to accomplish one unselfish deed. He saves many passengers trapped in the plane, including Gale whom, conditioned by his job, he steals the purse. The trick is that he never finds the father (who safely left the plane) and out of guilt, chooses to fade in anonymity again, while, Gale, on stretchers, also conditioned by her job, is already trying to find the hero.The rest of the film is pure Capra material, the TV channel tries to find the mysterious man, and the only hint left is the shoe Bernie left before getting on the mud. The mysterious Cinderella man or 'Angel of the Flight 104' becomes the most wanted man of America. Bernie tells the story to the lucky John Bubber who drove him home on his van (which is also his house) leaves his shoe so he can give it to a crippled friend, and naturally, when one million dollars are offered, Bubber has his moment of weakness. Everyone is convinced, starting by Gale, a sweet, good-looking and sincere Vietnam vet, the perfect antithesis to men like LaPlante.Except that he's not the hero, and that's the cynical core of Stephen Frears' comedy, when truth matters less than the way media depicts it, when phony figures bring more hope and goodness than real ones, especially in the crisis-stricken America of the early 90's. Bubber is perfect beyond words, becoming a sort of modern prophet, awakening a comatose kid with the right words. At that point, the film is so full of irony that we stop waiting for LaPlante to raise his voice, we wonder if it really matters, since Bubber really helps people. Of course, the story can't do without the recognition of LaPlante's merits.And this is where the main weakness lies. No one ever listens to LaPlante, not after the disaster, no after he learned about the reward. Take the scene where he gets back home all mud-covered with one shoe left, his wife doesn't even try to know what happened, she angrily blames him for disappointing his son, who wanted to go &#x85; to the movies! I was like oh no!, he'd just seen his son! they could've come with better than that. What if she didn't believe him, while the son does? How come LaPlante never tells anyone or tries to confront Bubber, through another channel? The same pattern works in reverse when Bubber tries to tell the truth to Gale, she doesn't let him speak. You know something is wrong when the simplest situation in the world doesn't happen for the sake of a script. The result is that most of the film consists on LaPlante getting more and more pitiful, Bubber more and more heroic, and in-between, Gales doesn't have suspicion only until the last minute. The result is a good satire about the social role of media but an average comedy that never challenges its own potential and keeps on repeating the same situations.It's just as if Frears were so hurried to get to the scene when the name of LaPlante would be mentioned on the same breathe than Bubber and everyone reacts to it, that he took the 'easy way' to get to it. Dustin Hoffman specialized in various roles where he pointed out the role media frenzy can play on a social level, from All the President's Men to Mad City, Wag the Dog or Tootsie, in the best ones, things always go totally out of proportions and even media can't control them. In Hero, everything stays in-control and kind of kills off the whole cynical aspect of the premise.It's just as Frears trusted us to believe in the characters' actions', while if there's one thing to learn from his own film, is to never take firm beliefs for granted. "},{"Title":"Should be remade","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a bad script, but Dustin Hoffman is all wrong for this role.  This guy is supposed to be a total scumbag, but Hoffman comes off like a rude but amusing homeless guy - like Nick Nolte from Down and Out in Beverly Hills. The other problem with this movie is that they tried to make it into a comedy, which this movie should not be.  If they wanted to make it a comedy, it should have been funnier.  Not a bad movie really, but it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Shoeless crashed-airplane hero disappears in downtown fog - an antithesis of antihero","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since that fatidical and horrendous September 11th, our television here in Spain has presented us with almost a plethora of terrorist films, especially the regional channel reaching us from the Basque Country &#150; Euskadi, as we call it - , precisely the region which is still threatened by the only terrorist group left in activity in Europe. I cannot affirm that this is merely the translation of an exaggerated sense of morbidity among Spanish people &#150; `morbo' TV programmes keep a high level of screen share here at peak viewing times. I think you can easily understand that a film with an aeroplane crashing on top of New York is not exactly a good idea given the circumstances at the moment. The truth is, I only selected this film because Dustin Hoffman is in it, without discounting the added interest that Andy Garca could give us. As for the `unknown' Daniel Baldwin lower down in the cast, I prefer not to comment. Dustin Hoffman has impressed me in his better roles, such as in `Midnight Cowboy', `The Graduate', `Straw Dogs', `Papillon', `Kramer versus Kramer', `American Buffalo' (qv), and `Rain Man', and have shown me he is not one of those stereotyped actors, but able to carry out more or less successfully many kinds of roles. Curiously it is precisely in `Hero' that I first felt tempted to thinking that he is more or less continuing on from where he left off back in 1969 as Ratso Rizzo. However, as the film progressed, it became more apparent that the film is a skit or parody the hidden humour makes itself evident, making it pleasing that people are able to see, appreciate and laugh at their own foibles. In this case the unreasoning passion for creating idols &#150; whether real or imaginary is not at all important &#150; and how camera-toting and microphone-wielding reporters from newspapers, TV and radio cluster around the great news-making hero of the moment.  Certainly this film should not be classified merely as a comedy, nor even drama, as the ingredients involved in the situation presented is a kind of lightweight parody; the real hero is no such thing as he totally ignores that everyone wants to find him, and anyway, he is a loser in the fight for life who would rather sell his own mother than put himself into any kind of compromising situation. I give it 5 out of ten, if only because Hoffman and Garca carry out roles which occasioned a few stomache-laughs. Geena Davis did not come up to much, and it is not the first time. And anyway, Stephen Frears should always get a respectable vote; he just would not be British, otherwise. Tsk, tsk &#150; and I thought it was a film in which the Americans had laid on a a sly laugh about themselves&#133;&#133;&#133;... "},{"Title":"It's full of creeps, liars and louts...'adorable' creeps, liars and louts","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excruciating comedy has Dustin Hoffman playing a con man and pickpocket in New York City who is already in all kinds of legal trouble when his car stalls on a bridge overlooking a river where an airliner has just crash landed; he reluctantly helps the passengers out of the plane and then disappears. Later, a TV newswoman, who happened to be on the ill-fated flight, turns the story around to reflect on the mysterious hero, causing worldwide interest. Intriguing concept for a comedy-drama, but this one is never sure what it wants to be (or what tempo the scenes should be set at). At certain moments, it's a rapid-fired, Front Page-styled satire, other times it's a mushy piece littered with brash or kooky characters, none of whom seem credible. In a running, irritating gag, Hoffman's character isn't able to get his side of the story out--he's constantly thwarted by people who won't listen, don't care, or don't believe him. However the biggest joke is, he's such an ill-mannered, disreputable lout, he doesn't deserve any recognition! Geena Davis has some brief moments where her innate charm comes through without effort, and the supporting cast is full of wonderful characters actors; however, no one here merits much interest. You know a picture's in trouble when there are only two decent people on hand a non-mouthy teenager and Tom Arnold as a bartender. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Failed attempt at satire.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ** out of ****This movie has its good moments and its bad moments, unfortunately there are more bad moments than there are good. The fist half is pretty funny. It is not especially well written, but it is enjoyable and the actors are fun to watch. Especially Dustin Hoffman. In the second half though, the actors become overly annoying and the filmmakers get weird on us. Social commentary is thrown into the mix, but whatever statement or comment they are trying to make is unknown to me, and perhaps to them, too. Overall, it's a movie weighed down by weak writing, mixed messages, and inconsistent characters. "}]