[{"Title":"As good as meatballs 3!!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How's that for an endorsement? This movie is just bad..Corey Feldman stars and tries to save a water ski camp (huh?) from being taken over by the evil competitor..the usual hi jinks ensue with the usual T & A not that T & A is bad ...there are some former playmates here but it is definitely not worth this drivel..on a scale of one to ten..0 "},{"Title":"Nobody was waiting for this","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you've seen this movie you might have realised it, but this wasn't even actually intended to be a Meatballs-sequel. They just put a Meatballs-sticker on some random summer camp movie and hoped that somehow would make it suck less. But anyway, a couple of playmates that do absolutely EVERYTHING topless, an annoying fat teenager who looks 42 and will definitely take a playmate home and Corey Feldman at the highlight of his career all take on an evil rich woman who wants to steal an old guy's (played by Jack Nance, WTF?) summer camp. The guy sees no other option than to sell the camp but Corey Feldman, who looks really bored throughout this movie, has an idea beating evil woman's team at water-skiing. I don't know much about that constitution, but I'm pretty sure it doesn't say The ownership of all properties will be settled by water-skiing contests. From what I know, it works with paying money and stuff like that. But anyway, you'll never guess how it ends.However, does anybody care about how boring, predictable and unfunny this movie is? I mean it's T&A, there's T, there's A, no reason to complain. Stuffing plot holes with boobs is still as brilliant as it was when it was invented, may the tradition go on forever. But still, this is a way too light movie that you forget the instant it's over. What the heck am I commenting on again? "},{"Title":"Painful is the only way to describe it.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know you're dealing with a bad movie when Corey Feldman is the best thing about it, and even he is at his worst in this one.  The dialogue writing is atrocious, the story is worse than cliched, and the characters...well, there aren't any characters in this one. The only reason you'd ever want to waste time seeing this is to laugh at Corey Feldman's solo dance scene.  I find it hard to believe that anyone connected to the movie thought that his dancing was cool. I watched this on the local late night movie channel, and really wished I'd fallen asleep instead. "},{"Title":"Feldman, drugs, Eraserhead.","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jack(eraser-head) Nance must have been in a bad place in life to accept this role. Feldman, what to say besides; Drug use. His solo dance sequence plays out like a vivid fever dream. Watch at the end of the film as Feldman is delivering a joke and his frigging' tooth falls out.The script is non-existent, I mean even in some of the worst T and A pictures of all time there are some chuckles to be had;not here. Most of the cast made me fighting mad with their hair do's (or don'ts as the case may be)and who in the fun*k is going to believe that people think Feldman is cool. He looks like a 12 year old who got into his mom's cross tops, he kind of reminds me of an old neighbor I hate, which makes me want to fight him even more. In the end, I can only wish bad things on the people that made this picture, I would have rather had them spend their money on hookers and hard drugs, at least then we know some professionals would have been involved. "},{"Title":"I kept losing the storyline because of all the half-naked women running around in bikini's - most annoying.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Teenage, Summer Camp, Tits n'Ass movies can almost justify a minor sub-genre of their own - I'll wager there is the odd student thesis floating around, discussing their effect on late 20th Century American history.'Meatballs 4' is a sequel in name only (in the UK it was retitled 'Summer Vacation'), and is a dumb pointless release which will provide shallow laughs for the most undiscerning adolescent male. The story, for what its worth, involves the rivalry between two summer camps, one of which is trying to buy-out the other. Things stumble along until the watersports competition finale between the camps which will decide the fate of each.It's a complete waste of your reading time and my typing fingers to go into any more detail. The film is rubbish, but there is no point in criticising it for this - it doesn't fail to live up to expectations because it doesn't have any. You don't go to a burger bar for nouvelle cuisine and you don't put 'Meatballs 4' in your video hoping for 'Battleship Potemkin'.BEST SCENE - the film peaks early with a superb naked college girls shower scene.   "},{"Title":"It's better then Meatballs 2 and 3, hell of a lot better.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie and actually though it was pretty good. If you compare it to the other Meatballs movies. The writers seem to went back to what the original Meatballs movie had. Simple fun for adults...not kiddie camp stuff like 2 had. No Aliens, no dead sex star ghosts. Back to the original theme of male chauvinistic rivalry and competition between camps. But as Grum-3 says..yes the best thing about is Corey Feldman...but is obvious the script dialog was pretty poor but it still had me laughing and enjoying the fun of it. It wasn't ever meant to be a blockbuster, just simple fun.  "},{"Title":"Meatballs 4","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think if anything, Meatballs 4 proves that there shouldn't have been three sequels. This rather limp summer camp comedy tries to coast by on Cory Feldman's deteriorating star power. It concerns Camp Lakeview's competition with a more successful affluent Camp Twin Oaks. Bug-eyed Jack Nance stars as Neil Peterson, Lakeview's owner who is facing a mortgage crisis, approached by Twin Oaks' Monica Shavetts(Sarah Douglas)to sell his camp so she can turn it into a golf course. He hires Ricky Wade(Feldman)to help turn things around as the annual water ski meet is on the horizon between Lakeview and Twin Oaks. This fourth film in the tired Meatballs series doesn't have an inspired joke in it's arsenal, and only has hot girls and naked breasts to atone for the lackluster material. Lots of water sports stunts, with Feldman pulling another Michael Jackson dance session that was as cumbersome as the dying summer camp comedy whose heyday had long passed after the 80's was over. The cast, to their credit, gives it their best shot, but the screenplay doesn't do them any favors. It is, after all, about the laughs and when I found myself dozing off periodically, having not even giggled out loud once, I knew that Meatballs 4 was officially the final nail in the coffin of a franchise that never should've existed to begin with. There is a clumsy large fellow whose size and easy-going nature is the butt of jokes,allowed to save the day for our heroes and gets the chick at the end, so maybe this tells you all you need to know about the movie. Of course, Shavetts is an underhanded wealthy woman determined to see she attains the rights to Lakeview(..and Ricky)so she'll use every sneaky technique possible, including her two hired goons who wreak havoc on the summer campers, in turn causing those perturbed to leave for home. Nance looks as if he'd been sniffing glue, during his many scenes with Feldman. Feldman is having relationship problems with Nance's granddaughter after leaving for a momentary stint to Twin Oaks. Feldman hopes to save the camp so that she can be in charge of it when Nance passes on. Feldman, of course, is a talented water skier who hopes to accomplish a historic triple flip in order to win the stunt competition. Thanks to Shavetts, they will have to overcome chicanery and cheating in order to do so. "},{"Title":"It was good for what it was suppose to be!","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't believe only 2.5?! What was everyone expecting? This is suppose to be a boob flick! I thought Feldman was his usual self and his one liners actually had me grinning, I really cant think of anyone else who would've fit the roll better. I remember watching this when I was in junior high back in the day, and water skiing was what summer was all about. Does anyone water ski anymore?? The movie was really lacking in that aspect, but as previously stated I think it was more focused on the boob shots. The nunzio and dick mafia guys were actually pretty funny for being typical Italian wanna be gangsters. Its by no means a 10, but deserves better than 2.5, this wasn't like Adam Sandlers Overboard for Christ sake..... or any other movie Adam Sandler comes out with now days. "},{"Title":"A waste of your valued time","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't say enough bad things about this heap of garbage. If a movie makes you roll your eyes and say things like, Ugh, how stupid every 5 minutes, then you know it's time to toss the bastard in the garbage. And that's what should have happened to this script. It's amazing to think that a studio actually granted this piece of crap.What makes 'Meatballs 4' really sickening is Corey Feldman's ego maniacal character. Talk about a guy who strokes his ego more than his carrot! Apparently, Ricky is infallible in damn near every water sport and revenge tactic. It never makes much sense, and it infuriates me that so much money was spent and wasted in making this heap of crap.I understand this was never intended to be part of the Meatballs series, but seriously, somebody should have sued. At least someone would have made some money from this movie! I recommend to stay away from this and rent 'Surf 2' instead. You'll get more laughs, and plus there's a plot to go with it. "},{"Title":"I choose death!","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is quite possibly the worst movie ever made. This movie was made in 1992, but it can still be seen occasionally on some of the less reputable cable TV channels in the middle of the night. If I had to choose between watching this movie again and death, I would choose death! I will not watch Corey Feldman dance like Michael Jackson again. He must grab his crotch about 50 times in 10 seconds of screen time. If I spoiled this movie for you, you should be thanking me. Trust me, do not waste a second of your life watching this movie. Any remaining VHS copies of this movie should be dropped on North Korea. I don't think they bothered producing any DVDs of this piece of trash. "}{"Title":"One of The Feldog's finest hours on film","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are certain films that distinguish themselves for a multitude of significant reasons. This remarkably profound and provocative celluloid meditation on man's deep-seated need to party, have fun, and, most importantly, see beautiful young women naked rates highly as a true work of cinematic art. For starters, the almighty Corey Feldman hits it out of the ballpark with his exemplary performance as cocky and charismatic maverick water skier and recreation director Ricky Wade Whether he's busting some flashy Michael Jackson-style moves on the dance floor or dropping an ingenious reference to The Goonies while looking directly at the camera (and staring straight into the viewer's very soul), The Feldog's magnetic presence positively galvanizes the screen. The brilliant acting by the rest of the cast likewise warrants major kudos Jack Nance works twitchy magic as madcap camp owner Neil Peterson, Sarah Douglas bitches it up with divinely snarky aplomb as the evil Monica Shavetts, and Brad Grunberg delivers a heart-wrenching portrayal of hapless bumbling fat guy Victor Thigpen. The bevy of fine looking gals in juicy roles helps a lot Paige French as the sexy'n'spunky Jennifer Lipton, ravishing redhead Deborah Tucker as the sweet and pretty Kelly Peterson, and, best of all, delectable Playboy Playmate Cristy Thom as the scrumptious Hillary (who bares her marvelous breasts at one crucial point simply because she can). Writer/director Brad Logan not only provides a wealth of hot babes in skimpy bikinis and loads of delicious copious gratuitous distaff nudity (yep, we even get a very tasty group shower sequence!), but also deftly milks the inspired and incisive giddy lowbrow humor for maximum hilarity. The water skiing set pieces are staged with utmost precision and dexterity. Vance Burberry's exquisite cinematography vividly captures the merry frolicking while the cool rocking score gives the picture an extra rousing kick. Masterful stuff. "},{"Title":"Stupid But It Makes Me Laugh","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs 4 (1992)** 1/2 (out of 4) If you're looking for something that will one day appear on one of those Sight and Sound polls then you're better go elsewhere. If you're looking for something truly stupid, vulgar and funny then MEATBALLS 4 is just for you. Now listen, there's no question that the majority of people are going to hate this movie but if you enjoy silly comedy that is clearly leftover stuff from the 80s then this here offers quite a bit. The story is pretty simple as Ricky Wade (Corey Feldman) is hired by a camp owner (Jack Nance) who finds his business falling apart due to a rival camp. Wade's main goal is to win a water sports contest but soon the stakes are higher than normal. Again, if you're looking for something smart then look elsewhere. I've always enjoyed watching this film because it's just so childish and so bad in so many ways that I can't help but laugh at it and have a good time. Feldman is clearly the perfect choice for this guy as he can be stuck up and deliver smart lines like no one else. Fans of his will enjoy watching him here and while the performance isn't Oscar-worthy it's at least good enough for this type of film. Nance comes across with a maniac performance that is so goofy and over-the-top that you can't help but love it. The supporting cast fit their roles just fine for what it's worth. The comedy is all very childish with the typical sex and fart jokes but we've also got the fat guy no one likes but of course he's going to prove to be a winner by the end. MEATBALLS 4 is a just a cheap sex comedy but it made me laugh. "},{"Title":"Even worse than Part 3!","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fourth & so far last installment to this unconnected & increasingly awful series, has two rival camps at each others throat, while a water ski instructor tries to reclaim the girl of his dreams. Like in the first three installments to this series, various hijinks occur as a result & then everything gets sorted out in the end & all ends happily, with the exception of this series of course. Believe it or not MEATBALLS 4 is even worse than MEATBALLS 3, there's very little comedy, a whole lot of naked female & male flesh & no brains in sight. While the actors are pretty good, their characters are annoying & the direction is a tad sluggish. Lots of great water ski stunts, but little else to recommend. Makes the first two seem like Oscar winners & Part 3 pretty good by comparison! Time to close camp on this franchise.*1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen beauty, like the real f*cking thing, cause I have and it's not f*cking called Meatballs 4","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Four Meatballs movies. Does the world f*cking hate me? Does the world hate all of us? Did we all f*ck up and now the World is punishing us? Uh do you need to know what happens in Meatballs f*cking 4? Are you f*cking curious? Do you not know what could possibly f*cking happen in Meatballs f*cking 4? Have you ever seen the first 3 goddamn Meatballs movies? Well it's the same thing. Yeah this is the fourth time you've seen the same f*cking thing. Still the same. Like the title of a Bob Seger song. Still the Same, it's got awesome bass, like get a sub woofer or bass bazooka in your car and bump some Still the Same, it will shake the rear-view mirror off of your windshield, how is that not f*cking cool? Get some f*cking bass! "},{"Title":"Corey is lame at being awesome","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A goofy teen comedy about a water-skiing camp. This one was even more stupid and clichéd than I expected. But it did have one thing going for it Corey Feldman at the height of self-absorbed d-bag greatness. The movie borders on vanity project in the way it presents Corey's character as the most awesome human being of all time. If nothing else, try to find his dance scene on YouTube--I wish I had just watched that instead of the entire film. There is a plot about a rival camp taking all the business away from the small, family run camp, but no one will care. The filmmakers were so short on ideas they ran not one but TWO camp vs. camp competitions. There was also a subplot about a clumsy nerd and cruel jocks, and some stuff about how the evil camp was sabotaging the good-hearted camp owners. I didn't laugh once, but I like watching Corey's awesomely terrible attempts at projecting cool. On top of it, there's some enjoyable dated 90's music and fashion. Again, I don't recommend sitting through the whole thing, but I do want to seek out other bad Corey movies, so I guess it has one entertaining facet. "},{"Title":"Notable and memorable Jack Nance role","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jack Nance (ERASERHEAD) learned of his wife's suicide during the filming of this movie. This personal tragedy influenced his performance, which -- although oddly situated in this teenage titter-tease -- was both memorable and powerful; Nance's scenes are a must-see for his many fans.Details of this history are presented in the Jack Nance documentary, YOU DON'T KNOW JACK, which also contains a clip of his performance in MEATBALLS 4.I suppose there are other reasons to watch this movie -- at least two them for every second unit teen in a wet t-shirt -- but otherwise significant only for Nance... "},{"Title":"I can see why this one made the IMDb Bottom 100.","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Why would I watch such a terrible movie? After all, I have reviewed thousands of art, classic and foreign films. Well, it's because in addition to watching good films, every so often I try to watch a truly horrible film--so bad that it makes me laugh. A few good examples are The Apple, The Room or anything by the likes of William Grefe, Ed Wood or Al Adamson. And, since currently Meatballs 4 is #100 on IMDb's infamous 'Bottom 100' list, it seemed like it was just up my alley. Unfortunately, it was NOT like these other 'so bad they're good' movies--Meatballs 4 is just bad! When the film begins, you know you are in trouble for two huge reasons--it's a #4 and because it stars Corey Feldman. Neither bodes well for the quality of the picture, that's for sure! Sadly, it is much worse! It turns out the picture is a good camp versus bad camp film--a plot that was bled dry in the MANY other films (including, of course, the other Meatballs movies, but also variations of this in Revenge of the Nerds and too many other films). Add to that, completely unfunny jokes, bad writing, lots of horny and soul-less nude teens* and a stereotypical 'stupid fat guy'** (Brad Grunberg) for everyone to laugh at, and you definitely have a recipe for a terrible film. Overall, a smutty little film with little to recommend it. And, unfortunately, not at all fun to watch--which is what I was hoping for when I rented this mean-spirited and nasty excuse for a film.*I am not a complete prude. But the nudity in this one just seemed really, really sad. The characters were just meat and the nudity was so incredibly unsexy.**What is funny about an awkward obese man? And, why is it funny to CONSTANTLY make fun of him and treat him like he's subhuman?! Would this sort of thing be acceptable if he was black or disabled or a Hindu? Rather pathetic as a plot device if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Did you really expect more than a T&A movie from this title?","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are at the video store or see this starting on cable, do you really expect that it will have any close proximity to the original? Come on now. After the original, the others basically  were awful.  So, the only real reason to watch this is to see various anatomically gifted or silicon-padded beautiful women frolick around topless. With those expectations in mind, guys, you won't be disappointed, especially with Playmate Christy Thom allowing you to peek at her assets.  What a tease..... "},{"Title":"fantastic movie for teenage boys","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" no-one other than 13-19 year old boys will enjoy this movie. Me, being 20, can say it is one of my favorite movies, and has been ever since I saw it 4 years ago. Corey Feldman is a genuinely funny guy, if your not laughing at him for his poor acting, your laughing at him because he tries so hard and gets so little. He is an absolute star in this movie, he makes ridiculous jokes that I could not stop laughing at, and for some ridiculous reason he is an elite skier, despite the fact you never see his face when skiing. But seriously I enjoyed Corey in this movie and lets start with the girls..... they are fantastic!!!! eager to display their awesome bodies non-stop, this is a movie made from heaven for all teenage boys collectively. I can safely say that if you happen to be a female or an older-male you will find this movie utterly offensive. For the rest, see it now!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"What I trip!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Admittedly I like cheesy movies. But this movie is HILARIOUS. It is a no brainer full of laughs and great cheesy moments. The characters remind you a least a little about each group of people you went to school with. Depending on what side of the fence you were it will change your view of this movie. I love it when the jocks loose, the goofball wins and the nerd gets the girl. The water-ski competition is amusing and you feel the silly excitement as the plot (yes, it has one) gets underway.When you watch this movie, sit back and think of all the stupid silly things you have done or wish you would have done. Guys will love this movie because of the viewing content, and girls there is some romance in the movie. Ricky Wade gets quite sentimental and sweet during his pursuit of an old romance. "}]