[{"Title":"Comparative values","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It may well be that this movie deserves the low praise it got from the IMDb voters, but then how many newer sci-fi movies getting higher scores have really done better? This 1992 flick has been sitting on my DVD shelf for some time now and I've decided to re-watch it after seeing the new sci-fi blockbuster The Island (I've seen some parallels between the two that brought Freejack back to my mind). Special effects notwithstanding, I still believe that the older movie comes out a winner. There is just that much of a better story telling, coherence, actor play and a general ambiance that makes Freejack a movie one would want to watch over and over again. The movie is WELL-DONE. It's driven by a simple plot yet its imagery is clear and consistent and the characters have enough development for the audience to care for. A definite must for any sci-fi movie collection. "},{"Title":"Relaax","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, one thing that really bothers me is the amount of people who just refuse to relax and watch a move without having to consider whether it should win an Oscar.  I don't think Freejack was ever intended to be made for serious viewing - I think every actor in it at one time during the movie has got their tongue in their cheek.What you do get in this movie are some spectacular effects, and I'm not talking about the end when you could just as soon go get a sandwich rather than watch the 2001-type slideshow.It's just downright funny.  Mick Jagger as the villain giving Emilio Estevez a headstart by counting 1-Mississippi, 2-Mississippi is priceless. David Johanson shines as the shyster in any timeframe.  Rene Russo gives us an early indication of screen presence.  So just relax and have fun with it. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment Value","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A surprisingly good film with excellent performances by its actors (particularly notable are the minor cameos by an Irish nurse and a street bum) and a good, solid plot.  Mick Jagger does an excellent job as a bounty hunter and Rene Russo is at her best.  Contains some good chase scenes involving a number of quirky military vehicles (Soviet reconnaissance cars and US FAVs) and a number of decent sized gunfights.  Satisfying all across the board. "},{"Title":"Novel Concept","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Freejack has one of the more unique twists on time travel, with people of the present being snatched away from a certain death to the future.  It also begins to develop a unique feel and look to it.  However, it's slow in several spots and doesn't develop the imagery as well as it could.Emilio Estevez didn't seem right for the part, he looked and came across as a kid playing in a role meant for someone older and wiser.  Rene Russo is wonderful as always, and Anthony Hopkins does the best he can with his limited character, but both of them are spent on the sidelines.The real surprise was Mick Jagger, who made a wicked villain.  I wonder why he hasn't tried acting in more movies.  Freejack has largely been forgotten, but it's still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has an interesting plot. A race car driver (Emelio Estevez) is about to die in a spectacular crash during a race, but a split second before the car disintegrates, his body is stolen from the car and transported to the future to be used by another person who is dying (played by Anthony Hopkins). Estevez escapes his body snatchers and is now lost in the future. One of the snatchers is portrayed by Mick Jagger (yes, the Rolling Stone). Jagger is not, repeat, NOT, an actor, although his performance in this film is much better than I expected. Estevez is (supposedly) an actor, yet I found his performance to be almost poor. Jagger actually out-acts Estevez in this film. Hopkins gives his usual wonderful performance, although his is actually a minor role in the film. Jagger, Estevez and Rene Russo as the previous (and maybe still?) girlfriend of Estevez are the major stars of this film. There are few special effects, most of which are merely OK. I believe that this film had a very low budget and it shows, yet it falls into the definitely not bad category. "},{"Title":"Furlong on the run from a rolling stone!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Emilio Estevez is on the run in this not-too-futuristic movie about a Gran Prix driver who dies in a crash out on the race course....or did he?  Turns out people can be transported into the future where even Coppertone with UVA sunblock 2,000,000 won't save your skin and it's everyone for themselves.  Mick Jagger is the man being paid to deliver him to the man who wants Emilio's body.The first thing I ask myself is whether this movie is believable or not.  The answer is possibly.  The way our society is going, we are headed for those kind of planetary results.  The movie, from the enjoyment side, is not bad (they could have had a better bad guy than Jagger).  But it DOES get me to think Is this what we're headed for?  Man!  I really hope not! "},{"Title":"Far from great, but not as bad as its reputation....","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I lap up anything with Emilio Estevez. I've always thought he was extremely underrated. Sometimes, he picks the silliest scripts. I did have some fun with this movie, but It's far from a good movie. The futuristic storyline has been done to death, and nothing really stands out about it. It has some entertaining action, good humor, and a great cast to keep you watching. As much as I love Emilio, he's not really the action star type. That being said, he managed to pull it off with his natural charisma. He borders on cockiness at times, but his charisma manages to keep him likable and easy to root for. Mick Jagger is terrible as the villain. He should have kept his day job, in lieu of dabbling into acting. Anthony Hopkins is here for a paycheck, nothing more. Rene Russo is classy as usual. She takes a one-dimensional part and makes it worthwhile. That's what genuine talent is able to do. I enjoy it for what it is! Then again, I dig anything that is enjoyably cheesy. This movie falls under that category. They were obviously aiming for much more, but they weren't able to pull it off. Keep your expectations low, and you'll have a decent time5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mick Jagger gets some satisfaction","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" There have been many movies about time travel, but Freejack is quite unique. It portrays race-car driver Alex Furlong (Emilio Estevez) getting unwillingly transported to 21st century New York, where some people want to give his young body to aging Ian McCandless (Anthony Hopkins). Estevez, Hopkins, and Rene Russo all do fair jobs with their roles, but it's really impressive seeing Mick Jagger as the villain's henchman Victor Vacendak. I mean, every once in a while, a rock star shows up in a movie, but Jagger is really neat here. Gravitating between menacing and jolly, this must have been a role through which he got some satisfaction.So, this movie does have an interesting plot, but it's mostly worth seeing just to see Mick Jagger as a bad guy. Really cool. Amanda Plummer, John Shea and Esai Morales also appear. "},{"Title":"Poor Sci fi","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If Nothing else, This film certainly deserves points for its Ambitiousness. Director Geoff Murphy seems to be trying to make this a Good film, despite the fact that he has to work with a Poor story and awful performances.This is the Kind of film you forget about the moment you walk out of the theatre.And in the Case of this film, It would be amazing if you ever thought about it again.The Story goes like this...In 1991 race car driver Estevez is taken from a Race car moments before a blazing Crash and is hauled into the Year 2009.The Idea is a Businessman who is already dead????...wants to get into his body cause Estevez's ex love rene russo who now works for the Businessman still mops about her Ex BoyfriendFirstly Estevez and Jagger give awful performances...Jagger is so bad that he comes off as more amusing than terrifying...and Estevez is all wrong for this film,He simply cant do a Dramatic role,(and the scene where He trys to pretend he is Anthony Hopkins left me in Stitches).Rene russo isnt to bad,although her and Estevez are so mismatched in this film,that I can hardly imagine her spending 18 Years crying over him.Anthony Hopkins certainly made a Mistake doing this film,He gets a Huge demerit for this one.And some of the Effects in this film look downright cheesy.And a Lot of the Direction is poor.The Film have some Funny moments,But it is all a letdown.When it was release in early 1992...I rushed out to see it...Mostly at the prospect of seeing Jagger play a baddie...that was a Mistake..I didnt mind the Film,But I expected much BetterI give this....3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Give me a break.  Break me off a piece of that freejack.","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a pain in the ass. In particular, the long drawn out ending featuring the Windows Media Player visualization and the spiritual switchboard.Anthony Hopkins shouldn't have wasted his time with such bullshit. It's possible that Hopkins was not actually with the rest of the actors (Estevez, Russo, etc.) when the movie was being filmed. I suspect he might of filmed his parts separately, either before or after the rest of the filming out of disgust.I find it remarkable that Hopkins decided to act in such a horrendous film only a year after Silence of the Lambs, his masterwork. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review campy but fun","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I'm a sci-fi movie buff. So I'm the type of person who'd like this film.But I do have some basic standards, and Freejack is just the right sort of campy flick, sort of a Blade Runner gone slumming. It's bad, but it's a good bad, if you're into cult classics.Who should see this film-- sci-fi movie buffs, but don't go out of your way, oh and see Demolition Man too which is similar but better-- nobody elseI enjoyed the film, but campy special effects and silly plot mean I can only give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"cheesy 90s sci-fi","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Auto racer Alex Furlong (Emilio Estevez) has a horrible crash in front of his girlfriend Julie Redlund (Rene Russo). He is kidnapped by Victor Vacendak (Mick Jagger) at the moment of impact and transported into the future known as a Freejack. The US is a dystopian crime-ridden world with McCandless Corp as the biggest and most powerful company. The head of the corporation Ian McCandless (Anthony Hopkins) had died and transferred his mind into a vast computer called the Spiritual Switchboard. Julie Redlund is now a high-power executive in McCandless. When criminals attack Victor's convoy, Alex manages to escape. Victor must hunt down Alex for Ian McCandless who has 36 more hours to transfer his mind into a body.This is one of those cheesy 90s sci-fi movies. Lots of money and effort had been spent on making the cars look futuristic. It mostly leaves them looking cheesy. The whole thing is a bit of cheese fest. Mick Jagger is interesting as a villain but he never stops being Mick Jagger. There is plenty of action and some car chases. It all adds up to something that isn't quite up to par but has some memorable cheese. "},{"Title":"Mind Swapping Mayhem in the Future","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ostensibly, Quiet Earth Aussie director Geoff Murphy's fair time-travel thriller Freejack is based on Robert Sheckley's novel Immortality, Inc., but the two share little in common. In this derivative but entertaining cinematic adaptation by scenarists Steve King Kong Lives Pressfield, Ronald Alien Shusett, and Dan Nightcrawler Gilroy, our resourceful hero, young Formula One race car driver Alex Furlong (Emilio Estevez of The Breakfast Club) finds himself mysteriously hijacked from the year 1991 to the year 2009 by the villains so that he can serve as the host body for a dying millionaire. The man supervising this ingenious body snatching via some laser lighted science fiction technology is a bonejacker named Vancendak (Mick Jagger of Ned Kelly) who turns out to be less as villainous than we are lead to the believe. After Alex awakens to find himself in a weird sort of hospital, he realizes that the emergency room personnel have other things on their minds than restoring him to his pristine state of health. They want to lobotomize him but they blunder and get zapped themselves. Alex manages to escape, but the future is grimy and he is at odds trying to figure what to do next. Everybody who appears to be helping him is set out to betray him. The action focuses primarily on Alex's efforts to evade the tenacious Vacendak while trying to reconnect with his former flame, Julie Redlund (Rene Russo of Lethal Weapon 3) who thought that she saw him die during an auto crash. Anthony Hopkins doesn't have a lot of screen time and you'll know why after you sit through this R-rated adventure yarn. Blue Steel lenser Amir Mokri photographs everything elegantly in the widescreen process, while Murphy stages the action with verve. Moreover, he has the good sense to keep the action moving at a fast pace. There are a sufficient number of surprises, but you know that nothing is going to thwart our hero once he latches back onto his girlfriend. Oddly enough, Julie doesn't appear to have aged a day in this actioneer. Aside from the bizarre looking futuristic technology, Freejack is a predictable but tolerable thriller. "},{"Title":"The one Big Thing others did not mention","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie on TV in 2009, seventeen years after it came out and the very year it ended up being set in. Like many others, I ended up feeling it was better than average due to many factors. Yes, the idea of snatching people from the past the moment before they die was covered in Millenium, but it was done on an individual basis for a different reason, here. The actors were great, particularly Mick Jagger as the relentless bounty hunter. The one thing that really got me was the scene where Emilio Estevez, from 1991, first views the 2009 Manhattan skyline. The scene pans from the Empire State Building south to the Battery and we see that the Twin Towers have been replaced by a single taller building (the top of which ends up as the scene of the film's climax). Has anyone asked how that scene was thought up in 1992? The first bomb attack in the parking garage of the World Trade Center was in 1993, and was intended to bring down both towers by knocking one into the other. This prophetic film moment lifts Freejack into the must watch category! "},{"Title":"Derivative, fun movie for B movie fans.","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot In the near future, the rich and powerful kidnap people from the past, in order to transfer their consciousness into them. Escapees are called Freejacks, and hunted down mercilessly by bounty hunters. Our protagonist must now survive this cyberpunk dystopia, avoid recapture, and topple the evil system.Objectively, Freejack is not a good movie. However, it's so cheesy, fun, and entertaining that I can forgive it when it degenerates into derivative, B-movie clichés, bad acting, and bad dialogue. I remember being quite skeptical about Mick Jagger, back when this this movie was released, but he was actually pretty tolerable. Plus, unlike some other people, I've always liked Emilio Estevez. Granted, Estevez is not exactly at the top of his game here, but in glorified B movies like Freejack, I'm extremely forgiving of acting and special effects.Maybe this movie works better if you were a teenager when it came out, but I've always thought it got unfairly savaged by critics and audiences who took it entirely way too seriously. Of COURSE the plot is ridiculous and over-the-top. It's got Mick Jagger and David Johansen in it, for God's sake! How can you take that seriously? However, if you can find entertainment in even the worst B movies, then I can't recommend Freejack more highly. "},{"Title":"How do you like your river rat?......","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Racer Alex Furlong is snatched by time travel, a split second before a fatal explosion, by Vacendak's 21st-century team of techies, who plan to sell his healthy body to an ailing rich man at McCandless Corporation, for a mind transfer. He escapes, but has no rights in this nightmare future of violence and sleaze. The story concerns his survival, and his attempt to revive his relationship with his fiancée Julie, now 15 years older and an executive at McCandless....Loved this movie when it was released in 1992, had doubts if I would like it nearly twenty years later with rose coloured specs, and while the film has many flaws, you cannot deny the stupid fun you have whilst watching it.Basically, Murphy has taken Estevez's Billy the Kid and made him into a sci-fi hero, thats plain and simple, as there are many connotations to young guns 2.Even though the story and narration is convoluted throughout, watching Mick Jagger spouting many a classic line is alone worth watching the movie.The swagger he has when saying every line, and the audience can physically see him trying to act so much, he just stops caring toward the end, and it's all the better for it.Emilio is good, but as i've already said, it's just Billy the Kid.The rest of the cast really support well, even if its obvious Hopkins did this for the cash. Characters go and go without any explanation, especially Frankie Faison, and the chap who appears to know Alex when he goes back to his apartment, why didn't Alex have a chat with him/Set pieces are fun even if the are cheesy, and the film is only semi-serious, nothing here to test the grey matter.It's a fun Friday night movie, never boring, always silly. "},{"Title":"Freejack (1992)","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Good Lord says to turn the other cheek... but he never had to deal with dickheads like you.This is the story of a race driver who dies in an accident, but not exactly. The movie has good directing, good acting, and a script that could have been better.Director Geoff Murphy does a good job. The world of the movie is nicely done, with lots of detail. The camera work is excellent, the action scenes are entertaining and the special effects make one miss the '90s (and feel sorry CG was ever invented).The actors are young and pretty. Emilio Estevez is good, and his rather small body is well suited for the part. Rene Russo provides the perfect balance. Mick Jagger is fun to watch, even though he makes no effort to even pretend like his acting. He is just being himself. Amanda Plummer has a small funny role.The script could have been better. While it does a brilliant job of capturing the essence of Robert Sheckley's work - the chase, the hunt, the strange alliances and unusual loyalties - it is a bit slow, in places. There is not a lot of dialog and the main character rarely has anything to say.Freejack. Great fun. If you're looking for anything else, stay away. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Doesn't make much sense but what a cast!","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1991's Freejack, 2009 is a dystopian future where nearly all-powerful corporations rule a ruined environment and a wrecked economy. OK, they got that correct but then again so did the equally cheesy Robocop. By 2009, humans have mastered the ability to control the space-time continuum to the extent they can draw people forward and replace their minds with another being held in electronic stasis. OK, we haven't really mastered those things yet but damn our telephones have gotten pretty cool. Against this shaky premise Freejack puts together a cast that includes the less lunatic of the Sheen brothers, the criminally underused David Johansen, the peerless Anthony Hopkins and, yes, in the Boba Fett role, Mick Jagger. And despite the compelling screen stars, it is Jagger who maintains the audience's eye despite the ridiculous headgear he wears in most scenes and the equally ludicrous haircut beneath. Jagger's charisma nearly carries the film but given that it consists of one extended car (or motorcycle or champagne truck or tricked-out golf car) chase after another after another eventually even his power to charm cannot keep the mind from drifting. During this drifting one wonders why a man with the foresight to run the world's most powerful corporation wouldn't have had a back-up plan to pluck some other body from the past if things didn't work out with the first particularly given that any screw-ups would have meant his death? Anyway, in short, people who like their sci-fi cheap and cheesy or anyone who wishes Mick Jagger and David Johansen had done more movie work will be all-jacked-up by this film. "},{"Title":"Mindless, but watchable.","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nothing very imaginative here. The SFX are serviceable, but badly dated. The story is not too bad, though the script is very clunky. The actors have virtually nothing to work with, though I'm not sure that any of them (perhaps with the exception of Hopkins) could have made anything of a better script. Estevez alternates acting like a madman and an idiot...a typical example of an irritating lead character who both survives and gets the girl for no apparent reason.But do you know what sticks in my mind? (If you don't have an idea of the plot, better check elsewhere or you won't understand this.) Estevez's character is pulled to the future, apparently using a process that is uncommon and is very expensive and complex, and then he escapes. Astonishingly, there is not only a term for such a person (freejack) but it is in common use by everyone. I mean, does this happen all the time? What, ANOTHER freejack wandering around? What is the neighborhood coming to? Watch the movie and see if you don't feel the same way. Just weird.OK for SF fans, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Freejack me in baby!","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great film for film's sake and the fact that it is a good take your-girl-to-the-movies film but falls short of being as epic or as special as something like Bladerunner, which is still played in the theaters today, alas, therefore you'll be watching this with your girl at home and not in the theaters.The movie generally keeps you stimulated from the beginning through the rest of the film and you get interesting glimpses at what 2009 is perceived to be like. I wonder if the makers of Freejack knew that 2009 isn't as crazy as they thought it would be.Still the concepts in this movie are fresh and sci-fi, down to traveling back in time, replacing your about-to-be-killed corpse with a clone with the intention of kicking your supposed-to-be-dead soul out of your body and replacing it with a high paying client's well-to-do spirit, among other things! I give this movie a 7 because I would normally give a movie like this a 5 or 6 but they get an extra point for the increase in entertainment value by virtue of the neat sci-fi.Warning Mick Jagger is in this movie. p "}{"Title":"Cult movie!","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not a very good movie...but not a very bad one either.It's like Highlander bad acting in a bad plot...but in a sloppy, ill decorated sci-fi way still quite amusing. Add a few interesting 'not often seen' ingredients like Mick Jagger and a hell raising nun...and it gets even more amusing...and with glamor icon David Johansen with his sandpaper voice the whole lot gets even digestible.If you enjoy seeing a semi-bad film more than once, if it, in spite of the sum of bad ingredients, still keeps you interested and has your sympathy...well...than it must be a CULT movie.And it is... "},{"Title":"If you are not a SciFi aficionado why review this movie?","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Freejack is one of the BEST SciFi movies of this decade. The others are as follows... Dark City-1998, The Matrix-1999, Twelve Monkeys-1995, The Fifth Element-1997, eXistenZ-1999. There are others I like however, Men In Black is not really a SciFi movie (on and on). But for any list not to include Freejack is dreadfully mistaken!!Everyone in this movie does a nice job INCLUDING Mick Jagger!! The story is the mainstay and gridiron of this movie. It doesn't need special effects (or dumb CARTOON -computer generated people like avatar). The story is a wonderful depiction of how rich people in the future will buy immortality. I highly recommend this move for anyone but especially for SciFi aficionados!!! "},{"Title":"Running into the future.","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Race car driver Alex Furlong sensationally crashes his car, although he should be dead, but just before the impact he's transported into the future (the year 2009) by some bounty hunters. The catch is that his body was bought by some corporation boss with failing health, and his plan is to do a mind swap. However Alex escapes, as he tries to survive with the bounty on his head getting larger. He's only chance remains with his back then fiancée Julie, who was there at the horrible crash. What could have been a fascinating story (who knows, as the novel that it's adapted off might be?) turns out to be a likable, but blandly silly futuristic sci-fi chase (quite a long too) thriller. Not bland in the aspect of well placed thrills, but more so in its lack of bite with it unimaginative story-telling (with set pieces melding it together from other sci-fi prototypes) and witlessly lousy dialogues. It's a predictable smörgåsbord where a lot seems to happen/or work out by chance, but it's made easier by its committed performances and few crafty images. Director Geoff Murphy (behind such films as; The Quiet Earth (1985) and the 1995 sequel Under Siege 2 Dark Territory) keeps it mechanical, but rapidly fast. The backdrop demonstrates a scrappy, bleak and sleazy future for New York and the special effects might look rather wonky now, but they are modestly carried out. Emilio Estevez at first seemed miscast, but grew comfortably in the role and Rene Russo held a strong presence. Mick Jagger doesn't look like he's even trying, but comes off enjoyably meaty (thanks to some choice dialogue). Anthony Hopkins pretty much phones in his performance. Also there are small parts by Grand L. Bush and Amanda Plummer as an unforgettably snappy nun. The forgotten offering Freejack could have made better use of the concept, but nonetheless remains passably entertaining. "},{"Title":"Strangely enjoyable futuristic flick.","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, it was not the best film about a person fleeing for his life, but it had a nice twist to it as a dude who apparently died some eighteen years prior wakes up and is about to get to be a dying rich guy's new body. Well the best laid plans get squashed as the the apparently dead guy is on the run and Mick Jagger is on his tail. Yes, you heard that correctly Mick Jagger and he is surprisingly good as the guy doing the lead chasing. The action is about what you would expect. This movie and the Keanu Reeves movie Johnny Mneunic or however you spell it are very similar to me though I have to give the edge to the Reeves one cause it had the more anime look, however this one looks more polished than that one did. The action is pretty good and it has a nice conclusion to it as well. The acting is solid as Emilio Estevez is good as the protagonist and there are a couple of nice scenes with Anthony Hopkins, but then again anything he is in and any scene he is in is usually a good scene. Not much else to say about this one, it is a nice ride though. "},{"Title":"An Oft Told Tale","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though the plot of Freejack has been used over and over again in film, at least as far back as Boris Karloff's original The Mummy, it's told quite interestingly here with a lot of good special effects.Freejack did steal from an earlier film called Millennium that had starred Kris Kristofferson. In that one people from the future were snatching wholesale the persons who were in plane crashes a milli-second before impact killed them to replenish the gene pool.Here it's only one man, gazillionaire Anthony Hopkins who's company has perfected a kind of time travel. He's in some kind of cryogenic freeze, but his underlings can communicate with a holograph that his mind projects. He's looking for a young healthy specimen who's body he can take over, one before all kinds of disasters, natural and manmade have hit the planet.He's found one in Emilio Estevez as a race car driver who was killed in a crash in 1992. Like in Millennium, Estevez is snatched from the point of death and transported seventeen years into the future.. Only he proves to be quite the lively corpse and resents what's about to happen to him and escapes. Estevez's presence has also set off a power play in the company that involves the head of security, Mick Jagger, the Vice President Jonathan Banks, and Rene Russo who was Estevez's old girlfriend back in the day.Freejack has some nice special effects in it and good performances by all the principal players. In the supporting cast also look for good performances by David Johansen as Estevez's former agent, Amanda Plummer as a rifle toting nun, and Frankie Faison who's become a philosophical gourmet cook of rats.Science fiction fans will especially like Freejack. "},{"Title":"Dumb, unoriginal, but fun sci-fi action pic","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This silliness is the sort of thing that you can sit down and enjoy without having to worry about paying close attention to what you're watching. There are some great action sequences, the stars are fun to watch, and the premise, which focuses on a New York race car driver(Emilio Estevez) who is kidnapped and brought to the year 2009 so that his body can store the mind of a terminally ill billionaire (Anthony Hopkins) is silly and done without much imagination. There really isn't any cleverness or novelty to be found here, but the movie really works as mindless entertainment and is never boring. Every member of this movie's cast fits his or her role very well (even Emilio Estevez, whom I don't typically care for), but Mick Jagger really steals the show as the bounty hunter, or bonejacker, hired to catch Estevez after he escapes from his captors. He's never been much of an actor, and this was his first movie in twenty-one years, but he conveys an enormous amount charisma as the movie's smug villain. Another stand out cast member is Anothony Hopkins, who as usual, plays a very sophisticated bad guy and does an excellent job of it (however, it is all to clear that he was in this movie for the money alone, giving a good but very brief performance. Although the performers give it their all, they are unfortunately not provided with a script interesting enough to help make their appearances memorable. Most of the dialog is derivative and silly. One can't very well sit down to watch a movie like this and expect a good script, but it fair to hope for some memorable one liners, and this movie really didn't offer any. Another problem I had with this movie was the fact that it was set in 2009. If your going to set a movie in a desolate future, where the majority of New York City is crime infested hell-hole, make sure the future is far enough away to seem plausible. Having a world like this seventeen years after the movie was released just seems ridiculous. If you are in the mood for an undemanding, entertaining guilty pleasure, give this movie a look. The good performances, action, and special effects should be enough to keep you interested throughout the movie's hour and fifty minute running time, but probably won't make the movie stick with you for very long after you have finished watching it. "},{"Title":"Wastes Mick Jagger","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Emilio Estevez plays a race car driver who is snatched out of a would-be fatal accident by futuristic body snatchers who plan to transplant the mind of a rich man into his body.  This cheap, cheesy thriller has an interesting premise but suffers from poor production values, lackluster direction, and a terribly trite script.  It also completely wastes Mick Jagger in a rare film role.  Anthony Hopkins, in a small role, doesn't disgrace himself.  That, alas, is the best thing that can be said about this film. "},{"Title":"Mick Jagger Rocks.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  one of my all time favorite bad movies to watch.  How can you say no to a cast of Mick Jagger, Emilio Estevez, Buster Pointdexter, Rene Russo and Anthony Hopkins.  This is pure B-Cinema goodness.  Oh yeah, and the special effects are surprisingly neat. "},{"Title":"Bad concept, decent film","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I ended up to watch this film after hunting for some Robert Sheckley short stories. After the A Ticket to Tranai I was into everything from him. The film itself is a low cost B movie, a good craftsman's work, worth to be watched on a Sunday afternoon.BUT How it Should Have Ended (HISHE ) )McCandless I am desperately in love, Julie Redlund. I just adore your brassy hair and round booty.Julie But sir, this can be considered a sexual harassment, you are my boss, and anyway, I am still mourning after 15 years my sexy race driver love, Alex Furlong.McCandless No problem, Julie, I have a time machine and we can bring him back to life, right now- of course, it has a price.Julie I give no head for this, if you mean it, despite Monica did this to our adored ex-president.McCandless But Julie, this is my proposal -We get back your husband (and I don't mark that he will be much younger than you, my dear cougar) I upload partly my mind to him, so we will always have a threesome. Deal?Julie You old pervert!McCandless After I die, he will get my fortune... Does this look nicer?Julie Let's nail this agreement right now, I see that there is a plenty of space on your desk. "},{"Title":"Future Is Now Past","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Geoff Murphy directed this science fiction story starring Emilio Estevez as race car driver Alex Furlong, who is snatched away from certain death in an auto accident from 1991 by technicians from the future of 2009, which is a bleak dystopia world where his mind is to be eliminated, and a rich businessman(McCandless, played by Anthony Hopkins) will have his mind transferred into Alex's body, but he escapes, and goes on the run, becoming a wanted man hunted by a determined bounty hunter(played by Mick Jagger) as Alex tries desperately to get out of this bad situation... Mostly inane film has a lot of energy but little plausibility, and now looks foolish and dated. "}{"Title":"Is that a face that'll sell motor oil, or what?","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually these types of time travel stories wind up giving me a headache, but this one was pretty straightforward (no pun intended). The protagonist, Alex Furlong (Emilio Estevez) is transported into the future..., and stays there. No attempt to get back to his former 'present time'; no fooling around with time lines that might affect the history of mankind. What made the picture interesting watching it today was that Alex was 'sent' eighteen years into the future from 1991 to - 2009! That was sort of cool - but in the movie's 2009, the country was already in the tenth year of a major depression instead of the first, like many today would have us believe. And it brought a chuckle to imagine if the ten million dollar bounty on Freejack Alex might have been offered by a company using bailout funds. Just thinking outside the movie box.I got a kick out of that scene in the bar when Alex is threatened by the marmaduke looking moron with his weapon, and Alex puts his on the counter with that sly Billy the Kid grin he used in Young Guns.The attraction back in the day of course was Mick Jagger headlining a theatrical release. His performance wasn't all that bad, even if over the top a few times, which the director might have actually called for. I liked that 'One Mississippi' bit, and the idea that he had a sense of fair play in balancing his job with consideration for Furlong's catching him a break in the alley.The best concept though was the 'spiritual switchboard' - don't you think we could all use one of those? "},{"Title":"The Good Lord always says to turn the other cheek.. But he never had to deal with dickheads like you.","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not looking for Oscar quality here, just entertainment. I'll give any movie a try that has Rene Russo and Sir Anthony Hopkins.The premise sounds something like a sci-fi variation of Here Comes Mr. Jordan, known to modern movie goers as Heaven can Wait. i love both movies, so this has peaked my interest.Mick Jagger is not an actor, but he gave a reasonably good impression of one here. Jonathan Banks is an actor, one that I come across frequently on TV, and he doesn't disappoint. Neither does Frankie Faison, another actor who I have seen frequently. And, there is a nunsploitation angle as Amanda Plummer plays a hard cussing, shotgun toting nun, who helps Alex (Emilio Estevez).The first vision we have is a dystopian America where bullets fly on the street, but, right next to this, in Sector 9, things are very Republican. This is where Alex catches up with Julie (Russo), who doesn't believe it is him.This is a fantastic and explosive action movie with everything one could want. Well, I would have liked to see Russo as she appeared in The Thomas Crown Affair, but you can't have everything. "},{"Title":"Very imaginative depiction of the near future.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Freejack was recommended to me by someone who had reviewed a screenplay I had written, as some of the ideas were similar. It was a good observation. I enjoyed Freejack for its imaginative juxtaposition of past and future. It's one of the most imaginative movies I have seen, making a good case for the adaptation of science fiction novels to the screen. I think some of the slam bang action is overdone but when the movie steps back and becomes a story, the story it has to tell is an interesting one. If you missed this the first time around like I did, check it out now.  An engaging cast of characters in an interesting film. "},{"Title":"FREEJACK (Geoff Murphy, 1992) **","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recall this being released in theaters locally; actually, I’d forgotten it was helmed by Murphy (of which I owned but hadn’t yet watched the well-regarded THE QUIET EARTH 1985) – but I now took care to remedy that. Incidentally, I rented FREEJACK solely on the strength of Mick Jagger’s appearance in it…having just watched him in SHINE A LIGHT (2008), Martin Scorsese’s rockumentary on The Rolling Stones!Anyway, while both of Murphy’s films are science-fiction, there’s really no comparison between them THE QUIET EARTH is low-key, deliberately-paced, character-driven and thought-provoking, whereas FREEJACK is a fanciful, effects-laden roller-coaster ride (no prize for guessing which I found to be superior)! Interestingly, the latter’s plot line seems to have anticipated THE FUGITIVE (1993) – with Jagger’s character, doggedly in pursuit of bewildered (and bland) time-traveler hero Emilio Estevez (dubbed a “Freejack”), being swayed to the latter’s side by the end of it. Amusingly, the events depicted are supposed to occur next year…but one can’t help feeling that the grimy futuristic look – not to mention the unwieldy cars on display – imagined by the film-makers was a bit too earnestly pessimistic (at least, they got the idea of cloning right)! Nevertheless, we’re treated to the usual relentless bouts of expensive mayhem, mystifying (but entirely hokey) computer-generated wizardry, and all sorts of stereotyped characters (former friends turning traitors, Rene Russo as Estevez’s ex-girlfriend who mistrusts but then accepts his presence in her ‘new’ life, Anthony Hopkins as her employer – an apparently benign tycoon who’s ultimately exposed as the misguided power behind the conspiracy, his vicious underling who harbors notions of taking over from his ‘weak’ boss, etc.) – which renders the whole dreary yet predictable, at once insubstantial and overlong… "},{"Title":"Worthwhile","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It wasn't anything fantastic, but I agree with the people who have said here that you shouldn't judge a movie solely on its candidacy for an Oscar. I mean, there are a whole SLEW of fun movies out there that are not going to win Oscars anytime soon. That said, I think the concept behind this movie is a good one, it's interesting, and it sparks the imagination. The delivery...well, yeah, it can be a little cheesy at times, but it holds together as well as any other 80s-esque movie does, and I think the direction is really functional. I mean, it's not going to move you with its sublimity, but...does anyone realistically think it's supposed to? It's a good, cheap thrill with an interesting premise that is engaging enough to keep you watching. "},{"Title":"Freejack and Young Guns same actor different characters but similar","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a scene in the diner a man puts his gun on the table and threatens to kill Alex. Alex puts his gun on the table and smiles. The same type of smile he does in Young Guns. Also the hat he wears looks like the one he wore in The Young Guns movies.The same smile Mr Estevez does in Young Guns. Could Alex Furlong be a decedent to Billy The Kid?????? Also the director who did Young Guns 1 and 2 also directed Freejack. Anyway I enjoyed the film and know have it on DVD.I would be nice if they did a sequel but I think they won't. Its a one time move with no sequels. "},{"Title":"A very underrated movie which deserves a second look.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Estevez plays Alex, a hot-shot race car driver, who should have died in a crash but instead is transported 18 years into the future a split second before his death. Now he's being hunted and he has to figure out how this ties in with ex-girlfriend Russo, her boss (Hopkins) and the dangerous man who is trying to capture him (played surprisingly well by Mick Jagger!).There's a memorable and hilarious portrayal of a futuristic nun by Amanda Plummer, which should not be missed. The soundtrack has some great tunes by the Scorpions, Jesus & Mary Chain and others. The ending will surprise you. Great fun. "},{"Title":"OK Movie, that could have been better.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For its time, it was not that bad of a movie.  Although it obviously skimped on effects to get a better cast.It is what I call, a long line of The Future is a Wasteland movies, that Hollywood likes to make, or at least did like to make in the late 80's early 90's.This is no exception.  The premise that people in the future go back in time to steal people from the past and bring them back, has been done, and done better.  Milenium comes to mind.  But Freejack brings in more of the action and high drama such a film would need to carry the plot line.Not bad to watch on cable, which it has been on lately, but this is not a MUST have for the home collection. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Prior to a fatal crash, race car driver Alex Furlong(Emilio Estevez) is snatched from his car the second before it explodes.Alex is hurled into the year 2009.He is being chased by bounty hunters led by Victor Vacendak(Mick Jagger)Who plan to capture him and provide his body to someone else.Alex is on the run and as also trying to find Julie(Rene Russo) who was his fiance back in 1991 before the accident.Also in the cast is Anthony Hopkins, Jonathan Banks, Amanda Plummer, Esai Morales, David Johansen and Grand L. BushPretty good Script.Director Geoff Murphy makes up for the average script with good directing.The scene in which Emilio Estevez is wearing the cowboy hat and the jacket he has on he looks just like he did in the Young Guns movies, in which Pt 2 was directed by Geoff Murphy.Solid performance like always from Emilio Estevez.The final 10 minutes or so are a bit over the top but doesn't hurt the movie.Some awesome action scenes and a little comedy.I give Freejack 7/10  "},{"Title":"good plot, so-so acting","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this very much when I saw it in the theatre many years ago, so when I found it in the DVD sales bin, I had to pick it up.  The special F/X look a bit dated, but the plot is still interesting and has quite a few twists and turns.  The main characters are nothing but cardboard cutouts, perhaps with the exception of Rene Russo's Julie.  This and the highly polarized difference between ghetto and City gives the movie a comic book feel which is a bit distracting.  Mick Jagger is spectacularily unconvincing, even as a archetypal villain.  My favourite performance is the quirky but highly amusing role of a nun played by Amanda Plummer.  Turn the other cheek indeed! -)IMDb says if you like this, you'll probably like Total Recall, which is one of my favourite SF movies.  A lot of people hate Total Recall, though, and I guess those people will hate this too.  I give it 7/10. "}{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  FREEJACK is a clever little idea based around people in the future cloning themselves with people of the past for personal gain. In the hands of a bigger budget, better star and more controversial, this could have rivalled the inspired BLADE RUNNER. However a cheap feel to the film relegates it sadly to just another sci-fi flick.Most enjoyable are the cameos, including Jerry Hall and Amanda Plummer. As far as the leads go, Mr Estevez moves his quiff around in a particularly lazy 80s way, and succeeds in sparking absolutely no chemistry between him and Rene Russo.Quite enjoyable if you don't want much to think about, but there are a lot better ones out there! "},{"Title":"pretty decent time travel film","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this one, but it was a tad confusing at times. All time travel shows are though, at least to me. Estavez keeps going back and forth through time trying to avoid being picked up by the time cops. Check out Jaggar's glorified motorcycle jacket in this one. Looks like he got it from Salvation Army, it just hangs on his frame. But I thought Mick gave a good performance as the chief freejack chaser. Not a bad movie, especially if you like the time travel aspect.  "},{"Title":"OK flick!! Way better than dumb Matrix 2 & 3...","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can someone told me why the rating is so low? Because in fact, this flick is a real good sci-fi one. A science-fiction movie that looks real, no effect that look too fake for the eyes with no plot at all like Matrix Reloaded & revolutions. Overrated flicks at all. I may be difficult but this movie tells a story unlike the 2 others I just named. Mick Jagger do a good job as the villain and Estevez/Russo make a perfect duo on-screen. It was one of the few reasons I watch that movie and well, the way this sci-fi works got me since the very 1st minute. Weird people like me who likes Strange Days like no others will probably like this one too. It's weird, dark, strange, well all the tools to make a sci-fi movie good in my own opinion! "},{"Title":"Better than most give it credit for","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love Freejack.  This is a creative, original sci-fi movie, featuring Emilio Estevez in one of his best-cast roles, as well as Mick Jagger, who, in my opinion, does a fantastic job portraying Estevez' nemesis, Vicendak. This movie is a terrific mix of action and humor.  Renee Russo balances out the excellent cast (superseded by the great Anthony Hopkins), and the entire movie is well done.  This is a simple, enjoyable film, without twists or turns, yet it entertains.  I find it well above average for a piece of its genre, and recommend it to any sci-fi/action fan. "},{"Title":".... its NOT a comedy?","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry, but this has got to make the top 100 worst films of all time.Who let Mick Jagger on set? I think the start is well done, action, tension... then Mick says Get him! sticks his lips out and half the audience bursts out laughing. Mick Jagger is 'credible' as a singer in the Rolling Stones. That's it.What on earth Rene Russo, Anthony Hopkins and little 'ol Emilio are doing in this, I'll never know. But then I guess everyone needs money now and again. Reflecting on it, it re-introduced both Russo and Hopkins to Hollywood... which has at least some silver lining. Sadly, Emilio has sunk without trace.... which is a shame. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If this is a thriller, then perhaps I need some more caffeine.  This is a poorly acted movie, with too many explosions and chases trying to up the nonexistent excitement.  Who would've thought Mick Jagger could act? Answer  no one, not after seeing this movie.  Ditto Emilio Estevez, but at least he was trying.  Rene Russo never made much of an impression on me, and Anthony Hopkins simply wasn't given much to do.  Too contrived to be entertaining, if you ask me.   "},{"Title":"Freejack best Mick Jagger movie in which he wears a helmet","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I fully recommend Freejack to anyone in need of a good laugh. I mean if you can take one look at Mick Jagger's super helmet and not bust up, you're all dead inside. It's enormous. I could go into greater detail just know that in the future Earth of Freejack your importance in society is of direct relation to the size of your helmet. My favorite scene is the one in which Emilio Estevez finally gets to comes to blows with Jagger. Mick takes off his helmet as if to say Just you and me...no helmets. Everything about this movie is funny. Did I mention it blows? In conclusion, the guy who wrote the last comment is a dumbass. "},{"Title":"not THAT bad","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt the need to give a slightly decent review of this movie to counter all the bad press. The movie is not that bad. First of all, it's a movie, it's not real life. Also, very few musicians make good actors. Personally, I like Mick Jagger and the Rolling Stones, and I also enjoy Emilio Esteves. If you want to see a decent (older) movie, I highly recommend this one. If you plan to compare the shootouts and fight scenes with real life, then don't bother. You will be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Very fun, entertaining movie","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Freejack is not what I'd call an intelligent movie, but the premise is solid and entertaining. The movie's version of the future is an intriguing look at societal direction, and the ride through this future is a lot of fun. The unique characters and plot make Freejack a great ride. "},{"Title":"The best of the best","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well.  Where to start with Free-jack.  With a cast ensembled from 'Hollywood-upstairs' acting school you would think that you couldn't go wrong.  Well its true, you can't.  This movie is brilliant, words become almost redundant when describing a film like this.  Its incredible, it even has the good, 'ol fashioned 'Bridge Under Repair' scene in there for good measure.  I just adorer this pap.  Its awfully brilliant.  Believe me all you need in this movie is Steve Guttenberg and you have the classiest act ever.  Buy it, rent it, watch it on TV but make sure you see it.  Its, its, its, it'll bring your life a new meaning.  Its great.  Obviously Vacendak steals the show.  I mean Jagger, what a poorman's demi!! Box him in and run him down, but be gentle, I wan'him without a scratch "}{"Title":"Good, I recommend this movie","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning this contains some plot spoilers.I first saw Freejack some years ago, and after catching it on a pay channel recently I decided to comment on it. Many reviewers have said it is a bad movie with bad acting. I however thought that it was a fairly good movie with an  interesting story line. The only problem I have with it is the apparently quick development of time travel. I feel all the acting was fair to good Except for Mick Jagger, his was excellent. I loved his portrayal of Vacendak. However I do have a soft spot for bad guys that see the error of their ways and turn good. I am a fan any movie that involves time travel and also of any movie that takes someone out of his element unwittingly, this had both. Yes I agree the special effects were not the best but they were not bad as some would have you to believe either, you must give consideration to the fact that this movie did not have the huge budget that other movies enjoy. It is a movie that I can and have watched more than once.  I would feel good giving it a Strong 6.5 Out of 10 however since IMDB doesn't allow that I will give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining at points yet, I won't claim this a good film!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another reviewer noted that Emilio Estevez comes across as a kid in a role meant for an older, more seasoned actor.This person is right.It might as well be Michael J. Fox doing the honors.Mel Gibson would have been a good choice but, he would very likely  have hated the script.There are some really good moments here.The moments are few and far between and, the flick has too many slow moments.The main actors here, Estevez, Russo and Hopkins (on screen for about 8 minutes total time and third billed) seem like musicians trying to act in a film.Meanwhile, the only good performances come from musicians, Mick Jagger (first dramatic role since 'Performance 22 years earlier) and David Johansen.It's ironic that, these two rock singers out act Anthony Hopkins and company!I can not recommend this but I enjoyed moments of it. "},{"Title":"Back to the future?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last 15 minutes of this film are quite entertaining in an absurd kind of way, so it's a pity the rest is a drag. A long, streeetched-out drag. In Freejack we are led to believe that time-travelling will be a likely commodity as early as 2009. Apart from that shockingly hurried invention, everything seems strangely dated...New York has, of course, gone screaming down the drain, in true John Carpenter fashion (those who live there should get out - NOW!)But , tell me, why should regression likewise have hit Fashion, hairstyles, car-design, street-paving, police detection, (even the acting is pre-Stanislavsky)...This doesn't look like a movie from the future, it looks like something from the past! Emilio Estevez stars in it, badly, Rene Russo and Anthony Hopkins are wasted and Mick Jagger is deliciously villainous. A true British trooper, he, albeit saddled with a strange Spanish-sounding name here. Freejack springs to life at the end, but by then most would have gone to sleep or left.  "},{"Title":"it stinks!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  FREEJACK used to be the worst movie I ever saw. Then I saw WILD WILD WEST. FREEJACK is still high on my top 10 bad movie list though. It stars Emilio Estevez doing the worst acting of his career. It also stars Mick jagger. Dont quit your day job,Mick. I must admitt I thought Jagger would make an interesting villain. he was bloody awful,and lets just leave it at that. EVERYONE in this film is acting on cruise control,and thats a pity because its an action film and therefore people should be puttin some umph! into thier readings. (example A FREEJACK from the future shows up at a mans door. His wife says who is it? and in a dead-pan voice the man says Its a Freejack. Now I get upset when the guy comes to read my meter! I would be screamin and boltin the door if a Freejack was out there! This is one of the 5 movies in life I paid to see in a theatre and actually walked out on (also on that list UNDER SIEGE, BLIND DATE, THE SUPER). My friend assures me that FREEJACK was okay cuz it had some Good looking hookers in it. sigh. okay, so he needs a lobotomy..... "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever someone asks me to name my worst film ever this is the one I always recall. The only part that raised a giggle was the sight of Mick Jagger's huge wet lips close up on the big screen slurring the words Lessssssssss geughhhhhhwwwwwwwwwwwwwww (let's go, that is!) and apart from that the only part to raise a round of applause as I watched this movie in a Liverpool, England cinema was the part when someone threw a sticky chewing gum at the big screen and everyone clapped and cheered as it caught itself on its decent down the screen !  "},{"Title":"Worst...movie...ever!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is like a low budget film from the early 80's, but features a couple big-name actors and actresses and was made in the 90's. Estevez has always been a mediocre actor, but Mick Jagger absolutely cannot act. It is difficult to believe Anthony Hopkins and Rene Russo were in something this bad. I'm glad I was in Australia in 1992 and missed this one when it came to theatres. Awful script and dialogue, especially between Estevez and Jagger. "},{"Title":"really good film","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a really great sci-fi movie it stars of with Emilio Estevez who is a car racer who dies and he gets brought through time to the year 2009 to have his mind erased and someone to take over his body.Mick Jagger from the rolling stones stars as the man trying to catch Emilio Estevez and this is the first movie i have seen him in and he did an OK job of acting.The film all so stars actors like Anthony Hopkins from the movie red dragon,Rene Russo,Amanda Plummer and Jonathan Banks.Over all this is a MUST see film and u should rent it or bye it if for $16 dollars or less and my rating is 6 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"Almost the very definition of So bad, it's great","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Freejack is truly one of those films that, when stoned or merely drunk and in a relaxed frame of mind, is hilarious. Were you to want to watch this 'seriously' you'd be in for a terrible time, but as an amusement it ranks up there with Segal's 'Marked For Death' in the So bad it's a barrel of laughs stakes.Jagger's lisped phrases containing the words Missster McCandlesssss are wonderful and Estevez is dire in his normal way. Hopkins, I've been told, was in a bit of a state at the time he made this, so should be forgiven. His place in movie notoriety is assured by his role in Freejack, however. One of the silliest moments of the films comes right at the end, as I recall (this shouldn't be a plot spoiler...) with Jagger riding resplendent on a armoured car.Shocking. And worth it for an evening in. "},{"Title":"A poor adaption of the novel","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Freejack is a poor adaption of Robert Sheckley's novel, Immortality, Inc.Robert Sheckley's novel was a comedy that tackled some interestingly serious issues. None of those things came through in this movie, which was reduced to a boring sci-fi chase movie.The only people that might 'possibly' enjoy this movie are fans of Mick Jagger, as you can watch him running around on screen.Robert Sheckley's work deserves better, as he is one of the best science fiction authors of all time.  "},{"Title":"Fun, adventurous, edgy sci-fi/thriller.","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is highly under-rated. Emillio Estevez does not deliver an Oscar-worthy performance here, but all movie producers out there aren't concerned with such achievements. In my humble opinion, all movies are out there to do one of three things. They either want to touch you, entertain you, or make you think. Some aspire you to do a combination of these three goals, while others don't seem to have any goal whatsoever. This one does; it entertains and it endeavors to make you think. While there is a bit of tongue-in-cheek delivery, it isstill a serious sci-fi/thriller, and should be viewed as such.The effects are stunning, and the direction is solid, as is the story line. The dialog is what makes this movie a bit campy at times, but if you can't have fun, then why play the game? Honestly, I had hoped that Mick Jagger would make a stronger villain than he does here, but all in all to have had no experience, he was NOT as bad as some critics claim. Personally, I found the story to be quite compelling, and there are some good solid elements here. And while this is not the most intelligent movie I've ever seen, it is quite entertaining, with a good basic premise, and some decent action. There is more fiction here than science, with some decent dramatic elements.If you liked this movie, you may also enjoy Cherry 2000, Johnny Mneumonic, Blade Runner, or Virtuosity.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Mick Jagger can't act, but his helmet and accent sure are fun.  So is the Spiritual Switchboard. Noooooo!!!!!!!","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ya know, some people have mentioned why the rating is so low; well, I can't believe this freakin' rating is so high. I think your all misunderstood. Isn't it bad enough that the names Mack MacCandless, Vick Vacendack, Mic Michellete, and Alex Furlong exist? Isn't it bad enough that the graphics in this movie reach an all time low?...lower than Shakedown...lower Frost (Portrait of a Vampire)...even lower than modern day Sci-Fi behemoth Battlefield Earth. Have you all not experienced Mick Jagger's ridiculous costume and ridiculous acting? Have you failed to examine his foreign lisp and cheesy one-liners? Has no one realized that this is right there with The Running Man as one of the very worst original screenplays ever created? I mean come on The Spiritual Switchboard? Bonejackers? Freejacks? The Labotamizer? We had no intention of harming your natural life, says Anthony Hopkins. Well, I hate to tell you this, but... you harmed mine.Why has everyone failed to consider the perverted and disgusting event of Alex Furlong (Estevez) having sex with Jules (Russo) when she is 45 years old in the future after he is freejacked? Why has everyone passed on slandering this major piece of bone jacked ear nibbling? Despite my negativity, I can't deny the hilariousness of this movie. I own it on DVD, I mean, c'mon; this is classic rottenness we're talking about. Mick Jagger driving around in futuristic green army tanks chasing Emilio Estevez, calling him a freejack, uttering things like Ok, let's do it and One-Mississippi, two-Mississippi. This is definitely the early 90's Battlefield Earth and everyone should be able to bare witness to it's unbridled horrible nature.One of my favorite parts is where the Indian cab driver says bonejackers! Hey, there's no way this is a spoiler. I have told you nothing of the outcome, because nothing needs to be mentioned other than the cold hard fact that this movie blows.Goodbye. "},{"Title":"I saw this movie for free, and I still wanted my money back","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie for free, and I still wanted my money back. Emilio Estevez makes yet another argument for his candidacy as the worst actor of the 20th century in this mind-numbingly bad time-travel disaster. Estevez plays Alex Furlong, a race car driver (unfortunately) snatched from death by futuristic body snatchers from the impossibly distant year 2009 who want to suck out his brain and replace it with the noggin of a dying bazillionaire. It's a plot worthy of Ed Wood, but the difference is that for all their faults, Ed Wood movies are actually interesting. No one can claim the same about Geoff Murphy's celebrated oeuvre. (Under Siege II, anyone?)Kitschy, campy turns by David Johansen and Amanda Plummer are worth watching, but the rare starring role by Mick Jagger is a letdown. Those expecting the charismatic Jagger of Performance or Ned Kelly will be sorely disappointed. One expects Jagger to chew scenery, but he barely manages a nibble. Anthony Hopkins and Rene Russo also appear to be searching for the nearest exit, probably to fire their agents. The special effects are dismal--you've seen better blue screens on your local weather forecast. Given Estevez' almost insanely serious performance and the presence of so many cult figures, it's possible that in future years, Freejack might gain a following of fans of so bad it's good cinema. But trust me, honey, this one is so bad it's BAD. "},{"Title":"God Damn you McCandless!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie stinks more than my mother's one-bedroomed apartment! Completely devoid of anything approaching quality, this is to be enjoyed strictly on unintentional terms. Anyone planning to watch this film should book an appointment with their doctor directly afterwards. The actors boast abilities so low as to rival Roger Moore in Octopussy. Mick Jagger's performance has to be sen to be believed. It's quite dreadful, but no worse than the frequently annoying Emilio silage heap Estevez, who can add this to his long-running list of bad films (Men at Work, Young Guns). Anthony Hopkins looks embarrassed to be associated with this sad excuse for a film, but I guess this pays for another of his mansions somewhere in Aruba. The action is poorly staged, the dialogue unbelievable, and those of you still wondering whether or not I like this degenerate garbage? The answer is NO.  "},{"Title":"Wow, that was pathetic","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad acting, bad writing, bad effects......what more could you ask for? Emilio Estevez gives his standard performance, which only BEGINS the troubles of this film.  Not to be outdone, Mick Jagger manages to butcher most every scene he is in, and Rene Russo does an uncanny impersonation of a tranvestite in need of estrogen therapy.  It's a great film if you need something to make fun of on a slow Friday night.  Any attempts at taking it seriously should be quickly stifled with sizable quantities of fermented beverages, it's far too bad for a straight viewing. "}]