[{"Title":"This movie helped save my life!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"45 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I Mean that literally!I was going through a rough time in my life, and Encino Man was the only thing that could make me laugh!Brendan Fraser was terrific, and I even learned how to like Pauly Shore after this movie...who up to this point I couldn't stand!I saw it 8 (yes, that's EIGHT) times at the theatre in a four week period when it was out, and have watched it dozens of times since on video. Despite it's absurd premise, the movie worked for me, in the relationships that developed between Link, Dave, and Stoney, and the little family the three of them made.It's goofy, it's at times stupid..and it's all around FUNNY! Just one of those little movies that if you will allow yourself to put reality on hold for 90 minutes, it can and will charm the socks off of you. "},{"Title":"The Ice Man Cometh....Dude.","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Encino Man is a comedy influenced by the wackiness of the grunge generation. The young cast, which stars Astin, Shore, and Fraser, is likely to be a major draw for teenagers and younger viewers, who will likely enjoy this movie. The story is pretty goofy. Dave (Sean Astin) has major plans for putting a swimming pool in his backyard to at least get some popularity points with the neighborhood teens who could lounge by the water in the blazing California summer sun. But, when he's breaking ground, he digs up a block of ice with a casualty of the Ice Ages, primitive fellow who he and his hip buddy, Stoney (Pauley Shore), clean off and try to disguise him as a regular American teenager. Needless to say, a lot of mishaps arise out of this. But eventually, the grizzly Link (Fraser), is a pretty popular kid at the high school, and one that Dave thinks will help him get popular, too, in that popularity-by-association kind of way. Matt Wilson, a jerky jock (Michael DeLuise) interferes with Dave's plans to just try and pass off Link as a normal exchange student. Already p***ed with Dave and Stoney for getting friendly with his girlfriend Robyn (Megan Ward), and with their increasing popularity--especially Link, who Robyn has a little crush on. Matt figures out Link's real identity, and it's a question of whether anyone will believe his story that Link is really from the Ice Ages. Not even the school's most popular jerk can get off easy with a line like that.The cast and this silly story make it an enjoyable comedy. Teens are likely to enjoy Pauley Shore's scenes as the happy-go-lucky hippie throwback friend, Stoney, as he just seems like such a nice, giant goofball who can really have fun with this material. It's also pretty funny to watch a fellow from the Ice Age trying to adapt to modern teenage life, much like the historical dudes did in Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure. It's even got some sweet tunes on the soundtrack. So loosen up and enjoy it already. "},{"Title":"stoneage cutie","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really like this movie. Maybe its ending is a little predictable, still it's good fun, easygoing and one of these movies you can watch over and over again. The characters are brilliant, Brendan Fraser's performance as an unfrozen stoneage guy in modern California is simply great. my absolute favourite scene is the one in the bathroom - no matter how often i watch it, it always makes me laugh. "},{"Title":"My favorite late night movie of all time.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On weekends, after a long day of partying, I feel ready for a laugh. So, I put ENCINO MAN in the VCR and laugh myself silly. I have seen this movie so many times, that I could probably mimic the entire thing. Pauly Shore is a riot. And even better that they have him casted as a high school student. He's about ten years out of high school. But he is what makes the movie. Brendan Fraser wasn't really known all that well when he made this one. It pretty much began his career. See this if you are in a mood where everything seems funny to you. Those are the kinds of moods that make you pass out from laughing too hard. This one is definitely good for a laugh.....5/5. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made!*","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *about a Cro-Magnon man attending high school.*featuring Sean Astin as a non-hobbit.*that's got Pauly Shore in it.I just saw this movie again after many, many hundreds of years, and bugger me if it hasn't IMPROVED with age! (er, by that I mean it HAS...)I was a bit like the Sean Astin character when I was at school. If only I'd had a caveman of my own to help me pull chicks, how differently things might have turned out...Okay, so the movie has no basis in reality, but who would expect it to? Cavemen aside, it's a TEEN movie, and they NEVER depict real people or situations. At least, not on any planet I've ever been to. This movie doesn't pretend to be anything outstanding. It's intended purely as entertainment, and that's what it is.It appears to have been promoted as one of those frightful Pauly Shore movies, but it's not. He's really just a supporting player (and is nowhere near as annoying in small doses, it turns out). This is Brendan Fraser's flick. If anyone else had played Link, I can't imagine the movie being as good as it is.My one beef is that Sandra Hess (Cave Nug) wasn't given enough screen time (but then, as far as I'm concerned, she's NEVER given enough screen time).I never knew Scatterbrain had covered Mama Said Knock You Out, either. That's cool.Okay, I'm going for a lie down now.Bye. "},{"Title":"Fun entertainment when your brain shuts down","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not sure why, but still to this day I love to sit down to Encino Man. I think because I just loved it as a child and it's like that blankie you can't get rid off. Also, you need those comedies that you can just sit down too and just have fun and relax. Yes, it has Pauly Shore which granted can be scare-E! D But he's actually amusing as well in the film.We see a very young Brendon Fraser as Link the caveman, yes, he doesn't have much to work with the grunting and such. But he was just priceless in that club scene and the seven eleven with Pauly. He's also just so cute and lovable when he sees Dave and Stoney getting into a fight and he pulls David back screaming to him Family!. It was actually touching, I'm serious. Sean Austin plays Dave, he's come such a long way and in my opinion is the most successful child star to not get hooked on drugs or let the industry take him over. He does such a good job as the pretty self centered and insecure but nevertheless lovable guy who wants to get the girl. Pauly plays Stoney, a well, I think he's somewhat of a stoner. D But he's pretty funny in the film with some of his lines. Come on, I think we all dug him in his day.While yes, Encino Man is not Oscar material, it's just a fun time to sit down and enjoy with your friends. So, a 5.0? It's just a movie, let go and grab the popcorn for a few laughs. If you didn't laugh at that scene where Link speaks Spanish to the Hispanic gang members, you have some serious issues.7/10 "},{"Title":"I LOVE California Man","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have loved California Man for a long, long time. Pauly Shore has got to be the favourite, and with his own added 'unique weasel' it just makes the film for me. It seems this is where Brendan Fraser started his usual 'big, dumb, lovable' characters, but still he plays it to perfection. Sean Astin is quite cute in it, but doesn't add that much to the film. My favourite scene has to be when Stoney and Link go to the Mountain and 'beat up' a guy in a panda costume. Classic.Of course there's a corny ending but it wouldn't be a teenage feel good movie otherwise. Do yourself a favour - watch this movie and have a right good laugh. "},{"Title":"Excellent light hearted fluff.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Excellent light hearted comedy with Brendan Fraser giving an excellent performance and well supported by Pauly Shore. Brendan seems to handle these caveman type roles well, see George of the Jungle, Monkeybones. Good family fun. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Encino man is brilliantly witty and funny and sums up an era, Fraser is adorable as Link and Pauly Shores humour keeps you giggling throughout the duration of the movie. It's one to watch. It certainly shows the typical life of the early 90's teen, trying to be cool and realising life ain't about that. "},{"Title":"Homo Encino","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I expected the usual stoner-gross-out-high-school-comedy and had also heard that Pauly Shore was a comedic one-trick-pony (I'd read about all those Razzies he had been awarded). Also, the premise of high-school kids finding a thawed-up cro-magnon man and becoming friends with him didn't bide well, so I kind of watched this out of completism and deep-rooted cinematic masochism. Turns out I was way off the mark. Encino Man is thoroughly enjoyable, and one of the best movies of its genre. And Pauly Shore is my god now, he really made this movie. Well, he may be a one-trick-comedian, but at least at he's the godfather of this one trick. The stoner-surfer-dude has been done ad nauseam in high-school comedies, but Pauly Shore is the stoner-surfer-dude to rule all other stoner-surfer-dudes. His figure is not just funny and dude-ish, but also eccentric and frail (almost a bit camp). When I read that he comes from a family of comedians, I wasn't surprised. I see a lot of comedic and dramatic talent in him, and it's a shame that he seems to have fallen out of favour recently.Anyway, the movie. Luckily, the pretty goofy plot doesn't put it in harm's way. Two likable social dropouts find a stone age survivor in their back yard, and decide to smuggle him into their school in order to heighten their own peer standing. This goes terribly awry when the hunky pre-human becomes a hit with the ladies. Man seems to be set in atavistic struggle against pre-human (and stoner dude), but luckily they eventually find their moral bearings the humans learn the benefits of sticking together from their thawed-out friend, and the cro-magnon learns to go halfies on his microwave burrito.Like I said, I really enjoyed Pauly Shore here. He made this movie. The other actors are also good, there's great dialogue, and the babes are babe-alicious. I also enjoyed the fact that the underdogs were the protagonists here.To give you a ballpark comparison, it's au pair with Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Yes, it's that good, buuuh-dy. "}{"Title":"Fraser steals the show...","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Pauly Shore and Sean Astin star as a couple of nerdy geeks who find a frozen caveman (Brendan Fraser) in Astin's backyard while attempting to put in a swimming pool. After thawing him out, things REALLY heat up! Between school and time at the mall, Fraser gets a crash course in today's world.If you're a fan of Pauly Shore, then get Son-In-Law. In my mind, the real star of this movie was Fraser, but, if you're interested in him as an actor, then you'd better be prepared to WATCH this film and not just listen to it, as Fraser's gags and gimmicks are all sight gags. But, because of him, the two dorks are worth putting up with (not like they were to the rest of their classmates in the film).I like Shore! I loved him in Son-In-Law, but this side of him, to me, got a tired after the first five minutes of the film. I never was a big fan of Astin, but he's tolerable as the one who wants to use Fraser as the rungs in climbing the social ladder at school.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"My favorite childhood comedy","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorite comedies and is one of my favorite movies over all of all time. This movie might be hilarious for you, or it could absolutely horrible. What I mean is that some people might like this and some people might not. I just happen to be somebody that loves it. I can understand why people do not like this movie. They probably don't like it because of the story and the acting and the script and the fact that it just isn't realistic. But people like me love this movie because its funny and we think that it could be a believable story. I loved this movie when I was 4 when I first saw it and I am 13 today, and I still love it. I think that it is hilarious. I think that Pauly Shore was funny in this. This isn't like one of his bad movies that he makes all the time. This movie is funny. So, in the end, you might like it, like me, or you might hate it, like most people. I love this movie. It is funny. This was a good movie. 10/10. "},{"Title":"I loved it!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie not only was Brendan Fraser in it but Pauly Shore was soooo funny I like the whole plot how Dave wants Link just to be popular and Stoney just wants to be his friend its just funny and when Stoney takes Link to the theme park oh my gosh it was funny I don't see how any one could not love this movie, but it seems that I have bad movie taste because I like the last 2 batmans better than the first 2 I hated Vanilla sky and I hated Fight Club so what ever but I think this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Not all women will hate this movie","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Encino Man is not just a man's movie I think there are many women that will enjoy seeing Branden Fraser go from frozen caveman to hot stud. Pauly Shore is great in this movie.Two HS students find a frozen caveman in a backyard, do they become friends with him or use him to get a girl the other is interested in? You will see how they evolve 'Link' into a somewhat normal student and how Link befriends almost everyone in the school.Of course you have the 'jock' who is determined to upset it all and bring 'link' down. Not only is it funny but you also have a little suspense - do they get caught or do they pull this whole farce off and get the girl? Am I going to tell you? No you need to get the movie and have a laugh.Great movie which I enjoy watching and seeing my 9 yr old laugh over also. "},{"Title":"Cooler than a Paleozoic block of ice!","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Encino Man,' under the disguise of a teen comedy, is really a satire of popularity in high school culture. The idea that a Cro-Magnon could become the coolest kid in school is hilarious, probably because it's almost believable.Future hobbit Sean Astin plays Dave Morgan, a high school senior. Dave is the most unpopular kid in school and is inevitably in love with the most popular, Robyn Sweeney (Megan Ward), who, once upon a time, was childhood playmate to Dave (Dave even has a baby picture of the two naked in a bathtub), but now, while still good hearted, has fallen in with the 'popular' crowd and is inevitably dating the biggest a**hole at school, Matt Wilson (Michael DeLuise), a bully who puts down Dave's shy advances toward Robyn with a headlock and a sardonic 'Shoosh!' When he's not pining for Robyn, Dave hangs out with his one and only friend and fellow loser Stoney, played with his usual flamboyance by Pauly Shore. Stoney, while as unpopular as Dave, seems content with his status at the school. He dresses in ostracizing hippie-rags, sure to turn a few of the girls away at school, but is mellow, and speaks in the Pauleneese tongue created by himself and screenwriter Shawn Scheppes. Dave however, is far from happy, and is determined to score coolness immortality (not to mention the heart of Robyn) before graduation. As the movie begins, Dave is digging a giant dirt hole for an in-ground swimming pool, which will be the centerpiece for the legendary party he will throw on prom night, thus lifting him to the top of the social ladder. One hot California day, while digging, Dave hits something hard and cold with his shovel. Enter the Encino Man.Brendan Frazier never ceases to amaze me, obviously a gifted actor (see 'Gods and Monsters'), he nevertheless chooses zany comedic roles, be it 'Blast From the Past,' 'Bedazzled,' or this, the all share a quirky, oddball role for Frazier to try, in this case with positive results.Dave plans to exploit 'Link,' not for money, but for popularity. He tells Robyn his discovery, but, of course, she doesn't believe him. Soon Link is enrolled in school under the rouse that he is an exchange student from Estonia. He cannot read, write, or speak other than grunts and the occasional Pauleneese term (which themselves are not paragons of the English language). He swings on lamps and jumps on desks. He eats flies and will stare unashamedly at a pair of female 'gozangas' with the primal urges he cannot suppress like the rest of us. He is an animal--naturally, he becomes the most coolest kid in school. I won't give away the rest of the plot, suffice to say a) Yes, the bully will fall head first into a giant cake, and, b) Yes, there is an inexplicably choreographed dance number at the end.For all its silliness, this is one great film. The actors go balls out into their characters, as if unafraid of any damage they could do to their careers. They seem to be having so much fun as the caveman/the normal guy/the bully/Pauly Shore, that we don't have the heart to not have fun with them. Best of all, this film sidesteps exhausted plot points that could have easily sneaked banality into it. There is no team of scientists trying to capture and experiment on Link, and he is not conveniently disposed of for a return to normalcy. Instead, we are treated to a rather original mixing of absurdity humor, almost in the vein of Samuel Beckett or Robert Shaw, where not only could a caveman blend in with society, he can become cool. There is a strong moral in the film of individuality and what really is 'cool.' Robyn takes a strong liking to Link because he's the only guy at school who's not inhibited. She takes this as a sign of self confidence, when it really is ignorance, Link simply hasn't developed the ego and superego the rest of us have--and we truly envy him for this, for his blissful unawareness of peer pressure. Although Dave tried to teach Link how to behave in society, it was Link, in the end, who taught Dave just that. "},{"Title":"Really fun movie","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I was in high school my friends and I watched this movie every afternoon for one whole summer.  We memorized all the lines and would tell people not to tax our gigs so hard-core, Crusters.  I totally disagree that this is a Man's Movie.  I think it's more of a feel like you're in high school again movie.  Brendan Fraser is HOT and if I liked girls, I'd think that the girls were too.  Sean Astin's character, Dave, is a geek and will remain a geek because he can't get over his popularity issue.  Stoney is cool because he says and does the unexpected.  There's all kinds of editing errors and sometimes it doesn't make a whole lot of sense but I don't care. It's super-lame but it's fun to watch and fun to recite and I don't think I'll ever get sick of it.  But then again, I could ride the Vapor in reverse all day long... "},{"Title":"Rad )","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well contrary to popular belief of the male population...i thought this was one of the most brilliant movies of all time...it was hilarious.....insanely rad. I guess I am what you would call a man's girl though. I love movies like this(Office Space, Dumb and Dumber,Bio-Dome).......very quirky...humor that you don't have to read into, very blunt and obnoxious...i love it!...And besides that, Pauly Shore is a god! I must say that this movie is a must see...if you haven't seen it, see it as soon as possible. I must agree with the previous commenter though, most gals wouldn't like it. It's kinda sexist...but that's cool with me, as long as it's funny, and this movie is funny....my favorite part is where they staple Sean Astin to the wall and pull the fire alarm....pure genius folks, pure genius. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when it first came out and loving it, now almost a decade later I've bought it on DVD and love it again.  This movie is one of my favourite movies now.  I keep watching it on DVD and it just gets funnier as you get more.  Paulie Shore makes the movie and Sean and Brendan are also great.  If I was you I'd buy it on DVD.  GREAT MOVIE "},{"Title":"Hot as Ice","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, a movie from the nineties starring Brendan Fraser is surely nothing to be taken seriously, and Encino Man just proves why. In here, we have two teenagers that achieve in rising a caveman, in order to try to become popular in their school; teenagers... The plot is full of teen movie clichés, but that is something totally expected from this kind of picture. What makes it occasionally interesting is the relationship between these young boys, which is full of youth desires. On the other hand, the comical aspect of this isn't well executed, reason why I don't remember having a single laugh while watching it. If you like this kind of entertainment, especially those made in the nineties, I'd recommend you 1992's Stop! Or my mom will shoot, which is a better choice, even if not perfect as well. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, so it's your typical flick from the 90's. Who cares? Obviously, no one who did this movie did! Anyways, Encino man tells the story of two boys (Dave and Stoney) who uncover a caveman (Link) while digging a pool. They use him to get popular, only to have to whole thing blow up in their faces. It's a feel-good comedy that one can still watch and get a good laugh at. Yeah, the jokes are stale and the acting isn't Oscar-worthy, it's still funny. One of the better films of the 90's and should not be missed if it's on one night and there's nothing else to watch. The cast is Sean Austin, Brendan Fraser, Polly Shore, and Megan Ward. Also in the movie is Dalton James, whom you Isabel Evans fans might remember from my father, the hero.Oh, and Robin's in it!  "}{"Title":"Crappiest of All Times","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is so awful and crappy that I can't blame myself enough for investing time to watch this crap. Brendan Fraser is the only reason anyone would even consider this movie.Can Pauly Shores be anymore pathetic? His mannerism looks so awful and brainless (which he portrayed anyway) that he looked like a drugged zombie. This movie oozes incompetence in all departments. The concept is extraordinarily dumb. I guess they don't have a screenplay, and if they do, it must be an absolute rubbish. But root of all this evil is with the direction and production - there is no casting to speak of, no production values, only pure nonsense beginning to end.I have seen bad movies, but this is worst of all. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious its my all time fav. Brendan Fraser and Pauly Shore make a good team. I could watch this movie over and over. I suggest you all check it out its a classic. "},{"Title":"Encino Man","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  nice movie for one of those totally boring days when all you want to do is watch something thats not too heavy on the think machine.nice movie even when you're up for some fast paced, yet not so fast paced action.  "},{"Title":"A Classic, Awesome Movie!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Awesome movie that had me rolling with laughter.It had a great cast and some great lines that almost everybody who has seen it has quoted once in a while. Some people might shy away from it because Pauly Shore is in it. Personally i love Pauly Shore and his movies! If your in the mood to laugh and are a Pauly fan go check it out for yourself!  "},{"Title":"weasel","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  it was a great movie, good for a laugh. It was a little corny but thats what made it funny the lines were ridiculous but funny the story line was c**p but in general it was a good movie. The character stony is what kept the movie alive with his corny lines that stick in your head   "},{"Title":"The Link to Fun!!!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion, this was a great movie!  I never thought I'd like Pauly Shore, but one day, long ago, I rented Encino Man, and fell in love with it. Although Brendan Fraser is my favorite in this movie, I loved everyone in it!  It was good to see Sean Astin again!  And I learned I liked Pauly Shore!  I give this movie an enthusiastic two-thumbs-up!  I really loved it! The first time I saw it, I watched it 6 times in one weekend!  Now, I know some of you are saying, well, lady, you need to get a life... but I couldn't help it!  I couldn't get enough of it!  It's so entertaining!  Watching the trio of Brendan Fraser, Pauly Shore, and Sean Astin was truly enchanting. Three handsome men, with extreme talent to entertain!  Who could ask for more!  I can't say enough good things about this movie! "},{"Title":"A really great teen movie.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was a great teen movie with great 90's actors like Pauly shore and Brenden Frasier and how it was weird to link that the world he once knew is now replaced with our world and Pauly shores classic lines like wizzin the juice and munchin on grunge Buddy are magnificent, all and all this movie was pretty good and i own it and i love to watch it all the time.The craziest part of the movie is when link discovered the new world and he was playing with Davids dog and he mistaken a garbage truck for a colossal mammoth and when he is at the bar and he gets in trouble by the Mexican gang for taking the Mexican leaders girlfriend and how Pauly Shore,Sean Austin and Brenden Frazier are a spectacular team together. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, the plot is insanely inconceivable and not believable, but still Encino Man is actually funny. And I loved Pauly Shore in this-- he is incredibly over the top and insane, which I tend to love in actors. He works as the comic relief in this not so believable film. I didn't really like Sean Astin in Encino Man, though I did like him in Lord of the Rings; he just isn't one for the funny movies. And I do really like Brandan Fraser (George of the Jungle? TOTALLY!), though he played a fairly non-interesting and easy role. But this movie brought quite a few laughs out of me and my family, especially with Pauly Shore! "},{"Title":"Rad )","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well contrary to popular belief of the male population...i thought this was one of the most brilliant movies of all time...it was hilarious.....insanely rad. I guess I am what you would call a man's girl though. I love movies like this(Office Space, Dumb and Dumber,Bio-Dome).......very quirky...humor that you don't have to read into, very blunt and obnoxious...i love it!...And besides that, Pauly Shore is a god! I must say that this movie is a must see...if you haven't seen it, see it as soon as possible. I must agree with the previous commenter though, most gals wouldn't like it. It's kinda sexist...but that's cool with me, as long as it's funny, and this movie is funny....my favorite part is where they staple Sean Astin to the wall and pull the fire alarm....pure genius folks, pure genius. "},{"Title":"This rocks!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Honestly, I love this movie. It's so funny, and it's cute too. And I love the way they kick Matt Wilson's butt... anyone who's ever been, er... not cool, knows exactly how Dave feels. Brendan Fraser seems to have a thing for that tribal-man thing, huh? He's great though, he makes me laugh every time. And Sean Astin is brilliant, you really feel sorry for the guy. As for Pauly Shore, don't even get me started! He ROCKS! They all do, the film is just great!  "}{"Title":"Definitely a Shwoop!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my gosh! This is such a funny movie! I mean, I have to totally give it up for Brendan Fraser! It is so not easy acting so wild! I mean, how many of YOU could do it? That takes skill! Also, this movie is soooo flippin' funny! I mean, it isn't my fvorite, but I would love to see it again! A total 10 stars baby! "},{"Title":"The best 'man' movie ever made!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the type of movie I like to call a man movie because I think that it is one of those movies that will just appeal to men and I think that women will hate it, but that's just my opinion. Other movies that I consider to be man movies include HEAD OFFICE, SPY HARD, and OFFICE SPACE. Anyway, I first saw ENCINO MAN on UPN one Saturday afternoon and I loved it. Since then, I've probably seen it about ten more times on TBS. It's absolutely hilarious. Pauly Shore is great in it. I know many people would disagree with me here when I say that I think that it was one of the best movies of all time. I can't wait to buy it on DVD. Warning Avoid the 1996 made-for-television sequel, ENCINO WOMAN. While ENCINO MAN is one of the best movies of all time, ENCINO WOMAN is one of the worst movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Brendon Fraser Rocks!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What an awesome movie.Good story line.Cool characters and extremely funny.I did not find one part at all boring.A movie that you could watch again and again and this movie should be watched by everyone. And if you like this movie watch The Pest. Cause you'll love that too! 10/10. An Excellent movie. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The start of the movie was a bit boring, but eventually it picked up pace and became a really great, entertaining, funny film.  Pauly Shore did an excellent job.  The chemistry between Shore, Astin, and Fraser was quite apparent.  I recommend everyone who likes funny, fun movies see this at least once.  Mainly, teens should go see it because it is a great teen movie. "},{"Title":"A fun time.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Encino Man is just an all around fun, silly movie with some good comedy and  numerous quotable lines.  The story behind Encino Man is very simple, it's about two  friends that find a frozen caveman in their backyard while trying to dig a pool...then the  caveman wakes up from his frozen slumber.  Yeah, it's a silly plot, but it's all in good  fun.The characters in the film are great, as is the acting on all accounts.  Brendan Fraser  plays the title role of Link.  Brendan has very few actual lines in the film, mostly just  grunts and sounds...but nonetheless, he does a fantastic job with the role.  Sean Astin  plays Dave Morgan, the main character, who desperately wants to be popular, but has  yet to be discovered.  Stoney, Dave's best friend is played by Pauly Shore, a guy who is  content with himself and really doesn't care for popularity.  Megan Ward is Dave's love  interest in the film, and looks nothing short of fantastic throughout the film.  And finally  there's Michael DeLuise, as the antagonist, Matt, Dave's arch-rival.  There's also a few  notable supporting cast-members.  Robin Tunney (Vertical Limit, Empire Records,   End of Days) in one of her first roles, Patrick Van Horn (Swingers), Jonathan Ke Quan  (The Goonies, Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom), Rose McGowan (Phantoms,  Scream, Monkeybone, Ready to Rumble) and Jack Noseworthy (Breakdown, U- 571, Event Horizon) all fantastic actors rolled into one comedy.All in all, this is a great film.  The cast is great, the characters and acting are great, and  the story is silly, but good at the same time.  There's even a few somewhat touching  scenes here and there.  If you like any of the actors mentioned above, be sure to check  this film out, or if you just enjoy a good, silly comedy, this is the one for you.  I hope  you enjoy it as much as I do.  Thanks for reading,-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"Are cave men smarter than late 20th Century teens? Uh, duh....","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It took a pre-historic earthquake to bury him in ice, and it took the pre- cursor to the Northridge quake to unleash him from his frozen coffin. Brendan Fraser is at his zany best, putting Sean Astin and Pauly Shore to shame in this teen comedy that quarter of a century later now becomes a very guilty pleasure. The ideal of L.A. valley teenagers remains unchanged from Fast Times at Ridgemont High days, stereotyping California teens as seemingly eternally high, more stoned than the man from the stone age. Fraser, aka George of the Jungle, really is a blast from the past, and this time, he's not coming out of a bomb shelter. Some of us pump and some of us slump is just one very clichéd piece of dialog, spoken by one of the bullies who tapes Astin to the school wall. Back when selfies was considered a dorky thing (with good reason), Astin takes one of the threesome, from a Polaroid no less, giving the predictable sight gag towards Fraser involving the flash.My teem years were a period of my life that I am glad to be way past, and in seeing this, I am glad they didn't involve Southern California trends as seen here. Fraser speaks little except to speak in a grunt phrases spoken to him, but he is an absolute comic gem. So I can say that there is a lot to be amused by, but it has the i.q. level of a blank c.d. case. Stereotypical uncool adults look on perplexed by Fraser's behavior, although Mariette Hartley makes for a pretty cool mom. All in all, not bad, but without Fraser, this wouldn't be going in any time capsule. "},{"Title":"Only Brendin could do it","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One thing Brendin Frazer can pull off better than anyone else is his Tarzan style yell. He did it here, he did it well in 'George of the jungle while swinging those vines, and he even did it with his friends in School ties, always in a good, non annoying way, where you knew he was just a cool guy having fun. Now Sean Astin and Pauly shore in this movie are not cool. They're highschool lo-sers, as Pauly Shore said it. Pauly Shore was a popular MTV personality back in the early 90s when this movie came out and his  ma-jor speech style was his thing. Anyway, Pauly and Astin are digging a pool in the back yard, just wishing it would bring them prom dates and popularity. So far, they've been far from it. Getting harassed by the bully and ignored by the pretty girls including Robin (Megan Ward), Sean's crush. Robin and the bully are at first, going steady (just like in the beginning of most highschool movies). Then, Sean and Pauly dig up, bum-bum-bum-bum, the caveman! Actually, just a large ice cube with a body in it. How an ice cube has been able to stay just a few feet underground in 70 degree southern California weather for a hundred thousand years without melting is beyond me. Anyway, Sean and Pauly let it thaw for a day. A primitive, non speaking, yelling man starts running around making a mess and breaking things. Then Sean and Pauly clean him up and dress him, and he (Brenden) then ends up somehow looking and acting cooler than Sean and Pauly. They bring Brenden to school, and he slowly starts getting them more positive attention from kids, including the girls. Brendon even defends the bully from Sean. I know all of this seems quite unbelievable and totally unlikely, but this movie was not meant to have been taken seriously. Its supposed to be a quirky, fun joke of a film. The film does not completely escape bad scenes. One scene, during drivers Ed, Brenden is driving and makes the car tilt over and drive on both right side wheels for the longest time. Yeh. Then, there's a dumb scene in a bar with some drunk Hispanics acting stupid. The movie lacks any ma-jor surprises. Do Sean and Pauly get their pool ready in time for the prom? Do they get prom dates with their desired girls? Does everyone come over to their pool after the prom? Does a bear s*** in the woods? "},{"Title":"cute but not hilarious","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dave Morgan (Sean Astin) decides to dig his own swimming pool for an end of high school party. Along with his wacky best friend Stoney Brown (Pauly Shore), they find a frozen caveman Link (Brendan Fraser). Dave is in love with his old friend Robyn Sweeney (Megan Ward). However she's now out of his league with douche bully boyfriend Matt Wilson (Michael DeLuise) and dismissive friend Ella (Robin Tunney). Link gets thawed out and tries to adjust to the modern world with the help of the boys. Link becomes the cool new guy in school with Dave and Stoney tagging along.It's sometimes fun. Pauly Shore is actually likable as the wacky sidekick. Sean Astin is a bit too hyper desperate. Brendan Fraser is great as the wild caveman. It's cute but not hilarious. Director Les Mayfield doesn't have the greatest comedic touch. The movie survives on the wild performances of Fraser and Shore. "},{"Title":"Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania RULE!","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Less than 2% of the entire world's population carry the definitive maternal mitochondrial DNA from the Baltic Nations. Is it a wonder they chose this background for a million year old caveman to overcome death, high school and learn several languages within a few weeks?? Todally believable dude! This film never fails to deliver comedy, fantasy and some feel good moments, no matter the many repeated viewings. It remains one of my favorite check-out and ride the wave of unique script and theme.Fraser did such a competent job as the lovable Link, his meteoric rise to fame was inevitable. I could not envision any other in this role. As a SoCal semi-native, the earthquake scenes were very relatable but made to seem full of potent mystery and intrigue, the last thought typically on my mind, hence a welcoming singular perspective.I enjoyed the scene when Link tries to drink the runoff water in the street and spits it out, not even a caveman can do that! It was very curious how the two high school nerds could dress Link to look so kewl, especially that hair, where did they get all those ideas and clothes? So many other questions arise from this fanciful farce I assumed that to think too much would be a complete waste of effort and denial of pleasure. Hence, off with my head! The balance of fact and fiction was well done and made me long for yet another adventure at the Smithsonian. They actually have them bones on display. Enjoyed the happy ending, complete surprise but it could happen to you, eh? High recommend for young at heart and momentary feeble of mind.PS - Music score huge plus! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Encino ManThe fortunate thing for a caveman in contemporary California is restaurants already carter to his Paleolithic diet.Mind you, the modern early-man in this comedy would prefer pizza to roots.Excavating his parents' backyard, high school loser Dave (Sean Astin) and his friend Stoney (Pauly Shore) uncover an Ice Man.When he thaws, the duo clean him up, christen him Link (Brendan Fraser) and take him to school as an exchange student.And while Link's antics land Dave and Stoney the popularity that they so desperately crave before Prom, it costs Dave his crush (Megan Ward), and Stoney his best friend.Despite its feeble fish out of the Stone Age storyline, Encino Man's bevy of affable characters and laughable situations help it evolve from a lame to a lovable farce.Nevertheless, missing links shouldn't be at school all-day. They should be at the museum reenacting their lives twice every hour.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"How a cave man turns the school nerd into Mr Popularity","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a somewhat predictable Hollywood movie about two high school students. They start off as unpopular nerds and finish as popular. The ending is even mostly predictable at the beginning. Dave is digging a pool and his dream is that he get with his childhood sweetheart and have a huge party at his house after the prom. The problem with this is that he is unpopular and that the girl he likes is dating another guy, who is the toughest in the school. Things change when they uncover a cave man after an earthquake brings him up.This movie is about popularity and how people crave it. Dave is the focus and he is the one that wants the popularity, and he sees Link, the caveman, as his key. It comes to the point where this creates a wedge between him and Link. Link is popular, but he doesn't bring the popularity to him, and this is what he resents. He does grow though, and he comes to realise that popularity isn't everything, and it is not what he does, or who he knows, but who is his. Link simply does what he likes and generally doesn't care what others think.This is a fun movie, and the character of Link is actually quite deep in an unusual way. One wouldn't expect the character of a cave man to be deep, but he is. He is trapped in a strange world alone and this shows. Moreso, he doesn't go for any woman, even though they throw themselves at him. Rather he wants the woman he left behind and doesn't betray her memories by going after another woman.Stoney is the other main character and he is simply out to show Link a good time. Dave considers him irresponsible, but that is because Stoney's agenda does not line up with Dave's agenda. Stoney at first didn't want to help Link, but the more he got to know him, and showing him things, the more he began to appreciate things. Dave wants fame and money, Stoney simply doesn't care. He hangs around Dave because Dave really wants friends and will take anybody.I guess this is a good movie, and what it shows is that popularity isn't everything. Link was friends with everybody, and this is how he lasted. People are so clicky, especially Dave. He wanted to be in the in crowd, and rejected everybody else. Link didn't care and he befriended everybody, and as such he became popular. When Dave accepted this he found that he was already popular.It is interesting to see how Dave and the popular guy are very similar. Everybody knows this guy was a possessive jerk, and he lost the girl halfway through the movie, but we could see that Dave's self centeredness also made him a jerk. The thing is that Dave overcame this, while the popular guy was shown up to be what he really was like. Dave's highschool ended on a high, while the other guy crashed and burned. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" California teens Astin and Shore want to build a pool as a way to gain popularity before the end of their senior year and find caveman Fraser buried beneath the soil in which they're digging their pool on. They introduce and groom him into the modern life of a Cali teen; and when everything seems go to as planned, the free-spirited caveman who's helping the teens build popularity, is getting a bit too popular. Fraser is a pleasure to watch, and Pauly Shore is&#x85; well, Paul Shore--this could be a good thing or a bad thing depending on your interest for watching the film. Where the film falls short is with Astin as Dave; who's a vain, shallow and selfish little punk, striving to have his own page in the yearbook&#x85; no wonder you're unpopular, Dave. Dave's tendencies of a sociopath become even more evident when he attempts to abandon the caveman because the girl who Dave likes has a crush on the caveman. It's not an overall unpleasant film, but still incredibly frustrating when one of your protagonists is extremely unlikable.** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Juuuu---icccee.....","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dave Morgan and Stoney Brown are two high school outcasts who, while digging in Dave's backyard for a swimming pool, find and thaw out a block of ice containing a man from the Ice Ages.Dave and Stoney try to pass him off as a regular teenager and Link becomes seriously popular at school and this causes Dave and Stoney to become popular in the process.....A total guilty pleasure film from the early nineties. Watching it nearly twenty year5s later, and the film has dated badly, but the whole charm of the film remains.Everybody looks like they are having a good time, and even though Shore looks stoned throughout, you can see why a film company gave him a three picture deal. He's very endearing as stoney, but the rest of his C.V.? nevermind.Astin just reprises his role from the Goonies, and Fraser has the best part of all, getting paid for mumbling and acting inane.The film has the token jock who tries to bring the party to an end, but it's a predictable movie, with it's heart in the right place. "},{"Title":"The Wieze, the Hobbit, and the quiet American","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The buddy comedies critics hate I wind up liking or loving. Encino Man is the case of bad reception from critics, but cult following from Pauly fans. I've been a fan of Pauly's work for a while. I really enjoyed Bio-Dome, I liked In The Army Now, I liked Adopted, I liked Pauly Shore is Dead, but I wasn't so happy with Jury Duty. Yes Pauly Shore is overly goofy, but he defines the early nineties. Nostalgia - that kind of thing makes people go nuts.Another reason I enjoy the film is because this is something I could see Corey Haim and Corey Feldman (two of my favorite actors) doing. Sean Astin, at this time, looked a lot like Corey Haim. Throw Feldman in the picture and replace Pauly in would be a great film. It still is funny. The downside is so much more could've been done with this plot.The film doesn't take the most realistic route even though the plot is already unrealistic. Makes a whole lot of sense doesn't it? If you were a caveman, frozen for hundreds of years, and you thawed and came back to life, wouldn't you want to explore the world at it's fullest instead of being lead around a high school by two bumbling teenagers? I almost feel bad for the guy. He has to live through High School after being frozen for several hundred years. Talk about bad century after bad century.The plot Two high school outcasts named Dave and Stoney (Astin and Shore) from Encino, California are attempting to construct a pool in Dave's backyard when they come across a caveman frozen in a block of ice. They leave him in the garage with the heat cranked up to thaw him out. The caveman, now named Linkavich Link Chomofsky (Fraser) now interacts with the world around him as Dave and Stoney take him to school.Dave's dreamgirl Robyn Sweeny (Ward) is wooed by Link and starts to like him. Not part of the plan. Dave wanted to ask Robyn to prom, but what stands in his way is a heartless jock named Matt (played by DeLuise, who utters one of the greatest movie insults of all time according to a Youtube video).The film relies on a lot of nineties comedy clichés and doesn't really attempt to be fresh in anyway, but like I said before, I'm a sucker for these eighties and nineties buddy films. Richard Masur, Mr. Anderson from one of my favorite comedies License to Drive, plays a the father of Dave in this film acting pretty much like he did in that movie. Masur has a good father figure approach to him and is great like he was in License to Drive.Les Mayfield directed Encino Man and this film seems like the only thing in his filmography that I would vouch for. I saw The Man and didn't feel that was good enough. Other titles like Blue Streak, Codename The Cleaner, and Flubber don't really interest me. But it seems pretty much all of Mayfield's filmography is filled with duds.Encino Man almost seems like a Corey Haim and Corey Feldman film that they couldn't do because they got too old. One of the reasons I like it and the fact that the characters are like my friend and I when we get into a sticky situation. It's movies like this they sort of make me wish I was a nineties kid.Starring Sean Astin, Pauly Shore, Brendan Fraser, Megan Ward, Michael DeLuise, and Richard Masur. Directed by Les Mayfield. "},{"Title":"the one time when Pauly Shore did something good","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Obviously, any time that you have a story involving two Southern California teenagers (think Bill and Ted), you know that the story's going to be completely goofy. Encino Man is a prime example. While high school dudes Dave (Sean Astin) and Stoney (Pauly Shore) are searching their backyard for pre-historic artifacts, they come across a caveman (Brendan Fraser) encapsulated in ice. They put the guy next to a furnace to thaw him out while they're at school, only he turns out to be alive. So, they proceed to try and teach him the early '90s, with varying degrees of success.True, the whole thing's completely silly, but it doesn't pretend to be anything else. It's too bad that Pauly Shore later branched out into pathetically idiotic movies like Bio-Dome, because Encino Man is a laugh riot. "},{"Title":"Could it be...","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is not exactly like it, but is similar to Eegah! In fact, the young Richard Kiel looked very similar to Brandon Fraser ) . Both feature a prehistoric cave man in California deal with the modern world as well. I'm not saying it's a straight copy, but is it possible that the person who wrote this film have seen Eegah? Good film, in any case... "},{"Title":"A silly teen comedy before the vulgarity","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Who thought Sean Astin, Pauley Shore and  Brendan Fraser could carry a film like this. I  mean, you have a former loser from the Goonies,  some weird androgynous sycophant, and  some big guy who only talks in grunts and  groans. While the film followed many of the  conventions of the typical teen drama, it did so  with some fun and uniqueness. While this will  rank as one of those really silly movies that had  no business making a lot of money, it proved to  be a nice escape from the typical collection of movies.  "},{"Title":"...mm passable","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For an 80's -type teen flick. I saw this one a lo-o-ong time ago (or so it felt), so I was surprised it's from 1992. The ideas of Sean Astin's character, trying to make 'Encino-Man' fit in and 'be hip' and Pauly just being himself was total 80's material.Despite the fact that I can almost never stand watching or hearing Brenden Frasier, this movie came out b4 he was known, and he didn't have(don't think) any dialogue, so he was JUST FINE in a movie where there was no possibility to over-act.Oops forgot...some Frasier dialogue  The cheese is moldy &  Where is your bathroom? "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film let down by some failed opportunities.","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Encino Man (known as California Man over here) is a simple, straightforward comedy about a couple of high-school losers who think they have found their claim to high school fame and popularity.The film takes a simple idea then gives it a fairly radical plot twist with the inclusion of an ice age caveman (played by the energetic Brendan Fraser) frozen underground until discovered by Dave (Sean Astin) whilst digging a back-yard pool.Although the film had possibilities for some hilarious set pieces and situations it fails to capitalise and you are left with the feeling of a somewhat half-hearted effort. Not to get me wrong, I did enjoy this film, and I believe it would be fairly difficult not to, but it is just lacking something that could make it stand out from the crowd.Overall an enjoyable film let down by some failed opportunities.  "},{"Title":"Dude, seriously","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although this movie didn't come out until 1992, my guess is it was written back in the mid 1980's, probably after Teen Wolf and Weird Science came out. It just seems like one of those harmless '80's teenager movies. I don't remember laughing very much either. There are a few scenes where Pauley Shore actually tries to act, managing to evoke sparks of true emotion, but otherwise Encino Man was kind of a yawnfest, especially compared to something like Airheads, also with Brandan Fraser, which is really really funny. The people who made Encino Man tried, and Megan Ward is hot, but like I said, if you're looking for funny, you might want to keep looking. "}{"Title":"Run of the mill comedy","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Same old stuff here as 2 30 year old high school lads unearth a quick frozen apeman and turn him into hot property around school. He presents a bad boy image so the girls go for him. Being an amazingly quick study, especially for a Neanderthal, he learns how to be a 90's kinda guy real fast I suppose this is done to hurry the film along so all the teens won't get bored. Not horrid, but merely the same old, same old. "},{"Title":"A frozen cave man somehow defrosts, lives, and learns the ropes of early 90's high school.","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If I were given the chance of having a testicle removed or viewing Encino Man again, I would no doubt choose the former. This film was the largest pile of steaming garbage I have ever witnessed. It was so ramblingly incoherent that I could not turn it off. My roommate, who had recently smoked marijuana, still did not understand the movie. I don't know how a caveman would even stay thawed for that long, especially since ice does not even preserve people. It didn't even work for Ted Williams. This caveman learned some language and it was unrealistic. How did he learn a line dance? Pauly Shore is by far the worst actor ever to act, and Sean Astin should seriously stick to Rudy. I award this movie zero points, and may God have mercy on its soul. "},{"Title":"not so good...","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, I don't have much to say, but what I'm going to say, isn't nice at all. First, the plot, I think, is very bad. A man who is dug out of your yard? Yeah right. The jokes weren't that bad as the plot. And I even laughed a couple of times. Really, a few times. But what made ma angry and what hurt me, was the fact that the writer of it used Estonia as the home of the so-called ex-change student. So let me get this straight - if you're from Estonia then you definitely don't now any words and act strangely? I know that many Americans don't know where Estonia is situated, but it doesn't give them the right to advertise it as the land of stupid people. And that is the reason why I wouldn't rate this movie no more than 2/10. "},{"Title":"An absolute retchfest","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, was this one bad!How bad you say?  Let me put it this way Pauly Shore was the best thing in this movie.'Nuff said... "},{"Title":"Cool.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this film, and I recommend seeing it on TV.  Brendan Fraiser was hot!  I thought it was okay though, I liked it but I didn't LOVE it. That's why I gave it a 5/10.  Go read other comments about it then you'll get the real picture on this film.  I'd give it a try and watch the film. Especially if you think Brendan is hot!!  I do!!  But I hated that Butthead DaVe, who made it that the only thing he wanted to do in his life was become popular and the director got the wrong actor and that maybe some of the dialog and actions couldn've used some change.  The bad decision making teen senior DAve (Sean Astin) and the weirdo-lamo Pauly Shore been there dun dat man was good for its time or the year it was made(1992).  "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure if ever there was one","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is charming and funny enough to rise above its considerable weaknesses, mainly thanks to Brendan Fraser's enchanting performance as an unfrozen cave-man who finds himself in a modern high school.  Chief among said weaknesses are the two out of the three leading characters; a snotty little high-school social climber played by Sean Astin, and the always-annoying Paulie Shore.  And the fact that it's yet another high-school message film (`Be yourself and you'll be popular').  But Fraser makes up for it all &#150; he hardly speaks but his expressive face and uninhibited body carry the film.  Imagine a young and naive Cary Grant&#133; "},{"Title":"pretty stupid.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a pretty dumb movie, though I admit I did laugh. Mostly because Pauly Shore's character was so stupid that it was funny. I really cannot stand Brendan Fraser, and though I do like Sean Astin, he wasn't too good in this movie either. I definatly do not recommend this movie to anybody; it's a waste of time.By the way, anyone else ever notice that Brendan Fraser is always playing characters who are out of touch with civilization? (George of The Jungle, Blast From The Past, Encino Man)  "},{"Title":"It's a caveman movie.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pauly Shore digs up Brendan Frasier in his backyard.  Brendan Frasier is a caveman.  A cool caveman.  Antics ensue as they find themselves in ridiculous situations and still manage to have a happy ending.  The end. "},{"Title":"Predictable and uninspired high-school slacker comedy","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While digging a pool in his backyard, Dave Morgan uncovers a stone-age artifact and realises that this is his way out of geekdom (the irony of that escaping him totally). However he is even more shocked to find a stone-age man frozen in a big block of ice. While trying to work out what to do with this discovery, the discovery defrosts and sets off around the locality &#150; bewildered and confused. Dave and his friend Stoney catch him up and decide that the only way to keep him safe is to pass him off as a high-school exchange student &#150; a plan that produces hilarious consequences! My plot summary is pretty accurate right up until the final two words because this uninspired teenage slacker comedy is nothing new, nothing special and nothing particularly funny. The film appears to have been created to try and ride the wave of such comedies that had been started by Bill & Ted and Wayne's World, however it forgets to reproduce the laughs of those films and just settles into easy scenarios, basic fish out of water gags and a narrative that is about as old as the prehistoric title character. In this regard it failed to engage me and never tried to be anything other than basic and it rewards viewers who are only happy with it working at this level but will likely just come off as rather tiresome to those that expect more. Laughs are rare and require you to be in the mood rather than doing the work to actually put you in the mood and the plot, like I said, goes exactly where you know it will after about 10 minutes.The cast cannot do anything to raise the material and they are just left mugging along. Fraser has the main role and perhaps the easiest &#150; fooling around and looking silly; however he is as poor as the material although it is not his fault. Astin is dumped with the narrative to carry and he suffers with it. Shore marks out his future career path by managing to be unfunny and annoying with his character. The rest of the cast are the usual high-school clichés and none of them do anything at all of note.Overall this is a poor comedy but one that you might enjoy if you are target audience for this sort of basic fare. The jokes are simple, the plot is predictable and boring while the cast just try to do their best they can, which really isn't any good at all. Will appeal to some but to the majority it will be something that is forgotten in less time than it took to watch it. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of All Time!","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As I was an elementary student when this movie first came out, I had no concept of how awful it really was. Seeing it now on TBS in 2006... It is the most insulting movie in history. Pauly Shore should never have been permitted to make it past childhood and more-over he is the cause of all that is wrong with the early 90s. Also for those of you who like Lord of the Rings, you will never see Samwise the same way again after this movie. There are certain Ed Wood movies that have been given the title of worst movie of all time... but those opinions are wrong. Encino Man is far worse than stock footage and Lugosi on morphine. This is without question the worst thing that ever happened and should not be viewed by anyone from any decade. You will lose more brain cells here than you might in a whole week of binge drinking. Stay Away. (thank you TBS for providing the inspiration to spend my time bashing this horror film, and may your ratings take a dive because of it.) "}{"Title":"Why do people make movies like these?","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That was my first thought after I saw this movie. The story is extremely ridiculous, the comedy in the movie...well, was there any? Anyway I don't want to say very much of this movie, that would be a very useless waste of my time. "},{"Title":"pretty far fetched and too unrealistic","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is too unrealistic for me. I mean, they couldnt have possibly found a caveman buried for 100,000 years or so in a pool only 20ft deep! If they were to find something like that they would have had to dig pretty deep to find anything that extreme. And also, how could he have possibly been alive, in the first place?? His teeth in good shape? He would have been withered to the bone much less than ALIVE. Ok, I know I'm being cynical, but please!! Pure Amatureville in movie making! "}]