[{"Title":"Love waits for no man, except Mel Gibson.","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Mel Gibson starred in Forever Young in 1992, it was probably an attempt to break away from the wild man of Mad Max and Lethal Weapon. He actually proves to be quite likable as a romantic lead, and makes Forever Young a sweet, endearing romantic fable.In 1939, Mel plays Captain Daniel McCormick, an Air Force test pilot. No stranger to danger, he is willing to brave the latest experimental aircraft, but he's unable to take the biggest risk of all, proposing to his girlfriend, Helen.Every time Daniel tries to work up the courage to pop the question, he loses his bottle. So he decides to wait. Unfortunately, he waits too long. Helen is run down in an accident, and slips into a coma. Daniel can't live without her, and decides to volunteer for a risky experiment.Daniel's best friend Harry Finley (George Wendt) is one of the first scientists working on cryogenics. He has yet to test his theories on a living, human subject. Daniel decides to go for it, where he will be placed into a capsule and frozen for a year. If Helen ever wakes up, Harry wakes up Daniel.But of course, things don't go the way they're supposed to. When World War II breaks out, the cryogenics experiment falls through the cracks. Harry is killed, and as a result, Daniel is forgotten about. He stays frozen in the capsule for over 50 years.Daniel is eventually thawed out by two boys, Nat and Felix (Nat is played by a young Elijah Wood). Daniel wakes to find the world has become a very different place. Staying with Nat and his mother Claire (the delightful Jamie Lee Curtis), Daniel tries to piece together the last 50 years.To enjoy Forever Young, you will probably have to suspend disbelief quite a bit. The story itself is rather outrageous, but on a simple level, it's fairly enjoyable. It has more than a few shades of Back to the Future about it. In the same way Robert Zemeckis brought a Frank Capra style of storytelling to BTTF, the director Steve Miner also brings a gentle, benign touch to this story.The greatest discovery of all is the fact that Mel Gibson manages to make this film work. He makes for a very endearing character when he is lost in the 1990's. His amazement at the new world is played in a very understated fashion. His confusion and old-fashioned naiveté are subtly incorporated into the story, e.g. discovering filtered cigarettes, seat-belts, answering machines, etc.What's nice about his performance is also the fact that Daniel was brought up in different times. He has a completely different set of values compared to the cynical attitudes of the present day. I like the scene where Daniel saves Claire from an abusive ex-boyfriend, or when he gets to sit in the cockpit of an old-fashioned test plane.This type of story could have become very mawkish, but Steve Miner manages to find just the right focus, and balances events just right. Jamie Lee Curtis adds sterling support as always, and she gets a lot of good scenes with Gibson.Elijah Wood also puts in an excellent performance, showing incredible maturity for his age. He acts as Daniel's guide while he is in the 90's, and proves invaluable in putting together what happened to Daniel's past. He plays Nat as neither too precocious or too juvenile, and went on to the fame that he deserved.In some eyes, Forever Young has an improbably happy ending, where Daniel is reunited with Helen. But I didn't mind this time round. Probably because I was enjoying myself too much. I especially like the scene where Daniel teaches Nat to fly in his tree-house. Watch the camera angles, and you sometimes feel as if they really are flying a plane.Forever Young wouldn't win any awards for originality, but if they gave out awards for heartwarming stories, Forever Young would definitely be up for a nomination. "},{"Title":"A genre film but balanced enough to avoid the cliché and easy tricks","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Captain Daniel McCormick is a happy-go-luck pilot who is known for his risk taken and no-strings lifestyle. As much as he wants to settle down with his longterm sweetheart, he cannot bring himself to say the words. However when she is put into a coma in a car accident and the doctors say there is no hope of recovery he goes off the deep end and decides to volunteer to be frozen in an experiment being carried out by his friend Harry Finley. 53 years later he is woken up in a military storage unit by two young boys who were just messing around. Without a clue what happened to him or what to do, Daniel turns to the two boys for help.It sounds rather corny and obvious and, in a way, I suppose it is but by not ever playing it for laughs or being self-mocking the film creates a tone that means it all works as long as you meet it on its terms. The story is sentimental and slushy and in this way I imagine it will put many viewers off for being this way. I surprised myself by actually liking it though and finding it all rather engaging and sweet. Although I doubt he knows where Lost is going, Abrams does a good job as writer to avoid cliché and mush the best he can. Miner matches this by directing in a controlled manner that holds back on the sweeping music and emotion until he can actually use them.The cast work well with this approach and avoid the film becoming a soapy television movie. Gibson may not have had the best of days recently PR-wise (alleged drunk-driving and alleged anti-Semitic remarks) but here he is charming and reasonably good at the emotion. Of course he could have been better considering that when he awoke after 50 years the loss of his wife would still be fresh in his mind. Curtis is solid enough and deals with the material given her. The child support are better than I expected even if they are a bit cute in the way all Hollywood kids are. Wood works well with Gibson, which I suppose is the important thing.Overall this is a solid and enjoyable romantic film that is a bit slushy and melodramatic. It avoids cliché well enough but you do need to meet it on its terms and not be cynical. Not one for the die-hard action fans but it is a good date movie that is gentle and balanced enough to find a mixed audience without losing touch with the genre. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Such a beautiful film. I don't care if it isn't the most highbrow film ever written - how many people truly are bothered by such details other than academics and snobs? I remember watching this years ago and it is one of the very few films that I love to watch again and again, despite knowing the ending!! It is a wonderful, compelling story of true love, a true gentleman and genuine friendship that crosses the ages. Mel Gibson's character, Daniel, is sensitively portrayed and the ending is incredibly moving. Gibson ably handles all the shifts in emotion and even time. It is a novel way of retelling the 'true love never ends' story and it heart-warming and moving. A young Elijah Wood is entertaining and sweet without being unbearable. Jamie Lee Curtis is totally believable as a young single mother.Highly recommended and very endearing. "},{"Title":"Forever Heck Yeah","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was watching this last night, I didn't realize it was written by the creator of Lost... and I'm glad I didn't know that, because it would have tainted my opinion.I expected a sappy love story with a sappy Mel Gibson who takes a nap to wake up and find himself falling in sappy love with the ugly, but sappy, Jamie Lee Curtis and adopting her sappy and bug-eyed son, Elijah Wood. Bless my lucky stars, I was wrong. Mel Gibson is frozen by Norm from Cheers after his girlfriend goes into a coma. He wakes up in 1992 (he slept in 1939) to a whole new world. No sappiness, and Mel Gibson wasn't even sucking as hard as he tends to suck (see What Women Want for really hard sucking).I really liked this film, it kept me from going to sleep on time. You'll like it, too, and maybe even more if you watch it with a date because it's really about how love lasts forever. (They say diamonds last forever, but those materialistic bastards wouldn't know real love if it woke up from a 50-year slumber!!!!) See this movie soon, because you never know when your last chance to see it will be. "},{"Title":"Time-Travel Story With Feeling","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another of these frozen-in-time movies. I know at least two of them that were made in 1991-1992 and they were both fun to watch this movie and Late For Dinner.The good things that this particular film has going for it are 1 - Mel Gibson plays a very likable lead character in Captain Daniel McCormick; 2 - there is a nice 1940s atmosphere in the beginning with a sweet-looking Isabell Glasser, who exhibits one of the sweetest faces and smiles I've seen on film; 3 - there is a good mix of humor, drama and intrigue, as well as fantasy in the story; 4 - there is a nice, almost tear-inducing ending.The kids in the movie were a little pushy but not too bad. Jamie Lee Curtis was low-key and very pleasant. I like the fact McCormick stayed true to his original woman. The film got criticized for being too unrealistic but, hey, it's supposed to be a fantasy story where everything is not explained. The only thing I found stretching things when it shouldn't have been was the kid (Nat Cooper - Elijah Wood) helping Capt. McCormick land an airplane at the end. Overall, a nice, touching movie. "},{"Title":"Good for all ages","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was ten years old and have been in love with mel gibson ever since. His performance (big shock) always gets to me. I don't mean to make this a love song to mel, but he has on screen chemistry with everybody, so it's romantic to see him with Jamie Lee curtis and Isabel glasser. Elijah wood is good as one of the less annoying child stars from his era. The story is cute, no oscar winner, but entertaining. A traditional love story in an untraditional plot, Will love wait for me? When do you move on? It's never too late, those kind of things.  Again, I saw it when I was a kid and loved it, and now I'm an adult and still enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"A gentle, thoughtful, family-style offering","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young goes in a lot of familiar directions -- time travel, a cuddly child and a single mom, a mix of drama, comedy, sci-fi, mystery and romance. But mostly, it manages to be entertaining without offending anyone or forcing the issue.The early portion of the show -- set in 1939 -- offers a soft, dreamy, realistic look at what that time was like. The characters seem to have been drawn from the audience, from the masses, instead of being picture-perfect in look and dress. The acting is low-key, relaxing and believable. And, while the plot covers a lot of ground, it ties together well and has enough mystery that the viewer won't be able to guess the outcome and is sure to be satisfied with both the journey and the destination.Forever Young reminded me of Always, starring Holly Hunter and Richard Dreyfuss. Both shows are loaded with characters that are easy to like because of who they are and how they respond. Mel Gibson in Forever Young is particularly effective when dealing with the son of Jamie Lee Curtis; you know she's already committed and he cannot hang around, but you find yourself wishing the boy could have Mel for his new dad.Not offering more shows like this is why theaters have so few under-12 and over-35 movie goers. "},{"Title":"Touching and Enjoyable","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very sweet story. It wasn't the face of Mel Gibson that got me, or even the idealistic premise or the laugh that was produced when I saw an extremely young Elijah Woods in yet another dramatic, power-packed role. There was just something about the film...Daniel McCormick doesn't mind taking chances. A test pilot with a devil-may- care attitude toward death, he performs live stunts, has a great sense of humor, and is passionately in love with his childhood friend Helen. His best friend Harry Findley is a scientist for the war department who has just successfullycompleted a test run of his latest invention... which has the ability to successfully freeze a living form for a certain amount of time. He's tested the system on a live chicken and returned it to full health after six weeks of being frozen. The next step up is a human being.Spring is all around them, and Daniel feels that he should propose to Helen, but the words just don't get past his throat. Chickening out just before she's due to leave town for a few weeks on-assignment, Daniel gives her a passingkiss and steps into the nearest phone booth to call up Harry and tell him that he almost did it. With horror, he steps out of the booth to find Helen laying on the pavement, having just been hit by a truck. His chance is lost. She lies in a coma for two weeks... three weeks... six weeks...I can't bear to see her die, Harry, he tells his friend. And then drops the bombshell... he wants to be frozen for a year. If Helen wakes up, he wants to come back, but if she doesn't, leave him. Somewhat warily, Harry agrees... and Daniel is frozen in time. But something goes wrong... and we flash-forward to the present, in which two little boys, Nat and Felix, are fooling around in an old government warehouse. Pretending that the canister is a submarine, theyaccidentally reverse the process and bring Daniel back.Suddenly it's 1992, and Daniel is in a world with which he has no connections. What happened? Why would Harry leave him frozen? Whatever happened toHelen? These are questions that must be answered... but as he searches for the truth, Daniel realizes that something is wrong. Something strange is happening to him. And even his newfound friends, Nat and his mother Claire, cannot fully explain the sudden changes in his life.Forever Young is the kind of film that appeals to romantics at heart. I wascompletely unprepared for the turn that the plot took halfway through, but when one reflects, there really is no other ending that would feel right. It has excellent performances by Mel Gibson and Elijah Wood, although the women in theproduction seem too pale and under-emphasized. It's a science fictionadventure, a romance, a comedy, and yet in part a tragedy. It's also the story of growing into manhood, in its own peculiar little way. The charisma is there, the plot is very well thought-out, and yet there's almost a somberness to the ending, which is bittersweet/ There is some language, but it doesn't overly detract from the script and is at times appropriate in shocking Daniel into the modern world.For a guy who says heck, darn, and other mild alternatives to popularprofanities, he's suitably wide-eyed when a woman is verbally venting. There's very little violence except for a fistfight between Daniel and an Claire's abusive ex-boyfriend. Sensuality is present, as is mild backside nudity only seen briefly in the shadows. Some passionate kissing never goes any further, a woman isseen briefly in her bra (and with a torn shirt); but viewers should be forewarned that Claire's boyfriend shows up, slaps her around, and forces her onto a table. This element surprised me, since I wasn't warned in any of the reviews I read online.It's definintly a family film, and the type of film I'll watch again and again. It's funny, cute and sweet. I loved it, it may be one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"classic/classy chick flick","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie hits all the requisite points for the classic love story.Love lost - love found - mistaken death of love one - sacrifice - the hero almost falling for another woman - a cute boy facilitating the reunion - the evil group trying to stop the reunion - a great escape - the reunion scene in a very scenic locale with great camera shots - Mel Gibson.I went to see it mainly because it had a science fiction angle. I was disappointed in that it was used merely as a plot gimmick and was not adequately followed up. But the movie was involving in its own right and I was surprised when the ending made me cry. I'm usually immune to the saccharine sweetness in this type of movie but there was just something special in the acting.There is a bit of action in this film the odd airplane crash, and a touch of humor. George Wendt (Norm of Cheers fame) has a supporting roll but this is above all a love storyThe perfect movie to take your Valentine to. It will show her that you love her. "},{"Title":"True Love Lasts","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1939 Captain Daniel McCormick (Gibson) was a test pilot who was on the verge of asking his childhood sweetheart Helen (Glasser) to marry him. However tragedy strikes when Helen is hurt in a car accident, six months pass and she is still in a coma. Daniel asks his best friend Harry Finley (Wendt) if he could be the specimen for Harry's cryogenics project, soon enough he is in a deep frozen sleep and wants to be woken up when Helen gets better. It's 50 years later and two boys Nat (Wood) and Felix (Gorman) accidentally stumble upon Daniel and he's brought back to life, he becomes friends with Nat's mother Claire (Curtis) who introduces him into the 1990's. Forever Young is a very romantic love story and it proves that love waits forever.9/10 Stars. "}{"Title":"Excellent drama that will warm your heart and stay with you eternally","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" FOREVER YOUNG, in my opinion, is an excellent drama that will warm your heart and stay with you eternally. When Daniel (Mel Gibson) got thawed out in 1992, I was really shocked. This was because he met and fell in love with Claire (Jamie Lee Curtis). It was sad he had just lost his girlfriend (Isabel Glaser) in 1939, though. I also enjoyed seeing George Wendt (Harry), too. The moment I found out he was in this, I was taken aback. If you ask me, the performances were good, the direction was excellent, and the cast was perfectly chosen. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent drama that will warm your heart and stay with you eternally to any Mel Gibson or Jamie Lee Curtis fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a feel good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Old fashioned sweet and gentle tale of enduring love","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a lovely sentimental love story that is refreshingly suitable for family viewing. Though not a plausible tale and despite its rather slow start, it does have an engaging plot and sympathetic characters.The tale, begun in 1939, revolves around a test pilot, Daniel, who is in love with a pretty young woman named Helen. He discovers himself alas, too tongue tied to pop the matrimony question to her in a restaurant as planned. Unfortunately it appears to have been an opportunity forever lost, as Helen is immediately afterward run down by a truck. Unable to bear the ongoing pain of watching his beloved in a coma, he begs his scientist friend, Harry, to use him as a guinea pig in his risky cryogenic experiments and place him in a frozen state until Helen awakens. However, World War II begins, Harry is killed, and plans go awry such that Daniel is not awakened until 1992 when a young boy, Nat Cooper, and is friend inadvertently discover his metal cryogenic tube and pretend it's a submarine. Nat and his mom, Claire, become Daniel's friends in his newly awakened life.Mel Gibson is very endearing in the role of Daniel, who must try to untangle his regenerated life, adjust to modern times, find Harry, and cope with ongoing grief over Helen... all while living with his new friends, the Coopers. Elija Wood is suitably appealing as the young Nat, and Jamie Lee Curtis gives a sympathetic portrayal of the single mom, Claire, whom Daniel gallantly rescues from an abusive former boyfriend. Daniel and Claire have some interesting scenes together, with her cast as a possible new love interest. Actually Helen, Daniel's old love from the 30's, makes only brief appearances in this film.There are a number of cute scenes in the movie, such as Daniel gobbling down blueberry pie in a diner booth while trying to summon the nerve to propose to Helen. It's quite amusing when Nat & his pal stumble upon Daniel's cryogenic tube and believe this 'cold man' is a regenerated dead guy whose intent is to do them harm! Nat has an adorable tree house where Daniel later gives his young protégé flying lessons.Yes, it has a sappy, sentimental ending although I personally loved it! It's so moving when Daniel is reunited with his long lost love, now elderly but still lovely, in a dramatic scene with a seaside background. He gets the chance to propose to her that he missed 50 years earlier, and they can finally live happily ever after...however long (or short) a time that may be. The movie teaches us a lesson to seize the moment and never leave words left unsaid to loved ones, especially in affairs of the heart. "},{"Title":"Nice, irresistable Mel","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I'm not one for science fiction, I found this film to be entertaining and rather wholesome, much to my surprise, despite its PG rating; we get to see Mel Gibson's naked tushie (Whoo-hoo!). Forever Young takes place in 1939, where Daniel (a pilot played by Mel), after being unable to propose to his girlfriend who soon afterwards falls into a coma, decides to be frozen by his best friend for a year's time. It turns out, however, that he lies dormant until 1992, being accidentally awakened with a boy's jacket in hand. This starts a rather amusing and interesting walk through the streets, and a reunion with the boy, who, with the aid of his mother (played spectacularly by Jamie Lee Curtis), help him on his search to untangle his past -- bringing him to the sudden realization that true love can't wait.  This film has it all  drama, action, romance, bits of humor, a well-written script, a wonderful cast, spectacular scenery, and most of all, a gorgeous Mel, who plays his role of the daring, young test pilot to a tee. It's a wonderful film to see, especially if you're a true romantic at heart. "},{"Title":"Definitely not Mel Gibson's best work, but still an enjoyable film.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"    FOREVER YOUNG has some big names, like Mel Gibson, Jamie Lee Curtis, Elijah Wood, and George Wendt (Cheers). So with this in mind, you know FOREVER YOUNG has got to be pretty good. And it just so happens, it is.  It's not a great film, but it's good enough to watch, sit through and actually enjoy. Sure, the film is one of those predictable romance films, but aren't they all in this genre?  So take my advice, if it comes on TV watch it, or at the video store if you see it, pick it up. It's not that bad. 3/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Non-Romantics stay away","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A very touching film because of some extremely sentimental and poignant elements. The girl that holds your heart and to whom you cannot propose crosses a road and gets hit by a truck. Coma&#x85;, irreversible&#x85;, they say. Better get frozen for later than live through this death. Frozen by some doctor who dies and leaves you behind and you are abandoned in a hangar. A couple of naughty boys revive you and then the real nightmare starts. They all believe you are nuts of course, except the mother of one of the boys, a nurse by profession he saves from an ex-whatever who wants to rape her. Finding your identity after 53 years in ice, that's hard. But there is a slight problem with Dorian Gray's picture. You are the picture and your age shows fast. Will he find and marry his sweetheart and is she still alive? Will he escape the cops and the doctors? Who knows? What will the little boy who revived him do? Nothing to say here. Just keep in mind this film is a piece of romantic beauty and that's all. The visit of the air force base I remember I must have done it in the same period, around 1990, one or two years more or less. That was a funny experience and I would have loved meeting Mel Gibson in one of the jets. But well no luck boy. Mel Gibson is nothing but a celluloid baby who has no real existence and his life is a dream and in this case the dream could have turned into a nightmare. Mel Gibson is a very flexible actor and manages romantic situations or situations with kids just as well as he does mad situations with Max and his tribe, not to speak of the mythic religious rewriting of the passion or the whole cosmos. There is something like a certain Connors and Schwarzenegger in that Gibson, even if he is a difficult spouse to get a divorce from. Back to the future then.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"The kind of Movie you can watch over and over...","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I watched this movie was because I enjoy aviation related movies and most things with a 1940's atmosphere. By the time it was over it became my favorite Mel Gibson movie of all time. He is totally believable in an unbelievable situation...and a wonderful story about courage, morals, values, coming to the rescue, commitment, and yes...love. Great action scenes converge with a truly touching story. One of the more subtly sad and warming, often lost sub-stories, is when it is revealed that Daniel's best friend Harry died trying to save him during a fire which ultimately lead to the 'Experiment' being lost in time. Everything about this story moves along at a wonderful pace...all the pieces believably fall into their alloted time line, yet there is enough mystery and surprise to keep it interesting and riveting. Often overlooked is how much the marvelous soundtrack adds to the effect of the movie...absolutely wonderful movie...and this comes from a guy who normally doesn't care much for the warm fuzzy mushy kind of picture shows. "},{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable,not a masterpiece though","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw it a few days ago and enjoyed it. it's not a masterpiece, i mean the main idea was a little unoriginal and the ending was predictable, but it was a funny and enjoyable movie to watch, especially the chemistry betwean mel Gibson and jamie lee curtis(two great actors) and also elijah wood which was pretty great. mel Gibson did a fine job.it is not his best work but he was good,the most important thing he did was not letting the character be a boring one.elijah wood was also funny and i was kinda surprised to see him in this movie.afterall this movie cannot be considered as a masterpiece or an influential film,but the very important point is that it's not trying to.this film is supposed to be amusing and entertaining and to be light for it's audience,and imo it's very successful in it's own way. i give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This was a good romantic movie right at the beginning of chick flick-dom","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hitting just before Sleepless in Seattle (which would be released six months later), this movie was very well done indeed and helped usher in the romantic comedy era of the 90's. Suspend disbelief about the possibility of being cryogenically frozen and then brought back, and this movie works. It's warm, it's witty and it's never overplayed or over-dramatic. Mel's performance in the beginning of the movie when he is apprehensive about popping the question is perfect as he projects probably where every guy has been at some point when he is about to ask. You just want to tell him ASK!!! but he can't. It's genuine. Very good date movie. Highly recommend. "},{"Title":"as comforting as a cup of hot chocolate...","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I curl up with this movie occasionally because a) it's a ripping little yarn, b) it's got Mel Gibson in it, and c) because it's as comforting to me as a warm blanket or a cup of hot chocolate.Gibson plays Daniel McCormick, an army test pilot in 1939 who is about to propose to his girlfriend, Helen (Isabel Glasser) when she is hit by a truck and falls into a coma. Thinking she may never awake, and totally lost without her, Daniel opts to be frozen cryogenically by his scientist best mate and be woken up in a year, or when Helen wakes up, whatever happens first. Unfortunately WWII happens and Daniel's cryo-tube is mistaken for a water heater and abandoned in a factory. Enter mini Frodo and his soon-to-be-toothless best bud stumble across Dan in the back of a warehouse and set him loose in 1992. Rest assured that after some dramas, he discovers Helen is actually still alive and is reunited with her at the end in one of the more imagination-stretching sequences in movie history.That aside, this is a great little film, perfect date movie, and one I revisit occasionally when I'm in the mood for a nice movie. Mini-Frodo is quite good as the boy Nat, who befriends Daniel, and his own little love story in the film is quite sweet you are my sunshine, my only sunshine... reminded me of all the silly crushes I had at that age. I also liked the fact that while he was obviously attracted to her, Daniel did not get it on with Jamie Lee Curtis' character, but that the story really was about his true love. I also liked the whole man with 30's morals in the 90's thing, because often I feel that I was born in the wrong decade when it comes to that kind of thing... "},{"Title":"An awesome, charming little film, that's very underrated, with a creative story and wonderful performances!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an awesome charming little film, that's very underrated, with a creative story and wonderful performances!. All the characters are just great, and they were all extremely likable as well, plus Mel Gibson and Jamie Lee Curtis are simply amazing in this!. this should be higher then 6.0 in my opinion and I don't see why so many people dislike this movie, it's very charming, sweet, creative and everything you could want a romantic comedy! plus the ending was just great and left me with a smile on my face. Elijah Wood is excellent as the kid,and was really likable, and I thought this was very well written and made as well, plus Mel Gibson's aging make up was really cool!. It's one of Mel's most underrated films and Elijah has one of the funniest lines in the movie to a girl (Bitch'in nail polish it looks like blood), plus it has some very surprising moments in the film as well. It even has a little bit of Sci-Fi in it! and it's good natured as well, plus the opening was cool as well. This is an awesome charming little film, that's very underrated, with a creative story and wonderful performances, and I say its a must see!. The Direction is great!. Steve Miner does a great! job here with really good camera work, cool angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is wonderful!. Mel Gibson is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable funny, charming had excellent chemistry with Jamie Lee Curtis,Isabel Glasser and Elijah Wood, had lots of charisma and had a really cool character, as he looked pretty comfortable with his role! (Gibson Rules!!!!!). Jamie Lee Curtis is also amazing as always, she is beautiful, funny , had some wonderful scenes with Mel Gibson, also had a cool character, and it was great to see her work with Mel!, she was amazing (Jamie Lee Rules!!!!!!!!). Elijah Wood is fantastic as the kid, he was funny, and and really likable,its too bad that he is not credited enough for this film since its dwarfed by all the attention he gets in Lord of The Ring films. Isabel Glasser is great as Helen, she had very good chemistry with Gibson and was quite pretty I liked her. George Wendt is cool in his role as Gibson's best friend I really liked him. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Forever Young- Love Story with meaning","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is for the whole family....except for one violent scene in the kitchen.. It may be slow to some...And realistic to others..Life is not always filled with anticipation...If you like the thought of true love...You will find it here! 0) The film show realism for the time it was written for. To see a future, beyond ours is wonderful..And this movie shows it....from our past. This was set in a time when My mother was born. She would have loved this movie. But she passed away 4 years ago from breast cancer. The lead in the movie reminds me of her and her generation when she was growing up. To find the reality of this show in our daily lives is hard..but it can be done...Give this a chance..Let your children watch... It's much better than watching cartoons and not seeing real life and reality. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young is one of my all time favorites, it combines a great story with excellent performances from Mel Gibson,Jamie Lee Curtis and child actor Elijah Wood. Definitely one of my favorite Gibson flicks,and I always enjoy watching Elijah Wood who in my opinion was one of the finest child actors of his time. "},{"Title":"My favourite Mel Gisbon Movie.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young is a brilliant movie, which has been wonderfully directed by Steve Miner and acted by the brilliant Mel Gibson, Jamie Lee Curtis and a young Elijah Wood who all give great performances here. Mel Gibson should of got an Oscar nomination for this role. If you haven't seen Forever Young then I definitely recommend it to anyone and I give this movie a well deserving 10/10. "},{"Title":"Quite Enjoyable, Most of the Acting is Good","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie also shows a man who thinks he lost all that gave meaning to his life, but finds the meaning was not gone in the first place. It is a touching love story.This movie also shows how a boy would want a man he meets as his father. The man comes into his life, and he knows nothing about his background or history, but he knows he is a friend.This movie is quite enjoyable if you want an evening of simple entertainment that does have some meaning to it as well.The whole idea of freezing a person to preserve him for later was new at the time. The movie shows it does work, but that it is not a solution after all.The acting by Mel Gibson and Elijah Wood makes it a very nice movie to watch. It is too bad they put Robert Hy Gorman in it as well; his acting is absolutely terrible.All in all, great brilliance should not be expected, but the friendship between the boy and the man gives a warm feeling. The love story between the man and the woman has a sweet-and-sour taste to it, since they do find each other again, but will not get to spend very much time together anymore. "},{"Title":"Simple and humdrum but pleasant and touching all the same","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" First things first, I do not think this is Mel Gibson's best film, but it isn't his worst either. This is a minor film with a simplistic plot but charming performances. The pace is rather pedestrian, and Steve Miner's direction is a little too uptight. But Mel Gibson despite playing a tired sort of character, does well at acting bemused, and Jamie Lee Curtis provides charming support. Elijah Wood is also convincing as Nat, and the two lead's reunion is very touching and poignant and it avoids trying to be funny. Nice music and sumptuous filming also help.Overall, a minor entry in the Mel Gibson canon, but a nice, simple and touching film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Good-hearted fantasy/romantic film.","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1939, When Capt. Daniel Mc Cormick's (Two Time Oscar-WinnerMel Gibson) girlfriend Helen (Isabel Glasser) went to a deep coma after getting hit by a car. While Daniel is extremely depressed and lack of hope. He convinces his best friend Harry (George Wendt) to use Daneil as a test subject for Cryogenics. Which Daniel wants to be frozen until his girlfriend is awake. More than fifty years later... When a young boy named Nat (Elijah Wood) and his best friend Felix (Robert Hy Gorman) are checking out the military base in the storage area and they accidentally thawed him. Now Daniel is been sleeping for over five decades, he wakes up into a completely different world. Daniel finds the boys, who awake him up. Which Daniel wants their help to find his best friend and his girlfriend if they are still alive but slowly Daniel finds himself in a strong bond with Nat and a kind friendship with Nat's mother Claire (Jamie Lee Curtis).Directed by Steve Miner (Day of the Dead 2007, House, Texas Rangers) made an enjoyable, if corny fantasy drama with the right amounts of comedy and romance. It's nice to see Gibson in a relaxed laid-back performance as Daniel, which Gibson is best known for the Lethal Weapon Series and the Mad Max trilogy. The movie's best moments are the scenes between Gibson and Wood makes this premise works. This was an modest hit, when it was released in the winter of 1992. But over the years, it went on to be an minor classic and fans of Gibson's work enjoyed it. But also, i think it's Miner best work as a filmmaker. Since he had a long career making different type of movies for Hollywood both big or small budgeted features. This also has an nice music score by the late Oscar-WinnerJerry Goldsmith (Alien, L.A. Confidential, The Omen). Written by J.J. Abrams (MissionImpossible 3, Joy Ride, Regarding Henry). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Cried throughout movie","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great romantic film from a great writer.I haven't cried so much from a movie until I saw this one. Drama..Romance..a little bit of subtle comedy..I felt like I was part of the movie..I felt like I could be watching a movie about me! I figured right from the start that the old couple were probably the young children in the story. The movie outline was very interesting. I've never seen a well played movie within a movie.Some part that agitated me was when the movie was getting good but then they would cut back to present day! I mean that was the point of the movie to keep it suspenseful like but here I am crying my eyes out wanting to find out more!! I was very disturbed with Jamie Curtis' as an older women with two boys and dealing with that abusive boyfriend until Mel saves the day. "},{"Title":"Romantic","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie when I was a teenage girl and the ending made me cry.. The romance Daniel had with his fiancé is one we all would be lucky to have in our lifetime. It's a cute story, I disagree with one persons comment about the two main characters. I didn't think there was much romance between Clair and Daniel in the movie more like two injured spirits connecting and reminding each other that love shouldn't hurt. As trivial as this movie may seem , I think that the subjects of love forever , learning to heal and helping a fatherless young boy become a young man is way more profound then the self important movies Mel has been pumping out in recent years.I think that stories are the best way to get messages out there. How cute is little Elijah Wood? He is adorable. "},{"Title":"old fashion romanticism","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" it is easy to criticize it. it is not difficult to enjoy it. because it is not only a romantic movie but a deep honest declaration about force of details who defines life. a film about hope, dreams and love. with a seductive Mel Gibson who use exactly the note for define the story more than chronicle of a new life and sweet emotions. like many romantic films, it is predictable. like many romantic films , it is far to be out from the clichés circle. but it is honest and beautiful and fresh. it has good actors, a not bad script and interesting performances. and a theme who has not end. so, Forever Young. old fashion romanticism, Mel Gibson and his good job, the music and the crumbs from Romeo and Juliet are enough to seduce. and to remand the flavor and the grace of stories full with old fashion romanticism. "},{"Title":"Good For All Ages","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" After being reminded how good an actor Mel Gibson can be in Expendables 3, I have decided to revisit some of his earlier work. Today I decided to go with 1992's Forever Young. A movie that seems to have been forgotten over time. Plot In A Paragraph It's 1939 and test pilot Daniel McCormick (Mel Gibson) asks his best friend Harry (George Wendt) to use him as a guinea pig for a cryogenics experiment. He wants to be frozen for a year so that he doesn't have to watch the love of his life, Helen lying in a coma. The next thing Daniel knows is that he's been awoken in 1992.This was made around the time when Mel Gibson was more know. For being Mad Max and madder Martin Riggs in the Lethal Weapon movies. This was probably attempt to break away from that type of image. Here he makes a charming and likable romantic lead in a sweet little movie. The always fun to watch George Wendt, and Jamie Lee Curtis offer solid support. But Elijah Wood is the real star amongst the supporting cast. He shoes the early promise that would lead him to a successful career as an adult. I should also mention Jerry Goldsmiths score is beautiful.It's a pity Gibson didn't try more of these movies, as he truly is engaging. One can't help but wonder what other wonderful films we may have missed out onGibson is truly a great actor, and hopefully he can sort his personal problems and demons out, because as we all know Hollywood loves comebacks. "}{"Title":"OK, but unconvincing","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1939, military pilot Daniel McCormick's fiancée is comatose following being hit by a truck, so he volunteers to be experimentally cryogenically frozen. Overlooked in error, he is accidentally woken in 1992 at which point, with the help of a nurse and her son, he tries to make some sense of what has happened to him.Forget the science fiction element - the cryogenesis is unconvincing, and the catch-up ageing afterwards is, as far as I'm aware, completely without any sort of scientific or logical foundation.What you are left with is a romantic fable, cross-matched with some fish out of water humour, a dab of suspense, and some pleasing relationships between the characters.Curiously, the heart of the movie is not Mel Gibson (who is perfectly satisfactory as Daniel) nor Jamie Lee Curtis (whose samaritan nurse Claire is almost an incidental character), but 10-year old Elijah Wood who, even at that age, holds centre stage effortlessly for much of the film.Don't expect it to make any sense, and you may well enjoy it. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young is a really great movie. The characters were great as well. Isabel Glasser has been my favorite actress since I saw Pure Country The acting was great, The actors were great, the movie was more than great! I hope you enjoy it as much as I did! God Bless, Kelly "},{"Title":"Grow Old with Mel","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1939 and test pilot Daniel McCormick (Mel Gibson) has the world by the tail. He has a terrific job flying B-25s, a devoted soul mate (Isabel Glasser) and a long-time pal and confidant (George Wendt). In fact, he has everything. Almost. Despite his ability to confront danger, he can't look his girlfriend in the face and propose. He always decides to wait till tomorrow to pop the question&#x85; but in one terrible instant he runs out of tomorrows. Tragedy takes his sweetheart away&#x85; according to the film's official synopsis.With his sweetheart in a coma, and given almost no chance of recovery, Mr. Gibson asks to be cryogenically frozen for one year. Gibson doesn't want to suffer through her demise, but asks to be thawed-out if she recovers. This is just one of many motivational problems with this film's characters. Why isn't he at her bedside? You're forever wondering WHY? as Forever Young proceeds. Anyway, Gibson awakens in 1992, and moves in with young Elijah Wood (as Nat Cooper) and his mom, nurse Jamie Lee Curtis (as Claire).After the camera lovingly shows his nude profile, a very fit and good-looking Gibson finds some clothing to wear, and goes to use a pay phone, outside a Ralph's supermarket. Incredibly, Gibson uses the 1992 push-button pay phone successfully. Probably, young Wood had some change in his pocket, and Gibson used a futuristic telephone at the 1939 World's Fair, or something... I can't manage those pay phones after one night's sleep, never mind 53 years.Nicolas Surovy does well as the nice guy who provides an escape route for Ms. Curtis and son, should they lose Gibson. Repeatingly telling the kids to SHUT UP, Michael A. Goorjian has the second best scene in the movie, given the tree-house flying lesson Gibson gives Wood (but, learn how to use your wing flaps and rudder pedals properly, before trying to fly a real plane). And, cute little Veronica Lauren, recently Sarah in Dark Shadows, is definitely worth serenading.**** Forever Young (12/11/92) Steve Miner ~ Mel Gibson, Elijah Wood, Jamie Lee Curtis "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not without it's flaws. Seems more like a made-for-TV movie than a theatrical feature","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 1990's were a booming decade for Mel Gibson. Fresh off of three Lethal Weapon movies, he was already establishing himself as a bankable American movie star. As the decade went on he would find a balance between commercial and personal projects. Forever Young seems to have a mix of both commercial and personal sides, and despite a few flaws in its screenplay it still entertains and holds your attention.The basic plot line has Gibson as a military test pilot in 1939 who wants to propose to the love of his life played by Isabel Glasser, but he chickens out, and as he does so, she goes comatose and nearly dies from being hit by a car. Gibson then asks his scientist friend (George Wendt), who has invented a cryogenic freezing system to freeze him for a year so he won't see Glasser die and if she is well to wake him up. He goes to sleep for over 50 years and wakes up in 1992 after a boy (Elijah Wood) and his friend find him in a nearly demolished military warehouse and revive him. After saving Wood's mother played by Jamie Lee Curtis from nearly being abused, he briefly moves in and begins a minor relationship with her until the climax, which I won't give away.So yeah it definitely has the ingredients and clichés of a made-for- TV movie. Gene Siskel said one reason he didn't like the film was he didn't believe the relationship between Gibson and Glasser and felt the movie failed to really explore the depths of it. I do agree with him on that minor note. A little more time exploring the relationship would have been nice to see. More scenes with Wendt's character would have been nice too, sadly he has very little to do, and his part really should have been more of an un-credited cameo. Of course Cheers was in its final season when this movie came out, so I'm sure the director felt if people know Norm Peterson is in this movie along with Mel Gibson, I'm sure people will come! Aside from those flaws, the relationship between Gibson and Wood is special. Wood is like the son Gibson wished he would have had, and I like that approach. I also like the scenes with he and Curtis and they definitely have some spark. The flying sequences and scenery are also very well done. Bottom line A few clichés, and a little overly-sentimental like a Hallmark movie, but still enjoyable and fun to watch. Rating *** out of ****. Rated PG for some language, brief nudity (Gibson's backside after he is revived from being frozen), and a brief sequence of domestic violence, along with some fist fighting. (Thankfully Gibson saves the day, before anything gets too bad). Suitable for children 11 and older. "},{"Title":"like the first half","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1939. Captain Daniel McCormick (Mel Gibson) is an American test pilot. His lifelong girlfriend Helen gets run over and is stuck in a coma. His friend Harry Finley (George Wendt) is working on a secret cryogenics experiment. Daniel asks him to freeze him for a year or until Helen gets better. It's then present day. Nat Cooper (Elijah Wood) and his friend Felix are playing in an Army warehouse. They accidentally release the cryogenic pod. Nat's mother Claire (Jamie Lee Curtis) doesn't believe them. Nobody at the base believes Daniel either. Daniel tracks down the boys who help him to track down Finley.I want it to have more tension. It just doesn't have a great intensity. It tries to be romantic which is awkward because he was just parted from the love of his life. The aborted romance is indicative of a movie with a lot of possibilities but not as successful as it should be. I really like the first half but the movie has a bunch of little problems. I was OK with the movie until of course, Daniel has to fly the plane. It's like J. J. Abrams was a little too clever with the script. It's the same thing with the aging and the romantic ending. I just think the movie could be a lot better. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi Drama!","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Gibson, Jamie Lee Curtis, Elijah Wood, Isabel Glasser and George Wendt star in this 1992 sci-fi drama. This begins in 1939 where we meet test pilot, Daniel (Gibson) who has a girlfriend, Helen (Glasser) and best friend, Harry (Wendt) who is a scientist. Daniel wants to marry Helen, but she gets into an accident and goes into a coma. Daniel is depressed and convinces Harry to be his cryogenic test subject allowing him to sleep for a year instead of waiting for her to wake up. Fifty years later, Daniel is unwittingly thawed out by young boy, Nat (Wood) who helps him search for the answers of what happened during the years he was asleep. Curtis (Halloween) plays Nat's mother, Claire who is a nurse and also helps Daniel. I've always enjoyed this film, Mel is great in it, he & Isabel have good chemistry and Jerry Goldsmith's score is great as usual. I recommend this good sci-fi drama. "},{"Title":"Forever blue (rental)","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" With this title, i expected to begin the movie with the beautiful song eponymous but instead it was a good title from Goldsmith, reminiscing of Total Recall. Then, i expected to see a story similar to Captain America or our French Hibernatus that is to say a character lost in a world that's totally different from the one he knows but finally, this movie is something else it's rather a romance and a intergenerational tale. If the movie is sometimes a bit dumb (stealing a plane, his blind obsession to find only his friend, the fate of her lover), it's illuminated by three interesting characters played by a wonderful cast. It's great to see such sincere, rightful people who care, help each other. Miss Curtis was fantastic with her dynamism and short hairs and you can feel a real complicity between Mel and young Frodo. At last, I didn't expect the final fate of Mel that is in addition well supported by great make-up. In conclusion, this movie makes me happy and is full of surprises so i give it a 10 for that. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some films are so brilliant, so lovely, so acutely heart felt, that sometimes they are impossible to even talk about, let alone do a review, no matter how hard you try, but ille try.There is a lot of intellectual comment on here that misses the heartfelt romance of the story, because the ending where Mel Gibson finds his lost love will make you weep for joy, and cry out loud at the same time.Lets face it, there cannot be a person anywhere in the world, who has not lost someone they cared about, and wanted to be with, and would give their right arm to find that person and be with them again, because this is at the core of the story of Forever Young.We can forget the intellectual cynicism in other Reviews, we can forget the implausibility of the story, we can just go along with Mel Gibson's character, and rejoice in the beautiful ending "},{"Title":"Forever Young","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew the leading actor and actress, and later the young supporting star, and I had heard about some bits and pieces about the concept, so I was keen to watch it, from director Steve Miner (Friday the 13th Part 2, Friday the 13th Part III, Halloween H20 20 Years Later, Lake Placid). Basically, in 1939, reckless test pilot Capt. Daniel McCormick (Mel Gibson) loves his girlfriend Helen (Isabel Glasser) very much and is keen to propose marriage to her, but he cannot pluck up the courage, and then to his shock she is hit by a car. She is put into hospital suffering a coma that doctors say she will not wake up from, so with the success of his friend's experiment, Daniel asks Harry Finley (George Wendt) to cryogenically freeze him in a capsule for one year so he does not have to watch her die. Fifty five years pass, young boys Nat Cooper (young Elijah Wood) and his friend Felix (Robert Hy Gorman) are playing in an abandoned military storage warehouse, and they stumble on the cryogenic chamber, they (and others) assume it is a water heater, but fiddling with it they activate the reversal process. Daniel finds out he has woken up in the year 1992, and after taking some clothes he approaches the military to tell his story, but they assume he is crazy, so he walks away and decides to find out what is going on himself. He stole Nat's jacket, so he tracks the boys down in their tree house, they settle after initial terror, and they help him understand more about the future world he is now in, and he meanwhile plans to find out what has happened to Harry and Helen. The bond between Daniel and Nat is made even stronger when he introduces himself to Nat's single mother Claire (Jamie Lee Curtis) who offers him the couch to sleep on and stay in the house, after saving her an abusive ex-boyfriend. As he continues his search for Harry it is obvious that Daniel is suffering the effects of the status of years he has been living in suspended animation, so he body is starting to age. Claire finds out the situation he is in after he has an attack and is taken to hospital, and she receives a phone call from a woman claiming to know Harry Finley, it is his daughter Susan (Millie Slavin), but her father is dead. She gives Daniel information about the freezing process, and unfortunately the ageing process is irreversible, but she shocks with the revelation that Helen is alive, after recovering from the coma. The government, and particularly Cameron (Terminator 2 Judgement Day's Joe Morton) are after the man from the past, but Claire gives them the documentation about the freezing experiment, Project B, so no-one is arrested. Daniel with his time running out in the dramatic ageing races to the house that Helen is meant to be living, and Nat is a stowaway as he helps him, in the end his ageing does stop, and Daniel is overjoyed to see Helen and finally ask him to marry her, she accepts. Also starring Nicolas Surovy as John and David Marshall Grant as Lt. Col. Wilcox USAF. Gibson is charming as the man from the past who will do anything to be with his love, Curtis is nice as the single mother who he likes and she admires, and young Wood proves himself a great early talent. It is a really sweet story, you really root for Gibson as he tries to find the information he wants and ultimately reunite with his true love, the past meets present (future) concept makes for some fun moments of humour and interest, I think this is a very worthwhile romantic fantasy. Good! "},{"Title":"What I missed to see this movie","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young is an entertaining movie which I will remember until the day I die the first day I saw it.  I was one week past my 16th birthday on January 3rd, 1993.  I have always been a big sports fan and the NFL playoffs were in action.  My Kansas City Chiefs had already, of course, been unceremoniously bounced from the playoffs.  I was watching a game that was hopeless, the Houston Oilers were all over the Buffalo Bills when I was asked by my folks if I wanted to go to the movie with them.  Sure.  The Oilers just went ahead 35-3.  I went to the movie and endured this painless movie.  Very nice story and very entertaining.  I really enjoyed that young kid Elijah Wood, whom seemed to flourish in his obscurity for years until ... what were those movies he came out with?!  I enjoyed my day at the movies and then I got home.  Apparently while I was gone Frank Reich and the Buffalo Bills cemented their name forever in sports history.  This was actually for something non-infamous.  They had just completed the greatest comeback in NFL history winning the game 41 - 38.  My point is that Forever Young was good, but not a classic! "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Picture.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Gibson plays a man frozen in 1939 after his girlfriend enters a coma and reawakens after 53 years. He involved with a fatherless boy played by Elijah Wood and his mother played by Jaime Lee Curtis. Gibson love still endures for his girlfriend after the years away from her. He wonders if he will find her again? Nice romantic movie to watch during raining or snowing day.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable one that is also appropriate for kids","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young is a simple, easily accessible film. The acting is strong. Without excessive insistence, the film provides amusing contrasts between 1939 and 1992. The images of the B25 were a pleasure. The rapid aging of Mel Gibson is convincing and provides an interesting contrast with Citizen Kane  make-up artists have made progress. One interesting theme is the loss and recovery of a line of research. The occasional spurt ahead by a gifted scientist who is only caught up to decades later by the general level of scientific knowledge. The basic plot is that the lead character is frozen in a sort of experiment in cryonics (but applied to a healthy, not recently dead person) in 1939, and accidentally unfrozen only in 1992. Around that theme there is a touching love story and re-meeting 50 years later between Mel Gibson and Isabel Glasser. In the middle of the film the action is well carried by Jamie Lee Curtis as a single mother looking for a father for her child - extremely well-played by Elijah Wood. Nicolas Surovy is convincing in the difficult role of the doctor/boyfriend of Jamie Lee Curtis, having to be both understanding, but slightly jealous when Mel Gibson comes into her life. The weak part of the film is that cryonics is utterly implausible, at least for the foreseeable future of medical science, despite having some believers. Not a great film, but an enjoyable one that is also appropriate for kids.  "},{"Title":"Forever Young","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Engaging fantasy that showcases Gibson at his best as a man thawed for 50 years, only to return in 1992 and play a pivotal role in the lives of every person he comes in contact with. Directed by Miner, who before this film was known for directing a few of the Friday the 13th flicks.   "},{"Title":"One of Mel's Best","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forever Young is one of my top 10 favorite movies. I could watch it over & over again. I think it's the best science fiction love story ever made. Mel Gibson & Jamie Lee Curtis give outstanding performances. I think Director Steve Miner did a great job as well. It's hard to believe that he directed a few Friday the 13th slasher flicks.He's come a long way since then. If you have never seen this movie, then rent it. It has a little bit of something for everyone in it.       "},{"Title":"A man is found in cryo-freeze and discovers the world he knew is long gone","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess I would call this a feel good movie for kids. I say that it is a kids type movie because the major characters are kids. Because of this it seems that the movie is targeted at a younger audience. The plot actually seems to follow the same idea as ET with the kid not only being the hero, but the saviour. In a way, this is the fantasy of all kids, to be a hero and do something that is far more than their ordinary life. This is what is true for most people who watch movies, but children are far more imaginative and willing to accept the impossible.The year is 1939 and an airforce test pilot loses his girlfriend in a car accident. The tragedy is that he wanted to propose to her, but he never got around to it. His girlfriend is in a coma, and as he cannot wait for her to awaken, he agrees to test out a cryo-freeze chamber. The deal is that he freezes and is woken up when she wakes up. In 1992 two kids find the chamber and accidentally open it. The pilot wakes up and finds that the world that he once knew is no longer there.As such the movie falls into a typical ET plot. The pilot goes to the kid and asks for his help. The US army learn the truth and want to find him, and he simply wants to find his old friends, hoping that they are still alive. Well, that plot point is very different to ET, but it still has the same essentials.The basic theme of this movie is Carpe Diem seize the day. This is what the pilot failed to do. He did not seize the day and he missed out. Then he was not patient. The only person he ever cared about is gone and he could not afford to live in the world anymore. Even though I may sound quite blunt, but this is the way the world is. We might say Carpe Diem, but it is not always going to turn out for the best. It does in the movie both heroes end up getting their girls, but it is not always the case in real life. Patience is a virtue, which is the beginning of a very well know saying (and the end is rarely in a woman and never in a man).The truth is that this world is full of pain and suffering. We make mistakes and we must live with them. This is what life is all about - actually it is much more than that, but the thing is that life may seem bad, but the new day always will bring new things. There have been times in my life where my mistakes have left me alone and very sad. There have been times when I have wanted to kill myself, but the truth is that I am glad I did not. Sometimes we want to escape the consequences of our actions, but if we face them, they will not always be as bad as we expect them to be.This may sound like idealistic garbage spewing from the mouth of a Christian, but the truth is that the world is in a mess, and that is because we think that we can rule ourselves. This is just not true. We are hopeless and we rely upon drugs of all sort (whether they be heroin, or simply money, power, popularity). That those drugs of dependence away from us, we are nothing. The pilot's drug of dependence was his girl friend, and when she was gone, he had nothing left. The truth is, nobody can take God away, and that is why I clasp onto him, because he is a drug of dependence, but one that I don't have to by, nor will leave me lost and alone. "},{"Title":"Watchable romantic fantasy","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Forever Young opens in the year 1939. Daniel McCormick, a test pilot with the US Army Air Force, sees his girlfriend Helen seriously injured in a road accident which leaves her in a coma. Helen is not expected to recover, and the grief-stricken Daniel volunteers to take part in a secret cryonic freezing experiment being carried out by his close friend, Harry Finley. Daniel hopes that he can be put in suspended animation for a year, so that he doesn't have to watch Helen die. Unfortunately, Harry dies shortly afterwards, and in the chaos following the outbreak of World War II the experiment is forgotten. Daniel remains asleep in his chamber, abandoned in a military warehouse for the next fifty-three years.Finally, Daniel is awoken from his long sleep by two young boys who stumble on the chamber while playing inside the warehouse. Upon waking, he is horrified to discover that it is not, as he had thought, 1940, but 1992. Harry, and nearly everyone else he once knew, are long dead. The Army have never heard of him, and when he tries to convince them of the truth of his experiences, they dismiss him as a lunatic. Eventually he befriends Nat, one of the two boys who opened the chamber, and his divorced mother Claire.There are, of course, a number of plot holes in the film. It seems highly unlikely that only Finley would have known about so major a scientific experiment and that after his death everyone else would simply have forgotten about it. It seems equally unlikely that after being forgotten and abandoned the chamber would have continued to function so perfectly that Daniel could have survived inside for over fifty years. Yet these plot holes do not really matter precisely because the film is not intended to be scientifically plausible. Any film which attributes to the scientists of the 1930s the ability to perform technological feats which would still be beyond our capabilities today is obviously not aiming at realism.The film could have been made as a satire revolving around the differences between the world of the thirties and that of the nineties, with lots of comic misunderstandings based upon the cultural differences between the two eras. It could also have been made as a serious piece of science-fiction, but in fact it is more a fantasy. (There are some similarities with Somewhere in Time, although in that film the hero travels back in time, not forward). There are certain parallels drawn between the world of the thirties and that of the nineties, generally to the detriment of the latter. Claire is attracted to Daniel because his old-fashioned values make him seem much more gentlemanly and chivalrous than the men of her own era. Mel Gibson is good at bringing out this side of Daniel's character.Just when the film seems to be developing into a romantic comedy which will end with Daniel and Claire falling for one another, and then changes direction with the sudden revelation that Helen did not die in 1939 but is still alive. This sudden shift of emphasis struck me as being the film's greatest weakness; the romantic ending is well done, but is seemed like something added on from a different film. I would not rate Forever Young as highly as Somewhere in Time; it lacks that film's visual beauty and, except at the very end, its dreamlike romantic atmosphere. Also, Jamie Lee Curtis is not as engaging a heroine as Jane Seymour. Gibson, however, makes a charismatic hero, and overall the film is a watchable romantic fantasy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not my cup of cryogenic tea","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Gibson plays a military test pilot who agrees to become the subject of a cryogenic experiment after the love of his life ends up in an 'irreversable' coma in 1939.  Well, the experiment is completely forgotten about and he remains in the deep freeze until he is set free by some kids trespassing in an army warehouse.  Mel awakens to find a different world, and, needless to say, love.  What do you get when you mix a big star like Gibson with a sappy script and a mediocre director like Steve Minor  A sappy and contrived film.  Boy, is it sappy.  Boy, is it contrived.  This is practically a convention of unwarranted coincidences, unresolved situations and unanswered implications.  The film stirs to life on occasion, but it never manages to amount to much. "},{"Title":"Rather Lame","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" By no means an awful movie, but lame none the less. What makes it more watchable is the acting, especially a young Elijah Wood. My favorite line, when Elijah is giving a girl a compliment, by saying her dress looks like wallpaper...nice wallpaper.The plot is the worst part about the movie. The fact that Gibson so quickly wanted to be frozen, just because his girlfriend is in a coma; that a cryo enclosure is sitting in the back of a warehouse, without any electricity; that Gibson freaks out about hearing an answering machine, but says nothing about dialing a touch-tone phone, etc, etc, etc.The old age make-up at the end looks pretty good. "},{"Title":"Nearly a Four-Star Production.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mel Gibson volunteers for a risky experiment in 1939, expecting to be cryogenically frozen for one year, but is frozen for a whopping 53 years instead in this likeable little production. He does this to keep from seeing his dying girlfriend who is in a comatose state after being hit by an automobile. In the early-1990s he is discovered by a youngster (Elijah Wood) and his friend and Gibson must learn to adapt to lots and lots of changes. The government also wants Gibson so they can do research on him. Jamie Lee Curtis shines as Wood's mother and overall the film is enjoyable, but is a little too manipulative and sappy to be completely successful. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A Children's Story","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Children's Story... That is the best explanation that I can produce for this movie. It does not make sense. The plot is inconsistent. The actions of the protagonists and antagonists do not make sense. The story is mildly charming, but not particularly dramatic. And, children acting childish are major characters. OK, so it is a children's story.I remember when children's stories had a logical progression of the story line. Maybe that is the fault of my Western linear thinking, brought up short by Mel Gibson's Australian background.I cannot explain what bothers me with the movie without describing the plot. Capt Dan is in love with a woman. Before he can work up the nerve to ask her to marry him, she gets knocked into a coma. Doctors give her no chance of ever waking up. Capt. Dan can't face the prospect of going through life without her, so he asks his friend--who happens to be running a suspended animation experimental project so secret that not even his own bosses know what he is doing--to put him under for a year (or whenever his love awakes). While he is out, things happen, his capsule gets misplaced, and, before we know it, 53 years have gone by.Thermos should make such a dewar as the capsule that held Capt. Dan. It kept him cold without external power for half a century. Tragically, no one recorded the date that those mischievous kids opened his capsule. Oddly, he managed to thaw out on his own and live to tell about it.OK, so he wakes up without aging, 53 years later. He meets up with a nurse. It's a good thing she is a nurse because... actually, for no particular reason. Sure, there is an escape sequence set up in the hospital, but she could just as easily have been a janitor for it. Maybe that would have improved the drama, who knows? Love could have bloomed between Capt Dan and Nurse Cooper; that would have been logical. After all, here is a young man with no one else, and those two have hit it off just fine together. But, then comes the discovery Capt. Dan's true love actually recovered from her coma and is still alive! Now, obviously, Helen has aged 53 years, while Capt. Dan hasn't. A viewer might think that with the title of this movie, that Capt. Dan doesn't age. Wrong! It turns out that Capt. Dan's aging is irreversible... a word the author apparently mistakes for inevitable. After all, no one was attempting to reverse anyone's aging; they were simply delaying it. Never mind; Capt. Dan ages all 53 years within a few days. Mother Nature will not be cheated, even if theater-goers are. On the bright side, at least Helen can act her age, instead of traipsing around with some handsome young man.End of story.What, you were expecting more? Like, a point, maybe? "}{"Title":"QFC - Forever Young","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mel Gibson could have thought twice before starring in this unoriginal, schmaltzy film that brings nothing new to the table and fiddles badly with sci-fi. However, the film does have its moments, very few, but that make this movie average.'Forever Young' really isn't good because it's too unbelievable. Why would a project that charismatic be forgotten? Why would the brother not tell him that his lover was alive? Why does the aging get that bad only towards the end of the film? It's so inaccurate that it even frustrates at times. But keep it in mind if you feel particularly in need of love.WATCH FOR THE MOMENT - When the two kids play around with the freezing machine, fidgeting with the buttons, and suddenly, it opens to reveal Gibson... "},{"Title":"Just average","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw Elijah Wood, I don't remember if it was in one of the trailers for The Lord of The Rings, or if it was in the awful Disney version of Oliver Twist, I almost instantly loathed him. I loathed him for every possible conceivable reason there could ever be for loathing another human being(almost, anyway). I hate his baby-face, his height, his charm(or, rather, lack thereof) and the fact that the three aforementioned features always gets him work in movies(not to mention, makes far too many girls go mad over him... I suspect much, but not all, of course, of the female audience that actually sat through the Rings movies did so because of Wood being in the lead... ridiculous). I thought The only possible way Elijah Wood could actually be just a tiny bit more annoying was if he was a child actor(instead of a teen/adult actor). Then I saw Chain of Fools, where he actually is pretty good, and realized, hey, maybe I misjudged him, maybe he is actually a decent enough actor(somewhere in-between I also saw the faculty, but that didn't really affect my opinion of him, in any way, shape or form). Then I saw this movie... and my worst fears came true. He *was* even worse as a child (actor). His character in this enraged and annoyed me to the point of not being able to watch the whole thing attentively... well, I suppose that's not entirely true... the trite pace and poor execution of a pretty good idea helped a little, as well. The plot is decent enough, but the pacing is bad and the execution of the good idea is just bad. The ending made me cringe. The acting is decent, but since every major actor in the film plays exactly the same character they always play, it's not particularly impressive. The film was predictable and rarely entertaining. The characters were poorly written. The dialog had its moments, but they were few and far between. The whole thing was just too overly romantic and children's movie-like. The film takes a great premise and turns it into yet another bland romantic film. The end was surprising(slightly), yes, but it wasn't good. It was sappy, sentimental garbage. Actually, pretty much the entire film was. All in all, this film is just average at best. I recommend it only to big fans of Mel Gibson, and possibly (sigh) girls who like Elijah Wood. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Totally unconvincing love story","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Totally unconvincing fantasy/love story which tries to combine a theme of undying love with that of time travel and fails dismally.Steve Miner's film lacks depth in many areas. The premise was okay, but the plot was far too simple and badly needed more work. Characterisation was also poor, with each person behaving in ways that were completely unbelievable. Performances are weak, as is the comedy, in a movie which played a lot like a cross between The Rocketeer and Somewhere in Time.With too many ridiculous situations and a hastily explained script, Forever Young remained too hokey to even make an effective love story.Monday, April 12, 1993 - Balwyn Cinema "},{"Title":"It was ok.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rather similar to a 1975 Spanish movie by director Pedro Lazaga Largo Retorno, where an ill woman is hibernated until they find the cure for her disease.  Mel Gibson is a good actor and fits the roles he is given, except the one he had in Signs, a total cheesy story and, in opinion, a total fiasco.  I think he should stick to more active parts, like the one of Sgt. Martin Riggs in Lethal Weapon (By the way Patsy Kensit was perfect for him in Lethal Weapon 2).  He does have the looks of an Irish priest though and, given his recent Passion, he should look into such roles for possible future movies.  I rate him an overall good actor. "}]