[{"Title":"The Thompson Factor","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"98 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If it's raining, if it's late, if I'm tired of working, if I'm restless or if I'm in a quandary of sorts, Howard's End. I put the film on and Emma Thompson - presumably with the help of her accomplices, Ivory, Jhavhala, Hopkins etc - takes me away from whatever mood I'm trying to escape and leads me through her own, brilliantly drawn, gently torturous path. I don't recall when was the last time an actress has had this kind of power over my own psyche. The film is constructed with an Ivory attention to detail worthy of a vintage Visconti. The screenplay has no lapses of any kind and never falls into the usual traps. Loyal to its source material and yet, cinematic in the most revolutionary traditional sense of the word. The Britishness of Anthony Hopkins character is turned upside down giving us a glimpse into a character that's a mass of contradictions. But it is Emma Thompson's film from beginning to end. What a glorious achievement. "},{"Title":"Superb!! Or perhaps you just don't get it...","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"57 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and I must admit that on the first viewing, I didn't get it myself.I'm one of those relative rarities a straight male that normally enjoys Merchant-Ivory productions. However, I disliked this movie on first viewing (several years ago). In retrospect, I can see that I was not reacting to the movie, but my intense dislike for Anthony Hopkins' character.I watched it again the other night and was absolutely blown away by it. What a film! Emma Thompson won Best Actress for her performance, and she did her usual terrific job, but frankly I was more impressed by the performance of Helena Bonham Carter. The style of the film is magnificent.This is a story (like most of E. M. Forster's) about the injustices of class distinctions. However, with a subtlety that I missed on my first viewing, this film is also about karma (what goes around - comes around) and a story of social progress. This film is set in a time when society is coming out of the Victorian age and into the Edwardian. You see contrasts of the past thinking with the progressive thinking all through the movie. A visual metaphor is repeated over and over the turning of cranks, whether it be on a new-fangled morse code machine, a vintage car, or the wheels of a mighty locomotive. I believe that this represents both karma and progress, forces which Forster sees as unstoppable as the laws of nature.This is an incredible story, and an incredible piece of film-making.  "},{"Title":"A Journey Everyone Should Take","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"47 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The literary period piece is a difficult genre to master, requiring a difficult balancing between restraint and flowing emotion.  Few films effectively achieve this as beautifully as  Merchant-Ivory's astounding HOWARDS END, making it probably the best period film of the 1990's.  The film juxtapositions the intellectual, emotionally unhindered Schlegel sisters against the restrained, imperious Wilcox family, and, for good measure, mixes in the differing attitudes toward class emerging early in the century.  What could quite easily have been a dry study in the cultural dynamics of pre-WWI England becomes an enveloping tale, thanks in no small part to the performances by Hopkins, Emma Thompson, and Vanessa Redgrave, whose Ruth Wilcox remains enigmatic after every viewing.  The emotions ringing through by film's end - not to mention its astoundingly pointed social criticism - give the film its power, a power missing even from Forster's rambling, distant novel.  And this story is nestled amongst some of the most beautiful art direction, music, and cinematography to ever grace the screen.  The haunting journey to HOWARDS END is one few other recent films can rival.  "},{"Title":"Delicious adaptation from a superb novel","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is another example of what the British are best at in film-making. Based on E.M. Forster's novel `Return to Howards End' this film is more or less a set piece in the strictest period-piece tradition, and thus in style is somewhat akin to that great TV series `Return to Brideshead' and even Robert Altman came up trumps with his splendid `Gosford Park' which most definitely takes its well-earned place alongside such classical pieces of this genre. Likewise, `Howards End' relies heavily on British actors who have worked their way up through live theatre it is here that you get the best interpretations, the best performances, admirably shown in so many films made on both sides of the Atlantic. If Vanessa Redgrave has long since been a legend among British actresses, Emma Thompson is no lesser performer, and as to the pedigree of Helena Bonham-Carter there can be no arguing. Anthony Hopkins is at least up to the mark in his always sober readings in these kinds of films.The Bonham-Carter family were well known in the fashionable circles of 1930's London high-society life, for their extravagant soirées and philanthropic sponsoring of young artists, especially musicians, similarly to the Sitwell family from their Chelsea home. Thus it is hardly surprising that Helena Bonham-Carter finds these kinds of rôles admirably suited to her - A Room with a View, anything Shakespearean, among other select `comedies'. Prunella Scales is a grand old lady of theatre, cinema and television, and I can remember her offerings back in the late fifties-early sixties especially on radio programmes. Beautifully filmed in mostly Oxfordshire and in several places in London, the film also has a few scenes on the coast, possibly Dorsetshire or more probably the south coast of Devon, surprisingly not included in IMDb's very detailed listing of locations. Richard Robbins' music seemed to be heavily influenced by Philip Glass at times, which seemed a misfit, though it was nice to hear a few snatches by Percy Grainger, as well as a version for four hands on the piano of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, possibly one of those tremendous transcriptions which Franz Liszt carried out.The dialogues are mostly exquisitely delivered, with that peculiarly British panache and timing, though slightly spoiled in this recent re-viewing as there were some untimely cuts on the copy in question. However, the story holds its line and is faithful to E.M. Forster's original concept. He has long been one of the greatest of British novelists, with such works as `A Passage to India', `Where Angels Fear to Tread' and `A Room with a View' to his credit, for serious readers of real literature.This film version maintains that seriousness for people interested in real play-acting.  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howards End is certainly one of the best films of the last decade.  I have seen this film several times over the past 7 years and each time I find myself in complete awe.  I love how its intricate story gradually unfolds layer by layer, involving us more and more with the characters.  Howards End also boasts breath-taking cinematography by Tony Pierce-Roberts and a rousing and rueful musical score by Richard Robbins.The ensemble cast is perhaps the best reason to see this film.  Emma Thompson won the Best Actress Oscar for her performance, and deservedly so! This is her best performance and her best film, in my opinion.  I loved watching the character development in her portrayal of Margaret Schlegel, as she transforms from an open-minded intellectual to a class-conscious social climber.  What's remarkable is that we still feel for her greatly as she is going through this transition.  She still remains a sympathetic character up until the very end when she slowly comes back to her senses.Anthony Hopkins also gives one of his best performances as the cold and hypocritical Henry Wilcox.  So many scenes shed different lights onto his character.  The scene where he proposes to Margaret stands out in particular.  There is plenty of erotic tension, but at the same time it almost feels like he is making some sort of impersonal business venture with her.  Vanessa Redgrave is a presence to behold as the fragile Ruth Wilcox.  Her performance may be brief, but it leaves an indelible mark, particularly in later scenes when Margaret visits Howards End.  Helena Bonham Carter should have gotten an Oscar nomination for her performance.  She really has great depth and passion that is well-suited to her character.  The rest of the supporting cast is superb.  Even the minor characters like Nicola Duffet's Jackie Bast and Jemma Redgrave's stony-faced Evie Wilcox are noteworthy.Howards End is one of the richest, most nuanced films I have seen.  It is beautifully shot, well-acted, and exquisitely directed.  It deserves to be considered a classic.   "},{"Title":"The Best Film Ever Made","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howard's End is not an easy movie to sit through if you do not typically watch period films.  The language and euphemisms are very old fashioned (1910).  But if you really sit back and watch the story unfold you will become engrossed. The crafting of the story by Merchant Ivory is impeccable. They tell the story so visually that you may not notice how physically alike Margaret Schlegel is to Ruth Wilcox in carriage and deportment, but the light-bulb goes off when the housekeeper of Howard's End mistakes Margaret for Ruth. The story itself is so quiet and brilliant that you don't realize something so very profound has happened until the credits roll. Every performance is amazing, but Emma Thompson (she won the Best Actress Oscar) and Vanessa Redgrave stand out. Their scenes together are so full of nuances that it's hard to take it all in during a first viewing. "},{"Title":"Close to perfection...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Masterful performances make this splendid film adaptation of EM Forster's novel of the clashing of the classes a must-see. Anthony Hopkins, Helena Bonham Carter, Vanessa Redgrave, Samuel West, and Emma Thompson fill the screen with passion and vigor. One of the few good movies that does justice to the great book from which it was taken. Lushly filmed and directed with, though sometimes a heavy touch, great vitality by James Ivory. The setting is beautiful, the period feel is very accurate, and the story has subtle beauty. Watch for Ivory bringing out some interesting psychology between characters, especially of different classes. He captures attitudes of the time to near perfection. A cinematic treat. "},{"Title":"Great work, Merchant & Ivory!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a testimony to the creative novelist E.M. Forster!  This early 90's  full-length version of the novel is faithful to his 1921 masterpiece and beautifully realized by a team of film makers who know the right moves.  What a great trip back to early 20th Century Britain.  The film moves briskly but in some ways we're experiencing some time gaps in a slow, slow manner; the outdoor scenes are great and almost multi-sensory.  This highly atmospheric film also includes a great ensemble cast headed by Emma Thompson.  The film never underestimates the intelligence of the audience and forces us to confront even our own class discriminations!  Well worth a VHS or DVD rental; sorry I can't give any comments on DVD extras as I borrowed this free from our local library.  Keep a copy of the book handy and notice the masterful interweaving done by Ruth Prawar Jandhlava.  Life when fully realized is about much more than consumerist illusions and brief ownership by a selfish few. The novel's Motto is Only connect and the hard-thinking viewer of this great film will be enabled to do that as well !!! "},{"Title":"Searing story, exquisite interpretation","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those who want to watch an intelligent, lovely-to-look-at motion picture, it doesn't get much better than this. The film tells the story of two sisters, of limited but respectable means, who collide with the world of the very rich in Edwardian England.  One sister benefits from the acquaintance with the wealthy Wilcoxes.  The other is all but destroyed by it.  Along the way, there are charming scenes of tea parties and music classes, elegant costumes, fantastic settings, and engaging conversations.  There is also a sad, secondary storyline of a poor clerk and his wife who, unfortunately, slip into even more abysmal circumstances through no fault of their own.  The ending is tinged with despair, even as it offers some hope for both of the sisters' futures. The film should be commended as well for the fine performances of Emma Thompson, Anthony Hopkins, Helena Bonham-Carter and others.  Any discriminating film enthusiast will not want to miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Films Don't Get Much Prettier","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a man who appreciates beauty and great visual movies, I have checked out all the Merchant-Ivory films. I found this to be their prettiest, just stunning in its beauty. Story-wise, I preferred The Remains Of The Day, but this was okay. It just didn't have the appealing characters Remains had and it was a little too soap opera for my tastes but the visuals made up for that, ...and the story, to be fair, was solid and involving.It also had Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson, and those two make a great pair. I would never get tired of watching either of these great actors, especially when they are together.If you like period pieces - this is 1910 Edwardian England - along with fabulous sets and scenery, a solid cast, and an involving story, you'll like this. If you are a fan of melodramas then you'll really, really like this! "}{"Title":"Excellent film possible spoiler","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howard's End chronicles the intertwining lives of three English families in the early twentieth century.  The Schlegels and Wilcoxes are prosperous and well educated.  The Wilcoxes are proud of their family and their property, particularly Howard's End.  Helen Schlegel meets the third family when she inadvertently steals Leonard Bast's umbrella.  The Basts are poor and aggrieved by their troubled pasts.The Wilcoxes become anxious about the Schlegel's interests in Howard's End, while Helen Schlegel concerns herself with Leonard Bast's fate.  Their intriguing stories encompass romance, illegitimate pregnancy and manslaughter.Jhabvala's well-written script is a faithful adaptation, offering an interesting insight into the England of times gone by.  The story contrasts the generous Schlegels with the avaricious Wilcoxes and explores the relationships that people can form with their homes.  It superficially probes the plight of the poor through Leonard Bast.  The romance between Henry Wilcox and Margaret Schlegel is rather under-developed though the tender moments between the two during their engagement are managed well.Emma Thompson excels in her role as Margaret Schlegel, conveying the elegant kindness and caring of her character without being cloying.  Thompson ably handles Margaret's chattiness and politeness, creating a sympathetic character with her expressive face and gestures.  Anthony Hopkins also performs adeptly as Henry Wilcox.  He discreetly reveals Henry's loneliness and misery beneath his cold, almost heartless exterior.James Ivory directs the ensemble cast competently.  He handles scenes conceived on a grand scale, such as Leonard's visit to an insurance company, impressively.  The superb photography captures the beauty of Howard's End even under grey skies, while the opulent sets adequately recreate the period.Howard's End, Merchant-Ivory's third Forester adaptation, looks and sounds beautiful, though sometimes its splendour diminishes the subtle plot and character intimacies.  Still, it makes for intelligent entertainment, a rare thing for modern movies. "},{"Title":"A synthesis of beauty, talent, and amazing cinematography","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies.  From the opening credits, superimposed over Vanessa Redgrave's skirt sweeping through the wet grass and flowers around Mrs. Wilcox's beloved Howards End, through to the final image of rural bliss, the cinematography is perfection.  The costuming is amazing, the screenplay is adept, and the acting is stellar, to say the least.  To have Emma Thompson, Helena Bonham Carter, Vanessa Redgrave, and Anthony Hopkins in one movie together is to see a true synthesis of talent, not to mention James Wilby and Samuel West.  The scene where Leonard Bast goes walking into the field of blue flowers is breathtaking. I recommend this film to anyone who loves Forster and who loves painterly cinematography.  Also it is full of the finest performances by all of the actors involved. "},{"Title":"Exemplary crafted film of a bygone age","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The very carefully considered style of the E M Forster adaptations became a trademark for the Merchant-Ivory productions (covering three of the six novels) that substantially conveyed outmoded worlds full of luxury and privilege, yet are somehow repellently distasteful.  `Howard's End' is a good case in point, drawing on Edwardian affluence via inheritance and commerce, liberal-minded progressive women and the under-trodden working class that supports them.  Forster tellingly borrows the name of the brothers August and Friedrich Schlegel, leading German poets, critics and philosophers in the first half of the 19th Century whose work formed the basis of German romanticism.  With his Schlegels' bi-nationality of British and German, but not the 'dreadful sort' as Forster is keen to stress, he addresses his aversion to xenophobia in the years leading up to the First World War.  Stephen Farber argues that Ivory's film technique has the possible limitation of failing to do justice to the mythical dimension of Forster's novel that employed the primeval symbolism of a wych-elm to echo England's past.  In the film a spreading chestnut tree complete with pigs' teeth substitutes for the wych-elm, and serves no more significance than as a marker on the way to the garage. Yet, Primeval Man is clearly alive and well nearly a century later with the world stage replaying the events of one of mankind's sorriest episodes culminating in the carnage of the Great War. Wars, terrorism, famine, HIV, SARS and other mysterious killer bugs stalk the Earth whilst the Serbian Prime Minister is assassinated in the Balkans.Confusion over an umbrella leads a young man teetering on the edge of social and financial obscurity, into an altogether different world beyond his dreams.   In a fatalistic manner the feminine household of the Schlegels full of art and literature collides with the masculine and commercial house of Wilcox, ultimately making neither easy bedfellows nor a home for the other.  In his desire to better himself through literature, Leonard Bast (Samuel West) inadvertently stumbles into this world and ends up developing an unwise relationship with the waywardly enchanting Helen Schlegel (Helena Bonham-Carter).  It is after all Helen in the original story who discusses death with Leonard and adapts Michelangelo with the prophetic Death destroys a man; the idea of Death saves him.  Some familiar chords are struck here with the 'sense and sensibility' of Jane Austen's Dashwood sisters in the novel of that phrase, when Helen censures Margaret (Emma Thompson) for her betrothal to all that the younger sister deems cold and stifling.  The comparison is further illuminated by Thompson's portrayal of the restrained elder sister in Ang Lee's masterful film of Austen's novel three years later.  The double standards of male behaviour are realised at the wedding of Margaret and Henry Wilcox (Anthony Hopkins) as the inebriated gatecrasher, Mrs Bast (Nicola Duffett), recognises the gentleman groom from her former life, whilst he in turn will not have the unwed and expectant Helen stay at the empty `Howard's End'.   The arrogance and bigotry of the Wilcoxs and the interference of the Schlegels for their disadvantaged friend eventually conspire in his demise.It is possible to draw a parallel of Charles Wilcox's attack on Leonard Bast with Jordan's culture of crimes of honour with the killing in August 2002 of a pregnant and unmarried woman by her brother, after being encouraged by family and friends, and of the stabbing of a daughter by her father as detailed in Norma Khouri's `Forbidden Love', a fate that befalls some 5000 women a year.  How can it be that these abominable acts are a product of a society that is governed by harsh, inhumane religious rules?  What twisted sense of perspective says it is right to destroy two lives to address a bizarre sense of shame arising from a naturalistic occurrence where `correct' protocols were not followed?   The sad conclusion has to be drawn that though the rest of us suffer from his devastation, Primeval Man lives untouched by evolution and is in no danger of extinction.Vanessa Redgrave is touchingly charming as the naïve Mrs Wilcox who bequeaths her beloved Howard's End to Miss Schlegel, though in none too an official manner which leads to the plot's convolutions.  Incidentally the actress has recently received a Tony for the Broadway revival of `Long Day's Journey into Night', and contributed her considerable thoughts on `Anthony and Cleopatra' for Faber's excellent `Actors on Shakespeare' series published in June of last year.  Thompson's superlative performance justly earned her an Oscar, yet perhaps the greatest of her career are to be found in her unrequited housekeeper in `Remains of the Day' in 1993, and in her exceptional tour de force as the blue-stocking dying of cancer in Mike Nichols' brilliant if uncomfortable `Wit' in 1999.  Hopkins is awesome as the shrewd businessman unable to connect with people, whilst Joseph Bennett as Paul, Jemma Redgrave as Evie, James Wilby (a veteran from other Forster adaptations) as Charles, and Susie Lindeman (`Lilian's Story' and recently onstage in `Hammerklavier') his twittering wife Dolly are all perfectly too ghastly as the detestable offspring.  Bonham-Carter improves on her Lucy Honeychurch in the earlier `Room with a View' to provide the disruptive free spirit of Helen that so changes every life she comes into contact with, whilst West's Leonard is a memorable study of the downtrodden that the gods have determined to destroy.  The film also garnered Oscars for Ruth Prawer Jhabvala for her screenplay, and Luciana Arrighi and Ian Whitakker for art direction, whilst Richard Robbins and Tony Pierce-Roberts were nominated for original music and best cinematography.  The same production team collaborated in the following year's admirable `Remains of the Day' that frustratingly missed out at the Oscar and Bafta awards.The overarching theme for E M Forster, as etched onto the title page of the Penguin edition, is Only connect. and the skilled filmmakers have succeeded splendidly in this adaptation in spanning the bridge to connect the viewer to the characters in their distant world.  "},{"Title":"Much ado about absolutely nothing","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Quite a disappointment. This movie fit a class that I run into from time to time the movie that engages me well for the whole movie, such that I don't find out that I hate it until I get to the ending. In this case, it was the kind of ending where the movie doesn't so much end as run out of stuff. That is, there's no real resolution that ties everything together or anything, and you realize that what we've seen is more a series-of-events rather than a cohesive plot. Was it a happy ending? A sad ending? I still can't tell. But it certainly was an unsatisfying ending.If the plot isn't coherent, neither are the characters. I *still* don't understand a lot of the characters' motivations. Why was Wilcox such an obnoxious, stubborn fool about letting Helen stay one night in the house? When Meg has clearly and superbly delineated his hypocrisy, it just bounces right off of him. He doesn't concede the point, he doesn't deny the point, he just ignores it. That was just a weird way to behave. If nothing else, it paints the guy as a complete, irredeemable jerk. So the movie seems to strike a triumphant note when Meg finally tells him she's leaving him. That was the kind of wonderful moment which made it seem like the film was going somewhere. But then, *poof*, nothing comes of it, she's still with him and kissing him at the end. Huh? She ultimately makes no sense as a character, one can never see what she sees in this jerk, or why she constantly kowtows to him, despite being a strong enough character with everybody else. Then there's the brother, Tippy or Flippy or whatever his name was. Why? Why is he in this movie? He does NOTHING. He adds nothing, does nothing, says almost nothing, he's more a piece of the set than a character. Someone else here also pointed that out. And speaking of props-rather-than-characters, there was Jackie. The first thing I noticed at the end of the film was that she was given NO resolution. So ultimately, she, as a character, went nowhere and amounted to nothing. You could have entirely omitted her and nothing would've been any different. It was also pointed out, very appropriately, the way that Helen's character is slapdash. There's the whole big deal about her stealing umbrellas, then that utterly disappears. Comes off as pretty contrived. And what about the whole original thing with her having the aborted affair with young Wilcox? That too went nowhere and amounted to nothing.And, by the way, I waited half the movie for the family-history tidbit about the original Mrs. Wilcox having a brother or uncle or someone who asked for that other woman's hand and was rejected-- I waited half the movie for that to become relevant, trying to figure out who that might've been and how they tied in. Answer? Went nowhere, meant nothing, just another irrelevant detail. This movie was a complete soup of irrelevant details.Yes, the performances were fine (given what the actors had to work with). Yes, the sets and costumes and all provide a fine period recreation. And the music was quite good (but more about that in a minute). For those three things I gave it three stars instead of one. But the fact is, at the end of the movie I find myself frustrated and cheated. There was no real plot, and, in the end, there wasn't a single character in the movie that I *liked*. I had liked Meg for almost the whole movie, but when she went back with The Jerk at the end, that was just too much for me.And finally, let's talk about the music. I was enraptured when they did the bit with the Beethoven fifth (some of the finest, most moving music ever written). Especially when the naked piano version from the lecture hall morphs into the full, powerful orchestral score. I was excited, thinking, Excellent! They're using the wonderful 3rd movement as a leitmotif! This'll be great! But no, as with all else in this film, it means nothing and goes nowhere. It comes back exactly once, and only as a concrete flashback, when Umbrella Man is dreaming of the day he met Helen. What did it signify? Nothing. Just the concrete event.In short, this film did a great deal to raise my expectations and hopes and extremely little to actually fulfill them. "},{"Title":"Howard's End or the Beginning of a New Order ...","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is quite interesting that the French title says Return to Howard's End, as if this addition pointed out the inexorable path of life that would allow the central character Margaret Shlegel (Emma Thompson) to own the very house she was once deprived of. Indeed, when Ruth Wilcox (Vanessa Redgrave) left in her deathbed Howard's End to her new friend Margaret, the Wilcoxes couldn't believe she had all her mind, so they burnt the paper. Yet, a series of separate episodes converged to the final inheritance, making up for the first injustice. The French title might mislead by making think the film focuses on Margaret, while it's about a whole ensemble powerfully representing British classes circa 1910. And as the original title suggests, the focus is Howard's End not the estate, but the symbol of the aristocracy's rural roots. The film fittingly opens with Ruth Wilcox wondering alone in the park, with this kind of intimate connection we feel in the places we grew up in. And the sadness that inhabits her heart is palpable. She's obviously misunderstood; since no Wilcox understands Howard's End, too busy socializing and partying during that very night.At the same night, Helen Shlegel, Margaret's sister, (Helena Bonham Carter) falls in love with the younger Wilcox son, but it wouldn't outlast the night. The opening incident is amusing, but like every detail in the film, not insignificant, it informs us that the Shlegels are of a German background from their father, they are well-educated middle-class bourgeois highly fond on arts and intellectuals. A few months later, to make up for the whole misunderstanding caused by her sister, Margaret finally meets Ruth Wilcox, in the neighboring house in London and a brief but poignant friendship begins. Ruth discovers Margaret's social life, but also a woman of ideas, of artistic taste, not blinded by wealth like the Wilcoxes, so she can see the value of Howard's End And Margaret falls immediately in love with the house during a visit where she also catches the eye of Mr Wilcox, Anthony Hopkins as the shy, well-mannered but quite abrupt businessman, again a polar opposite to Emma Thompson's temperament (but isn't that what makes their interactions so irresistible?) When Ruth Wilcox dies with her final wish, Mr Wilcox feels like he owes a gesture to Margaret, some help to find a house. They end up marrying each other, in probably the most awkward proposal from any film. Their union celebrates the constant symbiosis between the old aristocracy and the new enlightened bourgeoisie, but the portrait of the British classes would have been incomplete without lower people. And this is where the Basts enrich the film. Sam West is Leonard Bast, a young and educated clerk, leaving with Jackie, a vulgarian we suspect to have a troubled past. Bast strikes as a taciturn, sickly and insecure man, and after another incident involving a lost umbrella, the Shlegel sisters grow rapidly fond on him, especially the fiery Helen. But victim of their good intentions, the sisters ask Mr Wilcox for advice he suggests Bast leaves his company before the bankruptcy. Not only Bast leaves his job, but the previous company prospers and the second fires him. Bast, who was poor, ends up in a worse situation. Helen can't accept Wilcox' lack of remorse and brings the ill fated Bast and his wife to the Wilcox daughter's wedding party. And while indulging herself to some punch drinking, Jackie recognizes Mr Wilcox and his gay old habits. The dynamics of the film is constantly driven by incidents; it's all about the serene and honorable standard of the British upper classes, perturbed by wake-up calls. This one illustrates the pervert interactions between the rich and the poor, the same Wilcox who didn't shed a tear for Bast, for the poor are the poor, and one's sorry for them didn't care of abusing an underage woman. Margaret forgives Wilcox, but Helen can't forgive herself to have caused Bast' descent to poverty, she stays close to him. So close that we're not surprised, a few months later, to find her pregnant, for the ultimate plot device that highlighted the British system's greatest sin hypocrisy. Helen is in the same position than Jackie was because of Wilcox, yet Wilcox forbids her to stay in Howard's End. The rich demonstrates an incredible zeal when the poor degrade British values, while their noble status launder all their faults. Wilcox, no matter how well mannered and intentioned he is, wouldn't allow Helen to stay. And while his marriage comes to a dead-end, a failure to communicate, it's like Ruth's own spectra commanded the irresponsible Charles, the most foolish thing to do. Enthralled by his new ownership, Charles confronts Bast, and inadvertently kills him, leaving his father in a desperate need of Margaret, more than ever. The loop is looped, and Howard's End reveals itself to be more than a story of inheritance and property, it's a magnificent Oscar-winning screenplay made of sumptuously interlocking stories that paint an insightful and incisive portrait of the British classes, their interactions, and perceptions. And the ending translates into a fictional story, the very future of Britain, an aristocratic house left to a bourgeois, and who's going to benefit of it? The son of a poor man. Howard's End is not just a riveting story, carried by superb performances -Emma Thompson totally deserved her Oscar as the sweet, caring but strong-willed Margaret- it's also the magnificent epitaph of an old order, in the same intensity and human resonance than Gone With the Wind, like only the Ivory-Merchant could have produced. Speaking of them, I'm glad I watched it after The Remains of the Day, for the magnificent chemistry between Hopkins and Thompsons, probably the defining on-screen duo of the 90's (both nominated 4 times in this very decade) made up for their previous inhibitions. "},{"Title":"The perfect representation of Victorian England","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Generally, when I start writing my reviews, in the first paragraph I explain the movie's plot. This is not gonna be the case here, because 'Howards End' has such a complex plot that I would lost about four paragraphs talking about it. All I'm gonna say is that this movie follows the events of three families in the early 20th century Victorian England - the aristocrats and capitalists Wilcox, the humanistic and philanthropist Schlegels, and the poor and hard-working Basts, and it shows how these so-different families are related to each other.The Oscar-winning screenplay here is based on a novel by E.M. Forster. Even though I haven't read the book, the story itself is impressive, and it seems like Ruth Prawer Jhabvala took full advantage of it, making the movie extremely believable and understandable. Of course that are maybe parts of the book missing, but the overall effect is great. It's one of those movies that you don't want for it to end, it could easily have another hour. That's why I find the ending very unsatisfactory, since it doesn't explain what happened to some of the main characters, and a few things are just weird. The script has also a few flaws, but they doesn't tear up the whole experience.There's really nothing to talk about the acting in this movie. Only that its's absolutely marvelous. The cast features names like Anthony Hopkins, Emma Thompson, Vanessa Redgrave and Helena Bonham Carter, and they are all great. There are also not so well-known names that do a nice job, but they don't obfuscate the glow of these stars. It seems like an acting contest, where everyone is a winner, especially the audience, that is able to witness one of the best overall cast in movie's history. Everything here feels so real and natural.This excellent acting and story really sets the mood, but it wouldn't work with a weak director. A thing that James Ivory absolutely isn't. In order to direct this great cast and conduct this incredible script, James Ivory never lefts the audience feel bored or with that feeling that the movie never ends. There are some really intelligent angles and shots here, some of which you'd never seen before. That's right, James Ivory got to be original in 1992 (!). Every other aspect of this movie is perfect. The set-decoration and art- direction put you into that period in history, and the photography, along with the soundtrack composed by an original music score and well- known classic songs, the mood here couldn't be better.Overral, this movie is an incredible adaption. The excellent script, along with a perfect acting and incredible direction, set-decoration and art-direction, makes this movie the perfect representation of Victorian England. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Only Connect","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm sure that even in 1910 when Kaiser Wilhelm still had a few fans who remembered he was the grandson of Queen Victoria and not ruler of the soon to be hated foe of World War I, E.M. Forster must have come in for a few critic's slings in having some of his protagonists of Howards End have a German surname. Even that early time there were many who saw Germany as a potential foe.These two Schlegel sisters played by Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter befriend the Wilcoxes, a family of newly rich plutocrats headed by Anthony Hopkins who seem to be a version of Lillian Hellman's the Hubbards lite. Their mother is the class of the family and she's played by Vanessa Redgrave who is in poor health.While Bonham-Carter is rejected by Hopkins's son James Wilby as a suitable wife for marriage, Vanessa befriends Thompson finding her to be a kindred intellectual spirit in a house full of moneygrubbers. In fact before she dies she writes an unsigned note asking that a cottage that's in her family's name called Howards End be given to the Schlegel sisters. When Hopkins and the rest of the family find the note after she's dead it gets torn up and burned. Unsigned it has no probative value in any event.But as fate would have it Thompson and Hopkins get into a relationship and they soon marry and she tries to polish some of the rough edges off him. Especially in regard to snobbery. Hopkins is the kind of man who wants no reminders of where he came from. Particularly with another of the Schlegel sisters friends, a young clerk named Leonard Bast played by Samuel West trying to make his way in the world as the Wilcoxes have.Emma Thompson won the Academy Award for Best Actress for Howards End that year and the film also won Oscars for Art&Set Direction and for adapted screenplay. Though Thompson won the Oscar, my absolute favorite in this film is Susie Lindeman as Mrs. Dolly Bast. She's so incredibly common and obviously holding him back, you can't blame West for eventually getting involved with Bonham-Carter which leads to tragedy.The team of Ismail Merchant producer and James Ivory director succeed again at bringing the look and manners of Edwardian England as seen by E.M. Forster to life. Who says they don't make literate films any more, whoever says that have them see Howards End. "},{"Title":"So subtle, yet so very clever . .","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So subtle, yet so very clever. There are some films you watch again and again just because you like them, or something about them. Even if you don't think them among the best ever - they're one of your favorites. This is not that. There are others you really have to watch several times just to penetrate the layers of things hidden - multiple meaning and real subtext. Modern film goers aren't used to this. Many find even the idea of intelligent films that require your intelligence to watch them, a foreign concept. This is one of those.Now mind you I'm not saying this is a hard film to watch, it is not. It's extremely easy to watch, and very enjoyable - if you like people (or at least the idea of liking people). If you don't like people, you probably won't like this or any period piece. This movie actually has something to say, which is easy to miss. Meaning if you stay on the surface of it, it's very easy to take for granted - looking at the lovely and missing the principles and truths on display. Attention is something you have to Pay, and some are simply not willing to do that. They feel the price of the ticket should have covered it.If you love excellence then you'll love this film, because it it is filled with excellence. It's not fast paced like a thriller, but not a single moment of the film is wasted. All the transitions from scene to scene are seamless, and every scene is full. The language here is the language of relationships. With one of the stronger underlying themes being that of the Biblical law of reaping what you sow, and accountability for one's actions.Pay special attention to where the film begins and the offense (morally) that occurs there, where the film ends - and who is given what would have been theirs (at least in part) had the right thing been done instead of the offense, and the way that it all comes about. Which is part of what causes you to not notice it. Believe me, it is so subtle pretty nearly everyone misses it. In an almost altruistic sense the story comes full circle by ending exactly where it began. Watch how the inanimate objects of an umbrella, a sword, and a house participate in the flow of events, and thereby the direction of lives. This is probably the most nuanced film you'll ever see, and it is a masterpiece . . . fullgrownministry.com "},{"Title":"Transcendally Fascinating","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With 'Howard's End' Merchant-Ivory brings one of the most spectacular period pieces. Its stunning cinematography, richly detailed visuals, distinct settings and costumes and language not only make 'old' Britain beautiful to look at but it also manages to make the viewer feel that time period. The accuracy to which the makers have given so much attention really takes us back in time, as if we're living in it. Just the way an amazing oil on canvas can grab a person's attention and capture his/her essence. Moreover, what contributes to the beauty of this film is how it emotionally engages.Many period pieces face the problem of pacing and appear to be more cardboardlike and contrived. But, Ivory really took good care and put a lot of heart into it. He skillfully balances all the ingredients. He must have loved the book to have his screenwriter, Jhabvala, adapt an excellent screenplay. Irrelevant subplots are carefully avoided and the characters are very well-etched. Howards End itself is a character and the house that was chosen to 'play' the title role is breathtaking. One can easily understand why Ruth Wilcox was attached to it and why the Schlegel sisters fall in love with it. The relationships are so wonderfully portrayed. The closeness between the Schlegel sisters and brother finely contrasts that between the Wilcoxs and also that between the Basts. While class distinction is an important theme, clichés and caricatures are cleverly avoided. The dialogues are sharp, witty, poetic and clever. The entire film has a very romantic appeal to it. And, to top it all, Richard Robbins's score is mesmerizing.With such a great cast like a snobbish but ambivalent Anthony Hopkins, a fragile and desperate Vanessa Redgrave, a fiery Helena Bonham Carter, a naive Sam West, a gentle motherly Prunella Scales and a host of brilliant supporting actors 'Howards end' shines. However, it is the phenomenal Emma Thompson who carries and owns the film. Without a doubt, this is one of her best works. She's been one of my favourite actress nd i always expect nothing short of greatness from her. Yet, she still managed to surprise me and blew me away with a natural, nuanced and fantastic performance.I truly don't think there's enough words for me to describe 'Howard's End'. One must watch it to believe and I'm pretty sure that even those who dislike period pieces will change their mind after watching this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"An exceptional English drama","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Winning the 1992 BAFTA for Best Film and Best Actress Oscar for Emma Thompson, James Ivory's HOWARD'S END is that rarity - a film whose complexities of character and plot seem more rewarding on successive viewings. It is a film I have grown to like more and more over the years.This isn't dull and overly quiet Edwardiania. Unlike Greece, England has no true mythology says Margaret Schlegel (Emma Thompson) during the film. Yet Edwardian England and the literature it spawned is almost a 20th Century English mythology. Tony Pierce Roberts' cinematography finds no difficulty in making this one of the best adverts the English Tourist Board has had - whether on a Devon cliff-top or capturing the provincial charms of the Shropshire countryside or the film's recreation of lunch at Simpson's in the Strand and Christmas Shopping at Harrods.HOWARD'S END revolves around the Schlegel sisters, Margaret and Helen (Helena Bonham Carter). Helen is an early feminist, full of early Socialist concern for the mild-mannered clerk Leonard Bast (Sam West). They meet when Helen accidentally brings home his umbrella from a music lecture; and it is the Schlegels' well-intended advice about changing jobs which leads to Bast becoming unemployed.Margaret befriends the slow and elderly Ruth Wilcox (Vanessa Redgrave), owner of a country house called Howard's End. She is the wife of Henry (Anthony Hopkins), a dry businessman who is full of the dry Victorian moral rectitude which is starting to look stifling and pallid in the Liberal England of 1910. When Ruth dies, she leaves the house to Margaret - but Henry and the family refuse to acknowledge it as legitimate bequest and do not inform Margaret. Henry marries Margaret.Bast is the outsider is eventually connects the Schlegels and the Wilcoxs - his wife is a former lover of Henry's and Bast eventually gets Helen pregnant.HOWARD'S END is not only superbly plotted as a screenplay (from the E.M. Forster novel), but the characters also seem alive to the period, and therefore modern within the film's context. This is helped by the blessed casting of Emma Thompson, a standout amongst excellence and who brings the air of believability to the good-natured Margaret. And also Anthony Hopkins, who is allowed a humane tear towards the end when he realises that his son Charles (James Wilby) will be charged with Bast's manslaughter.The film is not to everyone's taste, but it's a far more substantial and interesting film than the previous Merchant-Ivory-Forster film A ROOM WITH A VIEW. "}{"Title":"Only Connect","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" E. M. Forster began his novel Howards End with the epigram Only connect&#x85;, words which have been interpreted as a plea for a greater degree of imaginative sympathy between people of different social classes and (just as importantly) between people with different attitudes to life. The book tells the story of three Edwardian families, the Wilcoxes, the Schlegels and the Basts. Although Leonard Bast and his wife Jacky are from a working-class background, there is not much difference in socio- economic terms between the other two families, both part of the well-to- do bourgeoisie. There is, however, a big difference in their outlooks. The cultured, artistic and intellectual Schlegels, of German extraction, represent old money. (Forster borrowed their surname from the Schlegel brothers, German writers and philosophers). The Wilcoxes, by contrast, represent new money. The father of the family, Henry, is a self-made businessman, and he and his three children are far more interested in business and making money than they are in culture or the arts. The Howards End of the title is the Wilcoxes' family home, a large farmhouse belonging to Henry's wife Ruth, who is more in sympathy with the artistic outlook of the Schegels than the rest of her family. She becomes a close friend of Margaret, the oldest of the three Schlegel siblings. In the meantime Margaret's younger sister, Helen, has befriended Leonard Bast, a clerk in an insurance company, who shares her reverence for high culture. (They meet at a lecture on Beethoven). The story then follows the complications arising from these two friendships. This film was the last entry in the cinema's great Forster cycle of the eighties and early nineties, a period which saw filmed versions of five of his six novels. It was the third adaptation of a Forster novel by Merchant Ivory Productions, following A Room with a View and Maurice. In my view it is, together with A Room with a View, the best film of the Forster cycle, for a number of reasons. The first is that the Merchant-Ivory style of film-making, with its meticulous concern for period detail and its gentle, unhurried method of story-telling, seems admirably suited to the works of Forster. David Lean's grand epic manner was never an ideal match for A Passage to India, a novel which, although it deals with political questions, concentrates on intimate personal relationships rather than the great historical events which formed the subject-matter of Lean's other late works. Charles Sturridge tried to imitate the Merchant-Ivory method in Where Angels Fear to Tread, but could never quite bring it off. The second is the remarkable number of great performances which James Ivory was able to elicit from his cast. The film only won one acting Oscar, Emma Thompson for Best Actress, but there were a number of other acting contributions of equal quality. Anthony Hopkins was perhaps not going to win a second Oscar so soon after The Silence of the Lambs the previous year, but to my mind he deserved Best Actor far more than Al Pacino in Scent of a Woman. (Whether he deserved it more than Clint Eastwood in Unforgiven is perhaps another matter). Hopkins succeeds well in his difficult task of bringing out the two sides of Henry's personality. On the one hand he is arrogant, snobbish and autocratic, but on the other Hopkins needs to imply a hidden, more likable side to him if the audience is to accept him as Margaret's husband. (The two marry after Ruth's death). Helena Bonham Carter was well-known around this period for her acting in period dramas; she had appeared in two earlier Forster adaptations, A Room with a View, and Where Angels Fear to Tread. There is a nice contrast between her Helen- passionate, impetuous and rash- and Thompson's calmer, more measured Margaret. Helen has a strong social conscience which Margaret seems to lack, and at first comes across as the more sympathetic of the two sisters, yet Helen's well-intentioned interventions in other people's lives can have disastrous unintended consequences. As for Thompson, she gives an object lesson in the art of portraying a quiet, reserved character without making her dull or uninteresting. Thompson and Hopkins were to act together in another Merchant-Ivory drama the following year, The Remains of the Day. Other excellent performances come from Vanessa Redgrave as Ruth Wilcox, James Wilby as Henry and Ruth's pompous, overbearing older son Charles and Samuel West as Leonard Bast. Bast is a tragic figure- he is clearly highly knowledgeable and intelligent, but because of his humble social origins is unable to put his intelligence to good use and is patronised and mistreated by those who consider themselves his social betters. He is also held back by his wife who shares neither his intelligence nor his aspirations. The third reason why the film works so well is the way in which it brings out the themes of the excellent novel on which it is based and makes them relevant to the 1990s (without ever labouring the point). The story might be set in the 1910s, yet its themes of the contrasting values of business and culture, of unemployment, of wealth and poverty, are still relevant even today. Henry Wilcox might be a figure from the Edwardian era, yet in 1992 his values would have seemed very familiar to those who had just lived through the boom years of the greed is good eighties. Leonard Bast recalls those who lost their jobs when that boom turned to bust. Even Helen, the woolly but well-meaning member of the liberal Guardian- reading classes, is a familiar figure to modern viewers. British heritage cinema, and the work of Merchant-Ivory in particular, is sometimes criticised as a mere exercise in sentimental nostalgia, with no relevance to modern times. Howard's End serves as the best possible refutation of that sort of criticism. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A great watch","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Helen Bonham Carter and Emma Thompson alone&#x85; what more can I say? Victorian-ish drama at it's best. There's outstanding dialog and Emma Thompson is at her prime innocent and naively charming. I have some serious issues with the plot, but that's just because it's done so well that I've accumulated so much hate for certain characters. We are met with two families the Wilcox and the Schlegels. First of all the Wilcoxes in this film are complete assholes, except the mother who dies early on in the movie (don't worry I didn't ruin anything, everyone sees it coming).I didn't care for some of the turns that this film took, but this movie just pulls you in with all of their relationship with one another as well as the atmosphere of the film. Overall, this film has a great cast and an entertaining story interwoven with drama. A great watch. "},{"Title":"Dense & intriguing","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though lambasted by a minority as a Merchant/Ivory snoozer, Howard's End eventually inveigles its way into a thoughtful viewers mind with rather abundant ideas and plots about agency, good intentions in a weary/cynical world, passive cruelty, active cruelty, material transference, and cultural ascent, all stitched together in a story of class warfare, with surprising, sometimes hypocritical motivations. No one behaves as expected; as with Thompson selling out her values in preference to ascent; and the generally awful Hopkins secreting his true, malevolent nature, while fate endeavors to correct it in a roundabout way.There is far more than most films provide to digest. And the ideas put into play are far more interesting than other movies deign to investigate, and certainly better than other similar chatty, period Emma Thompson films (Sense and Sensibility) which are fatal to the life urge. It's also superior to Remains of the Day (also with Thompson and Hopkins). One can imagine a much more modern, intriguing film (not bogged down with politeness and high production values) with these ideas, but this is the film we've got; and it's fine.At no point can you guess where the circumlocutions will take you. Howard's End is a knot tied back into itself a half dozen times. I find its complexity extremely pleasing. Suffice it to say, this is 'Final Destination' for the thoughtful set. "},{"Title":"Excellent story about social classes","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story opens in Edwardian England, where we meet Margaret and Helen Schlegel (Emma Thompson, Helena Bodham Carter), genteel sisters who are concerned with the lot of the poor. When they meet a lowly clerk who is struggling to get by, they try to mentor him but their advice only makes his situation worse. Meanwhile, Margaret develops a friendship with the Wilcoxes (Anthony Hopkins, Vanessa Redgrave), a wealthy family whose country home, Howards End, will become an important part of all their lives.Based on E. M. Forster's 1911 novel, this film is an insightful study of the social classes, their interaction (and lack thereof), and the highly structured and restrained manners that ruled society. Thompson won the Best Actress Oscar for her role, but it really is an ensemble piece and the entire cast is outstanding. The period is carefully recreated using wonderful costumes, sets, and cars and the photography is beautiful. The script (also Oscar-nominated) weaves together many seemingly unrelated characters and subplots, all building to an emotional conclusion at Howards End, which is the source of much desire, jealousy, and sorrow.This is a thought-provoking and moving drama/tragedy. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"May it never end","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the finest films ever made, a testament to director James Ivory's unique sensitivity and genius. Of course, he started with a great novel by E. M. Forster, which always helps. But the screenplay by Ruth Prawer Jhabvlala does it complete justice, as was always the case with her magnificent writing for the screen. I recently watched this again for the first time in years. My seeing performances of this story began with a London stage production long ago, where Gemma Jones was so brilliant in the role of the younger Schlegel sister played here by Helena Bonham Carter. This tale is so powerful and dramatic that it lends itself to novel, stage, and screen with equal facility. The story is bitingly, savagely critical of the hypocrisy and social injustice of England a century ago. This film's luminous centre is given it from the very first opening travelling shot, where Vanessa Redgrave is seen and followed as she roams in the twilight through her beloved garden at her house Howard's End, which she had inherited from her brother who died, and where she was born. Ivory avoids needless lighting, and we can barely make her out sometimes as she looks lovingly upon the flowers, the tree branches, and smells the redolent air, taking in the scents of early night. She stands outside looking into the drawing room through the open bow window, and is absorbing the adored atmosphere of the home she loves above all else in the world. Although she dies rather early in the film, Redgrave, as Ruth Wilcox, is radiant, mystical, supernatural in her mysterious performance, and she gives that inescapable tone of an underlying reality, of a concealed fate, beneath the surface of events, which make this film so utterly magical. All of the major performances are sensationally brilliant. Anthony Hopkins is so convincing as a crisp, matter-of-fact man of business who is in denial of all deeper feelings. Emma Thompson is at her most glorious as the infectiously irreverent and joyously alive older sister to the more serious Helena Bonham Carter. But in their scenes together they convey the carefree and heedless sisterliness of a joyful and playful household, they chatter together like magpies who have known each other since birth, they play, they joke, they romp, and truly they have captured on film exactly what such people could be like in those days. I knew groups of sisters like that as late as the 1960s and even the 1970s, before that terminal social decay set in, which destroyed all real joy in people's home lives and eradicated all such spontaneity and innocent fun in the drawing room. Every scene of this film reeks of authenticity and screams out 'I'm really happening!' Or at least 'Such things happened once!' Every scene of this film is composed so perfectly, the costumes are so exquisite, the art direction and production design are sensational beyond even the words of E. M. Forster to describe. The music is chosen so sensitively. Every breath is choreographed in this sumptuous spectacle of a lost world. As you watch this, you keep thinking there is only one James Ivory. And he truly is an ivory in the lapidary sense, for he and everything he touches are carved by the gods. "},{"Title":"Feels like home","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By the end of this movie, you feel as if the characters are part of your family. You want to know more about them, and what happens to them, and to the wonderful old estate of Howards End. Every time I watch it, I find new details that escaped my notice before.The first version I saw of this movie had Henry, Anthony Hopkins' character, on the verge of asking Margaret, Emma Thompson's character, to be his mistress. This would have, in the morals of the time, required an end to the relationship. In her quick-witted way, she responded, Yes!!, and he asked, Yes, to what? She said, You were about to ask me to marry you. I said, yes, I will! This was changed in subsequent versions and I think it made for less understanding of the dynamics of the characters.The English family who don't realize that the are dinosaurs, in effect. The social norms which allowed them privilege are crumbling. We hear Ruth saying she is personally glad that women don't have the vote to the astonishment of the younger women. This leads you to wonder whether this was really her own thought, or whether Henry was so overbearing that she was never able to think for herself. Another instance is when Charles, after he has caused the death of Bast, blithely assuming he will only be the star witness in the case because he thinks his social standing will protect him.The German family are more adventurous, inquisitive, and adaptable. In one bedroom scene, Margaret is shown reading Theosophy, and Henry, turning to a picture in the book, says, And what is this? When Tibby admits to Charles that Bast is the father of Helen's child, he has no idea that Charles will charge forth to defend the family honor with a sword as in days of old.To me, the name of the estate of Howards End is symbolic of of the end of the family as well as the era.This is a visual treat as well as an intellectual adventure. "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Howards End is a truly brilliant film, it is absolutely perfect in its execution. The screenplay is perfect as is the story. The performances are flawless, Emma Thompson, Helena Bonham Carter, and Anthony Hopkins are just perfect in the leads. They are just great. James Ivory is one of cinema's best directors, and this is his best film and directorial job, he is just brilliant. Flawless direction by a perfect director. The art direction, cinematography, costume design, and musical score are all also very good, beautiful, and pretty much flawless. Howards End is just a great movie that everybody should see before they die. It is human, it ends how it should, not how we want it too which is one of movies biggest problems as of now. "},{"Title":"Improved greatly by comparison with Forster","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have heard many people complain how boring or monotonous Howards End is(look at some of the other user comments). The first time I watched it, I was inclined to concur, though only in regards to the first hour. However I eventually got around to reading the book, and decided to view the movie again.I now found that none of it could be described as boring. The possible reason for this may be choices made by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala and James Ivory regarding the visual representation of Forster's language and ideals, in ways which make the film and book differ, but enhance the screen drama(ie. having the Beethoven concert be a lecture on Music and Meaning, and the extended scene of Helen Schlegal and Leonard Bast on the lake). This, combined with lovely art direction and costuming and the brilliant cast(particular credit to Emma Thompson as Margaret Schlegal, who serves as the moral and intellectual center of the story)makes the Merchant Ivory production of Howards End excellent. "},{"Title":"Exquisite in Every Detail","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Superb adaptation of the EM Forster novel, Howards End is a feast. Story of two sisters and how they choose separate paths--one leading to radicalism and exile in Germany, the other taking a more conventional road.Emma Thompson won a deserved Oscar as Margaret, the sensible older sister who finds love late in life. Helena Bonham Carter is Helen, the younger, more passionate sister who embraces truth as radicalism. Anthony Hopkins is Wilcox the ruthless businessman who marries Margaret after the death of his wife--a luminous Vanessa Redgrave.Two events set things in motion here the death of Ruth (who has befriended Margaret); and the stolen umbrella that brings Leonard Bast (Samuel West) into the sisters' lives. The two events begin the rift between the sisters. As Margaret is drawn into the family life of Wilcox she distances herself from the intellectual pursuits of her younger days; Helen on the other hand is drawn into the Basts' lives and becomes more and more radical.The period detail is flawless, as expected in a Merchant/Ivory film. The acting is terrific across the board, and the adaptation of the Forster novel is perfect. The film looks at such tensions as the industrial revolution vs agrarian England, intellectualism vs truth; academia vs business, etc. And there is always the English question of social standing.Thompson is great as Margaret. She's funny, talkative, sad, and honest. Bonham Carter is also very good as the younger, more direct sister. Hopkins is solid as the callus business man of the Empire. Redgrave is a marvel as the fading Ruth. Her opening scene wandering through the dusky garden is wonderful and sets the tone for city vs. country.James Wilby (always underrated) is detestable as the older Wilcox son. Samuel West is terrific as Leonard. Prunella Scales is funny as the sisters' aunt. Jemma Redgrave is the nasty Evie. Nicola Duffett is sad as Jacky Bast. Adrian Ross Magenty is the bookish brother. Simon Callow has a cameo as a lecturer. And Susie Lindeman is funny is the dim Dolly.Just a beautiful film. It's mythic and gentle and haunting. Indeed myth is yet another topic here. The country folk embed pig's teeth in tree trunks so that the bark can be used as a cure for toothache..... Filled with great moments and great acting from Thompson, Redgrave, West, Hopkins, and Bonham Carter. "},{"Title":"Peerless film making It makes you remember why you fell in love with the movies in the first place!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Merchant Ivory's 1992 masterpiece Howards End is based on E.M Forrester's novel about snobbery and friction between the English classes. The story concerns itself with the middle-class Schlegal sisters, Margaret (Emma Thompson) and Helen (Helena Bonham Carter). Seems Helen had once put it into her head to fall in love with Paul Wilcox (Joseph Bennett), the son of an affluent family presided over by stalwart patriarch, Henry (Anthony Hopkins) and the fragile and whimsical, Ruth (Vanessa Redgrave). The romance is short lived and considered an embarrassment amongst the Wilcoxes, who marry off Paul to a woman of his own social standing. However, upon Ruth's death, Henry pursues a romantic relationship with Margaret that eventually blossoms into marriage. Prior to her death, Ruth had left the family's country estate &#150; Howards End &#150; to Margaret in her will.But Henry and the family have decided that this will never do and do not tell Margaret about her inheritance. Henry's family, including Paul, his other son, Charles (James Wilby), daughter Evie (Jemma Redgrave) and daughter-in-law Dolly (Susie Lindeman) do not approve of their father's dalliances with Margaret, and even less of the resulting marriage. Enter Leonard Bast (Samuel West) &#150; a poor cockney working in a bank. Through a series of misadventures he befriends Helen &#150; a pairing that will eventually lead to his demise. Leonard is instructed by Margaret and Helen to decamp for another position at the insistence of Henry &#150; who has ulterior motives that concern his own indiscretions with Leonard's wife, Jackie (Nicola Duffett).Ruth Prawler Jhabvala's brilliant screenplay never allows the pace of all these intrigues to lapse, interweaving lust, desire, contempt and disaster into a seamless and exhilarating blend. James Ivory directs with panache for elegance and stylishly glamorous film making in the vein of the very best from Hollywood's golden age.Sony Classics originally made Howards End available in a bare bones anamorphic transfer that was very nicely rendered. Now Criterion has put out its own deluxe edition, at a more than deluxe price. The transfer &#150; while being advertised as newly remastered, is on par with the previously issued disc &#150; showing only marginal improvements in film grain reduction and perhaps a tad more saturation in colors. Colors on both editions are bold, vibrant and nicely contrasted. Blacks are deep, velvety an solid. Whites are, on the whole, clean. Minor dirt and scratches appear but do not distract. The audio is 5.1 Dolby and represents a very stirring palette of music and effects. But this is primarily a dialogue driven film, so don't expect your speakers to get a work out. Where Criterion's edition excels is in its extra features; two comprehensive making of documentaries that tackle different aspects of the production, deleted scenes, an audio commentary and theatrical trailer. If that justifies the nearly triple price tag that Criterion is asking, then I suppose the new edition is worth every penny. Both versions come highly recommended by this reviewer. "}{"Title":"Top Five of the Nineties","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In so many ways, the best of the superlative Merchant-Ivory series and one of the greatest movies of the last ten years.Like the other movies on that list (Fargo, Schindler's List, Pulp Fiction, Saving Private Ryan), it features innovative direction, nuanced acting, stunning cinematography, and gripping storytelling. Yet it is completely unlike the others. A costumed parable like Spielberg's two entries -- but lacking the obvious good vs. evil dynamic. The dialogue dazzles, but not by falling back on the shock value and pop culture riffing of Pulp Fiction. And Fargo... well, it's impossible to compare any movie to Fargo.Perhaps too subtle for its own good (judging by its surprisingly low rating on this database), Howards End tells a story that succeeds on multiple levels - as indictment of the Edwardian class system; as an interwoven tale of complex people with truly simple motivations; and as how-to video for up and coming actors. Witness the way Anthony Hopkins slowly seduces Emma Thompson, or the gentle scenes between Thompson and a bravely naive Vanessa Redgrave, or the movie's brief flashes of visceral passion unleashed by Helena Bonham-Carter, or... etc., etc., etc.Indeed, what finally sets Howards End apart from the other greats of the Nineties are the numerous strong female characters. In an era of no parts for women, this features more memorable women (besides those mentioned, special notice should go to Nicola Duffett's tragic prostitute) than in all of the decade's more garishly feminist indie movies put together. "},{"Title":"Looks beautiful, lacks feeling","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very lavish and extremely impressive production is the definite highlight of this Merchant-Ivory film from the novel by E.M. Forster. The eye catching sets and immaculate costumes are perfect, giving one a real feel for the period.The acting too, is good (especially Helena Bonham Carter as 'Helen' and Sam West as 'Leonard Baast'), but that is about the end of it. Howard's End fails to impress in any other way. Although adapted by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala (from a marvelous novel), the film is not well-balanced, or evenly scripted. We never have time to absorb any of Forster's wonderful characters. Director James Ivory also fails to move the film in any direction quickly enough. Still, it's a good looking picture.Saturday, May 30, 1992 - Hoyts Forest Hill Chase "},{"Title":"Boring; Peddles Elitist Class Hatred","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Howard's End was one of the strangest movie-watching experiences of my life. I experienced the entire film as one long introduction. Okay, this is the scene where they show us what pretty clothes people wore in Edwardian England. This is the scene that displays the cunning antique cars and charming trains they rode in. This scene demonstrates the arch and artificial conversational norms of the period. This is the scene that establishes the lushness and loveliness of the English countryside in high summer. Right up until the closing credits, I was waiting for the scene that would involve me in a plot, and make me care about characters.The acting is so unrelentingly cold, arch, and artificial I have to believe that director James Ivory wanted viewers to see only Vanessa Redgrave, Emma Thompson, and Anthony Hopkins, never the characters they allegedly play. These actors may as well be holding scripts in front of their faces. Never for one moment is political activist and Amazon Redgrave believable as a humble little wifey who does not want the right to vote. Anthony Hopkins is Anthony Hopkins, Hannibal Lector in a high collar. Emma Thompson pops out her eyes and strenuously squeezes out some tears, and you think, Gosh, she's working so darn hard for that Oscar. Howard's End isn't two and a half hours of nothingness, though. It is a crystalline demonstration of the contempt that self-congratulatory privileged people feel for the working poor. Mind I'm not saying that the film critiques snobbery. I'm saying that Howard's End is a perfect example of snobbery among the holier-than-thou elite, from Edwardian England's self-righteous upper crust to Barack Obama's limousine liberal supporters.The Schlegels and Wilcoxes are two British families who have lots and lots of cash. The Basts are poor. The rich families are handsome, well groomed, self-disciplined, ever so compassionate and circumspect. The poor are beyond any standard of decency or human appeal. Leonard Bast, the poor man, played by Samuel West, is a creeping creature, half maggot, half weasel, and all idiot. He lives his life stupidly and ends disastrously. His wife, Jacky Bast, is a slovenly, slatternly, obese slut. She is shown, most frequently, in a tight, filthy corset that thrusts her assets into the viewer's face, and dirty robe. She does not brush her hair. She eats like an animal, gets drunk, and embarrasses nice people in public. She is never shown working; most frequently she is lounging on a filthy bed.Leonard Bast could have been shown, as all the rich characters are shown, as having even a rudimentary brain, or dignity, or self-determination. Instead he appears to be constructed of mucus; he is merely a spineless, soulless toy in the hands of the rich characters, whom he discomfits just by existing.The filmmakers could have shown rich and privileged people for what they really are. There could have been scenes of Henry Wilcox, a forty-year-old rich man, inheritor of massive wealth, taking advantage of Jacky when she was a sixteen-year-old orphan attempting to make ends meet by selling her body to this exploiter. We never see that. What we do see is Jacky in control, Jacky crashing Henry's daughter's wedding, Jacky embarrassing Henry, a man the film invites us to admire, feel compassion for, respect and love. There could have been scenes of the Schlegels and Wilcoxes eating sumptuous meals while Leonard and Jacky went days without tasting food. There could have been scenes of how humble clerks like Leonard, desperate for any employment, supplied the labor that the Schlegels and Wilcoxes rode to their own wealth. We don't get those scenes. What we get are scenes of the rich being sensitive and compassionate and beautiful and artistic and refined and admirable, and the poor being disgusting and idiotic and repellent and unpleasant.If Howard's End had peddled hatred and contempt for a race of people &#x96; blacks, say &#x96; rather than a class of people &#x96; the working poor &#x96; its contempt and bigotry would be condemned and the film would be a museum piece. Instead Howard's End peddles the privileged's contemptuous view of the poor, and it is embraced as a classic. Because, no less than in the Edwardian Era, in the Bitter Obama Era, hatred of the working poor is entirely A-OK.I recently watched two Nazi propaganda films, Jud Suss and La Habanera. In both, Ferdinand Marian plays a sexy, racially inferior character who has relationships with racially superior, Aryan women. The ultimate message of these Nazi propaganda films contact with racially inferior people carries a taint. It is dangerous. Disaster follows. Steer clear of the racially inferior. In this, Howard's End is no different from Jud Suss and La Habanera. In Howard's End, upper class women have contact with a man who is working poor. At least Ferdinand Marian got to be a sexy untermenschen. Leonard Bast is merely creepy, with no sex appeal. Contact with the working poor man brings disaster to privileged people's lives. Elites can leave Howard's End congratulating themselves for having contempt for the working poor, and avoiding contact with them at all costs. "},{"Title":"Howards End Review","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Its well put message of social relations, as well as the tendencies shown by those very classes of people examines the more moral classifications of its focused characters. I never read the novel, but I found the film to be well made, using very well acted performances, as well focusing it's main subject of a plot to a more diverse issue other than the property of Howards end. The setting takes place in Edwardian England, the time of King Edward VII rule, and there are 3 classes shown to viewers each symbolizing some individual form of moral expression in the very nature of their actions. First off , we haves the Wilcox's, the typical aristocratic English family with nothing but wealth and false pride to justify themselves, believing they are above the poor and that anything is in their grasp. The head's of this family are the well mannered but secretively selfish Henry Wilcox (Hopkins) and the more compassionate Ruth Wilcox (Redgrave). The second class is the way above average, but lacking in arrogance Schelgel's. The 2 Schelegel sisters, Margaret (Thompson) and Helen (Carter) are both well educated, seeing very significant aspects in their fascinations with their forms of literature and art, Helen in particular. The 3rd and final family is the Bast's, the poor and struggling middle class that struggle all alone with what they have. The film's plot revolves around the very connection between these 3 classes. After foolishly continuing a doomed love affair with a Wilcox, Helens own faults and regrets serve as Margaret's motivations to bring both apologies and respect to an ailing, and later to be deceased Ruth for her sisters own faults. As times goes on, the two women share many fascinations, particularly their fondness of the homes they live in. Currently the Schelegels are moving out of their cherished Child hood home, and Ruth herself has treasured her own childhood home, Howards End. The nature of the Wilcox's become very clear at their response to Ruth's dying will to leave Howard's End to Margaret. Purged with both jealousy and bitterness, Henry burns what is truly Margaret's, only to later leave it to her in the film's conclusion. In the shared moments Henry and Margaret have, they become closer and closer, thus reaching a proposal that although makes Margaret happy, it will challenge both her moral place in choosing between the Wilcox's or her own family and their more sympathetic views. As I've mentioned, the Basts served as the film's struggling middle class. By a simple accident, and further twists of fate, the Basts became of great importance to Helen. In a simple incident involving an umbrella, and a falsely accused affair, Leonard Bast would become more acquainted with Helen, on both the knowledge of his profession and the views of his wife. Through the misguided advice of Henry, Leonard lost his Job, only to fall further down the road of struggling survival. Helen's good judgment served as her inspiration to help a man she barely knew, up until the moment the two fell for each others heart. Margaret on the other hand felt more of an obligation to her husband, and in doing nothing of the sort to help. In these times, people as snide and falsely elegant as the Wilcox's would look down on the poor, with some form pity, but with no desire to show compassion nor assistance. A lot of things in this film happen, and they simply show further more how this film examines so much more than just the relations of British social classes. Helen's friendship with Leonard and eventual barred child, Margaret's marriage and conflict with her sister, and Leonard's eventual death at the hands of a Wilcox all end in some meaningful conclusion, symbolizing a new form of evolution of British social classes. The Willcoxes represented the industrialists, while the Schelegels themselves were more liberal and sympathetic, and the Basts were the more ill fortunate and faced with more difficulty. I mentioned earlier that despite Henry hiding the will of Margaret's ownership of Howard's end, all came to a close when his heart came to change and feel grief and guilt. Howard's end is more than just the cherished memory of a deceased old woman, but it also represents a change in the way people lived. The film ends with Margaret now being the owner of the property, which houses both her and her sister Helen, and Leonard's son. The home of the Wilcox's ended up sheltering people of presumed lower classes. The film Howards End, in my view also symbolized the individual talents of it's 3 leads. Emma Thompson's performance can be defined as charming and yet confused character when made to choose between Lineage and good common rationality. I was very impressed in particular by Helen Bo ham Carter's portrayal, symbolizing a very unique character who's fascination with multiple forms of art is of charming easiness. Anthony Hopkins was terrific, using a character that represents hypocrisy and just plain arrogance in the status of his family name. Director James Avery has made a film with the message of social equality, showing viewers the very dark nature of judging others, despite whatever class they are, in money, beliefs, or of whatever state in general. "},{"Title":"Elegant, nuanced and fascinating adaptation of E.M.Forster's novel","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having already seen A Room with a View and loving it, I saw Howards End having a feeling it would be good. After seeing it, I absolutely loved it, and think it marginally better than A Room with a View. Directed by James Ivory, produced by Ismail Merchant and written by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, it is a remarkably faithful adaptation of the novel, and on top of this is also an elegant, nuanced and fascinating film.The period detail is perfect. What I loved about A Room with a View especially was its gorgeous Italian settings. Here it is just as gorgeous, while also having a certain elegance about it. You can never go wrong with beautiful scenery, wondrous costumes and elegant-looking locations, Howards End had all three of those. The music is also a marvel, beautiful, haunting and hypnotic, somewhat reminiscent of a Phillip Glass score, while having a few snatches of Percy Grainger and Beethoven too.The script is very faithful in style to the book and warmth and depth is given to the characters, and the direction is sensitive and nuanced very like how it was in A Room with a View. The plot is quite complex, even on first viewing I found it a little hard to keep up with everything. Then again, this is the sort of film you may need to see more than once. It is quite slow moving, and at over 140 minutes hard to sit through in one sitting, but the period detail, music, screenplay and acting made the film pleasurable, elegant and even moving.Speaking of the acting, the whole cast give very strong performances, while not standing out from one another. Emma Thompson is endearingly-beautiful in Howards End, more beautiful than she looked in Much Ado About Nothing, and gives a moving and spirited portrayal of Margaret. Helena Bonham Carter delivers one of her best ever performances in this film, a performance filled with depth and passion that really wants to make you feel for her character. Vanessa Redgrave while her role is brief still leaves a lasting impression in a characterisation that is moving and wholly relevant, while as the cold Mr Wilcox Anthony Hopkins who a year later would give a brilliant performance in The Remains of the Day(another stylish and nuanced film) shows what a fine actor he is as he gives yet another fine performance. The more minor characters were also very well done, from a spirited Samuel West, whose character Leonard Bast exemplifies the low expectations of the clerking classes, to a suitably serious Jemma Redgrave as Evie Wilcox.Overall, moving, elegant, nuanced and impeccably acted, Howards End is a must see. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Excellent Merchant Ivory Production!","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" James Ivory and his longtime partner Ismail Merchant produced some of Britain's classic first-rate films. In this adaptation of E.M. Forster's novel of the same name, it has a first rate cast which introduced Emma Thompson in her Academy Award winning performance as well as Oscar winner and nominee Vanessa Redgrave in a masterclass performance as a dying woman who misses her home in Howards' End. Sir Anthony Hopkins plays the bereaving widow who remarries Thompson in the film. The story is a complex plot but it is well-developed and displayed with first class art direction, costumes, and scenery. The film also has Nicola Duffett in a small but unforgettable role and Helena Bonham Carter as Thompson's sister. The cast is first rate as is the story in itself. "},{"Title":"Not cancelled, but postponed","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Forster was an author of both sly humor and deep sensibility, and a rare male writer with the gift of creating believable, multi-layered female characters.James Ivory directs an adaptation of Howard's End, Forster's masterpiece, focused on the intersecting stories of three families in early 20th century London wealthy Wilcoxes, with patriarch Henry (Anthony Hopkins), his wife (Vanessa Redgrave); intellectual Schlegels, with sisters Meg (Emma Thompson in an Oscar-winning performance) and Helen (Helena Bonham-Carter); and proletarian clerk Leonard Bast (James West).Acting is magnificent. Hopkins gives one of the best (if least showy) performances of his career as Henry Wilcox not a villain, but a morally mediocre man. He is competent and jovial, but also smug and self-satisfied, a person who has a sharp practical intelligence but, when it comes to empathy, is totally inept.Thompson deserved her Oscar as Meg, the moral compass of the movie, torn between her sister's idealism and the Wilcoxes' egoism. Bonham-Carter's Helen is an altruistic crusader, but also prone to hysteria. West plays Leonard a dignified, shy dreamer. Wilby falls into the trap of making the younger Wilcox a one-dimensional, malevolent twit; Redgrave's Mrs Wilcox is as an old-fashioned creature living in the past and obsessed by memories of her old house, Howard's End.Ivory directs with flair see, at the beginning, the canny use of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony when Leonard, under a pouring rain, desperately pursues the kleptomaniac Helen who has stolen his umbrella.A perfect adaptation of Forster's great novel.9/10 "},{"Title":"An Elegant Netting of Generations, Emotional Tangents and Property","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite its elegant temperance, each time you see Howards End, it moves you differently. It bids filmmaking techniques obliged in no way to the industrialized indelicacy of innumerable modern movies, but together with an gracefully telling script and faultless acting all around from Anthony Hopkins, in addition to Redgrave and most particularly Thompson, what separates Merchant-Ivory's Edwardian cross-stitch are its characters' multifaceted inner lives. On top of its psychological sharpness with character and relationships, it takes in hand a pungent subject, the modern world, destined to wound everyone and transform everything. The issue is how big the transformation.The film begins not directly but sidelong, with a tangential but important relationship. Sure, the Schlegels and Wilcoxes appear diametrically opposed. The former siblings are well-mannered, refined people with an active attraction to London's intellectual to-do. The latter, by comparison, are epitomized by patriarch Henry, the personification of conquering capitalism. The prosperous head of a rubber company, Henry is curt, aloof, often unsympathetic. Yet when the Wilcoxes come to London and take a flat across from the Schlegels, Margaret and Henry's wife Ruth rekindle their contact. Unlike her venal, petty family, Ruth is captivated by English custom, and the Howards End land, which is the property of her, not Henry. While she wouldn't appear to have much in common with the forthcoming, modern Margaret, the two tap an implicit emotional connection.In the meantime, excitable Helen mistakenly takes the wrong umbrella as she leaves a lecture, involuntarily meeting Leonard Bast. The superb scene where he pursues her in a rainstorm demonstrates virtually without words these divergent characters. An underpaid insurance clerk, Bast is in financially insecure circumstances, which makes him awkward and squeamish. A perceptive soul, he's stunned by the Schlegels' stress-free, high-spirited habits and by their fluently romantic world they so naturally occupy. While Forster's characters clearly double for varying social classes, this cinematic crochet takes them into account just as people.The film bothers to give its wide-ranging characters the liberty to reveal their nuances and complications. They slowly betray who they are not merely to us but to themselves and one another. None of this would be feasible without acting of the most precise order, and the film so harmonizes actor with character, it's reasonable to consider these roles career acmes for all involved.Carter is seamless as a woman who is all action. At the reverse end of the emotional dimension is Anthony Hopkins' vibrantly memorable work as an archetype of male power, more unmoved by justice than he is unjust. Though she doesn't have heaps of screen time, as Margaret would put it, Redgrave makes a particular imprint as Ruth, a helpless spirit from a disappearing world. The film's beginning, with Ruth drifting around the moody twilight of the Howards End garden, peering in at a vigorous dinner party, is a concise approach to introducing a drama that underscores intuitive bonds from across fences.But, if one performance is the nucleus of this photographic lacework, it's Thompson's. Margaret is the sole character with the honorable might to tackle a society deepening its divides. She appears initially just happy-go-lucky. But Thompson propels an emotive astuteness and increasingly lets us glean through that shell to how prudent and sensitive Margaret is. An actress who can shatter your heart by broadening her gaze, Thompson dominates this role and makes civility and modesty histrionically absorbing. The conquest of this intrinsic worth, like Howards End's, occurs step by step. "},{"Title":"Howards End Haunts from Beginning","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howard's End chronicles the intertwining lives of three English families in the early twentieth century.  The Schlegels and Wilcoxes are prosperous and well educated.  The Wilcoxes are proud of their family and their property, particularly Howard's End.  Helen Schlegel meets the third family when she inadvertently steals Leonard Bast's umbrella.  The Basts are poor and aggrieved by their troubled pasts.The Wilcoxes become anxious about the Schlegel's interests in Howard's End, while Helen Schlegel concerns herself with Leonard Bast's fate.  Their intriguing stories encompass romance, illegitimate pregnancy and manslaughter.Jhabvala's well-written script is a faithful adaptation, offering an interesting insight into the England of times gone by.  The story contrasts the generous Schlegels with the avaricious Wilcoxes and explores the relationships that people can form with their homes.  It superficially probes the plight of the poor through Leonard Bast.  The romance between Henry Wilcox and Margaret Schlegel is rather under-developed though the tender moments between the two during their engagement are managed well.Emma Thompson excels in her role as Margaret Schlegel, conveying the elegant kindness and caring of her character without being cloying.  Thompson ably handles Margaret's chattiness and politeness, creating a sympathetic character with her expressive face and gestures.  Anthony Hopkins also performs adeptly as Henry Wilcox.  He discreetly reveals Henry's loneliness and misery beneath his cold, almost heartless exterior.James Ivory directs the ensemble cast competently.  He handles scenes conceived on a grand scale, such as Leonard's visit to an insurance company, impressively.  The superb photography captures the beauty of Howard's End even under grey skies, while the opulent sets adequately recreate the period.Howard's End, Merchant-Ivory's third Forester adaptation, looks and sounds beautiful, though sometimes its splendour diminishes the subtle plot and character intimacies.  Still, it makes for intelligent entertainment, a rare thing for modern movies. "},{"Title":"Exquisite film of a Literary Masterpiece","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe that Howards End is one of the great film adaptations of a classic novel, with themes about the need to connect with people who are different than we are.the settins,costumes,and the performances are all marvelous. The shattering climax, when the bookshelves, containing worlds of romantic dreams,come crashing down on Leonard Bast,crushing him and his life,moves me every time I see this film, and having seen it many times I never tire of it. This is one of the best films I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"Not What I Expected...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I figure that a lot of people didn't see Howard's End for fear that it would be a long, drawn-out romance. At least, that is what I was expecting (having never read the novel it was based on, and not knowing much about the movie). Well, I am pleased to say I am wrong - it's not a romance, and it just happens to be a superb film.Howard's End took its time to develop, but it was consistent, and the characters were all interesting and well-defined. The script seemed to be quite sharp, and featured lots of interesting dialogue and a very strong story throughout. The acting was also excellent. Emma Thompson won a well-deserved Oscar for her role here - but just about every actor here did a good job with their roles, especially Helena Bonham Carter. And the sets! This movie was, put simply, a treat for the eyes. Every scene in the movie was rich and interesting. The different buildings, costumes, plant life, everything about it was beautiful to look at. It is one of the most visually impressive movies I've ever seen.In short, I really enjoyed Howard's End - far more than I thought it would. The characters were all real, three-dimension people (no matter how minor). The storyline was quite deep and interesting. It was, quite simply, a riveting movie... from the opening scene to the final shot. Would I watch it again? Absolutely. It's a great film, and the best to be released in 1992.  "},{"Title":"A striking revelation of truth","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howard's End is more than a period piece--it's a film set in 1910 with a story of today, yesterday, and of any other year you choose.  It is a finely spun tale about deception, forgiveness, hypocrisy and loss.Emma Thompson, in the central role, plays a strong, caring woman.  Yet one of her best scenes unveils the crumbling of that fortitude, in which she sobs in front of a mirror.  Anthony Hopkins, a wholly fascinating actor, is not necessarily a sympathetic or even nice character.  Yet we feel sorry for him all the same when the world around him blackens. Other lead roles are right on target (watch for signs of Ophelia in Helen) and add to the genuine flavor.   "},{"Title":"A Great Film!","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just seen Howard's End, and I think that it is probably the best Merchant-Ivory film they ever collaborated on. Emma Thompson's performance, like Anthony Hopkins' and Helena Bonham-Carter's, is luminous and scary in its perfection. The characters, sets, costumes, screenplay, and everything else are provocative, beautiful, and very interesting. The pace is smooth and well-done, and by the end the viewer is very satisfied. This was the best film of 1992. "},{"Title":"An excellent move devoid of all that is crass in Hollywood.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree, this is an excellent movie done with good taste; beautiful both visually and in content. It is refreshing to find such a fine example of its genre without the contamination of vulgar Hollywood violence, action and sex. It satisfies visually, mentally and sensually as it unfolds the pages of this poignant story. Anthony Hopkins brings the finishing touch to any role in his easy-going natural acting style that makes one feel like they are eavesdropping on the private lives of the genteel class as they carry on with their routines of their day and have to handle not only their problems but also shoulder the problems of the lower class they are inextricably bound to by their common humanity. "},{"Title":"A Scathing Critique of Classism","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The poor are poor, and one's sorry for them -- but there it is. Henry Wilcox is determined to prevent Margaret Schlegel from inheiriting his wife's familial estate, Howards End. Margaret doesn't even know that she's supposed to inheirit anything from Mrs. Wilcox, since their relationship was brief. When Margaret winds up married to Henry, the former Mrs. Wilcox's will is finally carried out, but not without plenty of objection by Henry's spoiled children.At the same time Leonard Bast, a banker, has fallen on hard times. After taking bad advice from Henry, Leonard has been left in a low-paying job, believing that his previous place of employment is going out of business. Instead, the place booms. Margaret and her sister Helen, who set up Leonard to receive Henry's advice, feel responisble and Margaret demands that Henry give Leonard a job. Henry's refusal leads to great tension in the Wilcox household.Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson star in this Merchant-Ivory production. Their fantastic chemistry, later used to brilliant effect in Remains of the Day, a Merchant-Ivory masterpiece, is evident throughout. Hopkins has a way of making even his posture pretentious and condescending. He bends at the waist, as if looking down on everyone, and his sense of overwhelming confidence makes him easily hateable. Emma Thompson is just the opposite. She is warm, welcoming, and open to everyone.It is when the two meet that things get really interesting. Thompson's Margaret is someone that Hopkins' Henry can not bring himself to look down upon, and his confidence breaks. The conversation in which Henry proposes perfectly shows Henry's true self unconfident, bad with words, and afraid to be turned down.Howards End is a great film; a scathing critique of hypocrisy and classism, and at the same time a tale of a man who is too afraid to be himself, and a woman who refuses to be anything but herself. It's richly and densely layered, with a complex story. Under the direction of James Ivory and with the incredible acting ability of everyone involved, Howards End is a triumphant adaptation of E.M. Forster's novel. "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot say, that I liked it very much. Emma Thompson was wonderful. But as character I liked mostly one played by Helena Carter.***Spoiler***I have a couple of remarks about the scenario. It is strange, that nothing was told above Jacky at the end. What happened to her? She lost her husband and all means for an existence. We were told about all but her. But she was a real victim of all others actions. Also who was the second kid playing with Helen? And frankly speaking I don't quite understand why Leonard Bast did not take money. He was not a noble person, so he could accept it, especially if he loved Helen. I guess, that idea was poor can only be poorer and rich can only be richer. Actually the script resembles me Balzac's writing.Going back to Emma Thompson, you can really feel her compassion and goodness. I was a bit sorry about her, when she did not go to Howards End at beginning of movie, even she rushed to the train station. Nobody of Wilcox even really apologized to her.Summing up I think, it is rather arty movie. It displays different shorts of buildings and gardens, but for some reason for me Howards End estate looks like a source of all evil in this movie. And by the way, sorry for my English, it is not my mother tongue.***End***6/10  "},{"Title":"Overrated and boring...","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't understand how one can state this is the best period movie of the 90's. I even bought this movie because of this comment. I deeply loved Sense and Sensibility, and I liked Remains of the day, both with Emma Thompson. I hated her in Howards End. I couldn't understand WHY she married Wilcox, and how she could forgive him for everything he did during the movie... What a waste of time.The DVD spoils the end by saying it's a triumph. I don't see where the triumph is. The only thing I saw is that I wanted the screenwriter and the director to pay for having spoilt 143 minutes of my life. If you want a really fantastic period movie about love, watch Sense and Sensibility ! Don't waste your time on this... Believe me, I appreciate 95% of the movies I watch, but this one was one of the worst. Now, do whatever you like... But you're warned.  "},{"Title":"The social class","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Howards End is a story of class in a society evolving as it goes from the Victorian to the Edwardian era.The Schlegel's are a middle class, open minded liberal family who have originated from Germany. The Wilcox are an upper class family, living a comfortable existence.As Henry Cox (Anthony Hopkins) states during the film 'The poor are poor, and one's sorry for them but there it is.'Howards End is a house in the fringe of the country owned by Mrs Wilcox (Vanessa Redgrave) left to her by her brother. In ill health and enchanted Margaret Schlegel (Emma Thompson) she scribbled in a piece of paper in pencil that she wanted to have Margaret have the house. Margaret does not know about this as the family burnt the piece of paper after her death.Leonard Bast a lowly clerk comes across Helen Schlegel (Helena Bonham Carter) who mistakenly took his umbrella a chain of events that will ultimately lead to a downward spiral for him and his wife.The chain is linked as we go through the film, Helen had a fling with on the the Wilcox's children. Later on it emerges that Mr Wilcox once had a fling with Mrs Bast.We see as the film progresses that the families have different attitude. Leonard Bast might be lower class but he has his pride as he strives for employment. The Schlegel's are in essence Fabians striving for radical reform, votes for women.The Wilcox are paternal, a rather superior and supercilious attitude that pervades with their children that will eventually result in tragic consequences.Eventually Margaret winds up marrying Mr Wilcox, we can never fathom why she wants to marry this older widower who appears to be cold even aloof and has grown up children. In doing so Margaret feels the need to social climb and maintain a facade of not rocking the establishment until Helen ends up in a spot of bother.By then Margaret realises the hypocrisy of the upper classes. Forster wrote about themes of class hypocrisy and hidden passion. Here we also notice in the adapted screenplay who thing come around to bite you on the backside.Early on in the film after The Wilcox move into the apartment opposite them, the Schlegel brother remarks here is the boy I was suppose to thrash. A remark that is thrown back at him in contempt later on by one of the Wilcox children.Of course at the conclusion Howards End, the house itself makes a poetic journey to its rightful owner.The film is long, it can be dense leisurely going on as a picture pretty chocolate box Merchant/Ivory production. It does require a second viewing for you to get the subtleties of the Oscar winning screenplay. "},{"Title":"not my type of tea and crumpets","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sister Helen Schlegel (Helena Bonham Carter) and Margaret Schlegel (Emma Thompson) are enlightened bourgeoisie. The Wilcoxes are rich and money-obsessed. Helen befriends matriarch Ruth Wilcox (Vanessa Redgrave). On her death bed, Ruth leaves her ancestral home Howards End to Helen who is about to lose the lease to her family home. The note has no date and no signature. Henry Wilcox (Anthony Hopkins) and his children decide to burn the note and ignore Ruth's wishes. The Schlegel sisters take an interest in the poor dreamer clerk Leonard Bast. Later, Henry spends time with Helen and they get married.This is not my type of movies. It's long and slow and meandering. However, there is no denying that there is real craftsmanship here. The acting is superb. The movie looks beautiful. It's showing something about the classes in the era. However, I don't find the characters that compelling. The Schlegels talk too much. The Wilcoxes are too cold. Bast is too bitter. I can't really connect to any of these characters but the movie is still a masterpiece of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"English Politics","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A businessman thwarts his wife's bequest of an estate to another woman.In 1993, the film received nine Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture for Ismail Merchant and Best Director for James Ivory. The film won three awards, including for Best Art Direction (Luciana Arrighi and Ian Whittaker). Ruth Prawer Jhabvala earned her second Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay, while Emma Thompson won the 1992 Academy Award for Best Actress.The film ended up on Ebert's list of great movies in 2005, which is impressive -- typically you only see classics make a list like that, but Ebert went for it. And indeed, so far it has stood the test of time, and perhaps has even grown in stature. I suspect it has found a new audience with fans of Downton Abbey, and who knew when this came out that Helena Bonham Carter was going to be a big deal? "}{"Title":"a slice from James Ivory universe","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" James Ivory is the best word for define this film. beauty, precise- delicate performance, perfect atmosphere and something else , a small detail as a state o soul. and that is key - the extraordinary art to preserve and give the spirit of novel who contains actors, image, script, lights, dialogs as ingredients. the film of Ivory, and this title is not an exception, are not movies defined by action but perfume bottles.and this is heart of seduction.so, it is difficult to review one of his films in usual manner. but the meeting between sir Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson is one of its fundamental pillars. Helena Bonham Carter is not a revelation but so many years but can be considered the engine of this train "},{"Title":"Three Families Gravitating to Howard's End","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie that made Emma Thompson not only famous, but a household name and an Oscar powerhouse for much of the early to mid Nineties. HOWARD'S END is a beautiful, extremely layered Merchant-Ivory production and the best of its kind. It's complicated story, beginning with the friendship between Margaret Schlegel and Ruth Wilcox, and ending in some un-needed tragedy at the estate that everyone seems to be holding onto for dear life, is done in meticulous way, bringing every character, including minor ones, to perfect life.There are times, however, when the movie itself starts to resemble a very correct drama that is too happy to pay attention to detail to the scenery and customs of the time. However, this is something the English can do in their sleep, and only serves to place a social thermometer within the characters. It's keen as well in describing the character's motives the materialistic Wilcoxes thrown up against the more bohemian, devil-may-care Schlegels, who while lacking in money excel in culture and sophistication, and the working class Basts who inevitably are the ones to suffer the most from penetrating the plot.Of the actors, Emma Thompson and Anthony Hopkins don't display the charisma they would show in their next film together, THE REMAINS OF THE DAY, but this is essential to their interaction. It seems to me that there was a need to connect even when Hopkins' character was too tied up in social mores and a sense of security to really do so. If anything, Thompson's interaction with Vanessa Redgrave is that of two sisters who have found each other, and when Redgrave leaves the film, a lot of the light also goes, but not in a bad way. Redgrave's Ruth is a pure woman, and one who hints at knowing she is surrounded by wolves and would rather leave her estate to a friend.All in all this is a movie of grave beauty, easily misunderstood as being too British, but a modern classic, and the best of the Merchant-Ivory and Ruth Prawer Jhabvala team. "},{"Title":"A gentle but very entertaining film......","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film benefits initially from the pairing of Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson as eventual husband and wife. Each an accomplished performer, their characters are at the centre of the world of the Wilcox's and Howards End, the family home. Excellent performances from the rest of the cast with exceptional parts of the plot. My favourite being when Thompson's character realises the starving woman at a function they are holding used to be Hopkin's character's lover. Strong cast, strong plot, strong acting from all but credit must go surely to  Emma Thompson and Anthony Hopkins. A magic is there that they  re-created for their performance in 'The Remains of the Day'. "},{"Title":"This is why I love the movies!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Howards End.It is truly one of the most beautiful films ever made.Wonderfully directed and superb acting by all!Hopkins and Emma Thompson are at their best here.We are given a look into a world divided by two classes.I enjoyed this social tale and it's colorful english scenery!This film is the perfect example of why I love the movies.NOt only our we priviledge to witness sir Anthony Hopkins in undoubtly one of his finest performances,we also feel the heavy weight of a promise,that the character,Leonard Bass,has on his shoulders.If you have not seen this movie,you should.Maybe,you too,will ask yourself,Why can't they make more movies like this?? "},{"Title":"Charming Film!","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh how I did enjoy this movie!  Each Merchant-Ivory film I see, I love the others more and more.  Howard's End developed each character beautifully to the point of where each served there purpose perfectly.  The acting was incredible on all parts and most of all this film brought another great novel by E.M. Forester alive for me.  As I did with Room with a View I must go purchase the novel now!  What a fantastic story indeed!  "},{"Title":"Respectful to Forster's Book But Not Inspired as a Film","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Merchant/Ivory give E.M. Forster's novel the Masterpiece Theatre treatment, and the result is an accomplished and beautiful-looking film, if one that misses out on the psychological complexity of Forster's novel.Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter play two Bohemian sisters who find themselves embroiled in the affairs of an aristocratic and business-oriented family and its estate when the family matriarch (played imperiously by Vanessa Redgrave) dies. You can feel the movie hitting all of the novel's high points, and it's never less than tasteful and respectful to Forster, but the whole thing feels more dutiful than inspired.Also with Anthony Hopkins, fresh off his Oscar win the year before for The Silence of the Lambs. Grade A- "},{"Title":"Satisfying film","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about two upper class families entangled through a couple of lower social class.This period drama has amazing production. Every scene is carefully composed, and every set is lavishly decorated. Coupled with the stellar cast, I can't believe that it only cost $8 million to produce. The plot is interesting as it critiques the hypocrisy of the upper class back in the Edwardian times. It raises a question, whether one would want to be the affluent Mr Wilcox who has questionable morals, or the poor Mr Bast with admirable morals. I also like the striking contrast of characters between Helen, Meg & Mrs Wilcox. Acting is great by the stellar cast. Though the film is very long, it did not bore me once. "},{"Title":"A little bit too long but worth seeing","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie about class distinction in 1910 England. Fairly poor Margaret Schlegel (Emma Thompson) befriends elderly Ruth Wilcox (Vanessa Redgrave) who leaves her Howard's End, a country estate. The Wilcoxes' ignore the request and Shlegel never knows about it...but Mr. Wilcox (Anthony Hopkins) falls in love with her.It's hard to really summarize the story--so much happens. Let's get the negatives out of the way first--this is far too long (140 minutes) and there were parts where I was getting bored; there are lots of unexplained bits and pieces (especially towards the end) and I never understood WHY Hopkins wanted to marry Thompson. It seems there's a ulterior motive we're not made aware of. Still this is well worth catching.It's beautifully filmed--there is some truly stunning set decorations here--it was a deserved Oscar winner for Best Set and Art Direction. Also it has an intelligent, literate script which also won Best Screenplay. Thompson won Best Actress too. Actually ALL the acting here is great--Thompson is easily the best but Helena Bonham Carter matches her as her fiery sister and Redgrave gives in a very delicate, mesmerizing performance. Hopkins is also great especially when you see the evil hiding behind his outwardly gentle facade.Great acting, beautiful sets, intelligent script--what more could you ask for? Try to see it in a theatre--TV doesn't really do this one justice. I give it a 9 "},{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If all movies (yes, movies, a perfectly respetable word) were as good as this one, I would spend all my time watching movies and get nothing whatsoever done. I've seen Howards End probably closing in on 10 times now. It is one of the only cases I can think of where the movie is better than the book on which it is based. These movie characters stay with you, and have a life of their own, like great characters in fiction. After reading the thread of comments about this movie, all I can say is that there is no accounting for the taste of some people. How anyone could think that Howards End is boring and without merit is beyond me. All I can say is that I hope I never meet those people who think it such. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    I can't fully describe the tumult of emotions that this movie brings out.  It is funny at the beginning, using some great lines.  Than it turns into a drama as well as a commentary on class, then into a tragedy at the end.  The performances are first rate.  Emma Thompson plays her character with ease and grace.  Anthony Hopkins performance was amazing as well, playing a surprisingly cruel character.  The other roles are filled perfectly, including Sam West as a poor clerk, who tragedy follows.  One of the five best of 1992. "}{"Title":"The best of the Ivory/Merchant films.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the crowning achievement of the collaboration between producer Ismail Merchant and James Ivory.  A sumptuous adaptation of E.M. Forster's popular novel, it captures some of the finest acting in any movie I've seen. While the impact of Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven, (which beat out this production to win the Best Picture Oscar for 1992) has faded somewhat, Howards End remains not only a potent study of character and class structure in turn-of-the-century England, but a strong dramatic and extremely emotional story.  It will endure, I think, as one of the best films of the nineties.   "},{"Title":"Everyone is rich, rich, rich, but a worm lurks inside.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When Leonard Bast couldn't catch up with Helen in the rain, I knew we were in trouble. All he had to do was run. Then, when she goes indoors, he waits outside in the rain and gets soaking wet. Why not ring the doorbell? When he finally gets inside, there is a question as to which umbrella it is that Helen has stolen. Wasn't one of them wet? Helen turns out to be an umbrella thief, a fact that is totally lost thereafter. The direction of this movie continues in this vein - Anthony Hopkins turns out to be ridiculously rich, the man-chasing Schlegel sisters are portrayed as oh-so-upright, and everyone is arch to the utmost degree. The major theme of the movie - forgiveness - is treated only superficially. The gorgeous scenery and photography hardly make up for the movie's weakness in plot and character delineation. "},{"Title":"Victorian Class Struggle !!!!","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by James Ivory and based on the novel of the same name written by E.M. Forster, Howards End is a film about class struggle in early 20th Century Victorian England and a social commentary which will always seem relevant.The storyline can be described as the junction or the meeting point of the three primary classes of Victorian British society- the upper class of rich aristocrats- the Wilcoxes, the middle class consisting of philanthropic intellectuals- the Schlegels and the poor working class consisting of people who have to struggle constantly to survive- the Basts.The film for the most works due to great acting. Emma Thompson richly deserved the Oscar that she won for this performance. Sir Anthony Hopkins is also great as Henry Wilcox, the stern figure of male authority and Helena Bonham Carter is impressive too. The film has a very likable Victorian charm about it that you expect from films set in that period of British history.However I think the screenplay is a bit faulty. There are a few too many scenes which seem rushed and haphazardly stuck together. Due to the rushed screenplay, the story fails to have a resounding effect that could have happened with a better screenplay.Overall this is a very good film with a socially symbolic storyline. It portrays the hypocrisy of the rich and the helpless nature of the poor. However the film could have been a great film in my eyes with a better screenplay. "},{"Title":"a handsome dud","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Producer Ismail Merchant and director James Ivory return, again, to the source of their greatest commercial triumph (E.M. Forster, author of 'Room With A View'), but this time have chosen a novel which doesn't lend itself well to screen adaptation. The customary virtues of other Merchant-Ivory productions are all here the handsome period setting; a graceful and witty screenplay; tasteful direction and so forth, but every grace note is undermined by Forster's awkward scenario and sometimes labored plotting, often requiring key characters to disappear for long stretches of screen time. In the end Ivory tacitly admits defeat by using portentous slow motion effects to make a dramatic point, a technique best left to Hollywood hacks with music video training. Saving graces include appearances by a luminous Vanessa Redgrave, and Anthony Hopkins showing his true range after being lauded for his one-note performance in 'Silence of the Lambs'. "},{"Title":"Another gorgeous masterpiece from James Ivory and Ismail Merchant","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Howards End is directed by James Ivory, is based on the novel by E.M Forster, has a screenplay by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala and stars Anthony Hopkins, Emma Thompson, Helena Bonham Carter, Prunella Scales, Jemma Redgrave, Samuel West and James Wilby.Howards End is about two very different families who find their lives becoming connected.Margaret(Emma Thompson)marries the strict and wealthy Henry Wilcox(Anthony Hopkins)much to the annoyance of his children Evie(Jemma Redgrave)and Charles(James Wilby) and to the despair of her younger sister Helen(Helena Bonham Carter). Margaret was a friend of Wilcox's first wife Ruth(Vanessa Redgrave)who owned a house called Howards End which she loved. Margaret also soon comes to adore the house too. After her marriage Margaret finds herself at odds with her sister who is disgusted by the wealth of the Wilcox's considering the poverty that so many people have to endure. Helen falls in love with Leonard Bast(Samuel West)a poor man who she and her sister tried to help find work for. Bast is a shy man and a dreamer, whilst Helen is passionate and outspoken. Bast is married to Jackie(Nicola Duffett)who has quite a surprising link to Henry Wilcox.A story of family secrets, love, snobbery and class. Merchant Ivory prove once again that they are one of Britain's finest filmmaking teams. The photography and costumes are exquisite and the entire cast impress. West, Thompson, Carter, Wilby, Hopkins and Vanessa Redgrave give the standout performances. "},{"Title":"A lush film, that's a bit slow at times.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Emma Thompson gives perhaps a career performance (I wouldn't necessarily known, having seen very few of her films), as Margaret Schlegel an upper crust female who's sophisticated, chatty, charming, and puts everyone before herself. Her character, Margaret Schlegel , and her sister (Helena Bonham Carter, who is also quite good) find their future invariably linked to the Howards End Estate. Thompson is the real heart and soul of this film, so incontestably real and human.This film, as I said is too long, overstretched. Some scenes could have easily been cut or shortened. It's the major squabble I have with the film, because otherwise it's quite well crafted. The visuals are stunning, there are many beautiful shots of the wilderness, especially flowers. Double meanings abound, I think it explores the idea that nature will correct itself, and the obvious meanings of blooming in regards to love and family. "},{"Title":"Better the second time around.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I watch Howards End the first time, I did not like it. After not watch the film for a couple years, I enjoy it. See the movie over again gave me a fresh outlook. The characters and setting of the story felt like a different motion picture as I remember. If you admire period pieces give this a try.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie about 10 times and every time I learn something new about the characters and the plot.  This film is certainly a character study and Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson are extraordinary.  They portray their characters perfectly with subtlety and grace.  I can imagine it takes patience and a long attention span to absorb this film and I don't recommend it for everyone.  The last line in the film is so poignant and I can't possibly say enough about this movie.   "},{"Title":"Emma Thompson","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any cinematic project in which the fabulous Ms Thompson appears is going to be made superior by her mere presence but this is a movie miracle which should not be missed by anyone. "},{"Title":"Predictably ornate and poised, less predictably lively and passionate...","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Merchant-Ivory film-adaptation of E. M. Forster's novel involves two turn-of-the-century English families crossing paths throughout many years. Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter are superb as excitable sisters who somehow allow an imposing, sinister widower (Anthony Hopkins) to come between them. Costume drama is long but not too lofty, and director James Ivory provides some unexpected zest in his storytelling. Thompson won a well-deserved Oscar for Best Actress; Ruth Prawer Jhabvala also won for her screenplay. Flawed film may not catch on with every audience, though it has very strong moments, impeccable performances, and a lovely production (the art direction capping the film's third Oscar). Worth-seeing. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Morose Masterpiece","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" E. M. Forster has had the good fortune of having two of his masterpieces, A Passage to India and Howard's End, translated to the screen by two masters of the medium, David Lean and James Ivory. Both great novels have as their theme the irreconcilability of social classes, and it's a measure of that British thoughtfulness which seeks to make things just right (not always successfully, but they try), that both have been assigned perfect directors the grand sweep of Passage to India gets the master of large scale, Lean, and the almost claustrophobic intimacy of Howard's End gets the master of small scale, James Ivory.Both of Forster's stories offer no dramatic relief in the end in Passage we are left with an unresolved mystery and justice only partially rendered; in Howard's End we have, really, no mystery, with justice only partially rendered. Alas, such is the integrity of Lean and Ivory, that we remain frustrated in the filmed versions.As to Howard's End, in particular, one thing that you should be prepared is perhaps the most tragic character in the history of film, maybe even of literature, that of Leonard Bast. He is tragic in the classical sense of having a nobility which makes him morally superior to his nemesis, Henry Wilcox, but also possessed of hubris, in the form of false pride, which leads to fatal consequences. His sympathetic sponsors, the Schlegel sisters Margaret and Helen, are part of the Greek chorus, plaintive but ineffectual at the hands of the millionaire god, Wilcox who, like the British Raj in India, dismisses charity with an imperious The poor are the poor, and one's sorry for them &#151; but there it is. What makes Bast's tragedy so excruciating is that his fate is not in the hands of blind sisters at a spinning wheel, who have no idea where they cut the strand of life, but in the hands of presumably free agents, who are or should be conscious of and conscientious about the consequences of their acts but are not. Helen, the one character who is indeed possessed of these qualities, is marginalized by Henry's Zeus and Margaret's Hera, whereupon she withdraws to Germany, where folk are, if nothing else, conscientious.There is a major problem with Howard's End, the film, for which I deducted a point. Leonard Bast's wife, Jacky, is a strong character, who is allowed to develop in a major scene. However, for some reason, Ivory chooses, at a fatal moment, to make her just disappear, so that we're left at the end wondering why those who are so concerned, out of decency, about Leonard, seem to have discarded Jacky, as if she had never existed. Jacky's character demands some kind of resolution, tragic or otherwise, but I have the feeling that Ivory just didn't want to deal with her, an attitude not unlike that of the Wilcoxes and, alas, the heretofore sympathetic Schlegels, who finally have copped out.I deduct another point because this is an irredeemably morose film. It is an important film, with an important point to make. It is also a moving film, with a superb cast and a faultless production design. But like another film in which Anthony Hopkins stars, Shadowlands, there is a pathos so intense that it is almost physically painful. So the question becomes, is the point a film makes so revelatory as to make it worth the pain of watching.The irreconcilability of the social classes is a great debate and makes for great literature. Howard's End and a Passage to India certainly make for effective lessons in Forster's gloomy side of the debate. Whether you want to sit through the lessons more than once is another question.Note I see that the rating of this review isn't very positive. Undoubtedly the film queen brigade resent their precious porcelain vase being touched. "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the film was amazing very elegant and amazing. if you need a intelligent piece of literature this is it. you have two family who aren't alike but there worlds collide by one women Ruth Wilcox. Ruth is on her death bed and lets Mrs schleigel own her house who later on marries Mr Wilcox and inherits the house. The other schleigel gets ruined by them and so do her expectant children. the story is set in Edwardian england which has to be credited in this film.As the film shows it is all about class a very important part of our life nowadays. However there are some parts in the story which does not add up but the film is amazingly put together and shows how upper class people used to live "},{"Title":"Exellent but better after Remains of the Day","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film a long time ago and recently revisited it. It is exellently played out by all the characters and the story is touching , exciting and brilliant. Emma Thompson and Anthony Hopkins have such on screen chemistry its almost electric to watch them preform.***SPOILER ALERT****This film is best veiwed AFTER remains of the day. Because Remains of the day is one of the most exellent yet frustrating films of all time if you are a romantic like me you will enjoy watching howards end afterwards to satisfy the need of Hopkins and Thompson to get together. "},{"Title":"Classy costume drama - I liked it","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I for one am not too fond of the costume drama genre, I'd often find those movies rather boring and pointless, and I am not a sucker for costumes or art decoration on any account, so I don't find much comfort in that.But once every while a good one pops up and Howards End is one of them. James Ivory (who would make the excellent Remains of the Day the next year), has taken the novell by E.M. Forster to the screen very well and is helped a great deal by his fantastic cast Redgrave (who was nominated for an academy award) and Thompson (who actually bagged it) in particular are impeccable.The ending may seem a bit sudden and overblown, but what's left is a fascinating story, well directed and perfectly acted. You can do a lot worse...7/10.  "},{"Title":"Bloody boring","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a right boring mess. While we have some wonderful actors in this movie, the end result is pure drivel. This is a typical English manners film, which means that you will get to see Emma Thompson offering tea to every bloomin' idiot who walks into her house, and then suggest that they retire to another room for coffee. Does every upper-class person in England have a seperate room for coffee, or something? You will also get to hear her blather on about every silly little thing under the sun, all the while making sure that her manners are perfect. Yawn.And her younger brother does absolutely nothing other than stuff his gob with scones and crumpets during the entire movie. He may have been that way in the book, but it certainly doesn't make for an interesting movie character.And there's the typical rich polo-playing snot Charles Wilcox, who like so many of his ilk think it is entirely in their right to pull out a sword and whack some lower-class scoundrel with the flat end of it like he does to Mr. Bast, who promptly snuffs it, which seems to effect no one...especially Emma's sister, who got him into all this bloody mess by pulling that poor sod's trousers off.Does the w****r actually go to prison for Bast's death? I have no bloody idea, because the movie jumps around so much that the next thing I knew it was five years later and Emma's annoying sister STILL hasn't moved her fat a**e out of the house. This was a complete waste of time...if you want a good English manners movie, then Remains Of The Day is much better.  "},{"Title":"5/10 what's the big deal?","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Call me a daft American if you wish, but I was totally unimpressed with Howards End.  What I liked All the performances are rich and lovely, especialy Emma Thompson.  The film is beautiful to look at, the lavish country sides and the marvelous wardrobes.  What I didn't like the story, the length of the film, etc.  I'm sorry folks, but I just didn't get the significance of Howards End. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but too Edwardian","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seemed better back in 1992, and we watched it yesterday on a big screen, but we couldn't finish it. Acting? Superp cast. It's just that Forrester is too dated to be interesting. Great photography, casting, locations, dialogue. Unbelievable, or perhaps rather uninteresting story, with Bonham Carter going overboard over the clerk, and Thompson just too too concerned about it all. A small story about small ordinary people, that does not carry the weight that would be provided by more interesting events, something different from everyone having tea and going for walks. Redgrave was marvelous, naturally. Color excellent, it certainly gave a good view of what the Victorian/Edwardian houses and interiors and costumes looked like. I think, unlike The Hours, there isn't enough gutsy conflict; it's all too genteel. The book is more intellectual and therefore sustains interest. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most well-acted, well-directed, and well-scripted movie I have ever seen.  The nuances of every character, no matter how minor, unfold beautifully, in a symphony of pure artistry personified.  This is the ultimate thinking person's movie -- the type that Hollywood continues to insist we are all too dumb to appreciate while they go on making Die Hard 75.  If you treasure originality of thought and great acting, this film is definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard a lot of good things about Howards End and I love Anthony Hopkins.  Hopkins was great, (as was the rest of the cast) but the movie wasn't.  There wasn't anything of real depth in the movie.  The lives of the three families interwove and demonstrated contrast between passion and coldness and their application to class, but it was all surface clamoring.  Ultimately, Howards End rings hollow.  The vast number of links between the characters are far from plausible and would give even Charles Dickens pause.  The social commentary comes from these links and juxtapositions provided by the plot.  While it's obviously an element, the film never seems to be driving toward it.  Criticism seems to come as a merely byproduct of the rambling story, and just didn't work for me.  It was too obvious and felt ham-handed.I know I'm in the minority here, but this one is nothing special.  The acting is superb, but for a film that deals with class conflict better, watch Gosford Park.  4/10 "},{"Title":"A Walk Until the Grey Dawn","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.A film about a book about books and bookishness.A film with excellent actors, all warmly competent and no one taking any risks.A film with Branaugh's current and future lovers, trapped in a clash of ethics, morality and passion.A film that satisfies without nourishing. Painterly but without art.But what interests me it is a drama centered in the sense of place, revolving around a specific building. Many of the best films deal with architecture cinematically. But this one missing a rare opportunity -- this cast with a better crew, one more aware of how film works -- could have done something important, life-altering. But alas, not this time.See for example the risks Helena takes in `Fight  Club.' That both West and Thompson take in `Carrington,' a similar enterprise "}{"Title":"i need clarification","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm confused. i really like Emma Thompson. i have this crush on her for a long time. I'm wondering is this the movie she had a steamy love scene in or was it carrington? the reason I am asking is because I recently saw her on an episode of the late late show and she is close to 50 years old and has the most gorgeous legs. but i remember her a few years back on the tonight show talking about how fun it was to shoot this movie and there was this erotic scene in it and i couldn't remember if the movie was carrington or Howard's End. So if any knows could you help me out? Well I would appreciate any other input especially about certain scenes in the movie if anyone knows what I am talking about? "},{"Title":"If You Liked Remains Of The Day, you might hate this","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That was the case for me, I found Remains Of The Day to be a beautiful and enchanting movie, that was not the case with this film, this film was an uninvolving overlong mess.  I could not care about any of the characters or the plot, because it was all so dull.  I cant understand why this movie had such a different effect than Remains Of The Day, same director, same actors, but I think that film had less unneeded characters and was seen through the eyes of Anthony Hopkins' character.  I still cant believe how dissapointing this movie was.  *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"howard's rear end!","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! I swear, I laffed my pants fell off - literally! The best part is when all the English people are playing tennis, and then anthony hopkins comes out wearing a gorilla suit, eating bananas and everything! I never laffed so hard in my life! No wonder they called it howard's end! On a serious note, Siegbert Prawer gave a touching performance as man asking a question - a ro^le he has wisely chosen not to repeat. If you want a good time, I suggest you go out, put on your own gorilla suit, and kick back with the good ol' boys of Howard's Rear End! You might even want to eat a banana with it, especially if you mash it up with your fist and then smear it on a frisbee or a mobius strip club. "},{"Title":"SPOILER ALERT- The most awful movie in history...","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was forced to watch this movie in my Senior Comp class, and I must say that this was the most boring hour and a half of my life...Personally, I didn't think the storyline and plot of 'Howard's End' were anything to be excited about at all. I found the movie to be dull, dry, and extremely uninteresting. I couldn't recognize a significant plot, or a significant meaning. I did, however, find a very limited amount of notable traits in the technical elements of the film. The costuming stayed very true to the time period it was set in, and the sets built for the movie were flawless.The actors and actresses, I felt, were too talented for a film such as this. It didn't fit what these performers are capable of. The lighting was very well done in this film. In one scene, it's dark outside, giving a feeling of loneliness or desolation. The camera then shows a window, where people are eating inside. The bright, warm colors of light through the window contrasts with the cooler hues of the outdoors at night. This scene was very well done. As for a few other scenes that caught my attention, nothing in this film was worth remembering. One thing I don't understand is how this movie could possibly be called a classic. A classic failure maybe, but not a great standard to which movies made since should look up to. That is what a classic is. Everyone looks up to a classic, and wishes they held the ownership to the groundbreaking film. This did not meet any of my standards for a great film and it should have never been released. "},{"Title":"How about calling this one Howie's Dead End","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lavish sets, gorgeous scenery, top notch acting, and flawless props and costumes couldn't make this anything but a confusing tale of upper crust British snobbery vs. the downtrodden lesser mortals. To me this picture was dull and torpid because it seemed to merely meander about the lives of 3 families whose lives intersect at various times leading to desultory dialogue and much yawning from the audience. Bloody awful. "},{"Title":"One of the worst I've ever seen","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave it 1 out of ten. One of the most flat and non-imaginative movies I've ever seen -- the plot is weak, the characters are flat and definitely not from even something relatively close to real life, the twists are made out of thin air. It's extremely hard for me to understand how it gained 7.4 rating frankly. "}]