[{"Title":"The Actors Made this Movie","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had to give this movie a 6 out of 10.The story was corny, the plot was predictable. The supporting cast was lacking. This is not a thriller or an intelligent movie. It is a B comedy., at best. But the interaction between Stallone and Getty was fantastic. They play their roles to perfection as anyone from the Northern New Jersey area can attest. They were believable. They were hysterical.I would watch this again, just to watch Stallone and Getty play the mom and son role so true to life. They made us cringe. We really felt for Stallone as the son. They made us laugh non stop. "},{"Title":"Listen to your mother!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have little to say about this movie other than it is nowhere near as bad as I'd been led to believe. Actually quite amusing in places, it will strike a chord with anyone who has an interfering mother (and God knows I have!) as Estelle Getty invades Stallone's life.I fail to see the reason for all the bad spirit directed at this film. The incidental music is a little repetitive and it's admittedly a one-joke plot. But it is a fairly good joke, and would have made for a superb hour-length TV movie. Unfortunately it's a 90 minute cinema film and so doesn't maintain its momentum all the way through.I've seen people criticise the film for Stallone not getting to be funny in this movie. I mean, have you heard of a straight man?? Sylvester's contribution to the comedy is his underplayed reaction to his mother's obsessive behaviour. What do you expect him to do, dress up and tell jokes?Admittedly, the surprisingly violent aspects of the film don't sit well, and it's hard to laugh at Getty when she's just shot a man and splattered his blood all over an airplane runway. Another problem is that her chemistry with Stallone isn't as pin-sharp as it could be; the two leave notable pauses in between lines. Maybe a few more takes could have honed up the reaction time, but generally it's fine, and Stallone really makes an effort to make it work.Not an all-time classic, certainly, but a pleasant enough film to pass a Sunday afternoon. Just don't listen to the nay-sayers, watch it yourself and make up your own mind. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Los Angeles police detective Joe Bomowski isn't as tough as he looks. He's actually quite vulnerable, if you look at his romantic relationship with Lt. Gwen Harper. And his mother is coming from Newark for a visit. This time, she didn't answer the phone, figuring it would be Joe telling her why she couldn't come.So when Joe arrives at the airport to pick her up, everyone is laughing at him. Even flight attendants. They've all seen the photos and heard the embarrassing stories. And on the way to his house, Joe has to help a man who is threatening to jump from a tall building. Don't worry--one of the classic moments in the history of comedy movies guarantees a happy outcome here.And Joe's mom witnesses a murder. This is after she has cleaned his apartment, pleaded with him not to do anything dangerous, and done everything else possible to make him feel like a second-grader. But she won't let anyone work on the case except her son--which also means she has to be his partner! How is this possible? She's so tough she won't let anyone scare her with threats of arrest for providing false information to the police. And Joe's mom can do it all! Watch her drive the car in a chase scene. And the movie's title is a line spoken by her son to a suspect.The amazing thing is that when he was 13, Joe was the strong one when his father died. So his mom knows what he is capable of. Her explanation of how he handled the situation gives the movie one of its several tender moments.I shouldn't have listened when people said this film was bad. I would have seen it so much sooner. Estelle Getty was great, and while Sylvester Stallone didn't seem quite suited to this type of role, he was good enough. I liked the character. But, yes, he can do comedy. Remember Oscar? I remember I liked him in that.I liked several other performances. Dennis Burkley as the big tough gun salesman (the one with the van), and Nicholas Sadler as the man on the ledge (I thought he was one of the Lawrence brothers!). And as always, Gailard Sartain as a big buffoon of a bad guy. And JoBeth Williams as Gwen. I can't forget her.This is my kind of movie, and while it's obviously not Oscar material, it's quite entertaining. "},{"Title":"Take your mother to see it - but don't ask her to stay  over.","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very few people make bad films on purpose.Mr Stallone is nobody's fool. These statements should be self-evident.Therefore if SOMMWS is so bad why did a reputable director and a canny star have anything to do with it?The answer is that it isn't a bad film at all,when I saw it the cinema audience gave every appearance of huge enjoyment,many of Miss Getty's one - liners induced such laughter that Mr Stallone's rueful responses were often inaudible.I believe the trouble lies in the fact that many critics refuse to accept that Mr Stallone is in fact quite an accomplished light comedian as well as being an action star of proved bankability. As an LA detective having his mother over for a visit he is able to play against type in this fish out of water comedy.As mother,Miss Estelle Getty seizes a rare big screen opportunity and makes every line count.She is an innocent abroad in big bad LA,blithely going where wise men fear to tread. SOMMWS is not ground - breaking stuff,but it is old - fashioned funny. You could take your mother to see it - but don't ask her to stay over. "},{"Title":"Stallone CAN do comedy!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fun to watch with the kids.  Stallone CAN do comedy - we liked OSCAR, too.  If you've never had an Italian mama you might miss some of the humor!   "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot is a very good movie. What the heck is so bad and wrong with it? It has a very good cast which includes Sylvester Stallone, Estelle Getty, JoBeth Williams, Roger Rees, Martin Ferrero, Gailard Sartain, J. Kenneth Campbell, Richard Schiff, and Ving Rhames! I thought it was weird that Martin Ferrero and Richard Schiff were in this film together because later on they would be in two Jurassic Park films only not together. Why is this film on the IMDb Bottom 100 List #64? The film is produced by Ivan Reitman and is directed by Roger Spottiswoode! The music is very good by excellent composer Alan Silvestri! I think this movie is so hilarious. Sylvester Stallone and Estelle Getty worked so good together. I think this film is really funny plus this film reminded Me a bit of the classic movie Kindergarten Cop! I strongly recommend this movie so do yourself a favor and ignore all of the bad comments and watch this extremely funny film today!  "},{"Title":"I realy enjoyed this movie!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  90 minutes of pure entertainment.  I mean .. i'm in the middle of it right now, and i just know this is about becoming on of my favorites.The dialogues and the cast are just outstanding. Sylvesters best so far.  "},{"Title":"about the movie","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think the movie is funny, despite Sly says it's the worst movie he has ever made! It's the first Stallone movie I've seen, so I am emotionally devoted to it! Estelle Getty is so cheerful, full of life and energy and Sly is sexy! If only it was 1992 and he was my man) It's not fair that the film won Razzie for worst actor, screenplay and supporting actress! Well, maybe it didn't deserve Oscar, but it didn't deserve Razzie either! Besides, compared to movies of today Stop... is just genius! Turned me back in time when music and cinema were just another! Rest in peace, Estelle Getty! And Sylvester is one of the greatest actors of all time! "},{"Title":"Stallone and Getty make a charming team.","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sylvester Stallone is an iconic action star and Estelle Getty was a hilarious, sarcastic and witty Golden Girl. Put the two together and you'll get yourself one charming action-comedy, where tough Los Angeles cop Sgt. Joe Bomowski (Stallone) gets a visit from his nurturing, feisty and fearless mother Tutti (Getty), who beings to meddle in Joe's life affairs, interfering with his police work and love life.There are some very oddball and corny humor with some campy dialog in the movie, at mostly the expense of Stallone and Getty. The supporting actors were given the back burner and the villains were unforgettable. And yet, while the plot goes at a very steady-pace with limited action, I've found the comedic chemistry between Stallone and Getty, which make up most of the movie, to be pretty entertaining and fun to watch and is, at times, heartwarming. Getty's obsessive behavior to be very baby-nurturing to Stallone as he responds in his frustrated way is itself classic. And, it's not everyday you see a petite, motherly, 68 year-old lady brandish a gun and deal with gangsters! While not an action flick that would blow you out of your seats, you will get several laughs out of this movie.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Dear lord. Stallone should fire his agent.","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let me start by saying I own this movie. I didn't rent it on VHS or catch it late night on cable, I own the 2003 Universal DVD released on 1.851 Widescreen with 2.0 Stereo, so I can watch this anytime the mood strikes me, and also watch an 'exclusive behind-the-scenes featurette' if I didn't get enough of the story after 80 minutes. The mother-son slapstick formula is nothing new, but the character combination of Stallone attempting lighthearted comedy (or more accurately, attempting to play the 'befuttled straight-man'), and a painfully annoying performance of unprecedented levels by Estelle Getty make this movie particularly unenjoyable. Yet for all the flak this film rightly gets, personally I feel it's better than Rhinestone...I feel it's better because whereas Rhinestone had an awful cast and awful story, this film simply has awful casting and tolerably bad story. Furthermore, Stallone is not the biggest black mark on this movie, it is unquestionably Estelle Getty. Why? Because Stallone is not attempting full on comedy here like he did in Rhinestone, he is more playing a standard cop who is at a loss to deal with the stupidity of his mother. Estelle Getty's performance is like a one-dimensional character gag that would barely work as a 5 minute sketch comedy bit, and dragging it out for 80 minutes in a multi-million dollar project leaves me questioning big studio production judgment. The main story is sleepwalking action fare; some guns are stolen and being sold by a corrupt business man, but not without a couple red herrings to try and confuse the poor audience. Of course by chance, Tutti (the mom) witnesses a murder that could help lead to the very source of the stolen weapons, and she insists on tagging along on the following police investigation with the information she knows (moms know best, etc). There is also the obligatory romantic side-plot; Stallone has an in-office relationship on the rocks with his Lieutenant boss (played by JoBeth Williams), complicated by the arrival of his mother obviously. Basically these two plots had me alternating between irritation and boredom. Particularly atrocious scenes are when Tutti washes her sons handgun with the dishes and the following breakfast segment, the entire ending scene at the airbase when a gun wielding Tutti essentially 'saves the day', and in general whenever Tutti is on screen interacting with the tattooed Biker. One more thing, this PG-13 film isn't really a kids movie as some people think, as there is way too much sappy relationship humor. This police story is probably a borderline 4, but i'm a generous Stallone fan so 5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" IMDb averaging 4/10? No way! This is great fun. Sly is a tough but fair cop living a bachelor lifestyle whose minuscule mother comes to stay with him. In no time she's trying to 'improve' him with motherly advice, improve his diet and get him back together with his lady love. It never dips into sentimentality or become too serious, and is a quality, well-paced production in general.Happening to catch this on TV recently, I'd long forgotten that Sly can not only act when he wants to, but has excellent comic timing. (He really should have not spent so much time trying to be an action hero, but explored his dramatic and comic abilities). There are some really good moments, such as when his mom squares up to a sly villain threatening her son and comes out with a catchphrase of Sly's real-life rival Arnie Schwartzenegger.The only criticism I'd give is that toward the end a slightly laborious car chase is thrown in, but thankfully the comedy returns as his interfering mom steps in again. Good entertainment, and it really, really deserves at least a couple of stars more on the IMDb rating. "},{"Title":"Everyone on Earth should see this movie!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"74 out of 146 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every living person on earth should see this movie. Not because its good and worth watching, but because it is so awful. The reason why everyone should watch this movie is so that you have a measuring stick for judging just how bad a movie is. For example, your buddy says Man that Jim Carey movie 'The Majestic,' was the worst movie ever made! And you can be like, No man, have you ever seen 'Stop or My Mom Will Shoot? I mean don't get me wrong 'The Majestic' sucked, but its no 'Stop or my Mom Will Shoot.' Then your friend will be like Oh yeah man, your right. I totally forgot about 'Stop or My Mom Will Shoot!' I guess I had blocked out that painful memory. Also you can be telling your friend like Hey, 'The Core' sucked. They can be like No surprise there. How bad did it suck? You can be like I'd say its about one 'Majestic' above 'Stop or my Mom Will Shoot!' Your friend, Man, thats pretty bad. "},{"Title":"Shoot em' up Sly","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Here's another one of those not as bad as people say movies. I knew it would be. Copping a lot of flack, like being voted worst movie of 1992. How can this be. I admit, it is very corny, but it's aptly funny in a couple of scenes, preferably the jumper one, where the suicide on the ledge victim, desists as getting an earful of Sly's history from his molly coddle mother (Estelle Getty) on a megaphone, while Stallone stays putt, and then CUT. I had wished this scene had kept going, as it would have been interesting to see where see could of taken this. This was a disappointment, on the part of the writers, but time is a factor, as to the progression of astory, for the audience's benefit. Another funny scene has Getty singing an original version of Wash your gun as she washes Sly's piece, getting it all spic and span, only with the opposite effect as you can imagine if using detergents, so forth. Getty makes a meal of her role, and Sly's good too, as the tough cop/failed romantic with inadequacies, and Sly shows this well. His captain (love interest Willams who's just broken up with him) is solid, and sadly isn't used enough in this. Getty's dog, Trixie is cute too. The run down of story, though I admit falls weak, as if they were somewhat looking desperately for a plot or more so neglected story, has Getty, a witness, to a shootout, involving a bungling duo of arms dealers, where a nasty looking Uzi is recovered from Getty, as looking over some arms, prior, to replace Sly's ruined pistol. Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot is by no means great, or even good. It's a lighthearted entertaining comedy, and that's it, that evidently shows Stallone can be funny, although there's almost zero chemistry between Sly and Getty. Although I saw it for the first time the other day, it looked cheaply shot, but it is a cheap movie, which I'm finally glad I had gotten around to see, and Getty I must admit is a really bad shot. Trivia fact In Adelaide SOMMWS came out exactly five years to the day after Over The Top, both movies involving trucks. "},{"Title":"What is so bad about this?","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be very watchable. I had read about it on Stallone's trivia and because of the awful reviews and what has been said about it I thought that I would turn it off after ten minutes. Instead I thought it was really funny, better than other comedy movies like 'The Hangover' which are critically acclaimed. I think people just like to belittle Sly, and his appearance in such a movie was an easy target. Him and Estelle Getty had great chemistry together. As a comedy it succeeds, and I would recommend it to anyone. Don't believe the reviewers who are constantly shoving pretentious, mediocre and often very unfunny comedies down the viewing public's throat! After my experience watching this movie I'm going to check out 'Oscar', another of Stallone's comedy outlets, and in future ignore IMDb's rating system, the top 250 is questionable; so perhaps I should start at the bottom, where this magnificent film has so unfairly been placed! "},{"Title":"The absolute best of the worst","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" How can anyone truly hate Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot! I can understand when it first came out if you paid to see it in theatres and when Stallone was at the top of his action game. But now...years later...how can you not see this for the stone cold B-Movie classic that it is? I am not being sarcastic in the least, I had a great time watching this. Is it a great movie? Heck no. The script is terrible and I'm still not sure the action sequences and plot make any sense at all and who cares!! It was still an era where action/comedies always had to have this deep gangster storyline. The sole reason to watch this film is the incredibly cheesy one liners. I had a smile from ear to ear when Stallone yells STOP...or my Mom will shoot. In fact, I watched that scene twice. Stallone's charisma (I am a monster fan I admit) is perfect and so much more down to earth than his usual macho action flicks. Best of all the awkward chemistry between him and Estelle Getty just works on such a bad level...again yes I mean it! There is very little truly good about the film and yet it is incredibly entertaining and fun and quirky and ridiculous. For me it just works! I admit that my adoration for Stallone has existed since I was just a little boy and he can do very little wrong in my books. This was a very different role for him being in the action character but holding his own in the comedy department. His character does not have a lot of depth and that's good for this film. He is probably the sole reason to see this movie. Estelle Getty...brilliant on Golden Girls and this is likely the only other thing I've seen her in and...well she isn't good. Her line delivery is awkward, she is really annoying (although that is the point) and the chemistry between her and Stallone is completely bizarre and it works! Her Mom character Tutti is fantastically bad and obnoxious and watching her make the same mistake again and again is fun! I don't think anyone else could have done the role the way she did. JoBeth Williams is Stallone's love interest. Her character is supposed to be tough as nails and rough around the edges and she is that but only in the most basic form. She is given very little development and the romance feels mostly forced. Its a small role though and doesn't take or add anything to the script. Roger Rees could have been a formidable villain, he has the look and the voice but the character is really written poorly so there is never really any chance for him to show off.Director Roger Spottiswoode has had a very mixed career. Mostly he's had a lot of B-Movie with perhaps the exception of the late 80's classic Turner and Hooch which most people consider great! However, there is no doubt that he brings a fun campy style to this movie. He uses Stallone's charisma and macho attitude as the focus of the comedy. I do completely understand why the film bombed at the time but allow me to suggest that this is now one of those films that has aged to the point of being timeless now. It has some genuine laughs and doesn't strictly use the fish out of water comedy to force the comedy. Its ironic but as I said the script is bad, everyone in the film feels rigid and awkward and yet something about it just appeals to me. I could easily watch it again and I was extremely entertained even if it was by how bad the movie was. I won't apologize for it and I guess we can chalk it up to a guilty little pleasure. Still I think if you look at it from the perspective I have suggested I think you'll have a ton of fun with it! You obviously can't take it seriously so don't and enjoy! I sure did. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Neat little movie","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Somehow I've missed this one over the years; didn't even know about it I guess, but watched it just now on NetFlix & glad I saw it. It was a lot of fun. The chemistry between Stallone & Getty was great & I love some of the one liners...many of which are not played up but there as little treats. Two supporting actors have played in Jurrasic Park (1 & 2). Stallone is said to have hated this little gem but I'm sorry he feels that way; after 'Cobra', the Rockies & John Rambo flicks, it was a treat to see him do comedy, of which he did very well.*** SPOILERS *** When Getty (as the mother) trains a gun on a bad guy she says I'll be back to which Stallone rolls his eyes and says Mom, don't say 'I'll be Back'; cops don't say I'll be back', Terminators say that. There's a lot of that sort of fun in the movie.Cheesy? sure; fun? Yes, a lot. "},{"Title":"Stallone is far more versatile actor then people give him credit for","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The interaction between Stallone and Getty was fantastic. The two play their roles to perfection. They were very believable, but more importantly they were hysterical.I would watch this again, just to watch Stallone and Getty play the mom and son role so true to life. They made us cringe. We really felt for Stallone as the son. They made us laugh non stop. Had to give this movie a 6 out of 10, because the story was corny. The plot was predictable and the supporting cast was lacking. This is not a thriller or an intelligent movie. It is a B comedy, it knows that, and it happy to be it.Funny story to share the reason why Stallone accepted this role was because he was told that Arnold was trying to steal away from him. When he did the film, Arnold told him he spread the rumor because he wanted to see Stallone do a stupid comedy like this. "},{"Title":"Well Played Schwarzenegger","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to the movie he considers the worst of his career. 1992's Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot.Plot In A Paragraph A tough police sergeant (Stallone) has his life turned upside down, when his mother (Estelle Getty) comes to visit him, and promptly starts trying to fix up his life, much to his embarrassment. For his birthday she buys him a machine gun out of the back of a van, and ends up being the prime witness in a drive by shooting. Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger were competing against each other at that time this was made, and Arnold faked interest in this movie in order to make Sylvester go for it. Stallone who heard that Arnold was interested in headlining in this movie, fell for it and immediately dropped everything and contacted the producers, saying that he wanted to headline. He deeply regrets this.For this reviewer, it is the lowest point of his post 'Rocky' career so far. As with 'Oscar' Stallone is clearly trying hard, and Getty brings the fun she brought to TV's 'Golden Girls' but it misses on so many levels. It is not without its moments, and anyone with an over bearing mother can certainly relate, but I actually struggled to make it to the end, despite a short running time. "},{"Title":"The best place to see it is Rome","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When this was released, it got bad reviews. My favorites at the time were Roger Ebert and Dave Kehr. The latter wrote one of the funniest reviews I have ever seen when he gave this film One star for being in focus. Stallone is a very talented writer and actor, though many of his films are not to my tastes, this being a prime example. Visiting Rome several years ago, this came on one evening and was strangely entrancing. I continued to watch and enjoyed it immensely, not understanding a word of Italian. So that worked for me, to watch as a silent film with wall-to-wall slapstick, vaudevillian comedy. It was a riot! "},{"Title":"Mama, we all go to hell","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot is a film that has been periodically displayed in some Brazilian TV channels, and I've never paid any attention on it. Last week, I saw its trailer and thought that it could be, somehow, ingenuously funny. Last night I gave it a chance and I can say it is, if not funny, at least entertaining. Joe Bomowski is a cop that lives by himself in an apartment, and when his mother decides visiting him, she turns his life upside down. The story is probably based on the caricatured image of overprotective mothers, which are relatively common, especially with their boys. Mothers in general tend to worry about their kids' lives even after they're grown, and filmmakers of this picture showed it in a silly comedy. The cast isn't any bad, and Estelle Getty knows exactly how to perform the character she has been given. Of course the plot isn't filled with intelligent thoughts or moments, but it's full of embarrassing scenes that make you feel like home. If you're guy, it's very probable that you will remember some restricting moment you've been in with your mom throughout the years. Just don't expect anything serious out of it and you'll certainly have a good time! "}{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" You can talk smack on this movie all you want, but if you ask me its just good old fashioned entertainment. Is the story bad? Yes. Is the acting bad? yes, but I think it should be. Is the movie bad? No, not if you like to laugh at stupidity. If you want a movie that is going to change your life, then this is not the movie for you. If you want to see Sly Stallone run around with his old mom in an action movie, which I certainty do, then this is for you for know until the end of time. From the opening credits to the end credits, I laughed. I laughed when I was supposed to, and I laughed when I wasn't. The point is, I was never bored and often times I feel people forget that if a movie keeps you watching, then its good even if its bad. Don't get me wrong Gandhi is great because you are moves and learned, but movies like this are great because you laugh and forget. Give this a chance. "},{"Title":"A disappointing effort by Hollywood's most successful spec screenwriter","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot was written by the late Blake Snyder (et. al), author of the popular Save the Cat! screen writing books, and seems to demonstrate the adage that those who can do, while those who can't teach. I was interested to see how the much touted Blake Snyder Beat Sheet (or BS-squared) was applied in one of his own screenplays, but was left more confused than enlightened. The opening image doesn't mirror the final image. The dark night of the soul was not particularly bleak or believable. I'm not sure of exactly what constitutes the A and B stories, but assume the mother helping son become a better policeman to win the girl was the B story and chasing down the arms dealers was the A story, but I don't see their synthesis. I expected a somewhat formulaic story with distinct beats and clearly defined acts, but found the beats blurred. The protagonists should be propelled into the second act, e.g., not his mother. One problem seems to be that the characters were stripped of distinct ethnic backgrounds and made generic. I would venture to guess that the role of Sgt. Joe Bomowski was originally envisioned as Jewish character with a Jewish mother. In my experience, having grown up with an Italian mother in a school district that was half Jewish, half gentile with very few blacks, Asians or Hispanics, Jewish mothers are very much like Italian mothers, but they are not identical or interchangeable. For both, culture and religious beliefs are important. Eating a good breakfast is important, but not a breakfast of generic foods. The late Estelle Getty did a good job with the role as written, but she didn't sprinkle her dialogue with Yiddish or Italian homilies, adages, or phrases. She wants her son to marry a nice girl, but not specifically a nice Jewish girl in a Synagogue or a nice Italian girl in a Catholic cathedral. Stripping away the ethnicity makes the characters much more shallow and less believable. The movie is a bit of a train wreck, but it has a few good moments. Mommy telling her son he needs to change, then showing him in nappies was amusing. Bomowski saying the office staff could figure something out because they were detectives was a good line. The airport chase scene was well done. But most of the movie is fairly tepid, lame, unoriginal and not believable, even within the relaxed standards of a comedy. The age-appropriate romance was particularly tepid. The villains weren't evil. The plot made little sense. The notion that an insurance company couldn't determine if steel devices were damaged in a fire that left the structure standing and would pay a claim on illegal inventory items stretched credulity past its limits. Police procedures were non-existent. Most of the jokes were forced and not particularly funny. Stallone is a talented actor and demonstrated his comedic skills in the under-rated Oscar. Getty was also talented and gave the role her best. But they didn't look or act as if they were from the same family, despite insisting as much repeatedly in the dialogue. "},{"Title":"Stop! Or You'll Be Sorry","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a huge Golden Girls fan. I've seen every episode of the seven seasons at least seven times each. Also, I unabashedly, like Sylvester Stallone and his 90s films. So, watching 1992's Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot wasn't a complete waste for me as I got to enjoy both Estelle Getty and Stallone for about an hour and a half.Is it a good movie? No, but it's not a complete waste either. It was just one of those Big-Burly Action Stars doing comedy for a change, like Schwarzenegger's Kindergarten Cop. (Mind you, I liked that movie a ton more than this flop, but I was just pulling out an example.) On the surface, it's the same ole mix-matched, buddy cop movies with a heart, but in deep, it's just an overlong TV-movie that was unbelievably released in theatres. I did only watch this because I love listening to the podcast, How Did This Get Made? where they talk about bad movies for about an hour and make me crack up on their take. They covered this movie in tribute to the late and absolute great Roger Ebert who they claimed he stated this was the worst movie ever made.As much as I love Ebert, and he'll always be on my mind, I have to respectively disagree. Bad, absolutely, but not the worst. Even when the movie's heart is within itself one of the many clichés, it works as a leave-your-brain-at-the-door film.After (my forever Sophia Petrillo) visits her son, Stallone's Sgt. Joe Bomowksi, his life is turned upside down and he must deal with some case he's on &#x96; it's really forgettable and it doesn't help that it was four months ago that I actually watched this for the first time &#x96; and her literal selfish need to baby and embarrass him. He's also trying to be romantic with his superior at the police station and, of course, momma's gonna get involved in that.It's a thin premise that barely fills the already short 87 minute run time, but for a throwback to the 90s and, again, seeing (my forever Sophia Petrillo) one more time, RIP Estelle!, I wouldn't mind a slight recommendation to this.* * *Final thoughts I have heard that Getty didn't want to do the movie upfront because of her anti-gun feelings. Apparently they lied to her by telling her there would be no guns&#x85;in a movie named&#x85;Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot. Estelle, I love yah, babe, but seriously? She must've also thought there was also real gold in her TV show I was a fan of. "},{"Title":"go ahead, make your bed....","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" A tough detective's mother comes to visit him, and promptly starts trying to fix up his life, much to his embarrassment. For his birthday she buys him a machine gun out of the back of a van, and begins to further interfere with his job and love life, eventually helping him with a case he's on....Yes, this film is as bad as everyone makes it out to be. Stallone looks highly embarrassed throughout the film, and Getty actually grates on you within five minutes of her screen presence.The whole point of the film is 'what if Stallone was a cop, but he was scared of his mom?' and that sums the whole film up in one sentence. Yes, he drives a rig into the side of a plane, yes he's in several shoot outs, but he can't go to work until he's had his breakfast. comedy gold.characters are one dimensional, and it gets worse as the film goes on.I've tried to revisit the film numerous times to try and get something out of it, but every time, it dawns on me that this is bad stuff. Not so bad that i have to turn the film off halfway, but so bad that it makes me depressed after watching it.Thank heavens Stallone had cliffhanger after this, or he would have suffered greatly.please avoid, it's really not worth ninety minutes of your life.Unlees you really have the urge to see Stallone in a nappy. "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i liked Oscar.But this i Hated.Its just not funny.Stallone fights a losing battle with this script. this is so bad in years to come students of film may have to sit through it so they dont make the same mistakes. 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"aargh","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Will someone please stop Stallone from ever making another comedy. They are always awful. A film so nauseatingly bad that I have been in therapy since I saw it in a feeble attempt to blank the whole horrible experience from my brain. "},{"Title":"As comedies go, this one went fast.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Stallone was funny in Oscar.He was positively hilarious in Paradise Alley.In Stop!  Or My Mom Will Shoot, I think he was stuck in a no-win situation.  All the negotiable laughs go to Estelle Getty as his mom, JoBeth Williams as his boss/girlfriend and Roger Rees gets a chuckle playing a much blander villain than he did in Robin Hood Men in Tights.All Sly can do is stand around like a deer caught in the headlights, maybe wondering if he should do another Rocky or Rambo.  Sure beats seeing him wander around in a diaper (relax; it's in a dream sequence - he's not THAT old).Two stars.  Book 'em, Dano - Bad Career Move in the first degree. "},{"Title":"Go Ahead Make Your Bed! Hilarious!, Why In The Hell Does Everyone Hate This Film So Much? Stallone And Estelle Getty Make A Wonderful Team!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is absolutely hilarious!, why in the hell does everyone hate this film so much?, Stallone and Estelle Getty make a wonderful team!. All thew characters are fantastic, and i thought the story was awesome!, plus Stallone and Estelle Getty are simply amazing in this!. I thought the action scenes were great, and Stallone and Estelle Getty had amazing chemistry together!, plus the ending was pretty funny!. One of the funniest moments in the film is when Estelle Getty washes Stallone's gun that had me cracking up,and another one is when Estelle buys an illegal machine gun from guys in a back of a van, plus when Stallone got it as a present his reaction was just too funny!. All the characters are very likable, and i can't believe this was on the bottom 100 list for so long as i think it's an awesome film!, plus the finale was great!. I seriously hope they make a sequel (most people will hate me for saying that), and i thought it was hilarious throughout!, plus it had a funny dream sequence with Stallone wearing a diaper!. This is a hilarious film!, why does everyone hate it so much? Stallone And Estelle Getty made a wonderful team, and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!. Roger Spottiswoode does a great job here, with awesome camera work,good angles, and he kept the film hilarious and at a very fast pace throughout!. The Acting is wonderful!. Sylvester Stallone is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had wonderful chemistry with Estelle Getty, was very funny, seemed to be having fun with his role, is also a wonderful comedic actor, is fantastic in the acting department, and just did an amazing job overall! (Stallone Rules!!!!!!). Estelle Getty is also AMAZING here, she is extremely hilarious, had wonderful chemistry with Stallone, was the perfect choice to play this role, and had some of the funniest scenes in the movie!, i love her!. (Getty Rules!!). JoBeth Williams is great as Stallone's girlfriend and did what she had to do well, i liked her lots.The villains were okay. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!, give it a chance you might like it!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Stop or I will shoot myself!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sylvestor Stallon is back playing a hard edged cop named Joe who's life is turned upside down when his sweet mother Tuti comes to visit. While not only embarrassing her son, Tuti buys an illegal gun for Joe and see's the dealers get killed. Joe and Tuti are then on the run together and must find out the mystery of the murders before they are killed. Wow, this film was bull crap! This has to be Stallons worst film ever and Estelle Getty is nice as Joe's mom but she is so unlikeable! First she seems sweet when we are introduced to her but later in the film she shoot at guys with guns and says bad words, nothing like her at the start of the film. The villains in this film are numbskull's and the mastermind isn't seen or talked about till the last half hour of the movie! The story is goop and nonsense, thinking you can have a blast with this idea but it turns on you and becomes pure trash. The only good laugh you can get from this wreck is when Tuti finds Joe's old pistol and starts to clean it in the sink. Stop or My Mom Will Shoot is a real tragedy, it's gets a 1. Not recommended at all. Just stay away at all cost! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the 1990s","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like Sylvester Stallone comedies, you'll love this humorous farce that has him teamed-up with Estelle Getty.  Easily one of the best films of the early 1990s, this underrated movie is like a fine wine--it gets better with age.  "}{"Title":"Stop or Else there will Be a Sequel","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"21 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a self-admitted lover of cheese films in other words, I am a cinematic masochist with a threshold for celluloid pain that would give Ah-nold's Terminator a run for the money, but 'Stop, or my Mom will Shoot' is painful in a way that a shot of morphine, a handful of codeine, and a dozen shots of whiskey cannot overcome.Speaking of the Terminator, there are very few stars whose careers could survive a beating like the one dished out by 'Stop, or my Mom will Shoot', but Stallone survived long enough to resurrect his career with Demolition Man and Cliffhanger. The rest of the cast was not so fortunate, and since then has only been seen on milk cartons under the caption, Have you seen me?.Imagine my disappointment in finding that this turkey managed, somehow, to escape the bottom 100 list, despite being widely acknowledged as one of the worst attempts at comedy since Police Academy 6. That this steaming pile rates a 3.1 makes me question whether or not the online voters have been subjected to lobotomies or their minds were so severely damaged by this film that they are no longer capable of making sound decisions. "},{"Title":"Poorly scripted comedy","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" STOP! OR MY MOM WILL SHOOT is a film specifically selected by its star Sylvester Stallone as being his worst-ever movie (although, to be fair, he's made a fair few stinkers since that statement). It's an incredibly corny and dated cop/crime/comedy in which Stallone plays the usual tough guy character who's driven out of his mind by the arrival of his over-protective mother, played by Estelle Getty. When the pair get involved with a gang of gun smugglers, all hell breaks loose...I guess STOP! OR MY MOM WILL SHOOT came out at a time when cop spoofs were all over cinema, with the likes of LAST ACTION HERO and NATIONAL LAMPOON'S LOADED WEAPON 1 all filling multiplexes (or not, as the case may be). There's nothing specifically to dislike about this movie, but then there's nothing really to like about it either. The jokes are corny and predictable and the characters feel one-dimensional in their own movie. Even Stallone is on autopilot, able to bring little charm to what is a stock hero role. At the end of the day, a comedy wins or loses depending on how funny it is, and this film just isn't very funny. JoBeth Williams (POLTERGEIST) and Martin Ferrero (JURASSIC PARK) co-star. "},{"Title":"It's a bad movie","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sgt. Joe Bomowski (Sylvester Stallone) is a tough cop, but when his mother (Estelle Getty) comes to visit, he becomes nothing more than her little kid.I hate to pick on an old woman, but she's horribly annoying. She is over-bearing yet lovable, clueless yet all-knowing. She's a cartoon character stereotype, and I think they want us to laugh at her. I couldn't possibly laugh at an old lady, and I didn't find any of it funny anyways.I have pity for Sylvester Stallone. He can't do much here other than roll his eyes and keep saying Mom! Mom! This is absolutely annoying. It isn't funny. And it probably has one of the stupidest title ever. "},{"Title":"It's bad , but it's not THAT bad","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm definitely not a fan of this movie , yet I have to defend it a little bit . I've seen worse movies. Worse comedies . Comedies that made my heart hurt . Comedies that almost made me commit suicide. For example Freedy got fingered. Or some of Adam Sandler movies. This ? This is just a lame comedy . The jokes are incredibly forced and you can see a punch line coming from miles away. Also , the action scenes suck. But all in all this is definitely NOT one of the worst movies I've seen . I actually think that Estelle Getty gave good performance as Sly's mother , except popular opinion. The idea itself isn't bad . I wonder if it wouldn't be much better , if Stallone would write the screenplay for himself ? He's obviously got a sense of humor and I'm pretty sure that the movie would at least be watchable thanks to some of Sly's lovely silly dialogue.Overall , it's a forgettable movie , but not necessarily one that makes you scream in pain. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Stallone Misses His Mark In This Film","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot is an action comedy that stars Sylvester Stallone,who tries to be a comedic actor in this movie and and Estelle Getty.Stop! It was written by Blake Snyder, William Osborne and William Davies; and directed by Roger Spottiswoode.Police detective Joe Bromowski has just broken off his relationship with his girlfriend and fellow police officer,Gwen Harper, so Joe's mother Tutti decides it's time to pay him a visit. Tutti proceeds to make Joe's life miserable by nagging him about his clothes, cleaning his apartment, washing his gun, tagging along on investigations, and somehow getting involved with a gun-running organization that the police have been trying to infiltrate.This is definitely one of the worst comedies ever release in cinema.The story is an unimaginative effort can be attributed to the script and the flat direction doesn't help.Obviously,Stallone misses his mark in it. "},{"Title":"The mom's adorable, but that's about it","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Contrary to popular belief, Sylvester Stallone can do comedy just fine. His acting performance in Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot isn't bad at all, he captures the right tone for the role and has pretty good chemistry with on-screen mother Estelle Getty. Only problem it just doesn't make a damn bit of difference. This is one of the most poorly-scripted comedies I have ever seen, the best delivery in the world couldn't save this utter void of good material. All the humor is derived from the mother endlessly meddling, and by endlessly I mean the first half hour or so. After that they don't even go for jokes anymore and just have Stallone get into bloodless gunfights like you're watching a TV-edit to Rambo. It's never quite clear if this movie wants to be a terrible comedy or a terrible police drama, they just keep betting on both horses. There's also a love subplot involved that's mainly there to pad out the running time, and credit where credit is due, it does. It's really boring and all, but that's of minor importance to the makers. It's sorta unfortunate Stallone gave up on comedies after this one, but it's also understandable. "},{"Title":"This comedy not as bad as I thought it would be, not Stallone's worst movie by any means.","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I rank this movie a five and by my standards that means I do not really find this movie good or bad, this score for me is almost a wash out where it has both good and bad features. This movie is about a police officer with an overbearing mother who is about to visit her son for a bit. And by overbearing she is in the same class as the mother from the John Candy movie Only the Lonely without being the word that rhymes with witch. Anyways, her son has apparently had a thing for one of the lead officer's played by JoBeth Williams of Poltergiest fame. There is a murder, mother witnesses it and she now gets to stay longer and cause her son even more grief as well as trying to repair the rift between the two officers and help her son and not the other annoying detectives figure out who is responsible for the murder. She also washes his gun really well and causes him so much stress he has a very bad dream. The movie has some good humor here and there and is nothing more than a buddy cop movie that usually does not work as most buddy cop movies featuring someone other than a cop as the other buddy usually never works. See Cop and a Half. Still, this one was not all bad and made me chuckle a couple of times, however I would not go out of my way to see it either. "},{"Title":"Cinemulch","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The prognosis isn't great. Even Stallone, IMDb tells us, considers it his worst. This is partly to do with Estelle Getty who successfully - and necessarily - upstages her co-star in every scene she's in. She's bright and breezy, acting and delivering lines with professionalism and panache.To his credit, Stallone is equally professional, fulfilling his role as the straight guy and trying to laugh with the litany of obvious jokes. Key to the whole thing though is the guiding hand of Roger Spottiswoode (remember, he made the only good Brosnan 007) who delivers a cheesy concept-flick dreamt up in a boardroom that has good humour and charm. Utterly run-of-the-mill but it won't leave you depressed as many might. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Delightful!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Los Angeles Police Sergeant Joe Bomowski (Stallone) has his life turned-down when his feisty mother tutti (Getty) comes to town for a rare visit. Mom is soon rearranging Joe's bachelor pad and medding in his affairs, much to his embarrassment and the delight of Gwen (Jobeth Williams), his precint supervisor and girlfriend. To add to Joe's problems, Tuttie witnesses a murder and becomes his unlikely partner when she refuses to divulge information unless she's allowed in on the investigation. Just when Joe starts wishing he were adopted, Tutti comes through in the cluth, provoking that Mother-knows-best in this hilarious thriller. Its a delightful. "},{"Title":"Exquisite","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" After watching this film, I came as close to crying with catharses as I ever have done. Throughout the entire film, we are taken on a wonderful journey of one man, and every human emotion is flawlessly handled and captured through perfect scripting and very sensitive direction and camera work. Whilst Sylvester Stallone performs with great strength of character, it would be wrong to forget the performance of Estelle Getty as his mother, who offsets his struggles with an ingrained optimism that, in the wrong hands, could be lost within the film. As it is, the director has ensured that we can appreciate this contrast to full effect.At it's conclusion, we are left with a sense that we have witnessed something very special and moreover, thought-provoking to the point where we may well ask 'Is there something this film has taught me about how I live my life?'. I believe that the answer is probably yes. "}{"Title":"Though guy Stallone can't handle his mom","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, he probably can, but she dominates him alot in this movie. Stallone has to handle his special mom when she visits. Stallone acts rather different from the Rambo and Rocky movies (haven't seen Rocky, bu have heard they contain not much more than Rambo). But I think he gets it just fine. Her special habits (washing, bragging with baby pictures of Stallone, etc.) is of course somewhat annoying for Stallone, but in my opinion hilarious. It can get a little to much tough, but the movie deserves my 8. Some scenes in the movie is really well done, and the humour in it is not necessarely obvious at first but once you get it you'll laugh. I know I'm speaking on the edge of the crowd now (seeing how this movie got among the bottom rated), but this movie really is funny. "},{"Title":"Good Light hearted Comedy","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think the critics are to harsh on this movie. This type of movie is interesting and funny. Estelle Getty makes plenty of gags. I think that people overlook it and expect to much from it. I recommend you see the this light splendid comedy. I give it 7.5 out 10. "},{"Title":"Great escapism....Bravo Estelle","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Was able to relate to Getty's performance....I thought, in my humble opinion...Stop! was pure escapism....Did not want to think... Just giggle at the absurity.....Enjoyed it for what it was....My Italian mother was just like Getty "},{"Title":"I lasted about fifteen minutes...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't think I've ever walked out on a movie before (I sat all the way through 'Barb Wire'), but about fifteen minutes into this film, I walked out and have never looked back. Looks like the members of IMBc agree that I saved over an hour of my life that I'd never get back. "},{"Title":"Goes Both Ways...","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is not only just exciting because of all the action out there, but this movie is also funny because this is an action-comedy film, ala Rush Hour. The reason why so many people have a distrust for such a classic name of this film is unjust; some people may think of it as a Murder, She Wrote for a brighter, wider, and most importantly, much younger audience. Especially the much younger part of the sentence.Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot is, in my opinion, one of the funniest, most amusing action-comedies out there. This movie is excellent when doing chores, sitting down, or just plain bored. This movie is just genius! "},{"Title":"What a shame!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone has made some good action pictures and some good dramatic movies (as well as bad ones). But one area where he has failed miserably at is comedy. And Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot is living proof of that. Lots of people hate this movie, and I can't say that I blame them. I may have liked it just a little bit better than most, but hey, I didn't like it that much. This is a bad movie. No doubt about that. But for me the film's biggest travesty is seeing Estelle Getty in this mess. She starred on, in my opinion, my #1 TV show of all time, The Golden Girls. She was great on that show. There she proved that she could be a good actress. But she doesn't get to show off those wonderful acting talents of hers in this film. She comes off so obnoxious in Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot that it didn't do her acting reputation any good. That was a real shame. I really wanted this movie to be something special, and it wasn't. It has a few laughs here and there, and a few touching moments between Stallone and Getty (as an L.A. cop and his domineering mama who comes to visit him), but it's all too annoying, too cloying, and by the end of it, too aggravating.*1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Dismally Unfunny.","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't know what ANYONE was thinking, in doing this movie. Sylvester Stallone (Sly) had a pretty good career going in the action genre, when he let loose with this stinker.A tough detective's mother comes to visit him, and promptly starts trying to fix his life, much to his embarrassment. For his birthday she buys him a machine gun out of the back of a van, and begins to further interfere with his job and love life, eventually helping him with a current case.Estelle Getty is adorable as the irascible curmudgeonly mom, and Stallone is average as a detective on the edge, but this whole thing came off like a terrible idea, hence the horrid ratings it has received here at IMDb. Believe me, it's earned it.This is just terrible and SO not funny. It's just kind of sad that Estelle Getty was wasted on this crap.It rates a 2.8/10 from....the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not bad at all..","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't see why so many people dislike this movie. People who have watched Golden Girls before will definitely like the humor in this movie (and,of course, Stallone's mom in the movie) And Sylvestor Stallone fans need to give this movie a chance also,regardless if it is the Comedic version of Stallone that we all don't get to see much of. Give this movie a try, you'll like it,as long as you give it a chance, if you don't like the first few minutes of the movie, don't let that discourage you, noone liked the first few minutes of The Godfather either! "},{"Title":"JerBear-2 is not the only one to walk out...","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Stop! or My Mom Will Shoot is the ONLY movie I have ever walked out on in my life.  I made it about 5 minutes longer than JerBear-2.  Usually I can at least find humor in how awful a movie is, but I was straight-faced throughout the entire portion of the movie I could actually stand to watch. I am glad to see that so many found the movie as being worthless.  Now I know I made the right decision by walking out. Hopefully this might save at least one innocent from being tortured by this repulsive and obnoxious comedy. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sylvester Stallone and Estelle Getty are the most inspired comedic team since Whoopi Goldberg and Theodore Rex. If you love at least one of the following really hot/buff mama's boys, wisecracking, sharp-shooting old ladies or hot m.i.l.f.s in ill-fitting suits, you must watch this movie A.S.A.P. The plot is deceptively simple; Sly's Jersey ma is desperate for him to get hitched, she shows up immediately after his romantic relationship with his boss has soured due to his interminable habit of calling his ma, ma shows up and starts intervening in his love life and cleaning his guns (with hilarious results). Ma tries to replace his gun from a black market dealer and...the hilarity is just beginning! Early in his career Sly Stallone was unjustly tagged as a muscle-bound meathead, but this movie gives him the opportunity to demonstrate the surprising dimensions of his comedic range. Estelle Getty is in top comedic form, as usual, and JoBeth Williams gives her greatest performance in any genre since Poltergeist. A review can't do this film justice so just watch it (with closed captioning if you're watching VHS. Trust me)! "}{"Title":"Stop this movie! Or I'll shoot Sylvester Stallone.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stop or My Mom Will Shoot is probably one of the most unintentionally funny films ever made. It's not just that it's bad - it's pathetic. Every time it tries to be witty or clever or smart it slips up.Sylvester Stallone plays Joe Bomowski (I wonder of what ethnic background they want us to think he belongs to??), a big city cop whose pesky little mother Tutti (Estelle Getty) comes to visit him and manages to single-handedly destroy his life.First she makes a mockery of his job by visiting the police after reporting herself to be a witness of a murder. Soon the pair - mother and son - are teaming up to track down a mother-killer and...oh yeah...in between we get loads of lame gags about how desperately aggravating mothers can be.This would have been a really great film - if it were three minutes long. The material is barely enough to sustain a Saturday Night Live skit - even then it would be aggravating. The plot is cutesy - so are all the gags, lines and characters. I felt like b****-slapping Estelle Getty and you know there's something wrong when you want to beat up an old woman.The plot basically works like this, scene after scene 1. Annoying Mother Figure tries to control Son's life.2. Son is angry. He tells her he likes having his underwear strewn across the floor and likes to leave the seat up.3. Annoying Mother Figure tells him he'll never get a wife this way, and mentions his ex-girlfriend who left him.4. Son Figure rolls his eyes and says Oh Mom, don't bring that up again. 5. Aggravating Mother Figure says a cute one-liner.6. Put-Upon Son looks put-upon.Repeat and rinse. Voila - one huge turd of a film.One of the quotes from the movie is, His ass was grass, and I was the lawnmower. I felt shame on the producers' behalf that they even made Estelle Getty utter this line. It's really sad. It's utterly pathetic.Stallone was nominated for another Raspberry Award for his performance. Believe it or not he gives a GOOD performance. Really good. That's part of the problem - his above-average acting makes the film seem even more desperate. There's an argument between him and JoBeth Williams in one scene and his acting is really good; it's convincing. But the rest of the film isn't.Stallone tried to have this banned from being released onto DVD and I believe he's succeeded so far. Rent it out on video or watch it on TV and see for yourself why it's his least favorite film he's made in a career of some pretty bad films. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well I've noticed and read people's comments. What I would really like to say is that stop being too harsh on Stallone. OK he is an actor, but acting is not a really easy thing to do. The people who have written bad comments about stall one first u try to act and preform in front of a camera then we'll see how you drown in your sweat. I am one of Stallone's fan, Stallone can make comedy example Oscar so PLEASE DON'T BE MEAN I really liked this movie and I see nothing wrong. Well I think he is an excellent comedian 10 out of 10 If you don't like the film it's not Stallone's fault its more likely the director due to the fact that they actually invent the story not the actors (BEAR THAT IN MIND!!!) This movie most people didn't like and they are giving all the bad credit to Stallone. It sounds completely stupid. All I would like to say is that for the members (please don't get put off by all the bad comments first see the film and make your own judgement) "},{"Title":"mother of 5, count them! no girls!!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  you know some people judge an actor by at least one movie that they have seen. well not me. out of 35 or more of his movies i didn't really know what there was about this man that caught my eye. but as i kept watching all of them i came to admire him. granted he is good looking, but that's not all. i noticed that whoever he played opposite of, they complimented each other. in this movie it was his motherestelle getty that helped make it good. all the things she was after him to do sounded so fimiliar. showing off her son in his pictures is just something a mother would do, if she was proud of him. the action that the both of them did was in my mind funny and moving.i honestly liked this movie. no one tells me a movie is good or bad. i am ones of those that decides for herself. stallone has made many good as well and better than good movies. and i expect to see more from him. go rocky go! "},{"Title":"Not really useless, but...","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sly Stallone, the big action hero of the eighties, decided for reasons unknown to do this comedy along with, get this, Estelle Getty! Unfortunately it works bad as a comedy, the jokes are just not funny, it also tries to be an action and a romantic comedy, which it doesn't work as either.This movie just doesn't function. OK? The reason I don't give it lower than this, is because I loved it when i was about ten years old, for some strange reason I thought it was cool having a gunslinging grandma, and Sly seemed to be way cooler back then. Oh well, goodbye dear childhood.3/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought the film was brilliant. I laughed the whole way through the film. I gave the film 10 because it's a family film and was enjoyed greatly by my friends and i,as soon as the film started rolling on the TV i was in stitches laughing. I only watched the film a couple of days ago on TV and i thought it was so good i have just purchased the film.I had never even heard of this film before until it appeared on the TV, the name of the film just made me want to watch it, i think having a good name on a film really draws in the viewers. Overall, the story line is hilarious and so are the actors and actresses in this movie. I would advise people to buy this movie, or watch it because it is brilliant. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, Oh dear......","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this film recently because one of my younger cousins rented it out from the video store and yes, without a shadow of a doubt, this is one of the worst films I have ever come across. It falls into the same category as the following awful classics 'JawsThe Revenge', 'Monster in the Closet', 'Knight Rider 2010' & 'American Pie'.What was Stallone thinking when he signed up for this movie, it was the same with Arnie when he did that utter trash film 'Jingle All The Way', although that film was so bad it was funny. It was probably only his superstar status that saved him from being constantly overlooked by casting directors in the future. Even my cousin who is 7 said that this film was awful. It was only the fact that this movie was rented that I didn't throw the video cassette into the microwave, or in the blender or curled it David Beckham style over my neighbour's gardens.I've also read what the other IMDb users have said about this movie and I have to admit I am in shock. Although the vast majority say it is a dreadful film, there are some who actually like this flick!, which I find quite astonishing. The only reasonable explanations that I can think of is that they have either just been discharged from a mental institution, releated to Stallone or Sly is paying them a disclosed fee to lie about this garbage film.Well, I've hope I have made my point clear and I also hope that other IMDb users who are considering renting this movie out just because it has Sly 'Rocky' Stallone in it, will definitely think again.DO NOT RENT OR BUY THIS MOVIE, BE WARNED!.Rating -0/10, SHOCKING. I would have voted this film as zero in the rating charts but it only allows you to give a minimum of 1. "},{"Title":"When the script is this dire, you know that something is wrong","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Please, I really tried to like this film, but it didn't work for me. It had potential, as Roger Spottiswoode looked set for good things, but a lot of things range from pretty bad to terrible. The film goes at a good pace and is quite short. However, the film looks rather slapdash and is just really unfunny, apart from the part with Stallone in the diaper. This is not helped by the lacking direction, the predictable story and the truly dire script that does nothing whatsoever for the actors. The acting, to be honest... it wasn't good at all. Sylvester Stallone is okay here, he does look embarrassed and tired but he does look as though he is trying. However, his material is awful and he struggles with it. As for the debate of whether Sly can do comedy, this and Rhinestone are for me misfires but Oscar is very underrated and Sly is actually funny in that, so if I say he wasn't as funny as he should've been, I blame the script. Estelle Getty is a lot worse though, I like her, but her character is well and truly irritating and Getty herself grates and wears out her welcome early on. In conclusion, pretty awful, not only one of Sly's worst films but one of the worst comedies conceived or so I think. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This movie might not be Oscar worthy, but it's not horrible.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not to offend anyone, but I think people are being unfairly harsh while commenting on this movie. My goodness! What do you expect?It's just a cute little comedy. Did you think Sly and Estelle would be snatching Oscars? It's a light-hearted cheerful comedy. "},{"Title":"L.A. Detective Joe Bomowski is About to Face the Biggest Terror Around His Mother!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        Meet Sergeant Joe Bomowski, an LAPD detective. He's one of the best on the force and his girlfriend is Lt. Gwen Harper. Life was going pretty good but it was around the time of year when his mother usually visits and Joe tried calling her up and telling her not to come but his mother, Tutti, wouldn't answer the phone. When Joe went to the airport to meet her, people were coming out of the gate pointing at Joe and laughing at him. This was because Tutti was showing everybody Joe's baby pictures. En route home, they get a call about a jumper. Joe goes up and tries to talk him down but Tutti takes the bullhorn and ends up embarrassing Joe. They soon arrive at Joe's house and Tutti begins pointing out what a mess it was. To exasperate Joe even more, she vacuumed at 300 in the morning and even cleaned his gun! In the morning, she fixed a big, big breakfast for him then he left for work. Tutti felt bad about the gun and decided to buy him a new one so she goes down to the gun store but there was a 15 day wait. That's when a man, Mitchell, took her out back where he and his brother sold guns in the back of their van. Tutti bought a full automatic. Suddenly, two guys, Paulie and Munroe, drove by and killed Mitchell's brother. He got away, luckily.         Since Tutti was a witness, she was brought down to the police station and interrogated by Detective Ross, but she refused to tell him anything because she wanted to help Joe. In the morning, Tutti presents Joe with his present the fully automatic which Joe claimed was illegal. Later on, Tutti told all the information about the killer and the van where she bought the guns to Joe who traces the information and arrive at Mitchell's girlfriend's house, but Paulie and Munroe were already there. They run off when Joe arrives so with Tutti at the wheel, they follow them in Joe's car. Tutti proves to be the world's worst driver and they finally wind up in a dumpster. Tutti began speaking with Gwen who apparently doesn't love Joe anymore, but Tutti told her stories about some brave and wonderful things Joe did when he was a child. Joe disliked her getting involved in his life. Soon they get some information on the guns. They supposedly were destroyed in a warehouse fire some years ago, but the police have reason to believe the guns were not destroyed. The man who held responsibility for it all was a guy called Parnell so Joe and Tutti seek him out. They are granted access to the warehouse when suddenly Munroe tries to kill them with a wrecking ball. Luckily Joe arrests Munroe and finds out Tutti had sent flowers to Gwen in Joe's name. That made Joe furious. He laid down rules for his mother then drove off to sulk at the office. It was then that Joe finally came to his senses and he and Gwen made amends.        Parnell had a plan to run off to South America and had faked suicide. He intended for Paulie to do the same, but after he pushed Paulie out the window, there was no need to fake it. Tutti decided it was time to go back to New Jersey but Joe talked her into staying. Upon returning home, they find the house broken into. It was Mitchell! But he had really come by to thank Joe for saving his girlfriend's life. He tells Joe that Parnell and his men were at the Brunswick airfield, so Joe handcuffed Tutti and Mitchell to the sink and raced off. Tutti escaped luckily and borrowed Mitchell's van. When the two arrived, Parnell boarded the plane with Tutti. Luckily Joe delayed their flight. Parnell was just about to shoot Joe when Tutti drew a gun from her purse and shot Parnell dead. Soon it was really time for Tutti to return home. Joe and Gwen took her to the airport where Tutti spotted a criminal in the terminal. He was wanted for shooting his mother!       This is a pretty good film. It's funny and has lot's of action. Sylvester Stallone (Rocky) was good, so was Estelle Getty (The Golden Girls)! JoBeth Williams (Poltergeist) is here too. I like the part where Joe is dreaming his mother is trying to change him and he's wearing a diaper. So if you're a fan of Sly Stallone or action/comedy films, then by all means, check out Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot! A rare film that proves, in it's entirety, mother knows best!- "},{"Title":"A disaster for all concerned.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film finally appeared to convince Stallone that he wasn't really very funny. This is an inane, woefully joke-free example of Hollywood conceptualizing.A dire script, messy directing and Stallone's wooden acting does not add up to a good movie, in fact it adds up to an awful movie that everyone should avoid. "}{"Title":"Stop! ...Or You Might Think This Is Funny!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Okay,I reviewed Oscar,now I'll take a shot at this one! In 1993,Stallone's career began it's descension. His action films were getting tiresome and his stabs at comedy were even worse! I have to comment once again on how studio advertising on TV and in theatres can be very deceptive. Looked funny but once again was not! Truth be told,I had nothing to do on the day I saw this film at the $1 theatre I went too (glad it was only a dollar!). Just like Oscar I waited for a situation to build up into something funny or hilarious and was let down once again!The idea of Estelle Getty being an overprotective Mother to a big tough cop should have been a very easy idea to make into a comedy. It all falls flat except, just one tiny thing that actually did make me laugh. Mother fixes her son breakfast and serves him everything under the sun! This gives him indigestion and he's guzzling Pepto-Bismol and his buddy asks,**** what did you have for breakfast?StalloneEggs,bacon,sausage,pancakes,Cocoa Puffs etc... Aside from this,the movie is not (even five minutes after you watch it),memorable. Getty is not even funny,despite having been so on Golden Girls.2 stars,for at least making me laugh once,if not I wouldn't even give it any! I only sat all the way through because when I pay to see a movie,I stay,even until the bitter end!Stick with Rocky,Rambo and even The Lords Of Flatbush folks,don't waste you time or $$ with this one,like I did. (END) "},{"Title":"major disappointment","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't think anybody expected such a bad movie from Spottiswoode, Stallone, and Getty trio.Roger Spottiswoode was a director who made a great job in Under Fire, and proved to be able to make people laugh and cry in one movie with Turner & Hooch.Getty was the best, and arguably the funniest of the Golden Girls.And finally Stallone, who had just finished Oscar, one of finest mob comedies ever made. We were used to his muscles, but had just discovered his ability in comedy.This is how the expectations were raised. The movie is worth seeing, because it's really not possible to tell how bad it is. I watched Oscar in the theater twice in one week and laughed so hard that tears ran out of my eyes on both occasions. If I had the habit of walking out in the middle of a movie, I would definitely do on Stop! Or my mom will shoot, which couldn't manage to produce a single smile. "},{"Title":"Meah","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot' represents two of the usual types of movies I enjoy watching Movies with some of the great action heroes, and movies likely to appear on IMDb's worst 100 list (to clarify, this in no way includes Steven Seagal's 'Out For a Kill'). In this case, we have Sylvester Stallone, and a movie appearing at #75 on the worst 100 list. Yay? Sly plays Sgt. Joe Bomowski, a cop who feels his mother is ruining his life. When his mother (Estelle Getty) arrives in town to visit, what do they do? A normal family get together? Go out and and solve a major crime? Oh yes, most definitely the latter.I'm surprised Stallone's career survived this. Luckily for him, 'Cliffhanger' came out the next year, otherwise, this probably would have been the end.I'll admit that I'm being a little unfair. Stallone was trying his hand at comedy, and I'll commend for him trying. There are a few funny moments, but not enough to make me want to watch this more than once. Sure, seeing Estelle Getty going gun-shopping is amusing, but even watching her wield a weapon gets old quickly. None of the action scenes are all that exciting either.'Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot' is at best, a weak action / comedy, and definitely not for hard-core Stallone fans. In the movie's defence it is slightly amusing, but not enough to make we want to watch it ever again, and probably does not deserve its place on the bottom-100 - 3/10 "},{"Title":"Ugghhhh!!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies ever made, and...wait, I take that back. This IS the worst movie ever made!! Bad acting! Bad writing! Bad directing! Abysmal.  Just awful.  Insufferable. Boring.  Estelle Getty has never been worse. Neither has Sylvester Stallone (which says a lot).  Standard buddy movie, only with an annoying mom character thrown in.  A true groanfest. Never, under any circumstances rent or watch this movie, even if you're the biggest Sylvester Stallone fan in the world!  "},{"Title":"A very funny & underrated film","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I just don't understand why people rip this film apart. The movie was meant to be a fun movie, & it succeeds. I think Sly Stallone gives a very good performance. He is heavily underrated in comedy, & he does a fine job here. If you like Stallone & like to laugh, then see this film. Sly plays a cop who gets tormented by his visiting mother. But when she is a witness to a murder, he is forced to work with her. Comedy erupts as Mom annoys Sly & Mom tries to save his failing relationship with his girlfriend.  "},{"Title":"Stop! Or I'll Poke My Eyes Out!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone takes another shot at comedy in this film about a detective whose meddling mother Estelle Getty gets involved in a case and his personal life.  This film, directed by Roger Spottiswoode, is the epitome of high concept, and fails for exactly that reason.  There might've been some humor here or there, but the film is so heavy-handed that any life was completely squeezed out of it.  Getty overplays to an embarrassing degree.  Spottiswoode handles the action scenes well, but couldn't tell a joke to save his life.  That's surprising since he had such a skilled comic instrument -- Stallone -- to work with. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone's worst movie? Maybe...if given the chance, I would've shot the mum","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let me start by saying that Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot is an atrocious film; perhaps Sylvester Stallone's worst movie. Indeed, this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It is not the worst movie I have ever seen (Home Alone 3 has that dubious honour - see that review for more) but it definitely ranks in my Top 10 and that says a hell of a lot, given that I have seen a lot of movies in my time. I saw this very late in 2004 and dismissed it as nondescript fluff. Over the following days, I reconsidered this thought and gradually my opinion of this movie turned to mud, to the extent that, a few months later, when this movie came on, I turned away in disgust. The plot revolves around a bad-ass cop, Joe Bomowski, who endures a visit from his mother, Tutti, who proceeds to make his life absolute hell, as she gets in the way of his job and his budding romance with fellow cop Gwen. Even writing this makes me seethe.The acting...oh God, don't get me started on the acting, please! It has to be the worst part of this film and that is saying quite a lot. Sylvester Stallone is not guilty of bad acting here, indeed, he is OK, no my friends, the main offender is...Estelle Getty. Yes. Estelle Getty. This is the same actress who appeared on The Golden Girls, which is even now, over a decade after it ended, being touted as a prime example of 'classic comedy' by some. If I had a chance to, I would have shot her - and I don't get kicks out of shooting old women. As it is, I admire Joe's restraint - putting up with his Mum without shooting her, or at least getting her sent off to a distant hospital because of an 'accident'. As for the rest of the cast, they are not worth mentioning. The only thing that prevents this film from getting a big, fat zero from me is that it is pretty short - finishing in under 90 minutes. But let's face it, that's not much of a saving grace.Well, I'll keep my conclusion to the point DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE! Movies get on the bottom 100 for a reason because they suck - and so does this film.0.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"Tolerable","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" You have to be a real big fan of Sly to like this movie. I consider myself somewhat of a fan, so I can actually tolerate this movie, and even laugh on occasion.It's definitely very silly. That's a given. And Estelle Getty is so over the top as the mother and not very funny at all. But there are a couple of genuine laughs along the way, Sly is actually quite funny at times, the main villain is somewhat funny and Jobeth Williams is always charming to look at.On a very slow night I might even watch this film for the third time in my life. There are worse things... "}]