[{"Title":"Leaves You Shaking Your Head!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent modern-day film noir....excellent in that it's interesting, start-to-finish. There are some holes in here and some goofy parts that make you shake your head in disbelief.....but I haven't found anyone who didn't get caught up in this story. The movie has the right amount of action, suspense, plot twists and interesting characters. In addition, it sports some nice colors and cinematography plus a good guitar-based soundtrack. I labeled this crime movie a film noir because it's gritty and the all the characters are no good. Even the only supposed-good guy, played by Nicholas Cage, gets himself in trouble by lying and has a quick affair he should't have. He also does something at the end which isn't right, but I'm not going the spoil it by saying. Suffice to say, however, that the rest of the characters are so bad they make Cage look good!Speaking of bad guys, does anyone do it better than Dennis Hopper? Not many. At least in the deranged category, he's tough to beat. Lara Flynn Boyle is fun to watch for a bunch of reasons. J.T. Walsh gives another great supporting performance, too.This is one of those films that never got much publicity, but it should have. You'll have fun watching this. By the way, try saying the name of this movie out loud three times fast without messing it up! "},{"Title":"A Thousand Miles From Nowhere","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Vaguely reminiscent of great 1940's westerns, like The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre (1948), Red Rock West is a story about conscience, greed, and betrayal. Michael (Nicolas Cage) is a down and out, but honest, young man from Texas who goes west in search of work and money. He finds both, but not in the way he had expected.The film's screenplay contains plenty of surprises and plot twists. Excellent cinematography, adroit film editing, and moody western music add tension and suspense. The expansiveness of the big sky country provides a wonderful setting. And the acting ranges from good to excellent, with great performances from Dennis Hopper and J.T. Walsh. Dwight Yoakam's specially recorded country/western song provides the film with a strong finale.Correctly labeled as neo-noir, Red Rock West strikes me as being something else, as well. The plot is full of amazing coincidences and improbable timing, so much so that others may regard the screenplay as flawed. Ordinarily, I would agree. In this case, however, when combined with the moody atmosphere, and the fact that the small town of Red Rock seems almost empty of normal daily life, the coincidences and unlikely timing suggest a story that, beyond noirish, is ... surreal. It's almost as if fate deliberately intervenes with improbable events so as to force Michael to come to grips with himself. From this point of view, the coincidences are not script flaws at all. They are necessary plot points in a nightmarish story of a young man who must confront his own demons ... disguised as other characters.All we need here is Rod Serling, in a postscript, explaining, in his always clearly enunciated voice, that ... a young man, searching for himself, stops in a small, almost deserted town a thousand miles from nowhere. It's his final layover in a journey to ... the twilight zone. "},{"Title":"Here's your definition of modern film noir","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In any number of films, you can find Nicholas Cage as a strong, silent hero, Dennis Hopper as a homicidal maniac, Lara Flynn Boyle as a vamp/tramp, and the late, lamented J.T. Walsh as the heavy.  These are the types of roles these four can play in their sleep, and they have done so often enough that to see them playing them again borders on cliche. What a relief, therefore, that John Dahl, a master at getting a lot of mood out of a little action, directed this nuanced noirish thriller.  Hopper manages to keep from going over the top, Cage shows a little more depth than his usually-superficial action heroes, Boyle is by turns sultry, innocent, and scheming, and one gets a sense of the hard iron of the soul that is central to his character, Wayne.  Dahl's direction gives a sense of the emptiness of the Big Sky country where the story takes place while also being intimate enough to show how a wrinkled brow can indicate a radical change of plot in store. The plot twists are top-notch, and one of the other great twists in this movie is that some of the supporting characters actually act as if they have brains.  It isn't often that minor characters like deputy sheriffs have more brains than their headlining superiors.  But with a director as smart as Dahl, you shouldn't be surprised by the intelligence of anything connected with this film.  An excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Crappy Sierra Madre Wannabe","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadLet's address the elephant in the room first, the movie is boring and Hopper is a dreadful actor. The movie even for its short length is boring. The other main problem is the phoniness of the script. What is this the Twilight Zone? He just cannot get out of town; everything works so he is trapped there. Only one other movie tried this and it is even worse than this Oliver Stone's stink bomb U Turn. That film makes his Natural Born Killers look like Citizen Kane. From the beginning, with his arrival, his being mistaken by Wayne as Lyle the movie's sense of reality is painful. If you were hiring a hit-man, would you want a bit of a physical description of him? Does Cage remotely look like Lyle? What because they both drive cars with Texas license plates? Are you kidding me, who believes this? This and the terrible acting, with the exception of Walsh, the only actor in the cast doomed the movie at the box office. Everyone remember the killer Bronson in the Mechanic? Would he have given a hitchhiker a ride? Chatted amiably with him and been thrilled they both were in Vietnam? How dorky!The contrivances to keep Michael in Red Rock would make Rod Serling say,forget it, nobody will buy that, too phony. The pacing of the movie is like geological time, sloow. Hopper wrecks the movie with his ham bone overacting like he destroyed Blue Velvet. From the moment they get Wayne at jail until the crappy scene in the graveyard; Hopper shows why you do not want him in your movie. He is doing Frank Booth light here; it is so obvious and it destroys any remaining reality of the film. Yes, when I am desperate and just got money to kill Wayne's wife, I always stop at the local Holiday Inn for some quick bed action? One ridiculous scene after another with some really bad acting by Flynn Boyle and Hopper lay waste to the film. I love anti greed movies like Sierra Madre but please the writing and acting here are not remotely in the same league. Bogie, Huston and Holt versus Hopper, Flynn Boyle and Cage, the latter shows why he is an action movie star. In drama, like Bangkok Dangerous he is out of his genre. Do not believe me? Watch Matchstick Men, it bombed for a reason. The greed message is lost among the wreckage that is this movie. When it was released it played at small art theaters for a reason, nobody would buy it for their big theaters. It was gone in a few weeks. Boring and slow like molasses, badly acted and written; it was held up as some wannabe Noir in color, no it is just crap, sorry. "},{"Title":"A great little film.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"33 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Rock West is what all films should be like. A genuinely interesting film with enough twists and turns to satisfy any sane human, it was tragically overlooked on its release. With Nicolas Cage (before his career went into orbit) in fine form and Dennis Hopper stealing scene after scene, this is a movie that withstands repeated watchings. The rest of the cast are uniformly excellent and the quirkiness of the setting (a small town in the middle of nowhere) never gets in the way. In short this is a great little film that deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film noir thriller packed with numerous twists, turns and surprises","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Rock West was far and away one of the best suspense thrillers of the 90's with a superb script (by John and Rick Dahl) that kept you guessing throughout and on the edge of your seat for most of the film. It was brilliantly directed by John Dahl and featured a marvellous cast including Nicolas Cage, Dennis Hopper, Lara Flynn Boyle and especially J. T. Walsh (in a memorable performance) making this a riveting and captivating thriller not to be missed. The film never had much publicity on release (in fact I first caught up with it on TV) and is therefore one of those special little gems that you have to seek out but this unique film is now slowly gaining a cult following.Nicolas Cage is Michael Williams who is broke and out of work when he finds himself in the small town of Red Rock. Mistaken for a contract killer named Lyle from Dallas he is shocked to be offered $10,000 to murder the wife of bar owner Wayne Brown (the excellent J. T. Walsh). He plays along with the plan and decides he should go and warn Brown's wife Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle) but then the plot thickens and there are so many twists, turns and surprises - and double dealings - that Cage is thrown from one crisis to another and finds himself trapped in a terrible situation he can't drag himself out of! Then just to complicate matters even further the real Lyle turns up to carry out the contract killing (played by everyone's favourite heavy Dennis Hopper). When Hopper discovers what has happened he goes after Cage but no one could forsee the surprising events that follow.Some favourite lines from the filmNicolas Cage (to Lara Flynn Boyle) I hate to see an innocent woman get hurt but it's an awful lot of money.J. T. Walsh (to Cage) Michael Williams. Well, Michael, you're going to be spending some time with us till we get to the bottom of this.Boyle (to Cage) You're not a killer?. Cage That's right, no. But the guy I'm supposed to be just rode into town so you gotta get out of here.Boyle (to Cage) O.K. How you're going to explain impersonating a hired killer and taking $10,000 from my husband?.An extraordinarily entertaining little thriller (just 98 minutes) with a storyline that never lets up and powerful acting by all the principals. Any film featuring J. T. Walsh is O.K. in my book and Red Rock West was one of his best. How sad it was that this exceptional actor's career was cut tragically short by a heart attack in 1998. The most prolific period for film noir was without any doubt the forties but Red Rock West is a good modern example of the genre and has jumped right into my Top Ten list of all time favourite films. I look forward to more like this from director John Dahl.  10/10. Clive Roberts. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Murderous","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A basically decent drifter (Nicolas Cage) lands in the tiny town of Red Rock, Wyoming,  looking for work. When he stops in the bar, the bar owner (J. T. Walsh) asks why he took so  long and asks him to step in the back office so they can discuss the job. Cage plays along,  then discovers the work is to kill the bar owner's wife. He takes the money, drives out to the  ranch to warn the wife (Laura Flynn Boyle), and starts to leave town. Problems arise and he  returns to town in time to witness the real hit man (Dennis Hopper) arrive. Things go  downhill for the Cage character after that.This is an excellent, convoluted, well-acted and offbeat mystery. Funny, too. Cage never  knows what's happening, but everybody else assumes he does. Dennis Hopper again plays a  charming semi-psycho but he hadn't patented the style yet so it seems fresh. J. T. Walsh was  a great character actor who died young. He's outstanding as the bar owner...who also  happens to be the sheriff. He has one or two other secrets as well. And if Boyle doesn't rev  your engine, you may need a tune up. She's more ruthless than the lot of them. "},{"Title":"If you like plot turns, this is your movie. Top-notch.","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you like plot turns, this is your movie. It is impossible at any moment to predict what will happen next. Nothing is as it appears or ends as you think it will. The characters are all gritty and engaging. Cage is at his best. Dennis Hopper again shows his delightfully sinister side. JT Walsh is perfect in his last performance. Laura Boyle sizzles. Dwight Yoakum makes a film debut superbly in a cameo. I categorize this movie as I am having a really, really, really bad day film. Not a slow minute in this film. A real sleeper. This movie is underrated and, sadly, overlooked. "},{"Title":"A Deliciously Twisted Neo-Noir Thriller","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This modern film noir with its off beat humour and dizzying succession of plot twists delivers a story full of surprises, dangerous characters and excellent entertainment from start to finish. It's impossible not to empathise with the honest, unassuming hero or to be gripped by the ways in which he tries to navigate his way out of the terrible predicaments that he finds himself in, so all you can do is fasten your seat belt and enjoy the ride.The story of an ordinary guy who makes a poor decision and then finds that the repercussions propel him into an uncontrollable sequence of events from which he is unable to extricate himself is pure film noir. The same is true of the themes of murder, deceit, corruption and duplicity which are pervasive throughout. Many of the familiar noir visual motifs are also present, such as the way in which cigarette smoke is lit, the rain soaked roads at night, the heavily shadowed interiors and the lines of shadow (created by louvred doors) across people's faces.Michael Williams (Nicolas Cage), an injured war veteran without money or a job, stops off at a bar in Red Rock, Wyoming and is mistaken by the proprietor Wayne Brown (J T Walsh) for a hit man that he's arranged to employ to murder his wife Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle). Michael, a naturally reticent person, does nothing to disabuse Wayne of his misapprehension, especially as he could use a job and at first doesn't realise what he'd be expected to do. After having been told what his mission is and been given a $5,000 advance, he goes to see Suzanne and warns her about Wayne's plan. She doesn't seem overly concerned about the danger she's in and offers Michael double the fee Wayne had offered, for him to eliminate her husband.Michael decides to take the money he'd received from both parties and leave town. His plan fails however, when he accidentally drives into a man who is standing in the middle of the road and decides to take him to hospital to receive treatment for his injuries. At the hospital, things get more complicated when it emerges that the patient is Suzanne's lover and he has two bullets in his stomach. This leads to the local law enforcement officers getting involved and the revelation that Wayne is the Sheriff!! From this point on, things get even more complicated and also decidedly more dangerous especially when the real hit man, Lyle from Dallas (Dennis Hopper) arrives on the scene.Red Rock West has some great moments of suspense, (an example of this is the scene in which Michael makes his escape from Wayne's bar) and also some great performances from its very strong cast. Nicolas Cage's expressions are extremely natural and convincing as he reacts to a variety of situations with anxiety, surprise or uncertainty and J T Walsh is also particularly good as a deceptive character who's always concealing more than he's actually saying. Dennis Hopper is intensely threatening as the vicious contract killer (a role he plays with great gusto) and Lara Flynn Boyle looks suitably cold and calculating as the femme fatale. Dwight Yoakam also provides some good support and moments of humour in his cameo role as a no nonsense truck driver.Incredibly, Red Rock West was originally destined to be denied a general cinema release but has justifiably emerged from its modest beginnings to eventually be recognised as the great movie that it really is. "},{"Title":"All Roads Lead To Intrigue.","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West is directed by John Dahl who also co-wrote the screenplay with his brother Rick. It stars Nicolas Cage, Dennis Hopper, Lara Flynn Boyle, J. T. Walsh and Timothy Carhart. Music is by William Olvis and cinematography by Marc Reshovsky. When a promised job in Wyoming fails to materialise on account of an injury sustained in combat, Michael Williams (Cage) drifts into the town of Red Rock and is mistaken in a bar for a hit-man hired to kill an unfaithful wife. Tempted by the high cash on offer, Michael plays along and promptly finds himself in a web of intrigue from which escape is looking unlikely&#x85; Welcome To Red Rock/You Are Now Leaving Red Rock. The studio didn't know what to do with it, a neo-noir flavoured with contemporary Western spices. Put out on cable in America and thriving on its limited release in Europe, it started to gain a cult fan-base. More so after a theatre in the Frisco Bay area started showing it and it made considerable coinage. Today it still remains more of a cult piece than anything else, which while it deserves more accolades and exposure, is still kind of nice for the fans, because it's like we have our own little neo-noir treasure all to ourselves. Red Rock West is essential for the neo-noir heads and well worthy of inspection by the average modern day crime film fan. Plot wise it's a bit, shall we say iffy? Yet the twists, turns and characterisations are so deftly constructed and performed, it matters not a jot. Cage's ex- marine is an honest and decent guy who whilst down on his luck - punished for his honesty - finds himself in a vortex of mystery and murder that he can't escape from. His companions in this scenario are film noir staples, the femme fatale (Boyle) with a smoulder as big as her secret, the hit-man (Hopper) with a glint in his eye to accompany his callous leanings, and the shifty bar owner (Walsh) trying to off his wife whilst keeping his shady cards close to his chest. As the tricksy plot unfolds in a haze of bad judgements and untruths, further pulsed by the vagaries of fate, it becomes apparent that Dahl wants us to know it isn't taking itself too seriously. There's a glorious scent of dark humour hanging in the air, an unpretentiousness about the whole thing that's refreshing. The look and feel is perfect for the narrative, the colour is stripped back to create a moody atmospheric surround, while the score and sound-tracking immediately brings to mind country and western tales of woe. Dahl knows his noir onions, but this is not just a homage hat tipper to the past, he understands what works in noir, be it the blending of the quirky with the edgy, or scene setting in locales such as a colourless bar and a foggy cemetery, Dahl gets the key ingredients right to deliver the goods wholesale. The small cast come up trumps. Boyle as Suzanne Brown is weak if her femme fatale is pitted against the likes of Matty Walker or Bridget Gregory, but it's an adequate performance that doesn't hinder the picture. She is helped enormously, though, by having to share most scenes with Cage who brings his A game. Consistently inconsistent throughout his career, Cage, when on form is a joy to watch, here he gets to thrive as a put upon hero, shifting seamlessly between confusion and boldness, where incredulous looks are the order of the day with a side order of eccentric intensity. Hopper does what he does so well, amusing villainy, while Walsh is effortlessly menacing and suspicious. In small secondary support Carhart and country star Dwight Yoakam leave favourable impressions. This is not an edge of your seat thriller, or a cranium bothering piece of dramedy, it's neo-noir done right. Where morality is grey at best and money is the root of all evil, it's slick, playful, cold blooded and absorbing. Hooray! 9/10 "}{"Title":"Never a dull moment","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red rock west superbly ends on a train,while Dwight Yoakam's sensational A thousand miles from nowhere is heard during the final credits.One should note that the excellent soundtrack features two songs of the late great Johnny Cash and other chestnuts.What about the movie?It's an excellent entertaining flick.Two tremendous leads Nicolas Cage ,who always seems overtaken by events,always looking stupefied and Dennis Hopper who does not take his character seriously and deliciously overacts while displaying a lot of humor.All the supporting cast is excellent ,and as absolutely no one can be trusted in this money story,there are enough twists to satisfy the action-packed movie buff.One should notice that ,towards the end ,in the graveyard ,the movie verges on horror.An excellent entertainment for a hard day's night. "},{"Title":"Hidden treasure, make time for it.","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I came home late one night and turned on the TV, to see Siskel and Ebert summarizing their picks of the week. I didn't hear anything about Red Rock West, except two thumbs up and see it before it went away.  It wouldn't stay in theaters very long because of the distributor's money problems and lack of promotion, but they said it deserved better.The next afternoon, I followed their advice. They were right, it was some of the most fun I have ever had at the movies.  As some readers point out, there are a few plot holes and the last 10 minutes don't ever seem to end.  But it's well worth it, for the fine craftwork that went into the first hour.  It's the best role that I have ever seen for Nicholas Cage, but almost everybody seems perfectly cast.  Dennis Hopper goes almost over the top, which gets silly but reinforces how well everything else works.  The sets and the music contribute a great deal to almost every scene.When I rented it later for my family, it didn't work as well.  The long scenes that built the tension in the theater were difficult to appreciate, with the distractions at home.  It deserves your full attention; turn off the phone, make sure you won't be disturbed, watch and listen to every scene, especially in the beginning.  "},{"Title":"Stylish Film Noir","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Some movies you just know you're going to love from the first few seconds. This is one of those movies. Tracing it's roots back to Double Indemnity, and The Postman Always Rings Twice in the 40's - this was a great example of Modern Film Noir in the 90's. Nick Cage plays the down on his luck main character who gets entangled in a husband-wife murder plot - and his luck goes from bad to worse to even worse as he tries and tries to get away from the people, town, violence and threat of Red Rock West. Lots of twists and turns, great performances by Cage, Hopper and Walsh, an hypnotic slide-guitar musical backdrop, and seamless directing make this a real joy. Favorite Line When Cage looks at the empty gas gauge in the get-away car, shakes his head and says F***in' story of my life. "},{"Title":"Enthralling criminal goings-on in a small Western town, as the lead is caught between a Red Rock and a hard place.","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Dahl's Red Rock West is a neat, taut, stripped down piece of cut-and-thrust film-making without gimmickry nor a single false string attached. In a current contemporary world of American film-making, and one that was almost certainly predominant at the time of Red Rock West's inception, how wonderful it is to uncover a film that refrains from the over indulgence of extravagance and the ideology that awe is built on a foundation of overkill and visuals. That's not to say Red Rock West is without extravagance nor awe, such is Dahl's ability, that the film is full of a number of various incidences and twists that are exactly these things and gotten across by way of little more than a glance from one of the character's or an individual cut of the camera. When we hark back to America's independent cinematic boom of the late 1980s and going on into the early 1990s, certainly a boom that saw a number of films and individual directors both honoured and recognised on the European film circuit at the top level in a series of Golden Palm nominations, the displaying of Red Rock West shows we must not glance over the name of Dahl when speaking of both the films and directors of that era, namely the Coen Brothers; Steven Soderburgh; Spike Lee and Tarantino, et al.The film revolves around Nicolas Cage's character named Michael Williams, an ex-Marine of American nationality down on his luck and strapped for money in the dusty outback of Wyoming. He lives out of his car; uses random road side troughs full of water as makeshift sinks and struggles to find work, the latest failing being a construction site job that doesn't come through, although later on, he'll find ample opportunity at constructing something a monstrosity of a scenario for himself. Unbeknownst to us at the time, he's going into the misadventure he'll come to have with a prior tragedy of having served time in the Vietnam War, but suffering during this stretch at the hands of a missile attack on a base in Lebanon he was positioned at which forced him into enduring a glut of both chaos and death. The event that may very well lend itself to Williams' dishevelled and down-beat tone and attitude, something Cage pulls off in that naturalistic manner he's done so on occasion since, shares eerie parallels with what will come to unfold around him as another glut of death and chaos unfolds around a man who has signed up for something you only realise you don't want to be anywhere near when it gets ugly as 'wrong place &#x96; wrong time' scenario once again kicks in.The devilish premise sees Williams pretend to be the Texan hit-man an apparent bar owner named Wayne (Walsh) called for some days ago so as to do some local dirty-work he wants taken care of. His looming over a seated Cage whilst in the office an early establishing of power, the sort of power that he'll come to have over him as Williams is forced throughout into proverbially dancing to the tune of others. But rather than eliminate the target, Wayne's wife played by Lara Flynn Boyle, Williams warns her of the predicament and that her marriage ought quite clearly be an item of concern form here on in. Once all is said and done, the real hit-man in Dennis Hopper's Lyle shows up in jet black Texan attire and similarly coloured car more resembling a hearse than anything else, whilst developments and complications in exactly who it is the chief of police is in the whole area open up.For Cage's character, and like in most good film noir when dealing with the down-trodden lead whom treads a fine line between right and wrong, the persistent idea of torn morals floats to the surface relatively quickly and consistently in Red Rock West. In just observing the premise, the notion of Williams illegally accepting the offer of being paid to kill someone before refraining from doing it when confronted with the innocent figure of Wayne's wife, Dahl highlights his character's soon-to-be prominent ever shifting; ever changing attitudes to what crime infused activity is playing out around him. Throughout, Williams lies; shoots; kills and steals but additionally saves; offers salvation and actually avoids violence on several occasions when straight forward murder would have offered a simple way out of a predicament. Given this, Dahl expertly manoeuvres Williams from one town in the form of Red Rock to another and then back over the border again, a sort of physical flitting from one place to another in what is a physical manifestation of both the above theories of a film noir's male lead as well as Cage's character's constantly ambiguous hopping from justified in his actions to not as so.Red Rock West moulds a fascinating, and quite terrifying at times, tale out of all these elements; combining a number of items such as double-crosses; multiple identities and intense connections characters have with one another, the sorts that they're forced into forging before later being asked what they truly mean to them. Dahl additionally, and in a very basic sense, taps into a certain idea of post-war disillusionment through his lead in Williams' disconnection from the rest of society seeing him inhabit a desolate and often incomprehensible rural locale in which he just about scrapes by. This, as an old war injury refrains him from making any true advancement in a chosen field of work. Red Rock West is a tight, gripping piece; the sort that arrives with a steady and effective eye on a variety of items all the while under the control of a steady, focused hand. "},{"Title":"Cage at his best, and a totally fun and funny modern western filled with archetypes","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West (1993)Nicolas Cage gets embroiled in a deadly crime without at first knowing it, and the dominos lead to increasing peril, adventure and misadventure in the wild forlorn American West of the 1990s. Red Rock West is often brutal and sometimes hilarious, and Cage pulls off the mixture with his usual sardonic wit and wary ease. Is the plot over the top? Yes. Is Dennis Hopper perfect as a crazed, almost likable killer? Yes. Does Cage stand a chance? Well, you have to watch and see. It never lets up, and it took me by surprise the first time I saw it. On second viewing yesterday, I was surprised at how well it held up, how well constructed it was, and how macabre and funny it was at the same time.Director Ron Dahl (who also helped write) is known more for his TV work, but with Rounders and this film he shows a deft hand with sensational plots. It's saved by its humor by the way, and by the caricatures. The bar is sleazy, the cops questionable. And don't miss a really inspired cameo by Dwight Yoakam as a truck driver. "},{"Title":"Into red rock in a car and out on the rails.","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie started me on a Nick Cage kick. It is a story full of twists and turns- a movie of motives and moves.  Of, course, Dennis Hopper was a ham, but J.T. Walsh and Laura Flyyn Boyle are the perfect pair to catch the unsuspecting man who has fallen into their web.  Everything about this movie is good - cinematography, story pace and most of all the end.  Cage excels at what he does best- it's not to be an action hero but to be an everyman caught in the snares of life.   "},{"Title":"Ole Mexico","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tied with his Kill Me Again, Dahl has two of the best neo noirs out there.  Western wastelands are a nice change from the traditional urban noir setting.  Great performance by Boyle before she became Skeletor for The Practice.  Mr. Cage does a good job getting pulled into the quicksand of escalating stupidity.  He and Hopper get to throw a few of their marquee quirks at eachother.  Why is it every noir protagonist plans to escape to Mexico somewhere?  What does that say about Canada?  Not even our criminals want to run off to Canada.  Man, how sorry can it be.  OH yeah, if you ever reach the point in your life when Mexico becomes your utopia, you know it's all over.   "},{"Title":"Wayne's Place.","Date":"28 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Taking a look at a poll that was held on the IMDb Classic Film board for the best movies of 1993,I found myself getting constantly drawn towards a Neo-Noir called Red Rock West,due to having heard a large amount of praise for the title over the year.Sadly,with the price of the DVD being pretty expensive,I regrettably decided to push any plans to take a look at this tantalising Neo-Noir to the side.2 weeks laterBeing happily caught completely by surprise,I recently received an offer from a very kind IMDb'er ,who asked if I would be interested in borrowing the DVD of the film,which led to me excitingly getting ready to pay a long over due visit to Red Rock West.The plotAngered over getting turned down for a construction job due to having an injury which he picked up in the Vietnam war,Michael Williams drives towards a small town called Red Rock West,after getting advised by a gas station worker to pay a visit to a bar in the town called Wayne's Place,where there is a good chance that Williams will be able to pick up a bar staff job.Finding Wayne Brown at the front of the bar,Michael decides to not reveal his full background details to Brown,when Wayne asks Williams if he is The Lyle who has come here for a job?.Pretending to be Lyle,Williams expectations of being given a bar job by Brown are left in ruins,when Wayne reveals to him that Lyle has not been hired to work at the bar,but has in fact been chosen by Brown to be a hit-man for his wife.View on the filmPlacing the dark heart of this Neo-Noir in a full to the brim whisky bottle,co-writer/ (along with his brother Rick) director John Dahl and cinematography Marc Reshovsky soak the film in a warm Neo-Noir Western atmosphere,with Dahl and Reshovsky shooting the movie in brilliant sun setting colours,which along with allowing every member of the cast face's to have a world weary quality about them,also allows Reschovsky and Dahl to show the dark secrets that all the residence of Red Rock West are desperately trying to keep out of the light.Continuing with the underlying Western theme in the excellent screenplay,John and Rick Dahl show the Wyoming town of Red Rock West to be a fading sun-lit Neo-Noir world,where everyone knows each others secrets and deals on how the town is run are made by secret drinks,and beer stained back-hander's,which is seriously threatened of being buckled,by the arrival of two outlaws from Texas,one being an unlucky soul who is at the wrong place,at the very worst time,and the other one being a black-clad wearing gunslinger,who wants to take the power of the town all for himself.Being given the chance to sizzle on the screen as this Neo-Noir's sole Femme Fatale,I was disappointed to find Lara Flynn Boyle give a rather frozen performance as Suzanne Brown,with Boyle failing to blend into John Dahl wonderful shadowy world,and also being unable to give the dialogue the fizzle that it richly deserves.Whilst Boyle sadly fails from setting the fuse off,the rest of the cast thankfully attack the movie with a burning hot,ten ton hammer,with J.T. Walsh giving an tremendous performance as Wayne Brown,thanks to Walsh showing Brown to go gradually more desperate for the killing of his wife to take place,and Walsh also taking full advantage of Dahl's stylish directing,by using the close ups to reveal the darkened lies and dirty deals that lay behind the scar's on Wayne's face.Entering this Neo-Noir like a fire breathing dragon,Dennis Hooper gives a fiery performance as the real Lyle,with Hooper showing Lyle's initially well meaning first appearance to be quickly slashed away and replaced by an outlaw whose only language is increasing the dirty money that is placed in his hands.Kept right at the centre for the whole of the film,Nicolas Cage gives an extremely strong performance,which carefully balances Michael Williams being a down to earth.down on his luck guy,with an increasing,potential deadly desire to get hold of the cash and the woman that are both just out of William's reach,which leads to Red Rock West being a gravel road that is defiantly worth travelling down. "},{"Title":"Twists, twists and more twists.","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West is one of those tight noir thrillers we rarely see anymore. It's well paced, well acted and doesn't leave us with loose ends or unanswered questions so typical in this genre.Nicolas Cage stars as Michael, an unemployed Texas roughneck, desperate enough for a job to drive all the way to Wyoming for potential employment. He is honest to a fault, but always on the dark side of fate.After failing to obtain gainful employment, Michael stumbles into the Red Rock bar where the owner Wayne (J.T.Walsh) mistakes him for a contract killer he summoned from Dallas, hired to do in his lovely but lethal wife Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle).Wayne gives Michael the necessary details and a down payment for the hit on the adulterous Suzie. With no intent on following through, Michael accepts the money and then sets out to warn Suzanne of her impending demise. He also mails a letter to the local sheriff exposing the plot and splits.As fate would dictate, Michael is not going to be rid of the situation that easy. While leaving in a violent rainstorm, he runs down Suzannes lover. Of course Michael being Michael, he takes him to the local hospital where it's discovered that he's also been shot.The sheriff is summoned and as luck would have it, Wayne is also the local law. Michael manages to escape while being taken on that last ride and is subsequently picked up by the real Lyle from Dallas played with murderous glee by the quirky Dennis Hopper. After discovering that they're fellow marines, Lyle insists that Michael join him for a drink at, where else, the Red Rock bar. There Wayne realizes his mistake and soon he and Lyle are in hot pursuit of Michael who falls willingly into Suzannes waiting arms.As the pace picks up we learn that Wayne and Suzanne are really wanted armed robbers, on the lam for a multi million dollar theft. Getting the money now becomes the films central focus with a series of betrayals, double crosses and murders.The film was very well cast. Nicolas Cage was typically low key, Dennis Hopper and Lara Flynn Bolye assumed their respective roles with more than ample ability. The best performance was by the late J.T. Walsh who was menacing without appearing to be. Walsh was a great character actor who left us much too soon.Marc Reshoskys photography utilized many unique angles which added to the suspense and plot development. The film was further enhanced by John Dahl's tight directorial style and Morris Chestnut's rapid fire editing. "},{"Title":"Under-rated Surprise","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before Nicholas Cage was a big action star, he was a great actor. This  lesser-known movie is where Cage gives one of his best performances. Red  Rock West was a low-budget, almost un-known film, but is one of my  favorite movies of all time. I discovered it walking down the video store  aisle, and wanted to see Cage and Hopper (Who also is great in the movie)  appear together. Go get this one, and I'm sure you won't be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"Dial H for honesty","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Dahls opening salvo as director ranks among the best compared to his fellow contemporary directors. Sandwiched between Kill Me Again and The Last Seduction, Red Rock West was one of three neo noirs directed by Dahl who now finds himself marooned in TV land. It has a cast to die for and Nicholas Cage at the peak of his career. It is fantastic to see that the late J.T. Walsh is given a substantial role as bar owner/sheriff Wayne and shares as much screen time as Cage, Hopper and Boyle.Cage plays an out of work jobless drifter who in desperation pretends to be someone else to secure employment. Unfortunately the job requires him to murder the wife of a small town bar owner. Although he takes the money and runs from the town of Red Rock his own honesty sucks him back into the town into a shed load of trouble. Being in noir territory plot twists and deception abound. Denniis Hopper excels as hit-man Lyle. His acting is a joy to behold - all the usual Hopper mannerisms are present and the razor sharp dialogue flows from his lips in a unique style that no other actor is ever likely to replicate again. A true one off. Having said that the movies sharpest line is given to bit part actor Dwight Yoakam. My only beef is how they made sexy actress Lara Flynn Boyle look so frumpy in her rural cowgirl clothing but her acting is first class as usual.Of course there are the usual plot contrivances only found in movies in order to move the story along - the worst possibly being Cage being rescued by Hopper (the man he happens to be impersonating) just after he escapes the clutches of J.T. Walsh's crooked sheriff.I am always amazed at the blank expressions i receive when i name check this movie to others. Do yourself a favour and rent/buy this movie immediately. "},{"Title":"western-noir at its near finest","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Dahl knows his film-noir, and he knows his westerns. This should be assumed from seeing Red Rock West, though his 'noir' influence comes through in other films as well (Kill Me Again and to a degree Joy Ride). He knows how to write a lone average-Joe type of character, and the shady villain, and a sexy Femme Fatale. He knows this, but he also fills his story of a drifter coming to a small Wyoming town and being (accidentally?) hired to kill a man's wife with some top-shelf talent. Or, at least, the best actors that could make the parts their own.It's a cold little movie where you realize pretty quickly that despite Michael's nice-guy quality, he's still a potential thief and is the comparatively not so bad. Not so bad compared to Wayne the bartender or Sheriff, if that is indeed his name, and his wife who wants to escape to Mexico with all of the money she inherited (please note the quotations). An extra slice of danger comes with the appearance of the actual man hired to kill the woman, Lyle from Dallas played by the late Dennis Hopper. His character and performance is far less aggressive than in Blue Velvet, though this is like comparing a Tasmanian Devil to a bull at a fight.I liked the suspense, of not knowing who might double-cross who next or where the story might go depending on who is alive, and I also liked that they gave each character something to them. Michael and Lyle meet up the first time under unusual circumstances and he gives Michael a ride, where they each find out they were marines, Michael formerly a fighter in a botched mission in Lebanon. This is mentioned about halfway into the film, but it helps to set up this guy as a somewhat tragic figure, without a home and without a job but all of those memories he'd rather not take with him. Certainly not to Mexico, where he has nice ones with his father.Again, the casting and the writing is what makes the film. Lara Flynn Boyle works just about perfect as the female figure of desire and greed, and even if we've seen something like her before she's still fresh because of her performance. JT Walsh is also good but in a different way, where he's a lot more careful with his words, but one can see the look of panic when it surely comes. And Nicolas Cage, at first seemingly a little bored with the part in the opening scenes, really makes it his own as a reluctant hero with nothing to lose. Dialog is used in the film only so much to keep things moving along, but I mean this as a compliment; it's not minimalism, but economy of speech if that makes sense. Dahl knows exactly what he wants in his B-movie premise, and it's like he's taken material sitting on a shelf for years and dusted it and made it vital again. "},{"Title":"for the silk stockings and white bosoms of your actresses excite my amorous propensities","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Much to your presumable happiness fair readers, Cage and Hopper did meet and fortunately not in a Lynch movie&#151;because RED ROCK WEST is way better than any Lynch movie &#133;. Nicolas Cage is a third&#151;rate actor, the porcelain babe is a surrogate femme fatal, only daddy Hopper is as mean as ever &#133;. RED ROCK WEST is, despite the trite cast, one of my favorite American thrillers; in a word, a thriller with some twists.One notices mainly the gusto, the awesome pace, the thrills, the nice suspense, Lara Flynn Boyle's cute tight small ass, Cage's enviable physical shape (though undeniably ugly, with sharp, bird features, thick eyebrows and thin, rare hair, Cage displayed a fine overall shape &#133;), Hopper's consummate routine, some moderately but truly funny moments, Cage's play with his intended persona, Hopper's rigid, psychopathic allure, Lara's meanness, Cage seems a roamer, the archetypal gloomy roamer of the noir cinema, hungry, tough if needed, naive, dirty, tired. Lara Flynn Boyle performs as the cold mean seductress, Walsh as her heartless husband, and Hopper as the Lynchian hit-man he's already done before.Cage looks indeed rather groggy or dizzy or very confused and having a severe hangover. But this might be his regular look. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly gripping thriller from the underrated John Dahl!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What we have here is a damn good little nineties thriller that, while perhaps lacking in substance, still provides great entertainment throughout it's running time and overall does everything you could possibly want a film of this nature to do. I saw this film principally because it was directed by John Dahl - a highly underrated director behind great thrillers such as The Last Seduction, Rounders and Roadkill. I figured that if this film was up to standard of what I've already seen from the director, it would be well worth watching - and Red Rock West is certainly a film that Dahl can be proud of. The plot focuses on the overly moral Michael; a man travelling across America looking for work. He ends up finding it one day when he stumbles upon a bar in Red Rock County - only catch is that the job is to murder a man's wife. He's been mistaken for a killer named Lyle, but instead of doing the job; he plays both sides against each other and eventually plans to make a getaway. However, his attempts to escape are unsuccessful and he finds himself in a bad situation when the real Lyle turns up...John Dahl appears to enjoy setting thrillers on the road; he did it three years earlier with Kill Me Again, and again almost a decade on from this film with Roadkill. It's not hard to see why Dahl chooses this sort of location, as it provides a fabulous atmosphere for a thriller the likes of this one. Dahl also provides his film with a 'film noir' like atmosphere, as the plot mainly focuses on the central character and the word he is plunged into is full of dark and mysterious characters. The acting is largely very good, with Nicholas Cage doing an excellent job in the lead role, and getting A-class support from Lara Flynn Boyle, J.T. Walsh and, of course, Dennis Hopper; who once again commands the screen with his over the top performance. It has to be said that the second half of the film isn't as gripping as the first, but Red Rock West certainly is never boring and the way that Dahl orchestrates the grand finale is excellent in that all the central characters get to be a part of it. Overall, Red Rock West is a film that you're unlikely to regret watching. It's thrilling throughout, and you can't ask for much more than that! "},{"Title":"Remember this one when you get the urge to say they sure don't make 'em like they used to.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like many of you I am a great fan of the real thing - the 1940s noir films - but Red Rock West was a real treat for all of us longing for the past.  The term 'neo-noir' has been so often used inappropriately in the last ten years that it has lost its meaning and its impact.  John Dahl's  film on the other hand, truly deserved to be described as such.  The casting is perfect all around and would have felt right at home with Tay Garnett or Jacques Tourneur.  The plot is so tight that you are hooked within the first fifteen minutes.  James M. Cain would have appreciated it.  Many contemporary films leave me wondering why they don't make them like they used to, and I'm not even that old.  Movies such as Red Rock West give us hope for the future while paying tribute to the past.     "},{"Title":"A great movie worth watching.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was flipping through the channels as I often do and happened upon USA. Now, most of their movies are pretty bad but I thought I'd check this one out. It looked interesting and had Nicholas Cage in it so I thought it may be good. It was a great movie. Full of suspense and surprises.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic film noir;great actors pitting their wits against each other.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage was on a roll at this point in his career, choosing high-quality pictures to star in, which resulted in his Oscar win three years later. I was surprised to hear that Red Rock West took nearly two years after its release before it was noticed on a theatrical scale. For any movie lover, this film hits the spot immediately. Cage is a drifter, desperately searching for employment. When a bartender (J.T. Walsh) in the town of Red Rock mistakenly assumes Cage is a hitman he has hired to off his wife, Cage doesn't correct him. Before he knows what kind of work Walsh wants from him, he agrees without bias. He is just that desperate! Lara Flynn Boyle is the wife he is told to kill, but who herself has a last card (or cards) to play. Dennis Hopper, who is again in the type of role he practically created himself, is the real killer that Walsh hired, one who does not back down until the job is done. Like the best film noir, a truly American form of filmmaking, loopholes and other unexpected turns occur in this latest addition to the series, keeping the viewer pinned to the screen. I didn't have any problem with figuring out what made each character tick, but I did love their chemistry together. All four of them were highly intelligent individuals (a rarity in any American movie), and it was only against each other that they would eventually foul up. Red Rock West reminded me again the reason why I love movies, a necessity in my book to be declared one of the best pictures of the year. Rating Three stars and a half. "},{"Title":"A suspense thriller that takes some unpredictable turns. Don't miss it!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Rock West is one of those rare films that keeps you guessing the entire time as to what will happen next. Nicolas Cage is mistaken for a contract killer as he enters a small town trying to find work. Dennis Hopper is the bad guy and no one plays them better. Look for a brief appearance by country singing star Dwight Yoakam.  This is a serious drama most of the time but there are some lighter moments. What matters is that you will enjoy this low budget but high quality effort! "},{"Title":"I give it a BIG 10","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a 'sleeper'. It defines Nicholas Cage. The plot is intricate and totally absorbing. The ending will blow you away.See it whenever you have the opportunity.  "},{"Title":"Followup comments","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As others have commented, I checked this out after Siskel and Ebert listed this as one of their top 10 movies of the year. What a gift. I then went out to buy it, just so that I could loan it out.Best quote? Dwight Yoakum stops his truck when he realizes that someone (Cage) is on top of his cab. When Cage peers down, he apologizes. I'm sorry if I scared you. Yoakum thrusts his pistol in Cage's face with Does THIS look like I'm scared? Great bit of humor after an exciting (and temporary) escape.There really was a sense of fun to this. The constant sighting of the Welcome to Red Rock sign elicits a groan and a smiling head shake. The music created a hunting, eerie quality to the film reminiscent of Twin Peaks. Unlike Twin Peaks, though, it doesn't spoil things by going too far into the outlandish, needing to top itself.I admit watching the credits 15-20 times. You see, they had Yoakum's Thousand Miles from Nowhere (perfectly chosen) playing as a freight train curved around down to the desert floor . . with snow-capped mountains in the distance. This was incredible, fluid framing. Further, I've never seen a better unification of sight and sound on film. Also, it totally fit the story. "}{"Title":"good once","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great the first time but on second viewing the glaring plotholes stick out. For instance, the ending..wouldn't he police just radio ahead and stop the train and arrest Michael with his stolen loot?  JT Walsh..cool but underplayed... and funny how he doesn't bleed from that knife sticking out of his neck. Lara Flynn Boyle..gorgeous, but couldn't act her way out of a wet paper bag. Lessee....what else? Dwight Yoakum as the truck driver. What happened to the guy that got in the truck with him? He just disappeared. Oh well....at  least it wasn't CodeTalkers  "},{"Title":"A good old fashioned noir popcorn flick.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Rock West is one of those drama-noir ensemble movies where the bad guys are really bad and the good guys...well, they're just kinda bad. It's a movie where the brooding, plodding, and unrelenting hero, hang-faced Cage, never smiles because there's never anything to smile about.  It's a movie where all the characters are caricatures and there's never a dull moment no matter how improbable the convoluted plot may have become to achieve the desired result. It's a movie where no one trusts anyone and everyone is after the loot. Overall it's a good old fashioned Hollywood popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Hit-man and her","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West is a modern film noir with twists upon twists and characters with the behaviour of rats tied in a sack.Its a gritty thriller with Nicholas Cage ends up in a bar and lies which leads him to all sorts of trouble. The bartender played by JT Walsh mistakes him for a hit-man and wants him to take out his wife.Lara Flynn Boyle is his hot wife and it looks she has a thing with a ranch hand and Cage warns her about her husband. As Cage leaves town in the pouring rain he hits a pedestrian and takes him to hospital. The police close in on him about the accident and the elected sheriff is suspicious and he turns out to be JT Walsh.Before long Dennis Hopper turns up as another suspicious character and then its a case of who to trust and who is lying while Cage tries to get away from Red Rock but keeps getting pulled back.In the wrong hands this film would be preposterous and absurd. Director John Dahl has a sure touch for the drama, he gets the right types of performances from his main stars, good use of music and action scenes and piles on the twists and double crosses.The 1990s were a good decade for Dahl and his Thriller Noirs which were essentially made on a low budget. One thing to notice in this film is that the police outside the Sheriff are rather smart and on the ball. "},{"Title":"Film noir in color.","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West is a clever and entertaining movie about four people, Michael, Lyle, Suzanne and Wayne (the latter two are married) and $500,000 in cash, hidden somewhere. Michael is a drifter; Suzanne and Wayne have taken out contracts on each other, and Lyle is a cold-blooded assassin. The story is somber, at times chilling and always suspenseful. Michael gets involved purely on a whim, driven by the need to get some money, fast. That immediately lands him in trouble. It is revealed that Wayne, who is thoroughly detestable not because he is so obnoxious (he is polite and civil) but because he is such a dolt, is an office worker for a large firm who embezzled $1,900,000. To avoid the law and provide himself cover, he becomes the law, getting himself elected sheriff of a small out of the way town, Red Rock. Suzanne, of course, is aware of Wayne's secret, which, of course, sows the seeds of distrust, which then transforms into treachery. Once Lyle enters the scene, the formula for catastrophe can only explode into open violence. Lyle is the catalyst for the violence. He also is charming and detestable, but unlike the other three, is far more despicable. Unlike Suzanne, who is implicated in having murdered someone, and Wayne, who is willing to kill to protect his secret, and Michael who is not vicious, Lyle is a predator. Unsurprisingly, once Lyle, played by Dennis Hopper, enters the story, he subsequently dominates the movie.The only problem with the movie is its ending. It's not a major problem, but maybe it could have been reworked. Michael and Suzanne are on a train leaving town, with the money. Lyle is dead and grumpy Wayne has been shot. Michael and Suzanne have already been intimate and Michael obviously cares about her. The caring feeling, however, is not mutual, and in reaction, Michael tosses Suzanne and the most of the money out of the train. This tests the limits of plausibility. A man, strapped for cash, on a train with a young, sexy woman in possession of a huge amount of cash, and whose life he has saved, throwing both her and the money out? True, she points a gun at him, but he knows it's not loaded, so there is no harm. So why toss her and the money out? They deserve each other, and the presence of $500,000 in cash could smooth over a lot of ruffled feathers. "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Intriguing crime-drama. Set-up is great. Plot development is good - suspense is maintained throughout. Plot is interesting, but not watertight - some things just don't gel. Dialogue is a bit clichd at times. Ending also feels a bit unrealistic.This all said, quite entertaining and always intriguing.Good performance from Nicholas Cage in the lead role. Lara Flynn Boyle puts in a solid performance as the femme fatale. Dennis Hopper overdoes the theatrics though.Supporting cast are OK. Best of the bunch would be Timothy Carhart as the lead Deputy Sheriff. "},{"Title":"A lonesome drifter, low on money, finds himself suddenly in a deadly rat race for money.","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West is a beautiful film. It is a film made by movie lovers, for movie lovers, with clearly lots of fun and enthusiasm. It is as much a film-noir as it is a western, a thriller or perhaps a black comedy. Set in middle-of-nowhere Wyoming the film starts with the masculine ex-marine Michael Williams (Cage), with his muscle car on the side of the road. He has almost no gas, only some peanuts as food, and little money.He is on his way to apply for a job at an oilfield. Seemingly a friend told him this job would be a definitive. Williams, however, doesn't get hired due to a war injury. Williams hits the road again, searching for a job in another place. He stops at a local gas station, where he wants to fill his tank and ask for advice. The gas station seems abandoned and at the cash register some cash is exposed&#x85; This is one of the first in many moments where William's moral stance is put to the test. Steal the much needed money or leave it alone and stay broke? Luckily, Williams doesn't have to make a choice; the owner unexpectedly appears. Williams asks for gas and a place where he can find a job. You can try Red Rock says the man, while he fills the tank for five dollars &#x96;the last of William's money.Welcome to Red Rock reads a &#x96;somewhat unsettling- metal sign on the side of the road when Williams enters the town. It is a sign that he will encounter many more times, for it seems that leaving Red Rock isn't as easy as entering it. It is here where it all goes downhill He asks for a job in the local bar, which results in a strange twist of fate. The bartender (J.T. Marsh) thinks Williams is the killer he had hired to murder his cheating wife! The pay for it is big and Williams can't resist the temptation; he accepts the offer. Instead of killing the bartender's wife though, he explains her the whole situation, She, however doesn't seem impressed. She actually wants him to do the reverse and kill her husband for double the money! Williams, now full on cash, tries to avoid problems and take a leave from Red Rock, but by bad luck (or fate?), he keeps finding his way back to the diabolical town. When the real killer (a brilliant Dennis Hopper) shows up and the existence of even more money is discovered, Williams' search for money turns into a rat race, where lust, greed, obsession and violence are no exceptions.As you can read, Red Rock West is a dark film. Every character has its own secret agenda and even Williams'' moral is sometimes quite ambiguous. Although the film is quite funny sometimes, with enough irony and black humor, it is still one of the more serious films starring Nicolas Cage. Cage plays his character quite natural and even has few of his famous freak-outs.The atmosphere of this film is just brilliant. The film is well shot, the music is amazing (too bad I couldn't find it anywhere on the internet), the cast is great, the pace is fast and the plot is gripping. It has many great and exciting scenes and the way the thriller and western genres are combined is very entertaining. Still, somehow, the film never really delivers a form of profoundness, which more memorable and canonical films do provide. It is as if something is missing.Nonetheless, I think Red Rock West is an extremely underrated and overslept film. Don't expect a full blown masterpiece here. Rather expect a very good and entertaining thriller/western with a great role for Nicolas Cage.As Roger Ebert fittingly concluded his review of the film In a sense, we've been in Red Rock many times before It's a town where plots lie in wait for unsuspecting visitors, where hatred runs deep, where love is never enough of a motive for doing anything when cash is available. And we love it there. "},{"Title":"Another gem starring Cage that slipped under my radar","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like i said in previous reviews, recently i have been going through Nic Cage's IMDb list of projects he has done to see if there was anything i hadn't seen that he's been in. And low and behold i found a bunch of em. So far out of three watched i liked 2 of em . 2-1 not a bad ratio so far. Just goes to show to show Nic Cage although one of the busiest actors is also careful of the scripts he chooses to work on. Red Rock West is another gem of his that must've slipped under my radar in 93. Great storyline however i found the ending a little on the cheesy side that being said it was a pretty good thriller. This time round Nic portrays Michael Williams a down and out Texan who resides in his car and tries to get jobs but fails to an injury he took while serving in the marines. Apon driving into a little town of red rock he enters the red rock tavern to see about a job and in a serious judgement error ends up taking a job that belonged to a professional hit-man (Dennis Hopper) needless to say all hell breaks loose and the moral of the story is number one money is never easy and number two...watch who's life you try to impersonate as the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. Good casting featuring the late great Jt Walsh who was always a pleasure to watch work and a very underrated actor to say the least. Another great and recently passed Dennis Hopper portrays the hit-man that was originally intended for the hit but was a little later then mike at arriving to the bar. Dennis hopper in my books was awesome in portraying villains. Lara Flynn Boyle rounds off the cast with a less then believable performance as the sheriffs wife who the hit is to be delivered upon. Nic Cage's character in this spends the rest of the movie digging the hole he has made himself further and further. To get out is the question. "},{"Title":"You must be Suzanne. You look pretty enough to eat.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One thing I always liked about Robert Ludlum thrillers is just when you think you have it figured out, it goes in a completely different direction. There are so many twists and turns in this film that I have a sore neck from watching.One thing I also like about director John Dahl (Kill Me Again, Rounders, Unforgettable) is that he can be depended upon to direct and, in this case, write (with his brother Rick) a good story.Now, add Nick Cage, Dennis Hopper, Lara Flynn Boyle, and J.T. Walsh to the cast and you have a story that will keep your interest even if they are playing characters that all of them have perfected. Dahl seems to bring out the best in folks, and this will keep you interested, and guessing, until the very end. "},{"Title":"Interesting throughout","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like the other comments made here, I definitely thought this movie deserved a wider release and is hugely underrated.  The movie reminded me a great deal of U-turn,(I'm surprised no one else made the observation)a movie that it preceded, and unlike U-turn, was able to remain interesting throughout.  If you come across this movie late one night on HBO or stumble across it at the video store, definitely check it out. "},{"Title":"strip down neo-noir","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael Williams (Nicolas Cage) can't nail down a job due to his leg. He's running low on money. He goes to Red Rock to look for a drilling job. The bartender Wayne Brown (J.T. Walsh) assumes Michael to be Lyle from Dallas. He has hired Lyle (Dennis Hopper) to kill his cheating wife Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle). Michael takes the money and tells her. She makes a counter offer to double the money. He writes a letter to the sheriff. When he tries to leave town, he accidentally hits a man. He brings the injured man to the hospital but the man has actually been shot. Then Wayne Brown walks in as the sheriff of this little town but that's not the end of this twisty plot.This is stripped down. There is a desolate feel to everything. The characters are dark. Nicolas Cage does some of his best work. Dennis Hopper is doing his dark killer character. Lara Flynn Boyle nails the femme fatale act. It does add a few too many craziness but I do like the hard noir style. "}{"Title":"I was just trying to ditch my old lady......","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a promised job for Michael fails to materialise in Wyoming, Mike is mistaken by Wayne, the town Sheriff, to be the hit-man he hired to kill his unfaithful wife, Suzanne. Mike takes full advantage of the situation, collects the money and runs. During his getaway, things go wrong, and soon get worse when he runs into the real hit-man, who happens to be Dennis Hopper....Red Rock West is one of Dahl's more overlooked movies, but it's certainly one of the best, and in my opinion, it's a more satisfying experience than 'The Last Seduction'.But it's probably because I saw it a long time after its release, and it has two great performances from the late Hopper and Walsh, both of whom never failed to disappoint, but most of all, its so good to see Cage put in a great performance, because as we all know, he's not been too picky with his choice of roles lately.The story is great, the narrative handles the twists cleverly, and it has that classy feel to it, a thriller you can really get your teeth into, and even though you know that Cage will come good, the film has so many surprises, you can forgive the predictability.Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bizarre Love Quadriangle","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, Red Rock West isn't a very original or innovative film, since it repeats many of the western's clichs from the eighties. Also, it may not have a great scenario or photography direction-- because of that, it seems to be much older than it actually is. However, the film is extremely entertaining; the story develops quickly, with an engaging and professional cast-- Nicolas Cage himself hasn't aged a day since this was released, he now looks exactly the same. The story has some interesting twists that help the film not become boring-- which is the worst element a film can have. See it without commitment and you'll have a good time. "},{"Title":"Serpentine thriller","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are certain people who scream out to be typecast. Looing for a small-town bigwig with an air of corruption and a nasty streak? How about the late (and much lamented) JT Walsh? How about a contract killer with superficial charm and a centre of pure viciousness? Has to be the late (and even more lamented) Dennis Hopper. Penniless drifter with a hard luck story? Nicolas Cage, who else? Only femme fatale wife of small-town bigwig doesn't immediately scream Lara Flynn Boyle, but she does a perfectly adequate job in the role.Red Rock West is a noir movie, updated for modern audiences. The plot involves murder plots, opportunism, corruption, double-dealing, and assorted twists and turns, and is splendid fun. The performances are all dark, and all the principals get their teeth into the piece.Highly recommended, if you're in the mood for some dark fun. "},{"Title":"This Neo Noir Rocks","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A drifter looking for a job is mistaken for a hit man in a small Wyoming town, leading to all kinds of complications. Cage is perfectly cast as the unlucky schmuck hoping to make a quick buck and get out of town but finding he can't escape the title town. Hopper does what he does best, playing a psycho known as Lyle from Dallas, the real hit man. Walsh as a crooked sheriff and Boyle as a femme fatale round out the fine cast. The script by brothers John and Rick Dahl contains delicious twists and turns, and John's direction creates a terrific neo noir atmosphere. Witty and very entertaining, it sucks the viewer in from the start and never lets up. "},{"Title":"The Wrong Man ...........","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A lovely old - fashioned thriller coming on like a cross between Alfred Hitchcock and David Lynch,Red Rock West follows the misadventures of injured veteran unemployed oil worker Mr N.Cage as his luck turns from bad to worse after he ends up with an empty gas tank and barely enough money for a cup of coffee in a one ute town in the back of beyond. It has been established right from the start that Mr Cage might be down but he is not out,and he might be broke but he will not steal,not even in his present dire circumstances.Consequently when he is mistaken by Mr J.T. Walsh for the man he has commissioned to murder his wife,Mr Cage calls on the wife to warn her of her husband's intentions.In turn she,in the person of Miss L.F.Boyle, offers him even more money to murder Mr Walsh.Mr Cage decides to leave whilst he is still in front but as he is driving out of town he hits a man in the road.Tempted as he might be to drive on,he takes the man to hospital,where it turns out he has been shot.Mr Cage is detained by the Deputies who call the sheriff who turns out to be Mr J.T.Walsh. Events take a further complicated turn when,escaping from custody,Mr.Cage narrowly avoids being run over by the real hit-man on his way to fulfill his commission.About now you might be forgiven for thinking enough already,but as it happens on the screen it seems a completely logical turn of events,the narrative flow of the movie at this point seeming unstoppable. Mr D.Hopper is comfortably cast as the hired killer,like Mr Cage a USMC veteran.This little piece of serendipity keeps Mr Cage alive long enough out-think the murderous trio and survive,a little more battered but still unbowed. It is a tribute to everybody involved that what sounds on paper remarkably like a piece of nonsense is in fact a tense exceptionally well made picture with fine performances all round. Red Rock West is a movie - lover's movie.Within five minutes you know you are going somewhere you've been before on plenty of occasions,but you'll be very happy during the trip. "},{"Title":"Good cinematography","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The more I watch Nicholas Cage, the more I appreciate him as an actor. Watching this movie now (in 2005), I can see that it doesn't really fit into the genre of movies that was coming out in the early 90s. I don't really think it can be considered a film noir, but it is pretty dark at times, due mostly to the lighting and odd personalities of the characters.Typical performances from each of the three main actors, who all did a good job with their roles. I thought, however, that Hopper and Boyle's characters were left undeveloped, as it was sometimes hard to understand what they were doing and why they were doing it. Hopper is a love him or hate him kind of guy. The plot is really good, and although I found some parts to be very unrealistic, there were parts where I had to hand it to the director (i.e. when he first sees the sheriff). All in all, this movie is definitely worth watching. ***1/2 "},{"Title":"A TOWN WE ALL KNOW","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In cinema history there are some movies that doesn't get the attention they deserve.They never become a mainstream hit or the main subject or the main example of a discussion,article...I think 'RED ROCK WEST' is one of the strongest examples for this kind of movies.The reason for this 'less' reputation is probably this movie brings nothing new to film-noir genre.The characters,the events happened,the dialogs,the relations are so familiar.But John Dahl uses perfectly all these 'well known' film-noir classics;the people tempted by money,the people who gets nothing at the end of the adventure.And of course a perfect anti-hero character;Michael played by Nicholas Cage.I think another reason for the situation of the movie; this movie was shown in a few number of theaters after it was shown in Sundance Film Festival.It's just a thing  don't get.John Dahl knows what he does,the cast is not bad at all and the work they do is pretty good.The most influenced movies are 'BLOOD SIMPLE' and 'TWIN PEAKS'.In both three movies mysteries,a story with puzzles are the keys.Also the approach of the directors in both three movies are similar.They focus on the behavior,the character of the people when it comes the time to face the situation.Of course the light of the master directors are more realized.I think the plus points which make these two movies better than 'RED ROCK WEST' are in 'BLOOD SIMPLE' the directors use the stronger and in 'TWIN PEAKS' the director also focuses on the psychological side.Also after 'RED ROCK WEST','FARGO' and 'A SIMPLE PLAN' use the similar stories by using different levels of approach.But 'RED ROCK WEST' is smoother and this is one of the pleasures movie offers.You can realize how this movie is good by just watching it as it is.The story can seem confusing but the reflection of it in the big screen is easier to focus.The characters are not hard to understand.Like the story,the characters are also in the way of film-noir genre.'Michael' is a man who has no control over the situation he caused,just going with flow and trying to stay alive,played by 'NICHOLES CAGE'.'Wayne Brown',he tries to understand where they reached from a simple conspiracy how it became,by the performance of 'J.T. WALSH'.'DENNIS HOPPER' plays the character named 'Llye' who is a cold-blooded killer and just focuses on the job he does.This character reminds me the character,'Sentenza' who played by 'LEE VAN CLEEF' in 'THE GOOD,THE BAD,AND THE UGLY' more than the similar character in again played by 'HOPPER' in 'TWIN PEAKS'.And 'LARA FLYNN BOYLE',a femme-fatale character which every crime movie needs.She is also another mystery in this story with puzzles;you don't understand if she really loves 'Michael' the end of the movie.Another classic point from crime movie genre is used in this point,too;less characters with more tension between them.A thing that hits me in this movie is the song playing in the end by 'DWIGHT YOAKAM' who also has a a small role in the movie as a truck driver.'A 1000 MILES AWAY FROM NOWHERE';in the lyrics,the tune,the harmony with the atmosphere of the movie makes an incredible work.'ROGER EBERT' says that Red Rock West is a place we've been in many times.Really there are times we are tempted,out of control,no idea what to do,where nothing seems enough strong against money.In the beginning of the movie we enter the town with Michael by the side of the 'WELCOME TO RED ROCK WEST' signal and the movie ends as we leave the town by watching the train.It's like a period of our lives to stand tall and test our faith.In both cinema language and life language Red Rock West is a town we all have ideas how it seems.  "},{"Title":"Modern Film Noire at its Best","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is proof that film noire is an enduring style, and extremely worthy of staying alive. For me, it is the best example of film noire since Chinatown.It will, unfortunately, never get the recognition it deserves. It was never promoted properly when it was first released and has had to build its cadre of fans through venues like Vanguard Cinema and word of mouth rental referrals.I highly recommend that people looking for something more than mindless entertainment rent this movie and delved into its highly convoluted plot. "},{"Title":"Great black comedy","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What an unexpected surprise. I found this movie surfing through Bravo or A&E, and it was riveting. The plot has been well-covered in other comments; suffice it to say that I thought this movie was basically a comedy, not a thriller. I don't generally like Nicholas Cage, but he was much more honest and straightforward in this movie than he has been in his more commercial successes; the other major players (especially Dennis Hopper as Lyle) were perfectly cast.My two favorite scenes in the movie the initial meeting between Michael (Cage) and Wayne (JT Walsh) in Walsh's bar in Red Rock, and watching Cage conk Hopper on the head and escape from the house. "},{"Title":"hit man gets stuck","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dennis Hopper is the ultimate bad guy and is very closely matched by Lara Flynn Boyle who adds to the sleaze that makes her famous as an ADA in the TV's The Practice.  Nicholas Cage is cool as the good guy in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong people. "}{"Title":"Featuring the late great character actor J.T. Walsh's meatiest role ever.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A smart taught quirky thriller with the usual off beat role for Nic Cage. Also featuring Lara Flyn Boyle of tv's The Practice, Dennis Hopper and tour de force performance from the late great character actor J.T. Walsh. The meatiest role I've ever seen him in for sure.  This movie is relentless, just when you think you know what is going on, it pulls the rug out from under you.  Woefully under appreciated. "},{"Title":"You Dell from Dallas","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Story about a out of his luck Cage who just drifted into town who takes a job offer, with out knowing what he is getting into.  Ever made a mistake you could never get out of, well this is one of them.  The event leads to a very bad couple of days and a very interesting story.  Watch this move and you will get a feel for the west and it characters; the twists in plot keep ones attention on the film.  Dell from Dallas puts this one over the edge. This movie is much better then kiss the girls or the bone collecter. "},{"Title":"Good Lead, Female & Male, Good Bad-Guy, Good Music","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No Self Pity is a powerful message from this fun movie that has the advantage of entertaining from the first frame. You can be honest or bent & it still makes good sense! Stick up for yourself & never give up. F..k who.. F..k everyone! Stay true to yourself & you will get wounded but your karma is your karma & that's it.  "},{"Title":"Great little movie.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dahl seems to have been under the influence of Wenders' The American Friend. Innocent Nick Cage gets recruited for a hit.  Dennis Hopper plays a real Hit Man.  Lara Flynn Boyle is dangerous.  The Hero gets more entangled the more he tries to extricate hisself. And small town America does not seem all that safer than the Big City.  Like it's predecessor mentioned above, this movie has lots of plot twists and turns that seem improbable, but all lead to the cathartic self discovery.  "},{"Title":"Full of twists and turns.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A surprise thriller with more twists and double crosses than a doodle pad. A great cast mixing it up with an intriguing plot overseen by a Twin Peaks-ish influence in director Dahl.  Nicholas Cage is a very underrated actor and shows a great portrayal of a man in a bind looking for the right thing to do.  J.T. Walsh (RIP to a great actor) is always a wonderful villain, as is Dennis Hopper.  It's such a shame he never made to a higher profile in the biz.  I'm sure he has his followers, though.  In all, this is a great film that shows you that you don't need big bangs or a commercial soundtrack to be an entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Very Coen-ish","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the director of movies 'Last Seduction' and 'Kill me again', comes another movie in the noir style. John Dahl created a niche for himself by making movies on the themes of adultery, blackmailing in the early 90s. Though I did not have much of an opinion in regards to last seduction. But nowadays Mr Dahl has resorted to directing television shows.Its a shame since the man had talent.***SPOILERS** This is quite an impressive movie which revolves around a drifter Cage) that comes in to the town of Wyoming for a job. However he does not prove lucky and becomes mistaken for a hit-man from Texas by bar owner J.T Walsh. He is given the task to kill his wife (Boyle). But Cage decides to split after taking the upfront payment without doing it. On the way out of town he accidentally hits a guy on the road, who he then takes back to the local hospital. At that point Cage coincidently meets Walsh again, who also appears to be the local sheriff. After that Cage escapes from his clutches but meets in to the real hit-man that happens to be Dennis Hopper.John Dahl has co-written and directed this movie. Therefore it goes to show that a project can turn out decent when a director puts his thoughts on screen. The direction is of good standard, however while watching the movie I got a made for TV movie feeling. There were too many close up frames. However this does not deter the movie from being an enjoyable experience. The movie had good pace and the structure was perfect. Dahl written the script with good duration of lenght.Cage portrayed the role as a drifter realistically, though to me his performance seemed somewhat restrained. His facial expressions were on the mark. Lara Flynn Boyle was hot and handled her part perfectly as the femme fatale. Her hairstyle was far out and can make any guy go on his knees. Hopper played his part well. But I feel he was miscast for this role. He did not convince me that he had the qualities of a hit-man. The role was not written keeping his personality in mind.While viewing one will get deja vu of previous movies like 'The Hot Spot' and 'A Perfect Murder'. Due to the fact that some sub plots are similar. Overall if you are a fan of noir movies, then this one is for you. Worth recommending. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good thriller.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies,that you just come across.I have never heard of it before,and I come across it one day it was on TV.I turned out to be a good thriller,with a good story filled with lots of suspense and of course good acting.I have now realised that there are many of this kind of movies just lying around out there,that never gets any credit because they are low budget and sometimes unknown actors. But this movies had great actors like Nicolas Cage and Dennis Hopper. Sit down and watch this movie if you ever come across in on TV. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, low-budget film noir","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Red Rock West is a perfect example of how good a film can be with practically no budget. All you need is a smart script, good actors and loads of atmosphere. RRW delivers all these and more.Nic Cage plays an ex-marine, injured in Lebanon, who is down to his last 5 dollars after being refused a job on an oilfield because of his bad knee. He roles into Red Rock and is mistaken by bartender Wayne (JT Walsh, not quite as his most menacing-but still evil) for a hit-man from Texas.He pays him to kill his wife and make it look like burglary. Only when he gets there, just to check her out. She offers him double to kill Wayne. Cage just wants to get the hell out of town with his free money and leave the sparring lovers be. But a series of mishaps and setbacks results in him yo-yoing in and out of Red Rock, back and forth. Eventually this leads to a run-in with Lyle from Dallas (a cheeky and somehow sympathetic Dennis Hopper), the REAL hit-man from Texas who offers to help without knowing he's making the plot more complicated.RRW never had a big release, thus most of it's audience discovered it on video or on cable TV showings. Viewing it in such a way might make it seem like a TV movie but it's bigger than that. The slick, slowly-timed direction, moody score and howling desert wind would have all made for a great movie in theatres but the best you can do these days is watch the DVD on a big HDTV.The only weak point of the movie I can think of is Lara Flynn Boyle's boring femme fatale with the nasty dyke-ish hairdo. I certainly wouldn't fall for her but if you assume that Nic Cage's character is in to militant lesbians then you'll accept it nonetheless. "},{"Title":"A Smoky Hidden Gem","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Small towns in the middle of nowhere are made for the movies. To onlookers, a city like Red Rock would be a quaint checkpoint under the umbrella of a long-winded road trip, perfect for a pit stop and a quick bite to eat. Stay there too long, though, and you'll find yourself desperate for entertainment, money, love, and more. Maybe that's why the characters in Red Rock West are so cold-blooded.When the film was first introduced to audiences during the Toronto Film Festival in 1993, it was immediately well-received, a neo-noir praised for its uncommon quality. Distributors weren't as smitten. When its domestic rights were sold to Columbia Tri-Star, a theatrical release was out of the question. The film doesn't fall neatly into any marketable category. A western film noir isn't something people can immediately spark to, the head of the marketing department of Polygram declared. So it was disregarded, branded as a cable and direct-to-video product. It was shown on HBO seven times in the fall, but the small-screen, after all, is certainly not a distinguished place for a movie to be shown, especially one that should be taken seriously.But just as things could not have gotten any worse, they suddenly became better When Bill Banning, the owner of San Francisco's famous Roxie Cinema, saw Red Rock West for the first time, he disagreed with the distribution it was receiving. Surely, the film had an audience. And after a year of trying to secure the rights, his faith in the film paid off; it became such a box-office smash at the Roxie that it eventually was given a proper limited release, becoming an art-house favorite within a few weeks.Normally, I wouldn't go so deeply into the backstory of a film that came out more than 20 years ago, but as of 2015, Red Rock West still feels like a classic waiting in the wings, desperately wanting to be discovered by another Banning. Even after all the ruckus it made throughout 1993- 1994, it remains a hidden gem, deserving to sit on the same golden throne that Blood Simple currently lounges on.A drifter in the same caliber as John Garfield in The Postman Always Rings Twice, Michael Williams (Nicolas Cage) finds himself in the city of Red Rock after failing to acquire a promising oilfield job. When he stops by a local bar to wash away his sorrows, he is confronted by the owner, Wayne Brown (J.T. Walsh), who mistakes him for a hit-man he hired to kill his wife, Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle). Michael is young and stupid, so when Wayne offers him an eye-grabbing stack of cash, he fails to correct him that he's actually Michael Williams from the Navy, not Lyle from Dallas.Being the nice guy that he is, he breaks into the Brown home, hoping to warn Suzanne that she's in grave danger. But when the real hit-man (Dennis Hopper) shows up, Michael finds himself tangled in a net of lust and sin that can only end badly. And it surely doesn't help when he becomes romantically involved with Suzanne.In the ashen throes of the film noir genre, there is almost always a recurring feeling of dj vu; once you've seen a disciple with a drifter, a femme fatale, and a shady husband mixing it up, you've probably seen them all. Film noir has hardly changed since its peak years (the 1940s and '50s), yet it has maintained a startling freshness in the same way comic books have. You may have experienced every storyline possible, but the way those story lines are told, with hard-bitten cynicism and dark alleyway peril, have infinite allure.Red Rock West is a consistent delicacy, a greatest hits album of film noir adventures. Look at the way a cigarette dangles on Lara Flynn Boyle's kissable lips. Look at the way Dennis Hopper handles his gun, like a detective flying off-the-rails of his sanity. John Dahl is a director who knows his movies &#x97; after only a few minutes into the film do you get the sense that Murder, My Sweet and Raw Deal are not just B- movies to him, but cookbooks, its recipes lingering in the cinematography and the writing.Red Rock West isn't without its issues Music plays when a scene should be strictly silent, destroying any tension waiting to be had, and it would have been interesting if the film had explored Michael and Suzanne's relationship as thickly as Walter Neff and Phyllis Dietrichson's. But two minor flaws can hardly deter the success of a film as striking as Red Rock West. Ignoring the disconcerting violence that plagued the majority of '90s independent neo-noirs, the film is deliciously old-fashioned and deliciously stylish. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable nineties thriller worth the watch just for Hopper","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie that had slipped under my radar until this evening. Watched it pretty late at night and would recommend that as the best time to take it in. It is far fetched and a little cringe worthy in rare moments,but overall it keeps you gripped for the entirety of the movie. Acting all round is good. Dennis Hopper is fantastic - worth watching the entire movie just to see him in the car scene. Only a true maniac could act like that much of a maniac. J T Walsh was also believably sinister. I just found it enjoyable to watch overall - mostly for the little things - moments of acting brilliance and interesting shots and settings. It's kind of hard to describe but even for such a fast paced plot with so many twists and turns - the overall feel of the movie had a comforting quality about it and was vaguely reminiscent of Breakdown. Definitely worth a watch. "}{"Title":"No time to waste, I have a train to catch","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The plot is so complicated that it becomes simple after a while since everyone is crooked and all are twisted and there is no straight criminal in this film, no honest citizen either. Everyone is trying to take the others unawares and fool them around and get out of the trap with the money and apart form the only one who was not a criminal at the start, no one will get anything out of this case all the money will end up in the bushes or in the sheriff's office, once the sheriff has been taken care of. So just follow the ranting story and try not to rave into some nightmare during the night. It is just entertainment and just silly mushy mucky thieving business with all the thieves trying to rob all the others of their shares. But it is true the plot is so tricky it will bring surprises all the time. But be careful there might be a con man or a hit man behind every single tree of this treeless waste land in Wyoming whose only way out is the train.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Gritty, Exciting, Brilliantly-Written Loser-In-Hick-Town Crime Thriller","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mike is an ex-marine with a trick knee bumming around Wyoming looking for work. In the small town of Red Rock, a barman mistakes Mike for someone else and hires him to kill his wife. Things get complicated when the wife doubles the offer to turn the tables, the barman turns out to be the town sheriff, and then the real hit-man shows up &#133;Written by Dahl and his brother Rick, this is a great head-spinning, triple-crossing film-noir modern classic, chock-full of crazy invention. All of the plot twists in the summary above occur in the first twenty minutes and the movie somehow sustains this all the way through, without ever being confusing or obscure. There's also a delicious undercurrent of humour; whenever Mike tries to do the right thing it invariably leads him into more trouble, and just as soon as he thinks he knows the score he has the rug pulled out from under him again. Cage gives a great weary performance in the lead but the three supporting actors have the plum roles; Hopper is the definitive Texan psycho good-old-boy, complete with Johnny Cash stylings, bolo tie and jet-black Buick V8, Boyle slinks through the picture cheating on everybody she comes into contact with, and Walsh (who sadly died of a heart-attack in 1998, well before his time) is excellent in the pivotal role of Wayne the bartender/sheriff, just the right mixture of ruthless, nervous, mistrustful and squeamish. Watching these characters rub off on each other - especially when all four are stuck together for the graveyard finale - is a misanthropic delight. Dahl's direction is smooth, crisp and invisible (the way the best film-making should be), making excellent use of the arid Montana locations and expertly turning the screws on all his characters. If you're a fan of good crime writing and no-frills hard-boiled film-making, don't miss this terrific thriller. Trivia - the yellow-capped truck-driver Cage uses for his early getaway is country music star Dwight Yoakam. "},{"Title":"THINK ABOUT A JOB!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A small movie and yet one of my faves! It's sure that this film is based on both the success of Twin Peaks and Nicholas Cage's stunning performance in Wild at heart, but still a movie with a very own character. Just like David Lynch, director John Dahl tells a story that is the nightmare from everyone of us. Michael Williams (Nicholas Cage) is just an ordinary boy whose dream it was to work on some oilplatform but he is refused the job because of a bad knee. Disappointed he drives to Red Rock West, a town in where nothing happens, and by mistake he got offered a job by Jim (Craig Reay) for the sum of 50000 dollar! Anyway, Jim thinks Michael is the manhunter he expected to come since days so he thinks Michael is the killer. Cos the job is not looking for oil it is killing Jim's wife Susanne (Lara Flynn Boyle). The naive Michael thinks it's enough to warn Suzanne and drive away but he got offered a second job by Suzanne this time  100000 dollar if he kills Jim.... 50000 + 100000 = 150000 dollar but Michael forget one thing, two in fact  the real manhunter (Dennis Hopper) shows up and in his own naitivity he wrote the sherrif that a man wanted to kill his wife but the man happens to be the sherrif himself.... You think I told you the whole movie? Well, it's just a start as Red Rock West drives you from one plot to another plot and everything is filmed in a sort of Twin Peaksstyle salted with a violencerate of Tarantino (not that Quentin meant one thing back then). The characters are superb  Dennis Hopper plays a perfect maniac, Lara Flynn Boyle is always the femme fatale people like us can only dream about and Nicholas Cage is just what he is  one of the best actors ever.... "},{"Title":"An entertaining & pacy thriller","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a pacy thriller starring Nicholas Cage as Michael, a Texas drifter looking for work. He drives into a small Wyoming town, and while in a bar is mistaken by the owner for a Texas hitman. The bar owner Wayne(played well by J.T Walsh) asks Cage to kill his wife Suzanne(Lara Flynn Boyle). Michael agrees, but keeps the money, and accepts Suzanne's offer. Then the fun begins, with Michael stumbling upon the real Texas hitman, Lyle (Dennis Hopper, in a suitably manic performance).The rest of the film is full of twists and action, has Michael and Suzanne elude Wayne and Lyle. An entertaining film, that speeds along. The ending is a bit of a surprise too.   "},{"Title":"A little known Gem","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this flick I knew Gage was going to be one of my favorite actors... I wasn't wrong. Hopper, as always, was a bundle of explosive energy, and deliciously evil... Great film. "},{"Title":"More twists and turns than a Chubby Checker concert.","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Love him or hate him (and since he named his kid after Superman he's dropped a peg in my book), Nicolas Cage at least takes chances with his films. Sometimes this is disastrous and sometimes worthwhile, and realistically he hasn't appeared in a really good movie since Adaptation in 2002.But Cage ruled the 90's, in between the commercial stuff like Con Air, The Rock and Face/Off he continued taking chances with his choices with Wild At Heart and Leaving Las Vegas. Red Rock West was made in between his indie period of the late 80's and the blockbuster guy of the mid to late 90's, it's a pretty good movie but you can see why articles don't say things like Nicolas Cage, of Leaving Las Vegas and Red Rock West fame&#x85;.Strongly reminiscent of some of the Coen brothers early stuff, Red Rock West has more twists and turns than 12 garden variety whodunit thrillers combined. Cage stars as Michael, a man down to his last few dollars that is coming to an end of a long trek to start a new job on an oil drilling site, only due to a military service injury he is knocked back by the boss.So now he is still broke, out of fuel and disenchanted, Michael heads into the nearest town hoping to find work. A couple of early incidents show us he's an honest and ethical guy, the kind of guy that calls a woman Ma'am.Now the next bit can be described, but after the movie is half over the plot becomes impossible to explain simply without major spoilers as reality changes from one minute to the next.So, Michael heads to the local pub and orders a coffee, the barman sees his car parked outside and because of the Texas license plate decides he is the man he is waiting for Lyle from Texas. As the mistaken identity involves paid employment Michael goes along with the mistake, until he finds out that the job is to kill Wayne the barman's wife. Rather than straight out saying No Michael takes the cash and heads to Wayne's home.Somehow Michael happens upon the wife riding a horse to where she is having some hanky-panky with another farmhand, it's never really explained how he knew she would be there but who cares? Michael then goes to the house and waits for her return, when they meet he explains why he is there, and Suzanne (played by 25 kg Lara Flynn-Boyle) calmly counter offers Michael, at double the rate, to kill Wayne instead.Again Michael agrees, only this time he says enough and decides to Lock it in Eddie, taking the cash with the sole intention of buggering off. Now in non-Hollywood this would be the end of it, but because a movie can't be over in 45 minutes we follow Michael as he leaves town in the rain. Here's where the twists get hectic, I'll summarise the next 15 minutes- Michael hits someone in his car and takes them to the local hospital. (He's a nice guy remember?) - The Sheriff turns out to be the last person Michael needs to see, Wayne. - Wayne is a bit miffed at the perceived double cross and decides to off Michael. - Michael escapes, runs off and is picked up by Dennis Hopper, who is, you guessed it Lyle from Texas!I can't explain much more without spoilers and confusion, only from here on in the remainder of the film revolves around Suzanne, Wayne, Michael and Lyle, and includes a myriad of twists and turns, deception, betrayal and double crossing galore. Everything a grown movie needs really.Wayne is played by JT Walsh, usually a bit player in other movies and I have always felt he is a bit over the top.Dennis Hopper is always ultra-hammy, and is almost cartoonish here.Lara Flynn-Boyle is surprisingly low key through most of the film, and has flawless skin regardless of the circumstances.Cage plays the troubled hero part to the hilt, he's the prototype for the nice guy in a situation that he wants to avoid but can't.The finale is in keeping with the rest of the film and is fairly satisfying.If I might digress momentarily, at one stage Michael walks into a bar and says Give me a beer, now I have walked into many bars and know if I ever say that the bartender will say something along the lines of Which one d**khead? Since the dawn of time even the most low key bar stocks more than one brand, in fact most have literally dozens to choose from. Dunno why this bothers me but it does. If you're worried about the perception of product placement do what Tarantino does and make up a brand.Final Rating &#x96; 7 / 10. We twist. And turn. And twist and twist and turn. Twist, twist, twist. Turn, turn, turn. The Itchy and Scratchy Show. I mean Red Rock West. (That means it's a pretty good movie.)If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Suspense-thriller","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie begins when Michael (Nicolas Cage) an  unemployed man from Texas, goes into a Wyoming bar in Red Rock, desperate for cash, after passing up an opportunity for a job in Wyoming, because of a physical injury.   Michael tells Wayne Brown (J.T. Walsh), the employer that he needs a job, and Wayne tells him that he has a job available for him, and that is to kill his wife, Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle.)Throughout the movie, there are unpredictable twists, and turns.   You will learn secrets about each of the three characters, including Dennis Hopper (who is Lyle the real hit-man.)   There is a real secret behind this plot.  "},{"Title":"A delicious rural noir of greed, sex, and betrayal.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Rock West is a wicked gem of rural noir.  A case of mistaken identify ensnares penniless drifter and roughneck Nicolas Cage in the lives of greedy Sheriff J.T. Walsh and his adulteress wife Lara Flynn Boyle.  Triggerman Dennis Hopper's arrival entraps them all in a web of lies, sex, betrayal, and murder.Excellent performances and a script rich in plot twists and surprises make this film a treat that improves with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Film noir was more than plot.  Can the same be said of neo-noir?","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the modern west, in all its desolation and deterioration  &#150; a wilderness where the only oases are cinderblock bars tarted up with neon, where there are so few inhabitants that men (and on occasion women) must wear more than one hat.  Into Wyoming, lured by a buddy's promise of a job, comes Nicholas Cage, up from Texas, but loses it because of his bum leg (he was in the bombing of the marine barracks in Lebanon).Ducking into a saloon for a cup of coffee he probably can't even pay for, he's offered a high paying gig by the owner (J. T. Walsh), who seems to know him  Knocking off his cheatin' wife (Lara Flynn Boyle).  No fool, Cage takes the money but, no killer, warns her (and, in an anonymous letter, the sheriff) that her life's in jeopardy.  Driving away, he hits a man; taking him to the hospital, it turns out the man had been shot &#150; and that he was Flynn's trailer-cowboy lover.  Arrested, Cage discovers that the sheriff is the bar owner that hired him.  That's almost the end of him, but rescue comes from an unlikely source &#150; the real Texas hit-man Walsh engaged (Dennis Hopper)....Red Rock West numbers among those latter-day suspense thrillers that are called neo-noir.  Translated, this generally turns out to mean that the plot has a few more twists than usual; it says nothing about look, or outlook, or the other characteristics that make the noir cycle such a distinctive period in cinema history.  And Red Rock West is almost entirely plot (though its spare photography has a unity to it).  Its performances are never less than competent but never much more, either; the characters are outgrowths of the plot, not vice versa.  John Dahl, the director, would do some well-above-average work in his next movie, The Last Seduction.  But that may just have been a fluke.  Judging by later movies such as Joy Ride, his talents slant decidedly toward the commercial &#150; that is, to plot, and then more plot, twisting slowly, slowly in the wind. "},{"Title":"Neo-Noir at its finest","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  RED ROCK WEST (1994) ***1/2 Nicolas Cage, Lara Flynn Boyle, Dennis Hopper, JT Walsh, Dwight Yoakam.  Film-noir gothic meets The Coen Brothers' Blood Simple  likable unemployed Cage wanders into a sleepy no-man's land and into trouble when he's mistakenly taken as a hit-man and resulting in some true plot twists.  Tongue-through cheek appeal and quirky characters make for an enjoyable, knee-jerk romp.  Directed with panache by John Dahl; film went to video then to cable then to theatres (!) "}{"Title":"Good unknown movie","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nicolas Cage stars as a moody drifter who comes to Red Rock West looking for a job. He gets involved in a case of mistaken identity and finds himself as a hitman. Lara Flynn Boyle lusciously plays the heartbreaker and Dennis Hopper plays the real hitman. A great movie to watch when you want something uncommercial. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Red Rock West","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had never heard of this film prior to seeing it, I wondered if it was an independent film, and I was correct, but with a good cast I decided to chance it. Basically drifter Michael Williams (Nicolas Cage) is in the town Red Rock, Wyoming, looking for a job, and meeting bar owner Wayne Brown (Pleasantville's J.T. Walsh) he is given a large sum of money, mistaken for a hit-man he has hired to kill his unfaithful wife Suzanne (Lara Flynn Boyle). He does not correct him, takes the money, and goes to warn Suzanne, and after she makes him a counteroffer, he decides he needs to leave. When Wayne knows his real identity, he chases Michael shooting a big gun, until he gets in a car with Lyle from Dallas (Dennis Hopper). But things get complicated when Michael realises Lyle is the hit-man he was mistaken for, and he makes a quick retreat. He goes back to Suzanne, and knowing they are both in danger, they plan to leave town together, and add another complication by falling for each other. Before they leave however, Suzanne insists they go and steal a big amount money in the safe. Of course things aren't going to go smoothly, and Wayne and Lyle catch up to them, and Lyle forces them and now tied-up Wayne to go and get the buried money. In the end, Lyle and Wayne both get what they deserve, Michael and Suzanne do get on a moving train together, but it is obvious she cares more about the money, and she gets what she deserves too. Also starring Craig Reay as Jim, Vance Johnson as Mr. Johnson, Timothy Carhart as Deputy Matt Greytack, Dwight Yoakam as Truck Driver and Robert Apel as Howard. The performances, apart from maybe a lame Boyle, are all fine and dandy, and it has got quite a good film noir feel for a black comedy thriller. Very good! "},{"Title":"imaginative plot","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Cage is superb as a wildmill-tilting ex marine who unwittingly becomes intricated in the perhaps THE most bizarre plot I have ever encountered. It is even more stretched than Fargo, and bears similarities to that gem of a movie Fine black humour (Dennis Hopper is funnier than I have ever seen him); great music; beautiful direction and camera; unreal stunts; total unpredictability, edge-of-your-seat suspense.  In other words, top notch film entertainment!  It could not have been improved on.I recommend this film unreservedly to any one who loves movies.  10 stars out of 10. ********** "},{"Title":"The Most Unlikely Coincidences Ever Seen On Film","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***** SPOILERS - AND NO I`M NOT MAKING THEM UP *****Michael , a drifter , comes across someone who thinks he`s a hitman and pays Michael a large sum of money to murder his wife`s lover  , but Michael decides he`s going to take the money and run . So Michael`s driving away from town and accidentally runs a man down . It`s at this point I wish to plead to the reader to believe me because this actually happens in the movie , the man Michael ran down is the person Michael is supposed to kill , but being a decent man ( Remember he`s a drifter , not a hitman and he ran the person down by accident ) he drives his victim to hospital where it`s revealed the victim was shot twice in the stomach before getting run down . The police are called and when the sherrif arrives Michael recognises him as the man who paid him to do the hit . So the sherrif takes Michael out to the desert to shut him up forever but Michael escapes and nearly gets run down by a passing motorist who it turns out is the real hitman , who makes an off the cuff comment about Michael being  One lucky son of a bitch  Considering all this takes place in the first 30 minutes of RED ROCK WEST I`d have thought Michael must be the most unlucky SOB ever to have appeared on celluloid . Think about it As you can imagine RED ROCK WEST takes some swallowing , too much in my humble opinion , to work as a classic thriller . It is enteraining though mainly down to the silly plot twists and it also has a good cast . In fact you`ve got to admire the actors for all keeping straight faces because if I appeared in this I`d be killing myself laughing at all the unlikely coincidences   "},{"Title":"Corny, predictable and improbable...a real disappointment.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected much of Nicholas Cage and much much more of Dennis Hopper and I was disappointed by both of them. Lara Flynn Boyle looks gorgeous in this film and it was with her that I was distracted enough to sit through the whole film but it took an effort. The movie starts out nicely with a few plot twists we hadn't expected but does a sharp turn from reality and goes deeper and deeper into the world of the stupid and unlikely. The ending is so convoluted and unrealistic that I wanted to reach out and turn it off but hoping against hope it might recover at the end I sat through. All I can say is   P.U.! THIS MOVIE STINKS!! "},{"Title":"Entertaining Noir with annoying plot hole (spoilers)","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are a lot of things good about this movie.  It's taut, well acted, and generally well plotted (but see below).  Good performances all around, including the late, great J.T. Walsh.However, I must express my extreme annoyance with a major plot hole.  Near the end of the movie, Dennis Hopper's character agrees to give up his semi-auto pistol, which he places on the ground, removing and pocketing the magazine/clip.  This pistol is then picked up by J.T. Walsh's character. It eventually ends up in the possession of Lara Flynn Boyle's character.  She threatens Nick Cage with the gun, who refuses to be intimidated because he knows the gun is unloaded.  The problem is that the gun cannot be unloaded.  We saw it fired once, earlier, before Hopper relinquishes it, which meant that there had to be a round in the chamber at the time Hopper put the gun on the ground.  Removing the magazine alone doesn't render a gun unloaded.  The round in the chamber has to be ejected to do that, and this was never done in the movie.  (NOTE the Al Pacino movie, SCENT OF A WOMAN gets this right.  At the end of the scene where he has been talked out of suicide, he ejects the round from the chamber of his .45 semi-auto from which he had earlier removed the clip.)Nick Cage is supposed to be viewed as being clever by remembering that the gun is unloaded, but in the real (as opposed to Hollywood world), he'd be dead, killed by the last round in the gun.Rating 7 - 2 (for the awful plot hole) = 5  "}]