[{"Title":"An excellent film that is both interesting and disturbing.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"101 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every thing about this movie is unique, right down to the 16mm film that they used to shoot it. Even though it was filmed in 1992, it has the look a an early 80's film. I defy you not to think about A Clockwork Orange as you watch it.Some people have said that the film glorifies skinheads. I would have to ask those people, WHAT FILM WERE YOU WATCHING? This film presents skinheads and their society and says this is the way it is. It does not glorify, nor does it jump on a soapbox. Not to tip anything off, but by the end of the film I don't think there are going to be too many people saying being a skinhead is a wonderful life. In fact, I think that is why the film is so good. The subject matter is not black and white, it is very gray. Skinheads exist for a reason, they do things for a reason. The reasons might sound immoral to us, but the world is made up of different types. In fact, most of the movie deals with Hando (Russel Crowe) trying very hard to hold his skinhead bunch together. However, the destructive nature of the characters is  bringing about the destruction of their lifestyle.The performances in this film are great. In particular, Daniel Pollock is great as Davey. I was very saddened to hear that he died right after this movie. He is often silent during the film, but his facial expressions are very powerful. For anyone that is interested in examining some of the darker groups that wander around this world, Romper Stomper has a very interesting one for you to look at. "},{"Title":"Russell Crowe at his best.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"76 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film will stay with you for quite awhile. It tells the story of Hando (Crowe) and his best mate Davey. Both are Skinheads in the Melbourne area, 1980's. Hando and Davey's lives revolve around collecting Nazi relics and attacking Orientals that have chosen to live in Australia. The two are very tight and big believers in the cause, keep Australia free of outsiders. However, when a girl enters the picture, one will start to see that life is more than just mindless violence and the other will go mad as he sees that his small group of Skins cannot change the fate of his country. This film is not preachy and does not come across as black and white. Both Hando and Davey have positive and negative traits. Instead, the picture tries to show what motivates Skins in doing what they do. The film has some violence, but only in attempt to show how pointless violence is. In my opinion, this is Crowe's finest performance. Moreover, the actor that played Davey is brilliant as well (sadly, he died shortly after the film was finished). If you want to see an excellent historical lesson about hate and how it destroys, see Romper Stomper. "},{"Title":"Fighting for Survival, Power","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"71 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure people may have dismissed this movie as a nazi tribute to white power. On the contrary, it gives an excellent picture of what happens when powerless people try to find some control over their lives. Nazi-ism itself is scapegoating and blame disguised as fascism, and this movie uses it to paint a picture of desolation and desperation.White power and immigrant-hatred are not what this movie is about. It's about friendship and the need to belong to something. Russell Crowe's Hando is powerful - I couldn't take my eyes off of him. Hando uses that magnetism to draw people into his ideology, thus creating control and power for himself. Things begin to unravel when Gabe, the girl who comes between Hando and Davey, throws off the hold Hando has enjoyed over his little crowd. Remember what Orwell says Absolute Power corrupts absolutely? Well, so does arrogance. Arrogance and the lack of respect for one's fellow man, regardless of race or creed, are key players in this plot.I wish there had been more of Davey (Daniel Pollock) in this film, and I'm sorry to have learned of his real-life suicide in the weeks after it's completion. I recommend this film to people who are interested in how poverty, ignorance, and powerlessness change people into strange earthly demons capable of indiscriminate violence.  "},{"Title":"Definitely Worth Seeing","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper takes great pains for an accurate depiction of the skinhead culture; the dress is perfect (except for the roles of the females of the crew) as well as the music; the overall movie captures the culture very well on those factual bases, and on the artistic fronts and aspects of the film the portrayel is also enjoyable, accurate, and sparks great thought.The film demonstrates some very well-done action sequences; the thuggish violence that is seen throughout the film is very well crafted, and done in a manner that I found to be pleasing to anyone who likes realism (nothing cartoonish or over the top -- just shear teeth-clenching violence).On top of the action sequences is a relatively intriguing story; however, the plot is  never fully developed and there are certain parts of the story that interest you very much, yet you do not get to find out more. The film is very much worth watching though it has its' flaws. A very good film, overall, that gives you good action and some things for you to think about.Mostly this film ought to be lauded for its' graphic depictions and its' attempts at accuracy (which greatly supersede most films). It is a very beautiful demonstration of Australian cinema (and proudly so) that is greatly underrated and underviewed. I advise anyone to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Brutal and bleak viewing","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I'd like to start by saying that anyone who thinks this is somehow pro-racist or pro-skinhead has REALLY missed the point, thats if they've even seen it,that is. That would be like saying 'Saving Private Ryan' glorifies war, or 'Trainspotting' glorifies drugs.It revolves around a bunch of lawless Australian skinheads, as they party to loud skrewdriver-esquire music, drink, fight (amongst each other as well as against the Vietnamese immigrants living nearby), cause mayhem..and so on so forth. They are living in a dilapidated old garage and scrounge off the system whilst hating it. They are portrayed as hopeless, angry lost kids held together by a psychopathic and violent leader;Hando Where to start with Hando, seriously, this is undoubtedly Russel Crowe's most unforgettable performance. Whether its his tattoo's, shaved head, unshaven face or cold eyed glare...you can't help but be drawn in by Hando. He is by far the most relentless and ruthless member of the gang, and during the film you wonder whether or not they'd even exist without him.During the film, things take a turn for the worse, actually they take several turns for the worst...which has an increasingly negative effect on the gang.I rated this film a 9, as it achieves what it sets out to do. Give the viewer a no-holds barred trip into the destructive lives of social outsiders, and the violence and hatred that follows. Not easy viewing, but I recommend this film to anyone who likes their movies gritty and upfront. "},{"Title":"Insanely fantastic","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very violent and if for any reason you need to get your heart racing, this is the ticket.  Takes awhile to get going and for a plot to actually form, but when it does all bets are off and the movie is running at 1000mph for the rest of the running time. There are moments of human interaction and even some tenderness but they make the violent scenes so much more meaningful.  Different from American History X but similar in many ways too.  Crowe is great, as always.  He can play anything, I am starting to believe his recent Oscar win was a really great thing.  Hando is a totally different person from Bud White in 'L.A. Confidential', Maximus in 'Gladiator', Andy in 'Proof' and Jeff in 'The Sum of Us'.  I can only imagine what he'll do in 'A Beautiful Mind' but I bet it'll be something.8/10 "},{"Title":"Obviously this is popular now for its star, but it deserves more...","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper is enjoying renewed interest due to the current fame of its star, Russell Crowe, but the movie stands on its own regardless.Crowe plays the leader of a violent group of racist skinheads, who are upset over Vietnamese immigrants in their neighborhood. There are quite a few clashes, a love story, and betrayal all wrapped up in a disturbing package.While watching Romper Stomper I found myself sympathizing with at least one of the racist characters, even though my views are far from his -- it's just that well written and acted. There aren't a lot of surprise in this film, but the surprises that exist are truly interesting and plausible. This does not mean that the movie is cliche and boring, though -- it presents its ideas in an interesting fashion with well-written and directed acting. "},{"Title":"Into the Heart of Darkness?","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Caused a lot of controversy in Oz and here in the UK when first released in 1992 and its not that difficult to see why.  This is is no American History X with its somewhat 'weekend' boneheads who still live with mummy and hold down jobs or attend school. Hando and his crew live outside society with no outside control or scrutiny of their actions.There is no attempt by the makers to moralise on what Hando and co get upto, they simply show how it is with Neo-nazi groups Russel Crowe's depiction of Hando surely ranks as one of the greatest portrayals of pure menacing evil ever and the fight scenes are brilliantly staged and edited. For a companion film to this I'd recommend viewing 'Ultra', an Italian language film that follows a group of football thugs in a similar way. "},{"Title":"NOW we know why Russell Crowe likes to fight...","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow.  This was recommended by a coworker and I must say I liked this film.  Especially the gang war sequence.  There's about 15 minutes straight of brutal violence and with NO guns.  Awesome.  Good backstory as well with a bizarre love triangle, parental molestation, and epilepsy.  The whole thing fits together in a neat little package and is essential viewing for any Crowe fans who want to see some of his earlier work.  7/10.... "},{"Title":"Nice 'n' Gritty!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wish I had seen it earlier when it was on TV. Finally just got round to watching it on recommendation from a mate. I've never actually seen a Crowe film, Gladiator has now become a priority due to his performance in this. I have to say that it's not often a film will make me cringe, neither is it often that a film will have me so emotionally engrossed with the characters as ROMPER STOMPER did. It's hard to explain, but even though I hated what the characters stood for, I couldn't help but cheer them on! It's nice to see a film which doesn't just portray the 'goodies'. My favorite scenes are the party, the rich man's house and of course the mammoth battle. An excellent film which definitely makes it into my all time favorite flicks...9/10  "}{"Title":"Oi! Aussie skinheads romp and stomp.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Skinheads&#151;love 'em or loathe 'em, you can't ignore them; and if you tried, they would kick your head in! Russell Crowe gives a bravura performance as Nazi-loving Hando, leader of a gang of racist thugs hell-bent on giving a good drubbing to the immigrants that have taken over his neighbourhood. Romper Stomper is a brutal and uncompromising look at the ugly face of prejudice and the futility of anger and violence.Hando's gang are a seething mass of hate and ignorance, lashing out at those they do not understand. The inevitable result is pain and suffering (and not just for those who get their heads cracked by the bovver-booted bully boys). No-one is allowed a happy ending in this film; everyone winds up dead, nearly dead or at least getting a good pasting.With excellent performances from all involved, this disturbing look at youth and blind hatred is compelling and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Boisterous rough and ready assault on your senses- perfectly timed","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boisterous rough and ready assault on your senses- perfectly timed and utterly sharp and not boring. Random violence explodes as post- Nazi punks/skinheads glorifying Hitler's racial superiority fantasies rattle the bones of society's apathetic navel- not with some political and social conscience but with some I'm bored/I'm a misfit/Hmm. Nazism? Sounds interesting truism.What they lack in vision (with the exception of Davey and Hando, who are bestfriends and the core leaders of the group) and reasoning they make up for in compulsive, frantic rioting and clumsily lashing out at the gooks- the Vietnamese people who they believe are contaminating the purity of their all-white community.For a veritable walking time bomb, Rusell Crowe as Hando the gang leader is super charming and hot. He exudes raw, magnetic power- he's exactly the kind of guy that could skin a cat alive without the pussy knowing it. Add some dangerous visions in his mind- and you have a frightening body count of dead gooks.I guarantee that you will never find a dull moment in this movie. The plot just tightens; and you just pity these poor, insecure, hapless but blustering, armed kids. Helen, sexually harassed by her father and another misfit, is bewildered and tender- and she pulls the story together, right when there's no more sympathy left for Hando. The wide shots of the frenzied fighting capture the pulsing desperation of the moment/s; and the music video to skinheads skinheads is a classic- one that Quentin Tarantino probably envies.The twisted ending is ferocious and perfect. It's actually a love story set amidst a society fuelled with hate and boredom and angst; or perhaps it's just a story about three lost souls navigating their squalid community- caught up, vindictive against societal ills (broken families, having no future, wasted lives looming ahead), eager to lay the blame on something, ready to embrace any brotherhood or credo that will give authenticity to their defiant rage. "},{"Title":"Crowe's future stardom looks obvious...","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The un-stylized, mind-numbing violence makes it a difficult experience, but Romper Stomper somehow manages to walk on that thin line between edgy and self-serving. It makes fine observations while not crossing the line, and that's what makes the difference between art and mere exploitation. Enjoyable like a smack over the head, the film basically gives you the horrifying spectacle of humans trying to connect. To fill a void. Through violence.The major asset of Romper Stomper is a young Russell Crowe who already dominates the space with tremendous star power. If he's not perfectly credible in this role it's only because, despite his tattoos and menacing physique, he simply looks too intelligent, too complex for a Skin-head. A real Skin-Head, as I imagine it, would be nothing more than a brain-dead, inarticulate brute, with no intellect whatsoever. Russell's clear voice and eyes can't help but blowing his cover.But this is no dumb reality-show, and the choosing of Crowe is a wise one. We are watching here more than mindless violence - there is something going on in these characters' minds after all. And it is interesting to get a glimpse. He's the leader, so he has some degree of intelligence; the rest are cattle. Nobody but Russell Crowe could represent an idea so convincingly the fascination of violence.By the end of the movie, I was left with the impression that these people were just a bunch of confused kids who hadn't been fortunate enough to have better role-models. Violent as they were, they seemed to be craving, deep down, for something else &#x96; for a family, for love and friendship. The way it plays out certainly leaves room for more open questions on nature vs nurture. However, the film doesn't make excuses for the gang's behavior. On the contrary, it presents them as a dying species, their ideology rendered obsolete by natural evolution. The movie only tries to identify the causes of this aberration. As I see it, the ending comes as both an affirmation of faith and a much needed moral position. It's good, seeing a filmmaker take responsibility for a change. The director could have easily turned Hando into a tragic hero, wronged by society and only taking what's rightfully his. Fortunately, that doesn't happen. Great acting and direction, well developed and intriguing characters, compelling social commentary and above all, Russell Crowe's take on a difficult role, make Romper Stomper an interesting exploration of the mind. "},{"Title":"haunting....","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is so much good stuff going on in this one.The look of the film It's gritty, and while you can tell it was lower-budget, the film reeks of quality in terms of the shots/overall cinematography. 16mm really did nothing but add to the realism of this one.The storyIt's chock-full of interesting characters. Some good. SOme evil. And some that want to go from one side to the other, but can't.The sound Amazing. The music is powerful. Especially in the final scene where the music will stay with you for long after the credits end.The acting First rate across the board. These people could have been real for all I know.This film will divide audiences because of it's subject matter, but it's one of the best, lesser-known, low-budget foreign offerings you're likely to see. The current 6.8 rating is an absolute travesty. I was expecting to see about 7.8, and that's why I decided to write this review.This is a disturbing film, and one that I can highly recommend.It IS better than American History X.86/100You Might Like THis if you Liked American History X(good, but not as good), THe Boys Next Door(perhaps the last time a low-budget, dramatic film disturbed me this much - not as good as this though), American Me(not quite as good as this), Boyz in the Hood(better), Tzameti 13(not as good). "},{"Title":"Read beyond the skinhead lines","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is tremendous controversy over whether or not this film is pro skinhead or not. Whereas American History X is obviously anti-racist, Romper Stomper is not and there in lies its greatness. In all fleeting appearances Romper Stomper seems like a romantic tale for racist skinheads but in actuality it is a tragic love story between societal outcasts, two of which happen to be skinheads. In context the film is a commentary on humanity, friendship, and love. The skinhead aspect of the movie is technically trivial in comparison to the love triangle of the three main characters. I won't go as far as saying that Romper Stomper carries the same weight as a Shakespearean tragedy but the comparison is valid. Those growing up in urban regions would quickly discount that statement due to an inability of seeing past the political overtones of the skinhead theme but the truth is that a significant proportion of the world's population can at least identify with Hando and his friends. Thus the only two ways of really appreciating this movie is either by being a racist skinhead or by seeing beyond that issue and examining the relationship between Hando, Davey and Gabe which happens to be brutally honest and human in my opinion. The score is excellent if not unintentionally distracting from the theme of the movie. The acting is extremely brilliant as well as is the cinematography which is appropriately gritty. Bottom line is do not read too much into the skinhead aspect; attempt to understand the characters as human beings first and skinheads second and you will thoroughly enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining as Heck","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is brilliant. It has great actors, real new-Nazi music, good editing... Before you see it, you must know that the Skinhead lifestyle has not originated The awful movie American History X is nothing like this. Romper Stomper is very entertaining and realistic. If you like good movies, I recommend you to see this. If you felt that American History X was just tragic with awful boring actors, but are interested in Skinheads or new-Nazis, you must see it. It is not any movie to be recommended to use in schools for learning about racism. I gave it 10/10 because it was simply awesome, and if any whiny politicians thinks that this movie is dangerous and must be banned, then they have not any knowledge about the point of this movie. "},{"Title":"Love and hate among head-kickers","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the better Australian movies to emanate from the 90's stars Russell Crowe before home-wrecking, hotel telephones and Oscars as an aggressive skinhead (Hando) whose relationship with best friend Daniel Pollock (Davy) sours over the ever-escalating brand of racism he practices, and the presence of Jacqueline Mackenzie's character with whom both are involved - Crowe's neglect paves the way for Pollock's advances and so the rivalry emerges.Apart from Crowe (who is essentially monotone in-character) and Mackenzie as a misguided rich kid rebelling in the extreme, only Sam Wyllie is recognisable as one of the motley crew. Though Pollock could have potentially become a recognisable actor, tragically his life ended prematurely shortly following this film.Generally, like a great many Australian pictures, Romper Stomper is edgy and raw, and the content of the film is fairly uncompromising in its violent and sometimes graphic detail (read nudity). This all bodes well if you're comfortable with the subject matter as you shouldn't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"more proof of Crowe's talent","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We most likely would find it hard to stomach a movie that humanizes skinheads, but Romper Stomper does just that. The plot centers on a group of Australian skinheads terrorizing the Vietnamese immigrants, but ironically, we sort of end up sympathizing with the skinheads.Russell Crowe plays the lead skinhead, Hando. A far cry from his clean-cut good guys in Rough Magic, LA Confidential, Gladiator, A Beautiful Mind and Master and Commander The Far Side of the World, he almost makes you forget that this skinhead is an actor. Like so many other actors and actresses, Crowe seems able to play literally any role perfectly, even making us root for a seemingly undesirable person. "},{"Title":"Hate Means Never Having to Say You're Complicated","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably the best movie about racism that I've seen, chiefly because it doesn't try to explain anything.  It just presents these young white Australian guys who don't like the increasing presence of Asians, chiefly Vietnamese.  Interestingly, after the opening subway scene we don't even see them doing much racializing, they just go about their grubby little lives.  All that really happens is that eventually one of them dies.  There's no catharsis, no great lesson learned, the surviving characters stay locked in their limited lives.  Which maybe is the point any ism to which one subscribes is ultimately a kind of box.  One may freely take this lack of freedom to the grave.  The rest of the world goes on with it's business.Then-unknown Russell Crowe steals the show as Hando, the most radical Skinhead.  Crowe has a kind of Dennis-Hopperesque quality, the ability to convey menace while seeming almost preoccupied.  His American roles have required him to interact with large numbers of characters, e.g. Proof of Life, Gladiator, A Beautiful Mind, in which he levels his Richard-Burton-laser gaze at all and sundry and flexes the occasional muscle when necessary.  In Romper Stomper he's mostly isolated; his Hando has elaborate tattoos that only he and a couple others ever get to see.  The shortness of his fuse makes his time bomb tick all the louder. In a scene where he tries to explain his views to a mate while doing pull-ups, it seems a shame that if Hando had only a little more insight into himself, he'd grasp how he's wasting his life.  Certainly there's no one around him who'll point that out to him, for various reasons. Americans should watch this partly to remember how horrible American History X was in comparison.  That latter flick DOES try to explain everything about the Skinhead played by Edward Norton and thus falls into a trap of it's own making.  When Norton's character says about blacks Slavery ended 130 years ago, when are these people going to get their act together? it sounds like a not unreasonable question, especially since blacks are also seen doing bad things.  But the point they should be making is that it's INDIVIDUALS who do good or bad.  In a neighborhood that's almost entirely black, of course most of the criminals will be mostly black, likewise most of the victims.  Romper Stomper cleverly steers clear of all that.Excellent use is made of a certain prop, a World War II era SS knife, without getting too allegorical with it.   "},{"Title":"An Absolutely Superb Piece of Filmmaking","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember when this movie came out in the cinema, it was both praised and attacked for its violence. Then when it came out on video, my group of friends watched it and loved it so much that they got themselves a copy of it to watch it constantly. The video then went missing after somebody lent it to their boss.When I first watched Romper Stomper, I watched it through the eyes of a lout, and thought that it was cool. This time I watched it as a piece of literature and suddenly saw that it is a superbly crafted film with very deep characters. The film revolves around a gang of skinheads who live in Footscray, an industrial suburb in Melbourne. The leader of the gang is Hando (Russel Crowe), a neo-Nazi, and his side kick is Davey, a more quiet and passive skinhead. One day in the pub they meet Gaye, a young girl who just left her boyfriend and is looking for excitement, so she hooks up with Hando.It is the characters that really make this movie. The first thing to look at is Hando, because his personality makes up the personality of the whole gang. He is the leader and what he says, goes. Hando is a nativist, meaning that the only native race in Australia is the WASP, the White Anglo-Saxon Protestant. His neighbourhood is being bought out by Vietnamese and this he resents. He believes that Australia is a white nation and the Asians are corrupting it, so they make a habit of beating them up. Hando is fighting a war that he cannot win, because the more he attacks the Vietnamese, the angrier he makes them, and in the end he brings the whole community onto his gang. This riot signals the beginning of the end of his gang because up until that moment they have not been defeated.Hando suffers from a fatal flaw, and that is his obsession with his hatred of anything Asian. At the opening of the film, he encounters a couple of Asian girls at the railway station, so he and his gang beat them up. This is not a noble thing to do, but rather the result of an obsession. The furthest extent of his flaw is during a break-in he sees a Japanese car, so he turns his mind from the job at hand to totally decimate the car. This leads to the owner of the house getting to them with a gun forcing them to flee and leaving all of the stuff behind.Hando is the ultimate in self-centeredness, yet he refuses to acknowledge his flaw. When Gaye exposes his flaw to him, instead of listening to her, he throws her out. In fact, his obsession leads him to severely disrespect the woman that is supposed to be his girlfriend. When she cooks dinner, instead of eating it, he attacks it for being Italian and throws it away. Yet without his gang, Hando is nothing. As we watch his gang diminish, we see the once proud and menacing figure that is Hando also diminish. His clothes become more ragged and his appearance more desperate. The scene when he arrives in Davey's bedroom after his gang are all gone depicts a man who has lost everything. And his final death, by the standard issue Hitler Youth knife, is fitting for one who followed the world view of Adolf Hitler. Even then the knife was made in 1944, at a time when all was lost for Germany.Davey is Hando's best friend, yet rather than equals, he is the one that follows Hando everywhere. Hando treats Davey as a child, and in a way he is. Davey does not have the burning passion that Hando has, instead he quiet and very submissive. Yet Hando realises that he needs Davey's friendship. He lets him go easily, yet when his gang is all gone, he comes crawling back to him. Davey claims to be Hando's best friend, yet there seems to be little interaction between them until right at the end. Hando does father Davey, as seen when he makes Davey comfortable after finding him passed out on the stairs. Yet it is the scene of the beach when we really see the finest interaction between Hando and Davey.Hando is the one who has all the words, and his words work to sink deep into Davey's minds. Hando believes that Davey needs him and tries to convince him to dump Gaye, for she is only a burden too them. It is not Davey that needs Hando but rather Hando that needs Davey. As mentioned earlier, without his gang, Hando is nothing, and it is when his gang is gone, Hando comes crawling to Davey to plead with him to join him. Even then, Hando kills a service station attendant to force Davey to stay with him. Davey is easily manipulated and persuaded, and it is because of this that Hando wants him around because he knows that Davey won't speak back to him.Romper Stomper is seriously a superb movie. The script is finely crafted and a lot of thought has been put into the characters, their relationships, their traits and their flaws. Some have claimed that there is a lot of Hollywood sensationalism in the movie, but after watching it recently I am very much inclined to disagree. This is not a Hollywood movie, nor is it a movie exploring the world of Skinheads and squatters, but it is the tragic story of Hando who, through his obsession, brings destruction not only onto himself but onto all of his followers. "}{"Title":"Pure, Raw Intensity","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of skinheads become alarmed at the way their neighborhood is changing.So this was Russell Crowe's breakout performance? Being a tough guy who beats people up? Sounds about right, at least as far as his image is generally concerned.I do not have much to say about this one. It lies on a plane somewhere between A Clockwork Orange and American History X, with the racism turned against the Vietnamese rather than African-Americans. I know nothing about racial tension in Australia, so I cannot comment on this aspect -- I did not know they had a Neo-Nazi movement, even a small one. "},{"Title":"Classic Aussie Racial Issues Flick","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Geoffrey Wright who also created another classic flick, Metal Skin 1994 has created another gem in Romper Stomper.Starring Russell Crowe who has also been in other classic flicks, Heaven's Burning 1997, Gladiator 2000, L.A. Confidential 1997, The Quick and the Dead 1995 and an episode of the classic television series, Spyforce 1971-1973.Also starring Jacqueline McKenzie who has also been in another classic flick, Deep Blue Sea 1999.Also starring Daniel Pollock.Also starring the talented John Brumpton who has also been in other classic flicks, Life 1996, Dance Me to My Song 1998, Redball 1999, Getting Square 2003, The Loved Ones 2009, Cedar Boys 2009, Red Hill 2010, Storm Warning 2007 and another classic Aussie racial issues flick, The Combination 2009.I enjoyed the party, violence and sex scenes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic racial issues flicks, Do the Right Thing 1989, Goodbye Uncle Tom 1971, Jungle Fever 1991, Malcolm X 1992, Fight for Your Life 1977, Glory 1989, This is England 2006, Made in Britain 1982 and American History X 1998. "},{"Title":"Davey's redemption","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILERS THROUGHOUT***This ugly, visceral, gut-churning movie may, at first sight, be regarded as a nothing more than a study of annihilation. Yet in reality this is, in essence, a simple tale of good versus evil - the damned versus the saved - Hando versus Davey.***SPOILER*** The lines may be blurred, perhaps rendered almost unrecognisable, by their mutual racism and violent tendencies, but once Davey finds an opportunity for possible redemption, in the form of Gabe, it is this story's aim to establish whether he can overcome the true evil that personifies his best friend.I appreciate that Russell Crowe's Hando may be the stand out character for many, but for me Daniel Pollack's wistful Davey, and his inner battles, provide the performance of the film and the hook upon which the storyline demands our sympathy.***POSSIBLE SPOILER*** Without meaning to sound patronising, the extent to which Pollack's performance was driven by his own demons, the demons that led him to take his own life before the film was released, is hard to know. Yet the anguish, uncertainty and complexity of Davey's outlook provided a more pleasing study in disaffected youth than that of Hando's who was essentially an unreconstructed thug with empty pretensions towards intellectualising his violence.***SPOILER*** You are always aware that Hando is heading in one direction only - self destruction, but the flicker of self-awareness in Davey, crystalised by his burgeoning love for Gabe, helps us, the audience, to forgive him his sins (which are plentiful).***SPOILER*** Hando is beyond help, but in comparison Davey is 'redeemable' and thus the film cleverly allows us to feel comfortable with our affection for a man who we have seen perform wicked acts.(There are few better examples of this comparison than the two sex scenes - the first, between Gabe and Hando is a soulless, expression of dominance; an almost brutal act, lacking any affection. But when Gabe and Davey are together we are presented with the entwining of two people expressing nothing but love for each other.)***SPOILER*** And thus, by the time we reach the denouement on the beach, the battle lines have been drawn and we are in no doubt as to where our affections lie. We are presented with a Shakespearian tragedy as Hando demands loyalty from his friend and the destruction of the supposedly malevolent Gabe.That Davey rejects Hando's pleas is the film's great 'Rocky' moment - we are cheering for him! and yet we have conveniently disregarded his devilish acts in the films earlier scenes.***YEP, IT'S A SPOILER*** Hando's death is the only possible outcome and it duly comes - but to what extent Davey is now free is questionable. His involvement in a string of violent crimes would have to catch up with him.Nevertheless, in the purest sense he has triumphed by rejecting the evil of Hando and embracing his more honest desires for Gabe. He has broken a wicked cycle and for that has allowed whatever latent morality he may possess to overcome his worst characteristics.***SPOILER***Davey - the lesser of two evils? Nope - in this context he is a force for good and our forgiveness and empathy is complete when Hando dies. "},{"Title":"Excellent acting and a well made film, but the significance...","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember hearing back when this came out that one of the actors gave a stellar performance. Years down the line I finally get around to seeing Romper Stomper, and that actor is international superstar Russell Crowe! And he does give quite a excellent performance (on par with everything he has made since). Actually everyone gave very believable and riveting performances with the very controlled and well timed direction of Geoffrey Wright. Overall the production and story are above par and it is very easy to get sucked in to everything. But I had to wonder what the overall purpose of the main characters being neo-nazi skinheads was. Although there was a sense of futileness to all the racial violence happening, there didn't seem to be a statement at the root of the film. The story starts as a look at a pack of skinheads and ends as a human story of two friends and the girl that finally helped the follower become the leader in their relationship. The fact that they were skinheads did not seem to have relevance to the core story, the two friends could have been mere thieves, part of a gang or even wall street moguls and the story could have taken the same route. So in the end I was left wondering, What was the point of adding the racial card if there was no statement being made? Nevertheless, Romper Stomper was a riveting movie that portrays the self-destructiveness that results from hatred with some excellent performances by the leads. "},{"Title":"Despite The Controversy It's A Slightly Empty Affair","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This hit the headlines in Britain when upon its initial release in London the Anti-Nazi League picketed cinemas showing it because ... well it gives that lot something to do . The fact that there's something inversely fascist in this by screaming  Fascist  or  Nazi  at someone doing something rabidly oppressive such as paying money to watch a film is lost on some people . At least London allowed the film to be shown unlike a few councils in Britain such as Glasgow city council who outright banned the film from being shown in cinema chains in the city . I'm guessing the thinking behind this is down to it being used as a recruiting campaign for far right groups ? Remind me what scene in this film promotes fascism in any way ? Now that the ill founded controversy has died down ROMPER STOMPER is the film best known for a power house breakthrough performance by Russell Crowe who at the turn of the century was quite possibly the best known movie star in the world . It wasn't just his acting he was known for and would often make headlines being a little too free with his fists and seeing Crowe in this movie all those years ago led me to ask if Crowe wasn't using too much acting skill as a violent thug . As good as Crowe is it's the performance of Jacqueline McKenzie and the late Daniel Pollock that probably stand the test of time Despite the memorable performances ROMPER STOMPER is a rather empty and unconvincing movie . It tries to be a gritty realist film but its constant use of an Oi soundtrack negates this . The production team didn't want to pay royalties to Neo-Nazi bands such as Skewdriver so that's two fingers up to both the Nazis and the anti-Nazis so congratulations to the production team for that . But the storytelling is a bit confusing it's got elements of a doomed love triangle but is in no way a twisted love story . Indeed the characters are difficult to buy in to and give the impression they're mere plot devices there to build up a story and have their world collapse around them as things go wrong . Perhaps this is why I thought the film tries to make a point of family and belonging but everything ends up becoming so confused that it's difficult to see what the point the film is trying to make . It's a good film in parts and you'll remember certain scenes such as the  fourth Reich fighting men  chase but at the end of the day ROMPER STOMPER is a rather empty film "},{"Title":"Crude, Ugly, Brilliant, Flawless","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the decaying urban squalor of Melbourne's back streets a gang of racist Skinheads live out a crude existence of nazi-rock parties, heavy drinking, and brutal assaults on immigrant youth. Led by psychotic neo-nazi Hando, the gang comprises Davey (his best mate), Bubbs (the underage mascot), Sonny, Cackles, Brett, Champ and Luke, along with their female 'camp-followers' of two dubious Goths and some tough-talking Skin-Girls. Several scenes (one presumes intentionally) eerily remind of A Clockwork Orange which adds marvellously if not chillingly to its overall tone, although the film is otherwise a piece of no holds barred realist cinema.When Gabe, a lost soul and deeply troubled young woman, strays into a back-street pub claimed by the gang as their hangout, the subtle cracks in the dynamics between Hando and Davey gradually unfold. As no-less a violent and unrelenting racist as Davey is, he is evidently a gentler more mild personality than Hando, and is to a large extent in Hando's shadow. As Gabe gets it on with Hando becoming the gang's latest auxiliary, Davey is smitten and his interest is not lost on Gabe, who for her part at least encourages his attention&#x85;if not craves it.Then a vicious attack on two immigrant men, which starts as an impulsive act of 'political activism', becomes the beginning of the end for the Skinhead gang and for the relationships between Hando, Davey and Gabe. After a terrifying mass fight against an overwhelming mob of Vietnamese men, which towers leagues above anything I've seen in any other 'gang film' and which arcs the entire middle of the movie, the Skinheads end up well and truly on the run. Resorting to basic human instincts and no longer able to conceal their worst personal defects (or in Davey's case, his affections for Gabe), the remnants of Hando's gang try to survive the dire circumstances their actions have brought upon them, and as they continue a catalogue of lawless deeds against those perceived as their enemies, the proverbial time-bomb continues to tick. One by one they fall, as Hando's once iron grip slips to sub-gutter (quite literally in one scene) leadership, forcing Davey to abandon his 'idol' and attempt to go it alone. With a tragically magnificent finale, this is a timeless story which delves into the raw and ugly of our times. "},{"Title":"Russel Crowe","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You liked Heath Ledgers Joker, then you might also be scared shitless by Russel Crowes flawless performance as the main antagonist in this outstanding story about hate. I mean just look at him. Just the simple way he moves and stares at the others and his sudden rage attacks. Damn what a performance.The film itself is really enjoyable/entertaining. This film crosses many lines, with its realistic, harsh tone. It sucks you right into its atmosphere, which can be really depressing in some parts as it does its job so well. And thats good for a film like that. the only bad thing about ROMPER STOMPER is the kind of boring second half. Surely its not a bad second half, it just feels so empty, but well nothing is perfect.I wouldn't recommend this film for educational reasons. If you are a teacher and you wanna teach your students about racism you better stick with American History X as the moral seams to be a little bit more focused on the subject.But anyways, check it out. "},{"Title":"Powerful film - in spite of some predictability","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a strong warning film about violence and its fatal consequences - no matter what the reason is, who much this need is justified etc. Youth violence has its roots often in the childhood, which is clearly visible in this film as well. And if we add problems with relatives, unemployment, shabby lifestyle/opportunities, gangs formed on the basis of ethnicity - it is all like a sparkle lit. Romper Stromper runs rather smoothly has includes very intense scenes well captured by cameramen the big scuffle between skinheads and Vietnamese youngsters is presumably the highlight of this film. And the cast is evenly strong, leading with Russell Crowe as Hando, but Daniel Pollock as Davey and Jacqueline McKenzie as Gabrielle provide great performances as well. The soundtrack has also a big role in the film's success - raw songs with anti-immigrant slogans give additional tense and vigor.Not a family film, but worth watching. Even for Russell Crowe's sake. "},{"Title":"Hate knows no bounds","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A truly original and inventive film, rated R for it's heavy use of violence that looks very real for a change. Incredibly on this video cover, the violence reference is not mentioned. Crowe's performance here was the one that catapulted him to stardom, where as far as I'm concerned, this is still his best performance here. It's a pity they don't have Oscar awards in Oz, cause he'd win it hands down, as Hando, the unrelenting leader of a pack of skinheads, their hate for asians, reaching beyond what anyone could fathom. We don't learn much about their reasons for disliking the Vietnamese, and that's a good thing, cause if more was said as to why, the film would lose it's substance and ferocity. Every performance in this movie is excellent. Daniel Pollock, John Brumpton, and Jacqueline Mckenzie, a desperate junkie and a victim of incest, (pity that bloody Deep Blue Sea, put a stale period on her career) are all flawless. More here so, is Mckenzie, so believable when having a seizure, even I got concerned, even though I knew it was just acting. From the word get go, this movie takes on a no holds barred ride into a nightmare territory of boundless hate. The skinheads, even question the barman, at their favorite watering hole as to why he lets gooks in there. Later on at the same bar, the barman goes off with an Asian guy, who's gonna take over the business, leaving his two sons to mind the place. How could this barman be so reckless. When learning of this, the skins can't get away fast enough and the two races go war to war. The skins, totally outnumbered, realizing they've overstepped their mark, flee, and take refuge in a warehouse, occupied by one of the skin's girl's ex's. The dialogue that transpires, between the girl conning her way back into this building, is actually a humorous relief, in the wake of the intense ten minute battle between the two races, that passed where some real nasty blood was shed, some of the most realistic use of blood, I've seen. I liked the direction this movie took from here. It almost made me take up using Campbell's sauce again. The sex scene with Crowe doing Mckenzie behind, both naked, was titilating too, almost necessary, putting a light, though not romantic moment to this film. Some of the potent dialogue, here too, is interesting. So is Crowe's extensive tattooed work on his back. I'm almost prepared to believe Crowe won't be able to surpass himself here with a better performance, than in this bold and confrontational film, that I can't believe I first saw over twenty years ago. The way the cops interacted with the skins, granting no mercy, when capturing them, sounded all so true, almost a replica of that exact same scene happening for real. The movie does lose a little of it's fizz near the end, when it comes down to our three players, one skin who doesn't walk away, the other hopefully walking away from all of this futile hate bulls..t for good. "},{"Title":"A potent and startling depiction of angry disaffected youth","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A gang of savage skinheads led by the ruthless and charismatic Hando (a mesmerizing portrayal by Russell Crowe in his star-making role) battle Korean immigrants who are moving into their suburban Melbourne neighborhood. Things go sour when the Koreans outnumber the skinheads and kill off most of their number. Further complications are caused by troubled, spacey epileptic junkie Gabe (superbly played by the fetching Jacqueline McKenzie), who comes between Hando and his loyal best mate Davey (the excellent Daniel Pollock). Writer/director Geoffrey Wright's dazzling debut feature seethes with a ferocious and unrelenting ultra-kinetic buzz that works over the viewer like a severe jackboot beat-down the frantic pace, in-your-face brutal and unflinching outbursts of hideous violence, stark nihilism, and uncompromisingly downbeat conclusion all add up to one profoundly unsettling, yet undeniably gripping and sometimes occasionally poignant viewing experience. Wright wisely doesn't preach; instead he allows the grim story and no-hoper characters to make the pertinent point that hatred and violence are an end to themselves rather than a means to an end. Moreover, Wright exposes the fear, rage, paranoia, and stupidity that fuels racism with a hard, unblinking clarity that's disturbing and provocative in equal measure. In addition, the performances are uniformly outstanding While Crowe clearly dominates the picture with his forceful turn as Hando, Pollock, McKenzie, Alex Scott as Gabe's incestuous rich father Martin, Leigh Russell as the bitter Sonny Jim, and James McKenna as scrappy little boy Bubs are all just as strong and impressive. Ron Hagen's striking, dynamic cinematography, the terrific thrashy punk soundtrack, and John Clifford White's jangly, rattling score are all fine and effective. An absolute powerhouse. "}{"Title":"A brutal work with a powerful performance from Crowe.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A brutally realistic work that depicts the true nature of skinheads years before American History X. And Romper Stomper has much more of an impact on the viewer because of it's extreme realism. American History X takes some of most brutal scenes of all time and just makes them look like silly Lifetime specials by slowing it all down and making everything melodramatic. Romper Stomper does the opposite, it films everything as it happens, making it one of the most disturbingly realistic works I've ever seen. Also, unlike other films about skinheads, Romper Stomper takes a completely unbiased look at their culture. Instead of showing everyone has rude, inconsiderate miscreants and then centering the film on the one person who is above at all, this film displays their culture for what it really is. A realistic look at the skinheads, instead of an over-dramatic look at the struggle one person makes to get out. Russell Crowe is disturbingly natural, fully absorbed and overwhelmingly commanding in his greatest performance of all time. Never have I seen Crowe become a character so well. He completely wraps his mind around this man and scares the hell out of me during his most violent scenes. The soundtrack also plays a vital part to the film. It's punk rock, hard-hitting sound really makes the viewer feel like they are with these skinheads and ready, to put it simply, to kick some ass. This all being said, the editing can get pretty sloppy and sketchy at times and the sound (primarily the sounds of the hits in the opening scene) are pretty poor at times. Gabe's story also felt a bit unnecessary, but I suppose it did have key plot points to move the story along. The whole thing with her dad though, really could have been left out. The ending is also pretty terrible. For such a natural, realistic film I wouldn't expect such an annoyingly unrealistic ending. "},{"Title":"romper stomper - a vicious masterpiece","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" this film is an assault on the senses! a group of white supremacists(neo-Nazis) attempt to 'stomp out' the growing ethnic minorities who are appearing in the neighbourhood of melbourne that they reside in. this is no simple white crimes movie - the viewer can actually feel the group's ignorance and hatred bursting on the screen. the episodic structure revolves around the inner dynamics of the group as they attempt to escape the consequences that their racial bashing has brought about. as a result they find themselves outnumbered and isolated from the rest of society with only each other to turn to... which unfortunately for all the members involved results in a bone crunching finale. check it out for the universally strong performances from all the cast with crowe as the leader of the group and mckenzie as a troubled epilectic as the standouts "},{"Title":"Romper Stomper","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the kind of film that the reactionary media love to get their teeth into. I remember when it was first released in the UK how the Daily Mail held it up as evidence of the failing moral standards of the nation, and called for it to be banned. They were unsuccessful, and the furore quickly died. Despite the Mail's publicity, the film only did limited business and was quickly forgotten. Chiefly notable now for an early starring role for Russell Crowe, Romper Stomper looks older than it actually is. It looks like it was filmed in the late 70s or early 80s, and the use of 16mm film belies the film's tiny budget.Geoffrey Scott's debut story focuses on a gang of Melbourne-based skinheads who lead lives of aimless violent debauchery. Led by the fiercely intelligent Hando (Crowe), they savagely beat a couple of Vietnamese who have bought their local pub, only to find themselves besieged by half the Asian community and forced to hide from both them and the police. A sub-plot features a love triangle between Hando, Gabe &#150; a rich girl who briefly takes up with the gang &#150; and Davey (Daniel Pollock), Hando's best mate. Some subtle interplay between Hando and Davey, in which more significance is given to what is not spoken between them, provides the convergence of an entire homo-erotic subtext, but also serves to distract both the viewer and the film itself from its main subject matter. As this menage-a-trois is not particularly well-handled, the film suffers badly as a result, and the visceral energy and insight of its first half is lost by the time of its conclusion.The use of music and the lawless street-gang milieu invite comparison with Kubrick's Clockwork Orange but, while there are obvious similarities, Romper Stomper pales in comparison. Crowe leads a cast that deliver surprisingly polished performances and he does well in a role that offers little in the way of character development once we learn Hando's dangerously skewed ideology, but he manages to suggest the intelligence that lurks beneath the brutish exterior with just a brooding look off-screen.Romper Stomper will never be a classic, and will appeal to only a narrow audience but, if it is your kind of movie, it is worth ninety minutes of your time. "},{"Title":"great movie, a slice of life par excellence","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  MY best friend reckons american history X was better but i disagree.romper stomper is way better. American History X had at times a few glaring faults in the character motivation arena. I thought it was a little strange how the neo nazis turned on their former pals so quickly (i know they had a reason) and how it seemed as though they were just moronic footsoldiers, blindly following orders of the KKK guy. Its a little superficial to dismiss people so easily like that. Although i thought the dinner table scene in AHX was brilliantly directed, written and acted, there seemed to me too many times AHX went awry in ways i mentioned above. Norton is one of my favourite actors and gives a brilliant performance but (and maybe im biased being australian) but i just found the characters in Romper to be more endearing and the plot more realistic. Admittedly AHX has more topical elements and Romper is less audacious in scope - essentially just a story of two brothers fighting over one girl, but the latter tells its story in a much more poignant way. (SPOILER) Who can forget how well russel crowe acted out his death scene at the beach.I just love the shot at the end with the camera put on its side with the haunting music and the washing of the sea against the beach.... just beautiful.....Daniel Pollock acted the same scene beautifully. As an actor how hard would it be to portray, revenge, sadness, irony and pity all at the same time ?the world of acting was made better with his arrival and sadder with his departure (suicide).  "},{"Title":"Violent and brutal","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A gang of skinheads in Melbourne Australia hate Asians and attack them every chance they get. They realize their neighborhood is being taken over by Asians and go on a rampage. The gang leader is Hondo (Russell Crowe) who picks up Gaby (Jacqueline McKenzie). However she soon tires of his violent attitude and falls for his best friend Davey (Daniel Pollock). It all comes to a tragic end.This film is far from perfect. The movie jumps around and the story is somewhat vague. Still it's well-directed with some very brutal violent fights and one fairly explicit sex scene. The movie doesn't take sides either. It does concentrate on the skinheads and Gaby, Davey and some of the women are shown as sympathetic characters but the rest are shown as sick, violent sociopaths. This originally got an NC-17 from the MPAA. From what I read, this was given that only because the MPAA thought if they gave it an R rating they would be accused of promoting racism (which is just silly). It now has an R and (from what I can see) there's no cuts from the NC-17 version.Pollock (who sadly committed suicide before this was released) and McKenzie are very good in their roles and the others are too. Only Crowe is just OK.A very violent brutal film. Not for everyone, but it is a strong angry statement about racism and how it can destroy and kill. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Exciting, realistic thriller drama.","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Is this a love triangle from hell, or what?... A psychotic and murderous skinhead, his shy brother-in-arm, and their degenerate and epileptic new female member.The first half of the film is about the conflict between the idiots and the Asians. The second half then gives a glance into the low-IQ world of skinheads and their equally moronic girlfriends. The film takes an unexpected turn towards the end by only focusing on the love triangle; and this is perhaps the only love triangle in film history where you hope that all three get killed in the end (or at least have their skulls fractured, and legs torn off). I am not sure whether the director wants us to at least sympathize to a small extent with the shy one and the girl, but he definitely doesn't succeed with me, if that was his intention; there is absolutely nothing redeeming about these characters. The fact that the girl was molested by her father and had a lousy childhood is not sufficient explanation - and certainly a lousy excuse - for her behaviour, if that is what the director was trying to convey. I hope he wasn't, because it's a widespread misconception that skinheads (and other trash) got their behaviour from abusive homes and what not. This is nonsense; if every abused child became a degenerate then at least a tenth of the population would consist of skinheads, serial-killers, and rapists.However, I believe that the film isn't preachy and that the terrifically-directed violence speaks for itself. The part of the film where the Asians take revenge is the film's highlight. Crowe is very good in a good cast. "},{"Title":"Great! (spoilers)","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper documents the downward spiral of a gang of Neo-Nazi skinheads in Melbourne. (not all skinheads are Nazis, racists, or even white, by the way, and people should keep that in mind while watching this movie). The group's leader, Hando, deeply hates all non-whites and studies Mein Kampf.However, one day the Vietnamese community victimized by Hando's gang decide to take justice into their own hands, and defeat Hando's gang in a fight, which leaves them reeling they've lost their base of operations as well as many of their members. Things are complicated further by a destructive love triangle between Hando, his second man and a co-dependent and self-destructive rich b*tch who likes bad boys.Romper Stomper doesn't pull any punches. This movie hands the recent (and complete failure) Football Factory its a$$ on a plate. RS has a better story, better characters, better dialogue, better everything. And the fight scenes are about 50 times more effective because unlike in Football Factory, Romper Stomper doesn't edit out the hatred, fear, pain and the injuries. The party scene is great too, and the sex scenes are much better than the usual prudish Hollywood fare. Romper Stomper is also way better than American History X, which at the end becomes a condescending candyland fairy tale.Some of the references to A Clockwork Orange are a bit too obvious, such as Hando's white trousers and black coat. But that's really the only minor problem I have with this film.  "},{"Title":"visually terrific","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper surprised me by being a very entertaining film. I knew it was about gangs and racist acts of violence, and I knew that I had seen all that before on a number of occasions. The only reason I gave it a chance is because I heard Russell Crowe was at his best here. Well, he's good, but the movie has a lot better qualities than him. It is technically superb. The lighting in the dim, Payback, sort of way is really cool, as is the scenery, the costumes, and especially the direction and angles. The music really intensifies the action sequences and even though the story is nothing special, the director knows what to do to always keep you focused. This movie is almost always exciting and it also carries a lot of meaning. It makes you almost understand the brutality because the main characters are the ones doing it. I was very impressed. "},{"Title":"Romper Stomper is not for everyone due to its unpleasant content, but it's still powerful viewing.","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Romper Stomper is certainly not a movie for everyone. It certainly deserved its R18+ classification in Australia due to its unsettling violent content and sex scenes. It will offend, it will shock and upset some viewers. It's certainly not one for young children. Those that watch Romper Stomper and put aside the controversial content will find that it is a powerful movie. Romper Stomper was also notable for garnering recognition for Russell Crowe.Romper Stomper centers on a group of Neo Nazis led by the charismatic and volatile Hando (Russell Crowe). Hando's best friend and second in command who Hando relies upon is Davey (Daniel Pollock, who committed suicide before the film's release). The gang befriend Gabrielle (Jacqueline McKenzie) a lost cause who is a drug addict and is sexually abused by her affluent father. The gang frequently wreak havoc throughout Footscray in Melbourne, Victoria and target the local Vietnamese in the area. Hando and his gang bash up a group of Vietnamese teenagers at the start of the movie with Hando warning one of them, This is not your country. After a violent confrontation with a large number of Vietnamese which sees a lot of the Neo Nazi's brutally bashed and their warehouse set on fire, Hando, Davey, Gabrielle and the remaining members struggle to fight for survival to stay alive and not get at each others throats as well as avoid the police and any further retribution.Though this is one of Russell Crowe's earliest roles, Romper Stomper is definitely one of his most memorable movies, right up there with L.A. Confidential (1997), The Insider (1999), Gladiator (2000), A Beautiful Mind (2001), and American Gangster (2007).Director Geoffrey Wright pulls no punches in bringing Romper Stomper to the screen, but he has certainly done a commendable job. Romper Stomper has netted a lot of controversy in Australia and worldwide due to its content but it still remains as one of the best Australian movies.Romper Stomper is a movie that may be unflinchingly unpleasant to watch but the rewarding factor is that it is a powerful movie with powerhouse performances all round, particularly from Russell Crowe.9/10. "},{"Title":"What's the Point?","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Unless you're curious to see Russell Crowe's feature debut, and/or are really, really into violence, I see absolutely no reason whatsoever to view Romper Stomper. Russell Crowe (and the fact the film is about gang violence) is essentially one of the reasons I wanted to see the movie. Sadly, I didn't much value the film. Yes, it was made in Australia (and was made on a low budget), but so what? That's no excuse for a poorly made one. I enjoyed parts of it, but the film as a whole almost tested my patience. The gang members (including Gabe, the only female) are completely one- dimensional. In fact, if you think about it more, they seem to exhibit no dimensions, whatsoever. Oh yeah, the girl has a couple seizures throughout the film. Why? Don't ask. It's never a good sign when a movie feels like an eternity and you find yourself wondering now much time is up. Too much stomping here, and not nearly enough romping. Or is it the other way around?** out of **** "}{"Title":"Bleak and brutal, but worth watching","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's hard to imagine many times when you actually think to yourself, 'Hey... I really fancy sitting down to watch a film about Nazi skinheads, beating up people they perceive as different.' However, just because the subject matter is pretty distasteful, doesn't mean that the film's that bad.Naturally, a lot of people claim that this film is 'racist propaganda' and refuse to watch it. However, after spending just over ninety minutes in the company of these 'Hitler worshipping' Aussie thugs, I can't see that their lifestyle would come across as very appealing to anyone &#x96; even the very impressionable among the audience. You could hardly want to be like these guys.The other thing 'Romper Stomper' is remembered for is Russell Crowe's performance as the main skinhead character. He does play him well &#x96; scarily well. It's amazing that he was able to build what became quite a diverse career on his angry, monotone performance here. Russell and his crew spend their days hunting down 'non white' residents who they're convinced are bringing down the neighbourhood and taking it away from the 'natural' white race. And, when they're not hitting other people, they're also hitting each other while jumping up and down to 'shouty' type skinhead music, spouting the wonders of 'bald-headed fighting men.' Just like 'Trainspotting' was a film about undesirable junkies, this is a film about undesirable skinheads. Neither tells you to behave like those on screen, but both offer a world into a (thankfully) niche group of people and the way they live their lives. You certainly don't have to like what to see to enjoy the film. Just be thankful you don't have Russell and co living next door to you. "},{"Title":"compelling violent characters","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In Melbourne, neo-nazi skinheads led by Hando (Russell Crowe) and Davey (Daniel Pollock) attack the local Vietnamese population. Gabrielle (Jacqueline McKenzie) was sexually abused by her father Martin (Alex Scott). She catches the attention of Hando. When they find their local bar being bought out by Vietnamese, they beat them up drawing in a Vietnamese mob. The skinheads are sent running after a bloody battle. Gabrielle has an epileptic fit. Hando wants guns to take revenge. Gabrielle suggests robbing her father's place.There is a sloppiness in Geoffrey Wright's direction but the story's edginess and violence make it a compelling watch. It's a star creating performance from Russell Crowe. He has terrific on screen charisma. McKenzie has a damaged beauty. The violence is the biggest star of this movie. The story does meander but it never loses the tension or interest. There is also a real life tragedy of Pollock's suicide after the filming. "},{"Title":"Russell Crowe's Star Power Really Shines In This Early Cult Classic!","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ROMPER STOMPER is much more than an early vehicle for Russell Crowe. It's a movie about racial violence, prejudice, and lives without hope. It's also full of great stomping fight scenes, amazing punk rock, and steaming hot sex. It never sentimentalizes the racist gangs, unlike GANGS OF NEW YORK. Instead it's violent, completely honest, and unbelievably disturbing. It's so ironic that this film features Russell Crowe as an absolutely repulsive villain, yet even here you can see the incredible star power and charisma that was to make him a global superstar in just a few years' time. As Hando, the Nazi Skinhead leader, he's cruel and heartless, yet you see exactly the same kind of strength, the silent aura of authority, that made him such a natural for hero parts down the road. Even when his gang is outnumbered hundreds to one the only thing you see on his face is stern determination and cold resolve. Now I want to talk for a minute about the film's tragic ending. Since this film is more than twenty years old, I don't consider this a *spoiler* but stop here if you don't want to hear about the final scene. Hando the skinhead leader dies horribly at the end. (Again, can that be a spoiler? Did you think the picture would end with Nazi skinheads taking over Australia?) But what lifts this movie above the run of the mill message picture is the nature of Hando's downfall. Instead of being killed in a street fight with Asians, he gets stabbed from behind by his best friend. What makes this image so powerful is that it defies expectations. Russell Crowe plays Hando as a man who is not afraid of death. He doesn't just want to fight the Asian immigrants; he wants to die fighting them. Alone among the gang, I think, he really understands that the fight is hopeless. Again, look at his eyes when they're trapped in the garage halfway through the picture, with hundreds of enemies banging on the door. This is the end Hando wants, and in an ironic sense, it is the end he deserves. The death he gets, stabbed by a fellow white man over a woman, is the ultimate humiliation. And there is irony, authentically tragic irony, in the fact that Davey is the only person Hando really loves, and that he is destroyed, not by his racism, but by his best mate. As he sinks beneath the waves with blood spurting from the severed artery in his neck, Russell Crowe keeps his eyes locked on the horizon, stoic and uncomplaining even in death.Talk about a real master and commander! "},{"Title":"A chocolate cake","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spectacular, seductive, powerful and impressive. A beautiful script and an extraordinary cast. Russel Crowe in one of most remarkable creation. A magnificent show, with taste of lost era, with strong recipes and joy of play. A film about mirror of life. Art, love, seduction and cruel games as ingredients of a cake with a very intelligent flavor in which cinnamon an pepper, hot chili and cream are ingredients. A chocolate cake. For mind and for the chance to find a intelligent story about the basic things of street fighting and every competition. All about Eve and Shakespeare comedies in same package.So, must see it! "},{"Title":"An in your face role","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Crowe leads a cast of tremendously believable Aussie skinheads through their world of hatred and debauchery. The cast all deserved awards for their portrayals. As Hando did in the film, Crowe led the cast in becoming a gang. The best way to see this result is to watch the supporting roles as they watch Hando. I can't say enough about the film, and any worries that this glamorizes or favours the skinhead movement should be put down.  "},{"Title":"Russell Crowe's early star shines","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a must-see movie for any serious movie buff. It is violent but not more so than many others. The movie shows skinhead Hando (Russell Crowe) as a real person rather than a caricature, which some have objected to, but the movie is not morally neutral he who lives by the sword, dies by the sword. The story at its heart is a love story about two comrades and the woman they both love.Hando is a sexually aggressive male who takes what he wants, when he wants it, and doesn't take no for an answer. He is a joy to watch in action.The scene smashing up the mansion, where in the background Bizet's Pearl Fishers plays, is one of the most haunting scenes ever filmed, in its juxtaposition of the sublime and the obscene.  "},{"Title":"Great film but tough viewing","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An important film but hard to watch at times.  The three lead characters are very well played and the subsequent suicide of Daniel Pollock was a real loss to Australian cinema - he puts in a wonderful performance.  Russell Crowe gives a thoroughly convincing portrayal of an alpha dog man leading his pack of misfits and latching on to neo-Nazi ideals in the absence of anything else meaningful in his life. His perceived incursion in to his gang's patch by Vietnamese immigrants leads to an eventual showdown between the two groups but the introduction of a disturbed girl into his gang leads to even greater personal tragedy.Note re. Russell Crowe it's easy to see why some Hollywood types reportedly refused to meet with him after seeing this film.  They assumed he was what he portrayed - a racist, Australian skinhead.  Er ... it's called acting. "},{"Title":"These aren't Hollywood skins like in American History X","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hando and Davey are best friends. They are both in a skinhead gang that squats in abandoned warehouses and beats up Vietnamese immigrants and gays for entertainment and to take back their country. They are a dysfunctional family whose unity begins to crack when Hando brings a new girl into the group. Gabe, a runaway girl, is also from a dysfunctional family, looking to be loved and accepted by her new friends. Davey, who looks up to Hando, also fancies her. Problems begin to surface as Davey starts to think for himself and questions Hando's authority and whether he wants to continue to live like that. This film is very violent right from the start, but it's never gratuitous. It's great to see the Vietnamese fighting back with equal violence, they don't just take it and cower. I think all the fight scenes had to be there to emphazise the chaos the skins live in. The great camerawork translates the hectic violence and grittyness perfectly, the cast and director all did a great job. Russel Crowe as Hando, the leader of the gang, is like a father figure to those boys, who are all followers. They need him to say what's what and where to go and what to eat.They are Lovingly violent to each other when they dance and have sex. It's the only way they know. Showing love for a girl/outsider is showing weakness, especially when she's tainted with epilepsy and incest, as in Gabe's case. Compared to American History X, which  Romper Stomper is compared to a lot, this film handled the same subject matter in a more succesful way. The one who is beginning to change does it in a much more subtle way than the Edward Norton Character, it's not so hollywoodesque in its portraial of the bad guy gone good, and the characters look like regular people, not at all perfect Hollywood-type. Davey still has a lot to learn whereas Ed Norton's Character is now this totally good guy who was just confused by his dad's tabletalk. Romper Stomper Skins live in Filth and Chaos, no parental guidance or love, American History X skins still live with their parents and seem mainly just bored with being nice guys. If you have to choose between the two, choose Romper Stomper. "},{"Title":"A lifetime reality in less than 2 hours","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched Romper Stomper two days ago.  And I was impressed by it.  I really loved the character attributes; I dislike movies which do not have enough character development.  I thought that Russell Crowe, the late Daniel Pollock, and Jacqueline McKenzie did wonderful in their roles.  My praises also go out to Ron Hagen, the cinematographer, and to Geoffrey Wright, the director and writer.  All combined, they accomplished something not many movies can - to be startling and disturbing while reaching inside to display the finer emotions of life.I especially enjoyed Pollock's character, Davey, and his silent attraction for Gabe.  It was not discussed or debated or brought into the open through dialogue, but through the looks he gave her, how he would be such a gentleman towards her even when Hando treated her like a dog.  After watching countless movies where people moan and whine about their relationships that they can't have, it was satisfying to watch a character silently endure his pains.Although Romper Stomper harshly portrays the brutality which these white supremacists are over-flowing with, it also shows that they are people none the less.  And as much as anti-racists feel despise towards them, we are no different then they are.  *Because* we despise them; we feel the same hatred they do.  There is no excuse for that.  And the anger which built up in the Vietnamese being beaten by the skinheads caused a reaction in them, the same as it did in the neo-Nazis.  So where is the difference?The objective view of the movie is what makes it strong, although that was the source of controversy when the movie was first released in 1992. However, I appreciated the middle-ground assessment of the situation.  In the first scene, as the skinheads pounce on the two Vietnamese teens in the tunnel, you feel hatred for them. But as the story progresses, you begin to actually grow fond of some of the characters.  You root for them in the battles.  And then you think to yourself, what on earth is going on - I'm cheering for the skinheads? This disturbing reaction to the movie is probably what caused so many people to slam it in their reviews.  They did not want to admit what this movie had done to them; that is, made them realize that skinheads are just human beings too. "},{"Title":"Chilling and confrontational account of a decline in friendship; well-being and society.","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From the ugly, distorted musical score which opens the film to the savage beating in an underpass which quickly follows and all the way through to the chilling finale, 1992 Australian film Romper Stomper is a tough and unflinching watch &#x96; a frank but brutal insight into the spontaneous, sporadic and violent life of a group of young adult skinheads located in the Australian state of Victoria. Thoroughly maligned by people in the past, and thus as a probable consequence, pushing its director Geoffery Wright into somewhat of a directorial abyss for the years since its release; but acting as launching pad for the actor that plays one of the chief characters in Hando, Russell Crowe, the film stands as a stark and uncompromising piece which systematically confronts and engages the viewer on a number of levels.It is indeed Hando whom heads up a group of leather jacket-clad; chain and tattoo sporting neo-Nazis whom maim, threaten, impose and rule whatever self proclaimed turf they have with a fist of absolute iron; unabashed in tearing into anyone not of their kind whom trespass. Whilst Hando is whatever designated chief, or leader, of this gang; he shares the limelight of the film's arc with two supporting characters. These consist of a slightly younger gang member by the name of Davey (Pollock), and a young girl with an ex-drug addict boyfriend and an abusive father &#x96; she's called Gabe (McKenzie). In whatever point of attack is required, the gang are established to be sudden, unhinged and somewhat carefree. Their loitering in and around a shopping centre in the early hours of the morning sees them gallivant, laugh and joke with each other; even mock-fight with one another in what is a scene of brief wrestling which has an accompanying soundtrack of animalistic and distorted sound effects to heighten anxiety and renders the group of a somewhat unnatural ilk. But this aggressive and spontaneous instinct is played out under a very physical, almost homo-erotic, umbrella of bonding the group engage in; something explored in a sequence that sees many of the gang members jump around topless to loud rock music and embrace one another in a knowing manner.Trouble has been brewing for the group since Vietnamese immigrants have moved into the area and bought out places of business over an unspecified period of time, something that boils over when they acquire a local bar which seems to have been adopted by the skinheads as their local place. The Vietnamese are, in their first proper establishment bar the opening underpass fight, shown to be more mild mannered. We first see them in a kitchen; they are peaceful, they are fulfilling a task, they are organised, calm and have some sort of order about them &#x96; they are creating something rather than destroying. When one Vietnamese bursts into the room, agitated and angered at the aforementioned underpass beating, another Vietnamese talks to him and calms him down rather than get additionally agitated and panic, much unlike what the reaction of Hando's gang might have been in that situation had the roles been reversed.The locations that most of the characters, both of the neo-Nazi ilk and native Australian in general, inhabit are old; worn down and disused while most of them are places of an industrial nature. Hando's headquarters, with the place in which he immediately inhabits resembling a sort of Nazi shrine complete with flags and memorabilia, is an old service garage once used for maintaining and repairing now rendered a place of terror in which those that frequent live off Fascist ideals and get involved in terror and violence. This, as a pair of equally young but not so psychotic, delinquents inhabit an old factory; another industrial place of business once used for creation and production soon rendered a den of hatred. This use of mise-en-scene, specifically in the setting, as a series of grey and run down places inhabited by some quite terrifying people render these once loud and proud places of business and production which spawned jobs and so forth aid in getting across the author's sense of despair at what he might perceive the nation has become. In a film that will see most of the characters' lives plus relations deteriorate; the industrial places of business now home to Australia's young and scummy have already run the course to ruin &#x96; all that remains is the youth follow suit.I've read in the past about how people have likened Romper Stomper to Kubrick's 1971 film A Clockwork Orange, and in premise and specific, individual scenes they are onto something. Thematically, Romper Stomper does not bear much resemblance to A Clockwork Oragne &#x96; it has its individual moments that remind us of said film in an underpass beating; an extended and rather disturbing gang war sequence; a scene in which a tramp is harassed as well as a sequence in which the group break into an elderly man's rich, isolated home before humiliating him and trashing the place. However; narratively, the film is everything A Clockwork Orange was right up to the point the respective lead in that film is hit around the face via glass milk bottle. It refuses to journey down a route looking at power and control by way of the state and opts more for a lower-set look at power and control within a group by way of a woman coming between the two most powerful members. The coming together, face to face as we observe by way of a profile shot, of Hando and Davey are the initial signs of the trouble to come. The film is a tough watch, but a lot of the toughness is born out of just watching the world and the relations people have with each other within it completely and utterly fall apart. The film begins and ends with shocking individual acts of antagonism; in-between, it has our full attention the entire time. "}{"Title":"Violence, down under....NEVER!?","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a gritty adventure through the eyes of a male member of a skinhead following. It follows their hatred for the Vietnamese community within their country, known among the group as the 'gooks' they regularly beat up and torture members of the 'gooks',in order to maintain territory and a good reputation. 'Hando' is the gang leader, he watches over the rest of the skinheads. His best friend 'Davey' is next in the hierarchy. Davey portrays a fairly sensitive character which really blossoms at the end of the film, with his love for 'Gabe'. However because of his friend Hando he feels he must be violent to maintain his position. Shot on 16mm and blown up to 35 (due to the budget), the film actually looks very good, and the violence is portrayed in a sophisticated yet brutal manor. Although the taboo subject of Nazism/racism is hinted at throughout the film a would actually say that this is more of a preferred reading film allowing us the audience to create whatever opinion we wish without a right or wrong answer. A fantastic film, well worth a watch 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic film","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is truly an amazing film. Both because it doesn't glorify skinheads, as some will say, and because things turn bad for the skinheads. This film shows skinheads like a skinhead would feel like; an organization, or family, where people took care of one another. But in this family, internal conflicts rips up their withstand, and destroys the club. When Babs is yelling We should have stopped when the Japanese people invades their shelter, you can understand how indoctrinated the members of the neo-Nazi league were. The best of this film is that it shows us how the neo-Nazis could stay together despite the fact that they were evil men. This film doesn't make it obvious that neo-Nazis are evil, but it shows that neo-Nazism is a trend that is meant to die, and that there's nothing you can do to stop it from collapsing and to fade away. So in my eyes this film is a Well-stated farewell to neo-Nazism and Hitler-idolizing. "},{"Title":"highly disturbing","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While I do rate this movie as a 9, it might as well be a 6 due to the numerous stomach-churning scenes and the very dubious moral at the core of this movie. There is definitely no good guy or happy endings and we end up without really liking any of the characters. So why a 9 you might ask - well think about a movie such as American History X - also very good but at least there is somebody to like in that movie. Here the director does not pull any punches which might actually be a bit more realistic - sad but true. The acting and editing is superb and thus the movie is intense in the extreme, but I do hope that people walk away from this movie disgusted... "},{"Title":"Hardcore","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow! Russell Crowe was perfect for the part and definitely proved that he was ready for Hollywood. This film is hardcore. Aggressive and full of violence, a cult classic if you ask me. Even the soundtrack is really insane. Its a good film and the end is really far out. Those scenes on the beach, especially with that bus of Japanese tourists getting of the bus and taking photos is so ironic and funny. That last slanting camera shot is frightening. Bunch of crazy skin heads with no future. Thank God for that. The gang is full of really far out weirdos and lost youth that clearly have their own issues so they project them in their political believes which one can hardly ever take seriously, they are quite ridiculous really. And oh yes, when they take over the house of that yuppie artist fellow, its bizarre really. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Spellbinding - Crowe is fantastic","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Russell Crowe plays the leader of a gang of skinheads in Australia that strives for racial purity, harassing Asians whenever the opportunity presents itself, but finds itself on the defensive when a group of Vietnamese retaliates. Slowly, the bigots are reduced in number, owing partly to the counteroffensive from the Vietnamese and partly to their own inner turmoil, as an auburn-haired femme from a broken home lends a distracting hand, leading to tragic results.The movie is a pretty rough look at the inner politics of hate gangs. Crowe and his crew have a single mission - the eradication of all nonwhites. In their neighborhood, more and more businesses are being bought or started by those of Asian descent. Hando (Crowe) is a neo-Nazi disciple; he has a copy of Mein Kampf, from which he takes lessons of leadership and purity, and he has a giant Nazi-swastika tapestry in his bedroom. The skinheads are utterly ruthless - they beat, maim, and kill for their cause.But when they roust a Vietnamese nouveau hotelier, all hell breaks loose. Relatives of the victim come swarming after the skinheads at their hangout, waging an all-out war that looks far more realistic than the silly rumbles the Jets and the Sharks used to have. Bloodied and perhaps a little bowed, the racist slugs head for cover.But their headaches are only beginning. Hando isn't the most sensitive guy, after all, so it's not long before his new love Gabe (Jacqueline McKenzie) bears the brunt of his tirades. Meanwhile, she starts to have eyes for Hando's best mate, Davey (Daniel Pollock), who's a much quieter sort. Meanwhile, she seems even daffier than they are, no small accomplishment; she has more emotional issues than a Park Avenue newsstand. But she's pretty and different (the other women in the group are Goth goddesses, whereas she's a redheaded vixen, you see, and an epileptic), so the advantage is hers, sort of.A couple of things make this movie watchable the fast pacing by director Geoffrey Wright and the nascent acting by Crowe. You can clearly see the greatness that would develop more fully a few years later. Crowe's Hando is cool under pressure, but ultimately flawed. He's never shown as weak, though, just morally unyielding. That is, when he shouts at Gabe, he doesn't turn around in the next scene and take her back, admitting his error. He's strong willed and misguided, and Crowe perfectly captures all of the character's nuances, right up to the deadly finish. "},{"Title":"worth a watch (despite some poor back up acting)","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To be honest, I'm sorry I first saw this movie when I was 14 as a number of the references went over my head that I picked up on during later viewings. I found with this movie, as with all movies, subsequent viewings had less impact as I had seen all the shocking violence and whatnot that encompasses the movie. For instance, first time around I missed noting things like the irony of Davey stabbing Hando with the very knife Hando actually paid for early on in the movie. And then there's all the intentional cheesy references to Kubrick's Clockwork Orange. There are plenty more, but you'll have to pick them out yourself.I'm not looking for documentaries when I watch a movie, however as a teenager growing up in the same city at the same time this movie was made, I find all the shots hauntingly familiar. I recognize the time, the feel, place and era of every city scene. I can even tell the suburbs that certain scenes are shot. I personally feel that capturing an emotion on film rather than just a picture should be worthy of respect in anyone's books. Even the train stations made me feel 'at home' for Melbourne train stations were literally as dark, dank and grotty as depicted in the opening scenes.My only real complaint is the bit character acting in the movie. It is absolutely abysmal. I feel for Crowe, McKenzie and Pollock. I may not be an actor, but from my own job I know what its like to work alongside completely useless twits. Its hard. Very hard. However, to their credit, in the face of adversary, all three acquit themselves in a way that only a true professional can, which probably explains why they have gone on (Pollock excluded for obvious reasons) to better things while the supporting actors are still too embarrassed to even show up as extras on homemade cable TV sitcoms.I wont try and give you rubbish about lighting or cinematography or any other pious aspect that has no business at the consumer end of a movie (as so many try hard hacks on here seem to want to). I'll give you my judgment based on the fact that this is supposed to be entertainment, pure and simple. As long as its not done noticeably badly then they've done a good job.If you want to learn something, go to school. If you want to judge something or someone, go to church. If you want to be entertained, then this is for you.Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"DVD Disc Two","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching the interviews, director commentary, and factual data on the second DVD disc, was for me as interesting as seeing the actual film.It revealed a very articulate writer-director Geoffry Wright, a former film critic, on his experiences with Romper Stomper. It also allowed us to see two fascinating cast members, Russell Crowe and Jacqueline McKenzie, give their personal perspectives in working on this project.Tragically, before these interviews and the film's premiere took place, the third lead, Daniel Pollock, performed an ultimate sacrifice taking his own life.What Brando's The Wild One did for his early career, Romper seemed to do for Crowe's. Both films offered a lot of violence, and little supportive philosophy. Both seemed ambiguous and inconclusive. Yet, Wright points out that he feels it's unlikely that these films resulted in any particular antisocial behavior that wouldn't otherwise have taken place. (One notes these interviews took place years before Columbine.)The film does put the audience inside the gang, and depicts its members more into pursuing baser adrenalin rushes and youthful excitement than political ideologies.But it takes the DVD extras to put things into a more cohesive perspective. Wright feels that his film demythologized the skins, thus draining the groups of their mystery. He noted a decided drop in such activities following the release of his movie. I have no basis for an opinion on this, one way or another. What I do get is a very driven project, which for several years and months, respectively, totally consumed its writer-director and hard working cast.It's a film that certainly does move, and puts its young actors through very demanding physical paces. Fortunately, they appear fully up to the challenge. "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" --- i thought that this film was going to be an older version of 'American History X' --- i was gladly surprised. This film had more in kin with 'Repo Man'--- 'Mad Max' or 'Clockwork Orange'--- there were great fight scenes and it never pulled you into any severe social thinking--- I took the theme with a bit of a laugh--- i don't think that Neo Nazism is that big in Aus.--- i spoke with a few Aussie friends of mine and they stated a similar disposition. With that in mind watching the film was a little more light hearted--- also --- i wont spoil it---- but there comes a point in the movie where the hunters become the hunted---- that made the whole story worthwhile--- watch it! "},{"Title":"A dose of Reality","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I still can't understand why a film that depicts reality such as this would be banned anywhere. Let's face it, violence, hate and racism are facts of life, and if anything may change a mind or two its seeing something like this, a film that show's one the fruition of such actions.Russell Crowe's performance was splendid as usual. He had me convinced that he was Hando. To this day I believe that Hando did exist mostly due to the convincing nature of Crowe's performance. He has proved time and time again that he can take on most any persona and make us believe he is that being.Although Hando was a disturbing character, his intelegence and sense of loyalty to his comrads was very evident. He was a born leader. It's just too bad his attributes were not used toward a more moral existence. He would have gone far, however I do believe that in this day and age a subject with such charisma would be singled out and shot, just like JFK or Martin Luther King. "},{"Title":"A dose of Reality","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I still can't understand why a film that depicts reality such as this would be banned anywhere. Let's face it, violence, hate and racism are facts of life, and if anything may change a mind or two its seeing something like this, a film that shows one the fruition of such actions.Russell Crowe's performance was splendid as usual. He had me convinced that he was Hando. To this day I believe that Hando did exist mostly due to the convincing nature of Crowe's performance. He has proved time and time again that he can take on most any persona and make us believe he is that being.Although Hando was a disturbing character, his intelligence and sense of loyalty to his comrades was very evident. He was a born leader. It's just too bad his attributes were not used toward a more moral existence. He would have gone far, however I do believe that in this day and age a subject with such charisma would be singled out and shot, just like JFK or Martin Luther King. "}{"Title":"Australian History X","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A unique and disturbing experience from the opening scene (the vicious beatings of two Vietnamese people) through the end credits (from the POV of a dying person, which gradually fades to black). This movie was made five years before the similarly-themed 'American History X' and contains what is easily Russell Crowe's best performance as Hando, the psychotic leader of a group of skinheads. They usually gang up on one or two of the Vietnamese in town (who they believe have taken all the jobs), while appropriate punk songs play in the background. But after one attack too many, the Vietnamese join together to turn the tables on their attackers. The skinheads are shown terrified and crying (except Hando, of course) in their hideout, which the Vietnamese tear apart in a scene that looks like something from 'Night of the Living Dead.' Another memorable scene is the party montage, which shows all the chaos of a skinhead party in only a minute or two. A new girl, Gabe, becomes Hando's girlfriend, although it is obvious later on that his skinhead friend, Davey, likes her too. There is a chilling scene where Hando sits with Gabe and reads her lines from Hitler's 'Mein Kampf.' She wants to become part of the group so she lets the skinheads loot and vandalize her father's house (she also has a personal reason for doing this). This scene recalls Alex's attack at the cat lady's house in 'A Clockwork Orange' (a film which is definitely one of the major inspirations for this movie). After Davey and Gabe fall in love, Hando (who has broken up with her) gives Davey the choice between him (and the skinheads) or her... "},{"Title":"Who copied who?","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you notice that Romper Stomper came out in 1992 and American History X came out in 1998, you can see who copied who. Then there was Priscilla, Queen of the Desert out in 1994 and To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar that came out in 1995. The list of ground-breaking Aussie movies copied by Hollywood in search of box office dollars goes on and on.With that said, as a person who lived for many years in Melbourne, Romper Stomper is a chilling picture of some of the nastier parts of the beautiful city. It is a very well acted movie with Russell Crowe obviously standing out and giving the world a preview of his skills.If you like this, see Chopper. Another movie set in Melbourne starring Eric Bana, another Aussie actor on the rise. "},{"Title":"No American History X, but that's not necessarily a bad thing","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved American History X and think it's a very powerful film, but if you're looking for a movie of that kind, you'll probably be disappointed.  This is not a propaganda film that bashes the life of a skinhead.  Being a white supremacist is far from a good thing, and the film doesn't in any way try to condone their lifestyles.  It just serves as a wake-up call that people like these are out there, and rather than treating them as one-dimensional caricatures, the director treats them as regular characters.  I mean, drama involves truth.  If it's an exaggeration of truth, it's called melodrama.  The writer/director obviously did much research on the lives on these Australian skinheads, and shows in the film that they have feelings, emotions and love lives like the rest of the people in the world.  It may seem sadistic to many having the skinheads as the protagonists in the story, but how many films have we seen where the protagonists are hitmen (Pulp Fiction)?  Or psychopaths (American Psycho)?  Or gangsters (Goodfellas)?  Are we condoning their lifestyles as well?  Does the increased popularity of The Sopranos mean that we all secretly want to be part of the Mafia? *POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD*True, the intentions of these white supremacist groups are anything but pure, but neither are the intentions of Jules and Vincent in PF.  Just because they're the protagonists, doesn't mean we have to feel perfect sympathy for them.  As the director expressed in his commentary, the fact that all the characters died--with the exception of Daniel Pollack's character--is punishment enough for their evil deeds.  There are certainly some disturbing scenes, involving the mass beatings of the new flock of Vietnamese in the community (which disturbed me, being half Asian myself; movies like this mainly focus on the group's hatred for blacks and Jews), but they're not done in a way in which the characters are virtually screaming out, I am evil and ruthless.  This is your cue to frown and utter 'Oh, my God.  This is a realistic depiction, not a cinematic depiction. I only wish Russell Crowe's character could've been developed more.  I wanted to know more about why he's so ruthless.  Of course, we don't exactly need a heavy-handed flashback sequence, showing how his father brought him up to hate, but I would've appreciated some sort of background.  Pollack's character I was able to understand a lot more.  He's a bit shy and aimless, and I've seen people like him in everyday life.  He doesn't know where to go with his life, has no friends to make him feel welcome, so he joins the first group of people who treat him respect, as if he's a member of the family.  This is why many young people join gangs.  They don't get much affection at home or by most of their peers, so they feel this is the only way to go.  Pollack's subtle performance made the character all the more effective.  It's sad that he died after post production of the film, because he seemed to have great potential.  The director said something interesting in the commentary.  He said that Pollack committed suicide directly after post-production was wrapped.  It's as if he wanted to finish this movie before leaving this world.  Well, God bless his soul.  Russell Crowe does a fine job as well, though I wish I could've seen the film BEFORE he evolved into a massive superstar.  It just makes it more difficult to forget that's Russell on screen.  But he still did a good job.  The woman who plays his girlfriend, who eventually falls into the arms of Pollack, also does a very good job.  I can see why a film like this would be controversial, but people simply have to look at it more deeply and not through the beer goggles of a propagandist.  As the film concentrates more on the romantic subplot, it gets watered down a bit, but I still regard this as a good film.  Not a great one, but a good one.  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Jacqueline McKenzie great in Romper Stomper, underrated","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected Romper Stomper to be a tough, violent movie. And I expected Crowe to be great. But I was takn aback at how good Jacqueline McKenzie was. She has to be good enough to make you believe*SPOILER* that she could lead the guys to her father's place & her acting in those scenes are powerful. Likewise, she has to has to convincing portray her illness & still have the rather primitive men be drawn to her. Finally, she has to convey all the emotions normally found in a love triangle. END SPOILERS.*imo she was the find in Romper Somper although Crowe was excellent also. "},{"Title":"An intriguing and dark well of raw passion, turbulent relationships, and violent lifestyles, MUST-SEE","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper, although graphic and very violent in places, is very strangely intriguing... It's quite difficult to explain, but here is a small summary of my thoughts on the movie The main plot runs through the small world of a gang of skinheads, lead by the very capable, passionate, and hating Hando, played perfectly by Russell Crowe. As I sat watching, I couldn't help thinking about it, I hated this movie, the violence, the unbalanced chaos, the fugitive style of life, so different from my own. But I couldn't turn it off, I was engrossed in the plight of Hando, his best mate Davey, played very ably by Daniel Pollock, and Gabe, a girl picked up in the Railway Hotel. When one skinhead died, I realized how attached I had become to these characters, surprisingly. The movie was beautifully crafted to portray the world of the skinheads accurately while showing the more human side to them, while bringing the audience directly into the problems and values of Hando's gang. Although I personally didn't like the ending (and lost a $5 bet) I was 100% behind Romper Stomper as a must-see movie by the time it was over. I'm not saying the skinhead way of life and Neo-Nazism is right or wrong, but I think that people should watch the movie with an open mind to be introduced to their world and understand some of the thinking behind it. Besides that, the camera shots are beautiful and consistant throughout the whole movie. Stretch your horizons some, rent Romper Stomper!! "},{"Title":"There was joy in Hando's rage","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie was violent, brutal, and eye opening to the fact that people have to deal with this kind of racism everyday all over the world not just in a country far away but in your own backyard. You could see the hatred in Hando's eyes as he beat the asians into submission. The joy he felt expressing his rage. His only purpose in life was to hate. Russell Crowe made me believe. I wish there was a bit more depth to Crowe's character but i think the focus of the movie was the plight of the skinheads. Great Flick! If you want to be entertained with great acting and also be educated on a part of human nature then you should take a look at Romper Stomper. "},{"Title":"The most frightening film I've seen.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film a couple of months back, mainly through curiosity - I'd known the title for years but didn't have a clue what it was about.As a story of racism and violence it is, quite simply, terrifying.  I'm not squeamish but I found it difficult to keep my eyes on the screen all the time.  OK, I even walked out of the room at one point and hid in the bathroom!What kept me watching was the strength of the performances.  Russell Crowe is mesmeric as Hando and somehow managed to draw my sympathy despite the brutality of his character.It's a bleak, harsh film, sometimes hard and unpleasant to watch. It's more frightening than any stalker/slasher/bumps in the night/voices in the woods film because it feels so real.If you're feeling tough and cheerful - you'll need to be both at the beginning because you won't be either at the end - then watch it.  And I bet it stays with you for weeks. "},{"Title":"Brave and innovative, identifies with the Skinheads, but doesn't condone them.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  We can never understand the evil that is neo-Nazism if we close our minds and pretend that there is no draw to such a group.  In writing such a ground-breaking, and relentless, film, while accepting the bonds of friendship and the reasons that people get involved, Wright has kick-started the traditions of realist Australian and NZ film.  Worth a watch, if not many, for its honesty, and a soundtrack that makes you feel guilty for enjoying it.  The violence against the Vietnamese is never glorified, but Wright turns the tables on you, by simultaneously making you hate the violence, and be exhilarated by it as the Vietnamese hit back. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a very great portrayal of skinhead squatters in australia.  It wasn't one of those movies that preached about how bad it was to be a skinhead, not that I support it or anything.  Russell Crowe is very good in the lead role also. "},{"Title":"Heroes are dead","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A creator that convinces the viewer completely that he has a true idea of his theme. To me, the only film about skinheads, or any group, that wouldn't be laughed at if viewed by the people it's supposed to present. No one tries to make a point, no one shows you the socially accepted wrongs and the rights, only how easily we could all become lost children, searching in agony for affection and belonging, even if it is in distorted ways. No one gives you any lecture, only the sadness that lies deeper than the immigrant or swastika-tattooed skin. The uniqueness of this film lies in its intimate mirroring of the actually causeless violence and vagueness of almost all political or other such groups, leaving it bare of any heroism.The way most films with such themes fail themselves, is on that they end up glorifying somehow the characters they clearly mean to prosecute. Here, there are no heroes.It's a pity that this film is so often compared or put aside with American History X. To me it's as irrelevant as Platoon and the Thin Red Line.And regardless all else, it's of the most intense film I've seen. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, after looking at the movie case, I was little wary on how good this movie would be. But after seeing it finally I realized how good a movie it really was. The Acting is perfect and the direction is exceptional. A perfect slice-of-life look into Australian Facism. "},{"Title":"Striking","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A love story of sorts, set within a deeply racist framework.  This film is considered controversial by some. Romper makes neither pro- nor anti-racist statements, it merely reflects a strata of society.  I don't think that the director is trying to teach us a lesson, but rather vying for the viewers attention, to observe, in much the same way as Oliver Stone subsequently did with Natural Born Killers.  A great movie, despite what Marxist no-marks would have you believe. "},{"Title":"changing of mind","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I saw romper stomper, the first 45 minutes really shockedme,and I thought,what a dangerous film that could be,if someguys were interested in that racistic stuff. But then,the filmchanged. From this moment,the film showed the characters in adifferent way. These skinheads,who fought against otherpeople,were soon shown as the real victims. Victims of theirown. At the end,they were as destroyed as their enemies,andwere presented as broken characters. I think it is a difficultjob to treat this theme of racism, but the director(RUSSELLCROWE!) did his best. Yes,the film is shocking and extreme,butin our days you might need extreme methods to open the people "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think it's the best Crowe's movie ever. It's neither the Clockwork Orange nor the Reservoir Dogs. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"watch this instead of american history x","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*This is a very good anti-nazi film. It shows the pain that comes as a result of hate not through redemption like the ever-so-hollywood American History X, but rather through simply having the main hatefull charecters all either die in a horrible death or wish that they could be given that priveledge. Gritty and amazingly realistic, this is the movie that people SHOULD be talking about when they want to talk about the subject of racism. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Russell Crowe as Hando is mesmerizing. Russell has you understanding and seeing life from the perspective of a skinhead. This film was made in a 28 day shoot with 16mm cameras. The acting of these young performers is brave and amazing! "},{"Title":"Disturbing yet quite true to life","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found that this movie is probably one of the most disturbing social study of the Skin heads gangs.  American History X is quite pale in comparison. I must admit that I usually enjoy down under movie 'cause there is less fluff and more substance than most of the north american big production for big profit genre.Russell Crowe is just as good as it gets, and Daniel Polock is close behind. I recommend this movie highly but beware it is quite violent. "},{"Title":"Wolverine?","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who needs Mr. Crowe as Wolverine?  He's much more terrifying than Wolverine in this movie!  This movie cries to be released on DVD... it's not even Pan and Scan when viewed in the VHS release... the focus stays on the center of the shot, which means half the time, you're just looking at arms and shoulders. Great damn movie, though.  Mr. Crowe in the final ten minutes is stunning! "},{"Title":"Not violent enough","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many people say this movie is too violent. NO WAY! It's not violent ENOUGH! I have seen more violence down at the pub on Friday night with my mates! If anything, the makers of the film should be being blasted for not portraying life as it really is. This fairy floss version of skinhead violence is an insult to all truly violent people.  "},{"Title":"The film that Australia likes to pretend was never made...","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When one looks at the way Australia often promotes itself to the rest of the word, rose-coloured is a phrase that springs to mind. In my mind, the word propaganda would not be far off the mark. Upon its release in 1992, Romper Stomper was vilified by a lot of people as being a racist film, even pro-Nazism. The reason for this wasn't because these complaints had any merit. It was because the film shows a side of Australia that the likes of Paul Hogan or Steve Irwin would rather you didn't know about.In order to fully understand the film's relevance, one has to look at Australia as a society for a second. It's a welfare state in which anyone with permanent residence can collect handout after handout from the government, and in spite of claims to the contrary, said welfare system provides more of a hammock than a safety net. Small wonder then that a lot of the native population are out of work and don't really want to work.It is this situation that Romper Stomper is primarily based in. The main characters are all part of a unit of skinheads who consider a life spent collecting welfare payments and beating up immigrants who are willing to work for the money they sit back and take to be virtuous. This is most reflected in the portions of the music that are sourced from real Oi bands, presented here like grisly items in a museum rather than sugar-coated or pushed to the back where they have to be hunted in order to be seen.The claim that this film is racist is turned on its head by the simple fact that it presents a warts-and-all look at the lifestyle of the skinheads. It is made clear that every futile effort they make to destroy their perceived enemy does more to destroy them and their way of life. In another film that explores this theme from a different angle, one character states that the proper question to ask is whether anything one has done has made their life better. The answer for the main characters here is a resounding no.What's even bolder is that the other side of the argument, the migrants who eventually extract a brutal revenge upon the skinheads, are not portrayed in an overly sympathetic light, either. Sure, you can feel their pain and anger, but when they're virtually rioting in the streets and breaking furniture over their enemies' heads, one can't help but noticed what they have reduced themselves to. Both sides fight like animals, and it is generally as animals that they are remembered. It's not that the director wanted to portray his characters as animals so much as he seems to have wanted to ask if violence is really the answer to a social issue.In the end, my advice is to take a look, and then more looks, until you get to understand what was being conveyed in the film. This is the best position to judge it from. With a long list of compelling performances and brilliant photography, this doesn't feel so much like a feature film as it feels like a documentary. And when you're dealing with subject matter like this, that generally means success.  "}{"Title":"CROWE","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I caught this film, mainly as a consequence of Crowe's brilliance in 'The Insider'. Once again Crowe is very good. The film correctly takes a fairly neutral stance. You understand the boredom and suppression the Skins feel. Likewise the anger of the Vietnamese. Anti-Nazis attack the film for not taking a position, but the director credits his audience with having the intelligence to make their own decisions. In a free society it is unavoidable that some far-right numbskulls will play the violent scenes over and over again. However,the rest of us will be left with an intelligent insight into working-class Australia. "},{"Title":"Very  Nice Behaved  Bunch of  Guys  &  Gals","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Russell Crowe,(Hando),A Beautiful Mind,'01, gave an outstanding performance in this film about Skin Heads along with Jacqueline McKenzie,(Gabe),Opal Dream,'05. This film really got down to the dirty filthy facts of how the Skins live and act and make love to women like they were just a piece of human flesh to do anything they want done. I doubt very much if any gals or guys who appreciate starting out their life with this type skin head type of mentality. However, it was full of laughs and I enjoyed seeing Gabe getting even with her Old Man and almost destroying his entire home. Gabe played a wild and mixed up gal who wore crazy clothes and made it with anyone who wanted her. Great acting and a very funny and entertaining film, not to be taken seriously at ALL ! "},{"Title":"Skinheads and Nazism","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Strange... the unruly and anti-social behavior of Hando and Co. would not have been tolerated in Nazi Germany. Much of Europe, including Churchill admired Germany's law and order society of the 1930's.Made at at time of high employment in Australia, while at the same time immigrants were arriving in numbers, this film touched a chord with many people. Most Austrailians would not have resorted to Hando's methods but would have identified with the social message contained in the film Ice, we have no work, so why allow in foreigners??The acting and direction are first rate. The only reason this movie is not rated as a true cinema classic is because it is highly politically incorrect, and we all know that political correctness is a form of censorship imposed on us all. "},{"Title":"The Russell attention getter movie.","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As all of us Russell fans know this is the film that he first really made an impact.I would never have seen the movie if not for him.I did not need to see the violence in this film.Course, if you can not stand such violence in film, DO NOT WATCH THE FILM.WE DID NOT NEED THE NUDITY FROM THE FEMALE CHARACTER.Russell did deserve the Best Actor award he won in Australia for this film.Look at the work he got from this film. No secret Curtis Hanson saw him in this film & put him in mind for L.A. Confidential.Course, saw an old interview of Russell's where he remarked about people asked him what was the best part of the film to him. He said when it was over.If I remember correct, he got arrested because of his look his Hando character made him have. JUST BECAUSE OF HIS LOOK, HAIR SHAVEN.Yep, just because of how he looked for a film.Makes sense right? "},{"Title":"Good direction, and pretty good acting but...","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ***This review contains spoilers*** I found Romper Stomper to be a dramatic and intense look into the lives of skinheads in Australia, and this was a subject I knew very little about. It fell short of being a great movie, however. It is riveting and violent, and has a very dark atmosphere throughout most of the movie, which is not necessarily a bad thing to me. Unpleasant topics need to be displayed unpleasantly. Russel Crowe did a great job as Hando, and was villainous and intimidating throughout the film.The reason that I don't find Romper Stomper to be on par with similar films, such as American History X or even as a great movie is that after many scenes of rather random violence and looting, by the end of the movie you don't care about any of the protagonists and the last fourth of the film is really meaningless to me. The girl, Gabe, is a double-crossing, psychopathic witch, and the fact that she was molested by her father does little to make me feel any sympathy for her. Davey, all of a sudden, decides he loves her (Why? Hard to say... there is little dialog between them until he decides he wants to sleep with her... how sweet?) and goes off to fight Crowe's character to the death after she torches their car and admits she snitched on them.I suppose we are supposed to be happy or find it to be a sweet love story at the end of the movie, but I personally didn't care if all three of them died. Weak character development, and the idea that we should feel like Davey and Gabe are suddenly good or should be cared about makes this a disappointing movie. Had they stuck with the original plot line about racial tension, violence, etc. with or without the American History X-style redemption, it would have been a much more powerful and better film. There's a reason there aren't many psychopathic Nazi romances out on the market I think. "},{"Title":"A different kind of movie about the dangers of fascism","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What really struck me about this movie is that it hasn't been seen by more people haven't seen it or even heard about it. This movie struck a much deeper chord than other films I've seen about the Neo-Nazi scene. It's a little different than others (like say American History X) in that it doesn't seem to hammer the point home that Nazism is bad. It does show how violent the Neo-Nazi skinhead movement is, but it goes more into their mindset and the desperation that these people feel driving them to extremes.In the middle of the film are three characters Hando, the leader of the gang; Gay, a disillusioned young woman who gets mixed up with Hando's gang; and Davy, Hando's right hand man. Hando seems to be the only one of the bunch who truly believes in fascism and tries to indoctrinate his followers. The rest of the gang seem to just enjoy beating up on outsiders (Vietnamese immigrants mostly) and drinking. Gay seems to get involved because she wants to belong to a family. Davy stays in because of his loyalty to Hando, but this is strained as Gay becomes more and more involved with Hando and Davy.There are some very violent scenes, but the violence is only an evidence of the tension. The real boiling point comes from these people watching their beliefs and their world crumble around them. In the end, their lifestyle destroyed what they had (as messed up as it was).Over all, I found the film to be well done and poignant. Although it never really gives an overt anti-Nazi message, the whole film implies that the ideology destroyed these peoples lives. It also goes into the feeling of desperation that drove them to this life style in the first place. "},{"Title":"Both sides?","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Of course a very controversial movie to be seen and commented on by a German. Both sides, Australian Skinheads and Vietnamese fellow citizens (or maybe not citizens, but who cares?), equally violent?Not exactly the politically correct way of showing the world - and definitely not in Germany. That is, by the way, the main reason why this movie is on the dangerous to juveniles index (by the BPJS, means it is not forbidden but handled like hardcore porn) in Germany. At least the reason for that cannot be the mere violence, as there is much worse out there that is not quite as banned.I personally think it definitely is a movie dangerous for people in certain mind sets, that do only want to see one side of the story - the cool skins that have all the right to fight back. But anyone seeing it with open eyes will find it still brutal but very interesting. Yes, there is violence on both sides. And I assume that is true in Australia just as it is true anywhere else. Yes, there are scenes that a lot of skins on the racist and violent side might like a little too much. But, no, there is not much reason or actually explained motivation, for Hando's and his gangs behavior. And, no, there is definitely no happy end for anyone. Their own violence, toughness and inability to deal with any positive emotion breaks up the gang and kills some of the individuals in the end.A movie, if you ask me, that fully opposes physical violence while showing it openly.A movie, that should lead anyone to the very general summary Cool and strong and violent really only seems cool at the VERY first sight. "},{"Title":"Nazi's Down Under","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the world of motion pictures, there always appears to be a couple tiny genres with only a few films to claim as their own, and often they end up being more like cult phenomenons than anything else. One of these tiny genres would be that of the Nazi Film. Movies that, in some way or another, revolve around the ideologies of National Socialism or racism. Well, here's one that stars none other than Russel Crowe.This film is a disturbing and violent story about a group of angry little skinheads in Australia&#151;and their hatred for the growing population of South-Asian immigrants. The lovable skinheads are led by an increasingly hostile Russel Crowe as he makes decision after decision that seemingly worsens their lives&#151;not that they had a lot going for them in the first place. The film quickly leaves behind any of the depth you'd generally find in a film of this kind and ventures into an ever darker pit of violence and despair.Here's the breakdownThe Good--The graphic nature of the film and edginess do an excellent job to draw you in.--The acting is quite good.--Nice character depth for the main individuals.--Interesting story.--The shocking moments never seem to cease&#151;the film has the power to shock or surprise you almost through and through.--Decent atmosphere.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--A film this visually striking doesn't waste time with middle-grounds.--Despite that, the cinematography is about average.The Bad--The graphic violence may be an incredible turn-off for a lot of people. But, if you're the kind of person that enjoys movies that explore Nazi's and their ideologies, then you're prepared for something graphic.--The characters are about as far away from being humanists as you can get&#151;there is almost constant disdain, mistreatment, and cruelty being shared by most everyone with most everyone else.--The end of the movie is rather shallow and somewhat disappointing. More detail would probably be a spoiler&#151;but I viewed it as a letdown.The Ugly--The raging punk-music soundtrack. Like fingernails on a chalkboard, it is.--The depth of the characters and their beliefs in the Nazi ideals are looked into only briefly and, eventually, that part of the story is left behind almost entirely. This is a shame because then all the violence that Crowe and company perpetrate becomes less about ideology and more about being violent towards those different from themselves. Some of the film's strength gets washed away with that.Memorable Scene--When daughter betrays father&#151;and we find out it's more than just her being a b*tch.Acting 8/10 Story 8/10 Atmosphere 7/10 Cinematography 6/10 Character Development 8/10 Special Effects/Make-up 8/10 (Generally, the only effects were blood and gunshots) Nudity/Sexuality 3/10 (a couple sex scenes, nothing too graphic) Violence/Gore 9/10 (this film has little gore, but plenty of violence) Dialogue 8/10 Music 2/10 Direction 7/10Cheesiness 1/10 Crappiness 0/10Overall 8/10It's a powerful and striking movie, although dark and exceptionally dreary. Like dark films? You'll enjoy this&#151;if in fact, enjoyment is possible with a movie so damn dark.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"A good flick","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this was a good movie. The only thing that realy irritated me about it was the way that the skinheads were portrayed. All this stuff about them being neo-nazis is simply not true. The movie, I thought, had some good old fashion action in it though. The music was also exelant if you can look past the racist part of it. The movie wasn't about all of the racism as you might thingk anyway. It was about a group of friends that are slowly ripped apart in one way or another because of stupid neo-nazi ideals. On a final note. If you have not seen this flick yet, keep in mind that when you watch it that all of these neo-nazis as you see are not skinheads as they are referred to. Instead of making ignorant opinions in your mind do some research on the matter, find out the history of skinheads ans be enlightened in the matter. I give this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointed - low budget, and in the end rather pointless","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After a number of recommendations, I was expecting a good film here. However, I just can't make myself 'like' this movie.I can appreciate the intelligence in taking a neutral stance on the subject matter, but in the end I failed to see any point to it. I've seen people like this, so it's not like I learned anything either.Also, I find it worrying that there appear to be a number of people supporting this kind of behaviour...in fact that is what made me want to comment!So, overall, although a well-acted film (however, no better than 'Made in Britain' - which I also think was just above-average) it failed to make any impact and, whilst I hate to say this, the quality of the film had a hint of 'Aussie' soap opera!!So I'll give it 5.5/10...as I think any film that makes you think a little is worthy of a just-above-average score. "}{"Title":"Australian History...Why?","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I personally can't tell you what the early 1990's skinhead scene was like in Melbourne, Australia.  But if it's anything like it's portrayed here, these guys make Derek, Danny, & Seth from AMERICAN HISTORY X look like Cub Scouts!This movie had the look of a sci-fi futuristic thriller, only the subject matter was the right here and now of 1992 Australia.  I may have seen a chopped-up U.S. videotape of ROMPER STOMPER, but what I saw was very gripping, disturbing, and highly recommended.***SPOILER***I thought director G. Wright portrayed the Asians very respectfully throughout the movie.  But I was somehow offended that they were reduced to stereotypical camera-geek tourists during the final scene watching Russ C.'s character take a beach nap.  Was anyone else a little uneasy about this ironic portrayal after all the mayhem of the film had played out?bw  "},{"Title":"Perseverance is Key","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!! The underlying factor about this film that caught my attention, no matter what anyone thinks of it overall(I told my friends about it, they bought it and are embarrassed to admit they own it), is Hando's impenetrable belief in his lifestyle. He's an outsider, he knows it, but he is content with it. Davey is weak willed in the end, not someone who thinks Nazism is wrong. He's a drifter, moving from one group to another, and Gabe is just an excuse to leave the skinheads. Hando though, deserves respect, not because he is a Nazi, but because he died for his beliefs, and that is enough to win any critic over when you strip it down. Honestly, when I first saw this film and Hando died at the end, it was him that I felt for, not Davey. "},{"Title":"It started for Russell here","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A pretty impressive Australian flick that could easily have faired well overseas as well. It won several AFI Australian Film Industry Awards, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Crowe, and would lay the foundations for Crowe's future international acting career.While the film portrays that there is no real place for racism in society, and that such ideology often leads you nowhere as most films dealing with this topic would, I found that some parts were a little ridiculous, take for example the rather aggressive love scene between Crowe and MacKenzie while some Nazi punk song is playing in the background.Overall, the movie was quite good, especially by Australian standards, although I just found that it wasn't intelligent or thought provoking enough for my liking. American History X is by far the superior movie in this area.Another more recent Aussie flick worth checking out would be 'Chopper' with Eric Bana of 'Black Hawk Down' fame. "},{"Title":"Never trust a mental b**ch","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now, this one is great! Not quite like anything you've ever seen before. Intense, thought-provoking and action-filled. The interesting thing about the film is that everyone seems to see something different. Some people say that they don't understand how would anyone want to be a nazi skinhead after watching it, some people don't understand how could anyone resist becoming a nazi skinhead after this (I tend to support the latter). The easiest thing is to proclaim this movie as hate-filled. But that's only one side of the coin. The portrayed skinhead community is much like a pack of wolves -- brute, violent and even hateful to their enemies, yes, but at the same time you can't fail to notice the strong spirit of kinship among themselves. Well, and at least that's what I see in this film -- a strong community torn apart by a stranger, a sheep in wolve's clothing. Gabe doesn't belong there, she's a total alien. Yet, she is the one who destroys the group. I do think that's one strong lesson -- skinheads fighting against aliens that are destroying their country, yet failing to isolate alien that's destroying their own community, all because she's kinda nice and a pity to throw out. Also, people tend to say that skinheads in this film are so destructive. Yet, the most destructive person in the entire film is Gabe. Skinheads are destroying, true, but they destroy the things they feel are wrong, much like a surgeon is destroying a cancer when cutting it out. Gabe, on the other hand, destroys simply for the sake of destroying. She believes she's the centre of the universe and, therefore, can do whatever she fancies. Submission to leader, loyalty to kinsmen and race -- those things mean nothing to her. So, to sum it all up -- a great movie indeed. A small summary of all the problems facing White Power movement today. And a hint of what may face us if we don't get rid of the aliens who are tearing our society apart. "},{"Title":"Really good movie, Crowe is god.","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like this movie so much, I think I want to become a skinhead.  Not just any skinhead, but a Russell Crowe skinhead.  Every actor was so convincing. My friend who likes violent movies said that this movie was too violent, even for him. The first time I saw this, I hated the skinheads, but each subsequent time, I loved the movie more.  10 out of 10 stars.  btw, the movie wasn't long enough. "},{"Title":"Skinhead must choose between his love or his comrade","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper is a view into Australia's skinhead culture.  Hando (Russell Crowe) is the leader of a group of skinheads trying to defend their neighborhood from the gooks, Asian immigrants.  He meets Gabrielle (Jacqueline McKenzie) and have a brief love affair.  Their relationship brings Gabrielle into the circle of skinheads, where another member, Dave (Daniel Pollock), falls in love with her. Dave, unfortunately, is Hando's best friend, his most trusted ally.Things don't work out for the skinheads and while on the run, Dave ends up having to make a decision between his loyalty to Hando and his love for Gabrielle.A pretty violent movie but a good one nonetheless.  Crowe actually did a very good job of acting in this movie.  He had the same menacing look as he did later in Virtuosity. "},{"Title":"True Skinheads.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I feel obligated to start off by saying how Romper Stomper is a great movie and does deal with the aspect of Nazi-skinheads also known as Boneheads very well. But what it doesnt really tell you is the majority of Skinheads are not boneheads. Now im not going to get into Skin history here, but the Skinhead culture started in england with the melding of english youths and youths from jamaica and the west indies. Traditional Skinheads are NOT RACIST, and follow working class beliefs and have pride in their heritage and country, but are not racist by any means. SHARP, or Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice fight to keep Bonheads and racists out of everything possible, shows, bars, parties etc. I myself do happen to be a SHARP so next time you hear skinhead...remember were the good guys. (With the exception of the god damned nazis) "},{"Title":"Brutal","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film shocked me. If you've seen American History X and think you know what to expect think again, there is no great change in moral conciseness, no talks about why are we doing this no this film has none of the intellect of am hist x. Some people may see that as a bad thing but I don't, this film travels along at break neck speed until it hits the self destruct button in the battle between the skins and the viatmenese, this is without doubt one of the most brutal fight seine's ever on celluloid, you'll find yourself wincing as hando, davey and the others fight the brutal kicks to the ribs are especially painful to watch. Crowe is truly brutal as the gang of skin heads viscous leader Hando, Daniel Polock is magnificent as Davey you can feel the conflict in his heart between his best friend and the women he loves.Anybody who doesn't mind watching a film with such strong seens of violence I recommend it if not you wont get past the first few minutes. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a weird way this reminded me of Trainspotting, but it came out before so I wonder if this film was an influence. The direction and editing were great, some of the best I ever seen. Russell Crowe (before he became famous) gives an excellent, crazy and psychotic performance. It's also a great story, I can't see why anyone would want to be a Nazi skinhead after this film, let alone be violent to others. Disturbing and breathtaking this is an excellent film, if you aren't squeamish. "},{"Title":"A truly disturbing film that is well worth seeing.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper is very difficult to watch, presenting an unsparing picture of a gang of neo-Nazi skinheads in Melbourne, Australia, obsessed with the danger they perceive in the growing population of Vietnamese immigrants.   It is filmed in 16mm with a hand held camera, giving the movie documentary-style immediacy, and making it very hard for you to distance yourself from the horrific violence of many scenes.Although the movie was criticized when it was released for glorifying skinheads and not taking a moral position against them, neither criticism is really well-founded.  It is clear that the director and the actors made a great effort to get inside the characters, to make them human beings -- however repulsive -- and not simply caricatures.  Still, the skinhead lifestyle depicted is mean, mindless, unromantic and, ultimately, pointless.  For all their posturing, they are mindless bullies, ganging up on isolated victims, and they are completely undone when faced with victims who join forces and fight back with the same intensity.  By the end, all but one of the gang members is in jail or dead, which seems to me to be a pretty powerful moral statement.  The director suggests that, in fact, Romper Stomper did a great deal to de-mythologize and take the romance *out* of the skinhead movement in Melbourne, and he could well be right.The movie is certainly not perfect, but it features a genuinely terrifying performance by Russell Crowe as Hando, the leader of the group, an intelligent, charismatic man totally twisted and misshapen by hatred, frustration and fear, yet capable of genuine affection and tenderness for his best friend, Davey.That performance alone is reason enough -- but not the only reason -- for watching this film. "}{"Title":"A compelling, gut wrenching movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was only accidentally that I watched this movie - knowing the subject matter I had studiously avoided it since its release 10 years ago. When it came up on the screen, I nearly turned it off, it was only because of Russell Crowe that I started watching out of curiosity.I agree with some of the comments, this is a flawed movie - with a less than satisfying ending.  But it is compelling viewing, in spite of the violence (which could hardly be described as gratuitous - when it fits the story so well).  Some of the scenes involving the Vietnamese are a trifle overdone - but on the whole it brings home to the viewer the complete and utter dedication to a cause that some bigotted people can have. Russell Crowe is overwhelming! With early portrayals like this, it is easy to see why Crowe is the major star he is today.However, it is not just Crowe -the whole cast make the movie believable, when your mind and heart say it couldn't happen like this.All in all it is a movie that makes a resounding statement against racism and a chilling comment on the fact that we have learned little from events of the past. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, but excellent","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Originally released in 1992, Romper Stomper underwent a video and sound update for DVD.  The revised edition is a real gem!  Crowe delivers an incredible performance as Hando, the leader of an Australian skinhead group trying to give significance to their meaningless lives.  We follow Hando's fanatic pursuit of violence and hatred as he slowly alienates himself from his own group and friends.  The camera work is also some of the best I've seen, especially during the vicious fight scenes.  Romper Stomper simulatenously captures the bloodlust of violence and viscerally draws in the audience.Romper Stomper stands as one of the memorable films in the tradition of Clockwork Orange.  A definite must-see for adventurous movie fans. "},{"Title":"this is not American History X","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I like the most about this film, is that is makes no excuses for the violence of these people, it portrays them in simple clear cut terms. This is no Hollywood film, no one learns to love and accept people they have spent their lives hating, the simple theme is you live violently, you die violently. Russell Crowe is devastating as the leader of this pack of skin heads, but it is the group, the entire lot of them that make this film frightening. They should have won an award for assemble acting. Very well done, and violent beyond anything I've seen before or since. "},{"Title":"You've all been had.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm truly amazed that so many people have such good things to say about this film.Firstly, the violence was as gratuitous as can be imagined. I didn't find it particularly disturbing, as I've seen that kind of thing many times before, but the sheer repetition and scale of the violence resulted in a dilution of the effect. Violence became the raison d'tre of the whole film, leaving nothing of substance to fill the pauses between punch-ups.Secondly, racism. I'm not squeamish or overtly PC, but I found this film went far further than not condemning the behaviour of the skins. Consider this the nazis are portrayed as a group of loyal friends, with high ideals and a mission (reading some user comments, I'm tempted to believe they were convinced of this mission themselves by the end of the film), while the Asians are a faceless, characterless horde, bursting into many scenes like a swarm of flies. Hando gets to make his grisly case to his mesmerised girlfriend, spewing out his racist bile, while the Asians are reduced to being beaten up or - eventually - fighting back. I'm not going to make the irresponsible claim that the filmmakers were indeed racist, but they deliberately steered this film dangerously close to the wind.Thirdly, the plot is extremely weak. Do we really care what happens to these particularly vile people by the end of the film? Is it of the slightest human interest who gets the rather silly, impressionable and immature girl?Far from being intelligent, provocative or revealing, this film is little more than a sick and soulless cartoon. "},{"Title":"Not as violent as some make it out to be...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought Romper Stomper was a good movie, definitely helped by the excellent job done by the film makers, so I gave it an eight. It was a gritty independent film with a good story and good acting. By watching this movie, I lost some respect for Trainspotting, because it's obvious the makers of that film almost completely hijacked everything in Romper Stomper. Don't get me wrong, Trainspotting is still good, just not that original.Geoffrey Wright does a great job and the camera work is awesome too. I read Rolling Stone's review and they called it an 'Aussie Reservoir Dogs.' That is a false label. Maybe it's because I didn't see this movie until after I saw American History X (which I will get into later) that I don't consider that violent. But even comparing it to Reservoir Dogs isn't right. There is no horrible violence or parts in this movie that make you say 'please, don't do that.' There is no ear-cutting scene, no prison rape scene, and no curbing scene. But the film doesn't need any of these things, because the racism (where the true violence is supposed to be seen) is only a subplot.Comparisons to American History X are warranted, but more appropriate would be comparing American History X to this film. I still don't think that this comes anywhere near the power of American History X, but I also don't think it was the goal.I'd recommend this movie to people who like low-budget, high-intensity films that make studio productions seem worthless. "},{"Title":"A movie that seems to be about racism.....","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  People will pigeonhole this movie as being yet another American History X, even though it came far before it.  The truth is, while this movie is about racism and hatered, it is just as much about love, friendship, and betrayal. The director does a great job of intertwining the different themes, avoiding making a more simplistic movie like American History X.  The characters are not presented as simply good or bad, and the movie is filled with irony.  For example the skinheads tell the Vietnamese to get out of Australia, that this is not their country, even though the whites belong there just as much as the asians.  This underlying irony puts somewhat of a different spin on the movie than one would expect.  If you're looking for a movie that doesnt beat you over the head with its point, but rather, presents you with a variety of themes and emotions, Romper Stomper is a much better choice than the simplistic American History X. "},{"Title":"A savage kick in the teeth","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper by far has to be one of the most controversial movies ever made.  White supremacy and gratuitous violence are the main themes of this film.  From the shocking opening sequence to the road to self destruction for Hando the Charismatic leader of the skinhead gang played superbly by the brilliant Russell Crowe.  This film is a must see.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Real eye-opener","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard seeing one of my favourite actors playing such a horrible and racist role, but Russell Crowe gave an in your face look at the life of a skinhead. The quality of this film resembles more of an independent film (which I believe this was indeed)but it was all the more believable. Some of the scenes were very intense especially when Hando (Crowe)and his followers went on a mission to beat up, or even kill, a bunch of Asians that had started running a restaraunt nearby. Some of the film drags a little though. I think American History X was somewhat adapted by this film; both are excellent. The guy at the video store is also a fan of Russell Crowe and he recommended this one also. "},{"Title":"A critical but entertaining review","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper is a brutal and uncompromising movie that delivers a strange love story amidst scenes of savagery and chaotic violence. The fight and chase scenes are intense and are visually stunning almost drawing the viewer into the action. The actors are superb and play off each other well giving us the feel of a well shot documentary.However Romper Stomper is not without flaws,its pacing is weak and the protagonists are not well enough fleshed out, meaning that their actions are seemingly motiveless. The movie contains no sympathetic characters, even the Asians come across as violent thugs rather than victims and because of this the moral integrity of the film has to be in question. Unquestionably this is a film well worth seeing. Its well acted, well directed and it also has an original and unique look about it. In parts Romper Stomper is not unlike Kubrick`s` A Clockwork Orange as it shows the urban decay that scratches at the surface of society. "},{"Title":"Let's see how many words for brilliant I can come up with...","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's something about these films from down under, isn't there. I mean, they always seem to do something out of the ordinary over there, don't they? I mean, just look at all Peter Jackson's film en flicks like `Priscilla, Queen of the Desert'. Geoffrey Wright's Romper Stomper is no exception to this rule. Anyone that loves film or is even remotely interested in the subject must see this. It makes watching Am. Hist. X a walk in the park on a sunny day, with a beautiful girl, while eating cotton candy.What I like best about this film is, that there's no judgement. Wright keeps a nice distance towards his subjects. The viewer is there and all he can do is watch. This feeling is enhanced by the coloring of the film (all those hard and cold blues give you the chills, don't they?), which is simply brilliant. Cool part of the films lies in very small things. Take a closer look at the fighting scene behind the bar. I mean, I bet there's only 20 vietnamese guys there, but by the way it was filmed, you get the idea it's virtually hundreds of them. Really well done. But also take a closer LISTEN to that scene. It might just be my imagination, but I could swear I hear the sound of barking, growling, fighting dogs mixed in with the sound. Not as if the dogs were there, but like the fighting skins/vietnamese were the dogs, animals so to speak. Think about that. The closing shot with the credits rolling over it is simply brilliant and beautiful.One thing I must add. Many people have praised this film as a true depiction of the Skinhead-lifestyle. I agree with that, but not comepletely. I know a thing or two about Skinhead-life and I also know quite a few Skinheads myself, people who claim to be skin and are proud of that. Are they racists? HELL NO!!! A true skin doesn't give a rats ass about politics or stuff like that. True, a lot of racists are (or better said, claim to be) skinheads, but far from all skins are racists.  This film, even though it's very true to life, kind off depicts the skins in a very stereotype way. But as said, skins like these ARE there and lot more than real lovers of the skinhead lifestyle would like to see.  "}{"Title":"God sent us","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   Russell Crowe stars as Hando, the leader of a skinhead gang. They fear the chinese are taking over their land and they go against them using violence. Hando becomes involved with a beautiful epileptic and after the asians and skinheads fight, they hide. What really works with Romper Stomper is it's brilliantly used score and punk music. You can feel the desperation between the group and the sense than Hando knows that sooner or later he'll get caught. There is alot more to this and the end is unexpected. Davey is a very sympathetic character. I strongly recommend this movie. It reminds me of A Clockwork Orange and that's always excellant. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Not an original story, but very well-handled","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I read a review saying something like If you like American History X, then you should see Romper Stomper for a truly terrifying look at neo-Nazism, I felt compelled to find this film. Sadly, I couldn't find it locally until Russell Crowe became a megastar, but it was well worth the wait.Romper Stomper is a truly ugly, brutish film that examines the mentality and inherent contradictions of white supremacy. The film is dark and grainy with muted colors, perfect to set the tone. Russell Crowe turns in a very fine performance as Hando, the leader of the skinhead group. I was surprised at how Crowe was able to wrestle a three-dimensional character out of what could have been a flat charicature. The supporting cast is almost as good, and they play their parts effectively.The movie overtly and subtly points out the contradictions of white supremacy. One example is the scene where the skinheads pick a fight at a local Vietnamese restaurant in order to drive the owners out. The Vietnamese in the area have had enough of skinhead attacks, and come to their friends' defense en masse. The kicker is the soundtrack, playing a skinhead song about bravery and fighting to the end while the skinheads scatter like roaches. The movie does it's best to show the skinhead lifestyle and mentality as unglamorous and simpleminded, despite the skinheads' statements to the contrary.The only thing going against this film was it's lack of originality. This is only a tiny knock, for the film does what it does very well. And from this film, it's very obvious that Russell Crowe was destined for stardom from the beginning. Well worth seeing.My rating 8 out of a possible 10. "},{"Title":"Hate/Fear or Love which is more violent?","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every comment I have read goes right to the graphic violence. This film is a lot deeper than that, more than Skinheads and racial supremacy. It could be set in any time or place.  What I feared the most, what was most vile, was disguised as love. Worth watching again.  "},{"Title":"A truly ground-breaking film","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A superbly acted and directed film, Romper Stomper is a brilliant social commentary not just on Australia but on other societies around the world. It depicts the alienation of white working-class youth who seek refuge in extreme right-wing ideology (and I'm avoiding the use of the term fascism here because that simply means authoritarian and militaristic and these skinheads are virtual anarchists). In fact their political beliefs are really only confined to the leader of the gang, the other characters could be members of any other type of gang who simply enjoy fighting rivals or strangers. It's really a story of young men without skills adrift in an increasingly complex, feminist and multi-cultural world. Unless a role is found for men like these their only outlet is violence. This film could just easily have been made about gang-members anywhere, only the sympathies of the lead characters for Adolf Hitler, Nazi Germany and white supremacy made it controversial. "},{"Title":"A violent film that makes you think","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Russel Crowe is superb as the leader of a white supremacist gang.  The best thing about this film is that the director manages to show that the issue of racism is not as one sided (or at least as simple) as is often portrayed on film.  At the end we still conclude that racism is evil.  It is the journey towards that conclusion that sets this film apart.  At first we see the racists as strong and with a genuine grievance.  As the film gets more and more violent this feeling is intensified.  The violence comes to a climax with the racists pitted against a massive asian gang who out number them massively and we are still not sure who to side with. The quieter second half of the film is where the real substance of the film lies.  Gradually we see human emotions appearing, expressing themselves, at first inarticulately and then with full force as Crowe's best friend falls in love with the girl and eventually begins to struggle against the life that he has choosen. Despite leaving the gang he finds that it is impossible to escape the clutches of Crowe and has to resort to violence again.  This is a different kind of violence because he is now on a different side. "},{"Title":"A great film, with a great cast!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a great Film, I really enjoyed its look at a subject which is too harsh to get serious attention.  I guess anyone who listens to music like that will sooner or later end up on a beach with a bayonette in their neck...  "},{"Title":"Fascinating insight into racism.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In an industry saturated with black culture ghetto movies it is interesting to see the other side of the coin. The small-minded majority may dismiss the film due to its controversial subject matter, but you shouldn't. It's hard-hitting right from the off and you become submerged in the side of Australia people don't want you to see. Crowe is superb....watch it now.  "},{"Title":"A truly brutal and violent film.","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For me this is one of the films that you have to see, just to help you to try and understand the mentality of racist white supremists. Russell Crowe plays Hando, the leader of a group of Australian skinheads who take out their racism on the Chinese throughout the film. Crowe is outstanding in one of his more grittier roles, and he is backed up with a believable supporting cast. Many scenes of gratuitous violence in the film, help to portray the shocking reality of racial tension around the world. A great film and not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Makes you think","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I heard from many of my friends, that Romper Stomper was a great film and i was recommended it by many others. I eventually got round to watching it and let me say i was not disappointed.The whole story behind the skinheads and the Nazi beliefs is a very dangerous subject due to censorship due to its high levels of violence and racist comments. The film doesn't make you want to become a neo-Nazi skinhead in actual fact it drives you from that.This film really does give you a feeling to what really makes a Nazi, is it the swastika? the obsession and studying of Mein kampf? no its the logic and thinking that singling people out and making them suffer because of something major like their colour or belief, down to something as small as their hair length or dress sense is your god given right..... when in actual fact its not, not even in the slightest.After watching this film i had one thought, yes what they did was wrong, but if anyone can have such passion towards such things as equality and erasing prejudice, as much as these skinheads have in beating up Japanese and Asians, then perhaps we could take a leaf from the passions and drive that these skinheads have then perhaps we could live in a decent world. "},{"Title":"Seen better and seen worse.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film to see Russell Crowe, and found this low budget film okay.  Crowe doesn't steal the movie, and the film is strong in parts. After watching it, I found the film unrememberable, because it is neither great nor awful. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Do we need to see this?","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wright attempts to take a non-political stance into this film about racism. Although his attempt to be non-partisan does fail at points, overall he gives a semi-documentary feel of what life is like as a skin-head.But afterwards I just couldn't see the point. The film is not going to change people's minds. Racists will still be racists. And anti-racists will not be converted. And by the film not taking sides, it inadvertently encourages skinheads who see it, as they are pleased that others get to see what their life is like.Did it need to be made? I don't think so. "},{"Title":"This film tries very hard....","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper is so close to being a great small film. So very close that I was loving this movie for every single minute it was on my screen and then it just slipped from my grasp. What I mean by this film coming close, well it's like this, I could compare this film to Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange, it comes so close to being that disturbing, although I believe it falls short in a couple of areas. First, the only explanation for these people to be skinheads is a short little dialog between Russell Crowe and his new girlfriend about Hitler's Mein Kampf. Maybe the director assumes we know enough about skinheads already. There is also a climatic death in this film that left me not caring at all. I won't say who died, but it was a background character. I never felt one thing for this character, it was a total waste. I will say that Russell Crowe is amazing in this film, very intimidating without saying a single word. It's always tough when a film comes this close to being great, I will say that it is a film worth a look and it won't soon be forgotten. I do believe American History X is a better film on this subject. "},{"Title":"Australian's low-rent version of American History X","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  That statement is more of a compliment then a put-down, as this is quite the very good Aussie movie.The film stars Russell Crowe as the leader of a pack of angry wolves, also known as nazi skinheads, in Melbourne, Australia as they try and salvage what they have left from the invasion of the Asians from the east.  Sound like a sci-fi pic, huh?  Actually, it is a cross between the werid, ultra-violent satirized life of Clockwork Orange and American History X than sci-fi.The film has magnificent acting (surprising) and is crafted and directed with firey intesity that makes this movie highly reccomendable.  However, there is a minus- at some point the movie turns from it's original projected course and streams into the personal.  Still, the film is consistently entertaining, compelleing and like History X, frighteningly powerful.  Crowe especially is watchable in his true breakthrough.  A "},{"Title":" The cold and harsh reality of clashing ethnic/racial differences portrayed in brutal contrast.     when the skinheads themselves were so lacking qualities of which to be proud or would want to preserve.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper is not gentle to the stomach nor is it weak in conveying both sides or rather mentalities of opposing differences. I watched it because anything with Russell Crowe can not be ordinary. Perhaps I wasn't prepared for the sheer starkness of acting or storyline. It was not ordinary and I did not particulary care for Russell Crowe's character. However,he was very riveting and his performance of the furious skinhead was realisticly captured. I could sense the pure hate, pride and passion for a cause. The skinheads vehemently defended their turf and race believing themselves to be better when ironicly they were so steeped in prejudce among their own kind. They existed in want and decadance, a strange combination to live in and to be judging of what is purer or higher in the human chain. That is what I liked, the brutal honesty. "},{"Title":"Sympathy for the White Devil","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately I had to rent this one. If only I would have been given the chance to see it on the big screen. This is the kind of innovative movie making that we should be contributing to. What an experience see this movie was. Didn't realize it was Crowe until Confidential. Second only to Confidential in subject and content. During the initial viewing, a friend and I were so affected we were screaming at the screen. I have NEVER felt so much contempt for the main characters of a movie. Talk about anti-heros, man. Many people have made comparisons with American History X which is exceptable. Am. X is to Stomper as Halloween is to Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Both great movies, but the later is just grittier; more corrupt. With Romper Stomper there is no redemption, no compromise, no reform, just unadulterated ignorance til the very end. I recommend this movie to anyone with an education; others might get the wrong message. I don't know how, but they just might. "},{"Title":"fair and smart","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had at first worried that this film, like many mindless films (which this film isN'T), would simply glorify cruelty in the guise of action and juvenile wildness. It was interesting to see that my concerns had been groundless, thanks to the fair treatment of the subject by the director/writer, as well as the good performance of the cast.Contrary to what I had heard about this film, that, typically low-budget, it was tactlessly gory, the violence was merely a depiction of the skinheads' lifestyle (and therefore, better justified than in some other movies).The young skinheads are in fact much like other youngsters with different beliefs and different manners of deviant behaviors, in their inconsistency and whim one moment they would run to join the battle to be part of the event, but when the battle turns into something more hazardous, would chicken away; one moment they would feel guilt about roughing up somebody, but the next, would just be parasites to the ecstasy of complete control over another person. Whoever may have been in charge of the costumes, or whether the cast had any voice in the choice, I quite enjoyed watching what the skinheads were wearing, especially, Hando (Crowe) pink shirt with navy pants, white shirt with white pants and gloves, and the ubiquitous suspenders and the tight black guard-coat.  "},{"Title":"Two superb performances in a very overrated drama","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Non-judgmental look at a skinhead sub-culture that is not very violent and the violence itself is not well choreographed, but Russell Crowe's performance as the enigmatic Hando is riveting and is only bettered by the late Daniel Pollock's performance as the troubled Davey.Comparisons to A Clockwork Orange I don't understand because the films are poles apart. Romper Stomper is not a gang movie and it's not a futuristic parable; it touches on xenophobia, but doesn't explore it in any great depth, and it depicts a scene or two of racial conflict, but despite how it was sold to audiences, it's not an exploration of a hate group, either.No, Romper Stomper is primarily about the relationship between Hando, the skinhead leader, and Davey, his deputy. It falls apart badly in the last fifteen minutes by relying on a hackneyed plot turn and it loses it initial momentum just half an hour in. I think it's way overrated and even dull, but there's no denying the might of Daniel Pollock's performance and it's a tragedy that death extinguished his talent soon after this film's release. "},{"Title":"not stomping my romp","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romper Stomper accomplishes 2 things.  It illustrates how hate can drive people to obsession and dependency on expressing their hatred.  It also shows that Russell Crowe is an unbelievable actor.  Action movies can be successful if the violence serves a purpose.  In American History X, a man gets brutally raped, a man gets his face crushed in on a curb; but it serves to emphasize the need for change and where hate got them which leads into a brilliant conclusion.  This movie portrays hate, but no redemption.  It makes the audience think now what?.  Russell Crowe was great, but not good enough to Stomp my Romp. "},{"Title":"Australian critic David Stratton called this film 'A Clockwork Orange' without the intellect.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  He was wrong, apart from the without the intellect bit.Geoffrey Wright has the honour of making the same mistake Tolstoy did, in the war bits of War and Peace.  Tolstoy wanted to show a number of things about war that it was confusing, that it was governed, for the most part, by sheer contingency, that the tedious to-and-fro muddle on the battlefield bore little relation to the clean strategies of the generals, etc.  So he produced muddled, tedious, random, repetitive DESCRIPTIONS of battle.  No doubt he conveyed exactly what he wanted to convey.  But it was still bad art.  (Anna Karenina is War and Peace without the war, and hence a much better book.)Wright wants us to show us that a neo-Nazi skinhead's life is an unmotivated shambles.  So what kind of film did he make?  You guessed it.  Tolstoy was a good enough writer to write well in spite of himself, but Wright isn't a good enough film-maker; all he can do is make a competent, dismal film that seemed impressive in its day because it was unflinching - as if that's a virtue. "},{"Title":"Slightly above average.","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Romper Stomper is a pretty bleak portrayal of the life of a group of skinheads in Melbourne. I know that a lot of people have said that this glamorises the gang's way of life, but that is nonsense. I did enjoy the unbiased stance of this movie and thought that the lack of skinhead-bashing lent potency to the events of the last third that would perhaps not have been there were this simply an anti-skinhead film. There are obvious parallels to A Clockwork Orange although I don't know how well this stands up in comparison. I'm not sure what the replay value will be for me, either. It was enjoyable enough but I can't see myself watching it again any time soon. "}{"Title":"Violent!","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Romper Stomper.Prior to watching the film all I knew about the film was it's reputation. As a very violent movie.Well, it's a reputation very well earned and earned the hard way for sure.The film follows the life and times of a group of Australian Skinheads with very strong views on nationalism and immigrants.This film shows both the extreme negative and the few positives (in the minds of the writers and film makers that is) of the skinhead lifestyle. To protect their turf from foreigners (a ridiculous notion in Australia as only the Aboriginals are not foreign) and to live life the way of their choosing.There are many fights including a huge pitched battle halfway through the film and the fighting is shot from a hand-held camera getting you right into the sheer mayhem and brutal aggression.The skins aren't all violent with Davey taking a fancy to Gabrielle, a run-away who they take in and look after. She'd clearly been in a sexually abusive relationship with her father who they later rob and beat up.The end of the film is very weird with only Davey, Gabrielle and Hando (played by a young Russell Crowe). Hando and Davey argue among themselves that a girl has no place with them so she sets fire to their car. Hando chases and tries to kill her and is eventually killed by Davey on a beach.A very quiet ending to a very fast paced violent film. "},{"Title":"Confused and largely pointless...","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Romper Stomper is a largely pointless film which poses few questions and answers none. The viewer is treated to the violence inherent within skinhead culture, replete with Nazi memorabilia adoring walls as well as racist music and random acts of aggression within said group of racists. The difficulty most viewers will have with this however is that there is no side to be taken in this film, with the actions of the main characters deplorable but never understandable. Why is it that these men and adolescents feel the need to isolate themselves within an abandoned warehouse, striking out at the local immigrant (we assume) population? This is something which we never gain the answer to as there is little to no back story provided for the characters, so essentially we are left watching violence against a minority simply for the sake of it. The first parts of the film could possibly be accused of glorifying the actions of violent skinheads, with their attacks on all and sundry within striking distance seemingly portrayed as fun (for them, not for the viewer). This is however not really the intention I assume as the later sections of the film do see the characters encountering difficulties with the law and with each other, leading to the somewhat clichd reading of the film that you'll get what's coming to you in the end.This however isn't something which makes for a particularly well-rounded or entertaining film. There is no moral message within this film that is delivered with enough clarity to be easily discerned. Yes the characters do eventually have difficulties with their way of life and yes they all meet punishment in one form or another, save for one repenting individual. But so what? The viewer is never made to attach themselves to these characters, to understand them or even come close to empathising with them simply because there is virtually no characterisation for them. Violent racist 1,2,3,4 etc come to sticky ends because of their way of life, but why should the viewer care about this seeing as they know absolutely nothing about them other than that they are an over exaggerated half-formed character. The characters that the viewer is actually given some insight in to never meet with the consequences of their actions, rather moving along with a side plot that sees two characters feuding over another, with the final confrontation of this being largely irrelevant to the rest of the film. How many times has the viewer seen love triangles dealt with far more interestingly and entertainingly and why should this be any better than the rest? The characters that we are given insight into escape from their past in one way or another and the viewer is left with virtually no reason to particularly care about this.Romper Stomper's largely confused and ineffective plot and execution are the reason this film will forever adorn the shelves of skinheads and quasi-racists as a shining example of how great racist violence is, and at the same time be viewed by people of the completely opposite disposition who will site this film as a brilliant example of how racism is futile and can only lead to harming oneself. This is not because the film handles both sides of the argument with finesse and grace or that it sits on the fence, but rather that the film isn't even aware that the fence exists or which country it's in and decides to just do it's own thing and forget trying to have any coherency or meaning. "},{"Title":"Why these types of movies?","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've just seen this movie on DVD but I think it's useless movie. Well, great acting, interesting locations, but what does it say? Neo-nazism is bad. We know it. Neo-nazists are rough, non-cultural and violent people. Yes, we know it, too.  They hate other nations, especially from Asia and Africa. And we now this again. Is this movie for good people? Maybe, but they know about these problems and this movie is too violent for them. Is this movie for neo-nazists? Maybe, but then they could take it like gloryfying neo-nazism. I wonder why are movies of this kind shooted? It helps nobody and nothing and the source of violence and hate don't erase. "},{"Title":"A movie about racism? Hardly...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Apart from a long, breathtaking fight/chasing scene, and Crowe's good performance, there isn't much else worth watching in this film. What is it about, anyway? The life of a skinheads gang or the adventure of a runaway girl? It seems to fall somewhere in between. If the film's aim is to depict racism in the modern world, it fails miserably, becoming too grotesque at times. This subject has been tackled with more successfully in other movies. A good thing though is that Romper stomper contains a lot of action, making sure you won't fall asleep half way through it.5 "},{"Title":"Australian gang of neo Nazis","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Russell Crowe leads a band of sheep fighting for a white Australia. Vietnamese immigrants takes over their town and when the immigrants come to one nearby hotel they decide to take action. This turns out to them being lynched by the Vietnamese and the movie from then on is about the gang on the run.Except for that this kind of gang mentality is stupid I don't know what this movie tries to tell. The background for the racism is summarized in one line and that is not enough.From what I remember from 'American History X' its much more accomplished than this movie, likewise Edward Norton is so much a better actor than Russell Crowe is. "},{"Title":"Little Men Stomp","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Violence charged by nihilism that ultimately I suspect will fuel more of the same rather than do anything else. The notion that the love interest is as destructive as the skins is mildly interesting as are a few other tangents to the film, but mostly this is a series of fights down a steep decline of Australasian civilization.The film does move at a break-neck pace while breaking more than a few necks. Hando crows about not making the mistake that the Abo's made, and that was sort of quizzical to me. Odd that Hando seemed to identify or at least align himself with the Aborigines...and also admit that this land was not truly his people's.Early on some of the fighting between Hando and Dave I thought touched more on the actual inner flame for the skins, an odd appreciation of our bodily existence by the thrashing of our bodies. Mix in the false, youthful sense of immortality and I find that more interesting than just plain hatred swinging out in all directions.And yes I know such hatred does exist...and can be woefully misguided (by goons and by generals). As for the true nature of skinheads as championed in comments here at IMDb, while I know there is some truth to that, at the same time the intentional embracing of a monolithic stereotype to define yourself I think still offends the same core value that racism does. Is it much better to deny one's self individuality rather than someone else??Anyways back to the film, moments like the montage of sex-is-violence-is-domination and the heavy-handed busload of foreigners at the end hurt the film. My favorite scene was the middle Vietnamese brother dispatching the younger for not being useful, just bouncing the pool ball on the table...and then immediately the middle brother starts to bounce the ball... I had high hopes for Davey's fraulein grandma as well (but Daschunds...oh brother...) anything to put these outcasts in a more everyday element. I guess early on the redheaded guy who joined the military was another opportunity, but I guess just inserted for the connection of sanctioned versus uncivil violence.Anyways, non-essential viewing, but tackled with gusto.4/10 "},{"Title":"Better ending.......better movie","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It starts as a very good and strong film and ends up in a boring ridiculous love triangle. As always, Russell Crowe's acting is excellent. It's a shame the film felt into such a bad story because Crowe's talent was not completely used but wasted. A better ending would have made this one a great film to watch. The story turns into the personal relations of Hando, Davey and Gave instead of continuing showing the stupid racism and then open eyes just as American History X did.  "},{"Title":"It ain't easy being a Skinhead","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  See the Skinheads party. See the Skinheads beat up Asians.  She the Skinheads get beat up by the Asians. See the Skinheads run away. See the Skinheads raid a mansion.  See the Skinheads suffer from poor leadership and attrition. See the Skinheads get busted by cops. And so it goes in this shabby film from down  under which sticks Crowe out front as the leader of a motley gang of neo-Nazis who are learning that being a Skinhead ain't easy. I found this flick difficult to take seriously because the production was so poor and can't find any reason to recommend it. (C-) "},{"Title":"pretty bad","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, a friend of a friend told me I had to see this movie and kept saying how really amazing it was. I had never even heard of it before and wasn't too excited about renting it but unfortunately curiosity got the better of me and so I did end up renting it. From the very beginning this movie was horrible. The music that was playing was nauseating, the scenes of violence were completely random and not at all suspenseful or even interesting to watch, just some skin heads getting chased around the neighborhood by hordes of immigrants, which I thought was so stupid it actually made me laugh. I find it hard to believe Russell Crowe went on to do anything after appearing in this trash. I think they spent about $20 on the production budget for this film. All in all it was a very bad movie and I cannot recommend that anyone waste their time watching this. Also, just because you liked American History X doesn't mean you'll like this movie. I loved AHX and yet while Romper Stomper is the same genre, it's a very different kind of movie. I give this movie 2/10, the only reason it's not a 1 is because it was slightly entertaining seeing Russell Crowe before he went big time in one of the cheapest movies I've ever had the displeasure of watching. "},{"Title":"Romper Stomper","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Before he became the big star, the New Zealand born Australian raised actor had varied parts in just a few films, and later he would get the bigger role in The Quick and the Dead, then the lead in L.A. Confidential, and of course the Oscar for Leading Actor in Gladiator, so it was interesting for me to see one of his earliest leading roles, from director Geoffrey Wright (Cherry Falls). Basically a gang of violent neo-Nazi skinheads from Footscray, Victoria, Australia, led by Hando (Russell Crowe), with his friend Davey (Daniel Pollock) as second in command, are not afraid to express their racism by attacking anyone of the Asian community. Gabrielle 'Gabe' (Jacqueline McKenzie) joins them, not after being beaten up by her drug-taking boyfriend, who was hired to do the beating by her sexually abusive and rich father Martin (Alex Scott), and she and Hando form a close blond. The gang are joined soon by friends visiting from Canberra, and they find out their local pub has been sold to a Vietnamese Australian businessman, so they go and attack the owner's sons, and in the situation one of the Vietnamese youth phones for help from fellow community members. They outnumber the skinheads and surround their rented warehouse, but they manage to escape the chaos as the community break in and ransack and set fire to the place, so the skinheads retreat to another warehouse that has squatters. Hando convinces his fellow gang members that they should get revenge against the Vietnamese, starting with the purchase of a gun, and Gabe's suggestion is to burgle her father's mansion, as payback for the years of abuse, she also tells Davey she plans to get away with Hando from the violent lifestyle. Davey has doubts about his current lifestyle and leave the gang, and the same time Gabe dumps Hando, the two of them spend the night together, and she informs the police where the gang is, and the gang are hoarded by police, with the youngest skinhead shot dead, and the rest arrested. Hando was not there at the time though, and even though he does catch Gabe and Davey in bed together, he wants to convince his friend to stick by him, and he does, so they all go on the run, robbing a service station, and the leader strangling the Asian store owner to death. They stop on a beach, and the two male friends have a conversation where there is an argument about the girl, she meanwhile sets fire to the car and admits to them that she called the police. This enrages Hando and he chases her, trying to kill by drowning her in the sea, but Davey stabs him in the back of the neck with a knife, he dies, and Gabe and Davey hug together, while a bus load of Japanese tourists watch from above. Also starring Leigh Russell as Sonny Jim, Dan Wyllie as Cackles, James McKenna as Bubs, Eric Mueck as Champ and Frank Magree as Brett. Crowe gives a great performance as the leader of the gang, he is suitably the most unhinged of the characters, and the support of Pollock and Scott is terrific as well, the raiding of the warehouse is the most engaging scene, but many moments of disturbing exploits of skinhead violence and abuse get you gripped, there are good reasons to put this in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, a good drama. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"Always the same, skinheads=nazis, don't see it","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A big WARNING because i might spoil the end of the movie, so if you haven't seen this movie, and will, do not read this. First of all for all you skins,and others who like movies about skins, here is yet another one where skins are nazis, racist and more or less dumb. Tragic and stereotype, all listening to white power music. If you want to see aggro, see something else. And for the second (the warning-thing) I don't think you can take a film seriously when it is about racism and it winds up with one good person, with swastika tattooed on his arm, fighting a bad person, also with swastika tattooed on his arm,over a girl on a beach. I can not recommend this film too anyone except for casting agents, 'cause some actors are great. "},{"Title":"More Like Romper Room","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The skinheads never stood a chance. As my friend pointed out during the home invasion scene ' these people are all borderline retarded.' Romper Stomper shows us that Nazi skinheads are just big ADD suffering children looking for the next minority to use as a punching bag until their Ritalin kicks in.It's difficult to imagine that Australians were shocked by this film. In 2004 it's hard to take it seriously. The direction and acting are amateurish. There is even a scene in which the main girl stands still and pulls at her hair while chaos careens around her. The redeeming value of Romper Stomper is that it contains a lot of unintentional humor.Hando AKA Russell Crowe, subscribes to the Clockwork Orange philosophy of the higher the pants the harder the man. The mild menace that he established at the start of the film went sharply downhill once he appeared in a pair of tighty whiteys that look like they were meant for an eight year old "},{"Title":"90 minutes of senseless violence","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this movie the only thing I kept was a headache. This is a stupid movie for stupid people. There were too many anomalies to keep track of and the end was a relief. My primary question is this If they were that destructive and protective of the white race, how come they were that old to start with? "}]