[{"Title":"Better than it should be","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"37 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By all rights this should have been yet another R-rated sex and violence flick about a piece of immoral jailbait having her wicked way with everyone around her, but the directing and acting are good enough to make it more effective than most, even touching.  The atmosphere is almost haunting, and the relationships between the characters (especially the two teenage girl leads) are well developed enough to hold your interest.Sara Gilbert gives the film a sympathetic center, she's excellent as a bright, likeable high school girl who finds herself in far over her head when she befriends poor little bad girl Drew Barrymore.  Her misery and frustration as Barrymore takes over her family, her life, even her dog are moving enough to make the flimsy story work.  Barrymore wasn't much of an actress at that age (still isn't, in my opinion), but she's very effective nonetheless.  She doesn't need to act, she needs to do what she does, look sexy.  Really, really sexy, like it's all she ever thinks about.  Cheryl Ladd also does surprisingly well as Gilbert's slowly dying mother.The movie also has moments of an almost haunting quality.  The score is lovely, alternately passionate and strangely moody, and gives the film enough emotional intensity to make me forgive its many flaws.  Even Barrymore kissing Gilbert.  Eeeew.  "},{"Title":"Haunting & darkly erotic tale of  teen alienation","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Drew Barrymore turns in the most memorable performance of her career, in this strange, beautifully filmed tale of betrayal and teenage alienation. The introverted Sylvie meets the mysterious Ivy at the posh private school they attend, and become fast friends. It seems Sylvie idolizes Ivy just a bit, for her beauty and fearless, outgoing style. And Ivy, coming from a broken home, begins to envy Sylvies life, as Sylvie lives in a gorgeous home, and has a mother and father who care deeply for her. The tale is more sad than suspenseful, and this is more of a teen drama than 'an erotic thriller. The friendship that develops between the two girls is done in a very believable way, and it is sad when things begin to go wrong, and it becomes clear that Ivy has some deep emotional problems. The plot here is not so original, but so many elements elevate 'Poison ivy' above other films of this type. The acting all around is impressive; Cheryl Ladd is beautifully fragile as the sick, bed-ridden mother, and the relationship that develops between her and her daughter's mysterious friend is touching, as the two look very similar. It is obvious that when 'Georgie' looks at 'Ivy' she is reminded of her own youth, and her own days of being wild. And this is how the connection develops between the mother and Ivy. The daughter unfortunately is unable to connect with her own mom, as the two are so different. 'Gerorgie,' like Ivy, is blond, pretty, and glamorous, while Sylvie is mousy-haired and wears glasses. This causes immediate, but subtle tension between the two girls from the outset. Tom Skeritt is perfect as the brooding, wounded husband, who feels abandoned by a wife who has given up on living. This fact makes him easy prey for Ivy as well, whose desire to become a part of this family soon escalates to a disturbing level. Sara Gilbert is likewise perfectly cast as the shy but intelligent Sylvie. So much attention is paid to small details, which is so important with films of this sort. Ivy's tattoo, which turns out to be fake, and the Egyptian eye that is shaved into Sylvie's scalp, gives these characters depth. The film possesses a strong, atmospheric tone, and Ivy's strange, childlike sexuality has an almost hypnotic quality about it. The background music as well, is lush, and darkly romantic. And many scenes are absolute eye candy, and truly erotic. Among them, the scene where Tom Skeritt's character 'takes' Ivy on the hood of his Mercedes in the forest, while the rain pours down and that haunting melody plays; classic. And the film succeeds in being erotic without being very graphic, and this is not easy to accomplish. I was lucky to see this in the theater, and was happy to find the DVD, which contains both versions of the movie, the theatrical, 'R' rated version, and a slightly more graphic unrated edition. There were some sequels to this, that were released straight to video, and are, not surprisingly, terrible exploitation trash that has nothing to do with this legitimate film. 'Poison Ivy is an above average 'teen angst' film, and deals effectively with it's subject matter. Recommended, especially for fans of Drew Barrymore. Fans who are only familiar with her more recent films will be amazed at how great she is, and how amazing she looks, in this very special film. "},{"Title":"A movie that's more about loneliness than it is an erotic thriller","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the two main characters in the movie - Cooper ( played by Sara Gilbert ) and Ivy ( Drew Barrymore is brilliant in this character ). The film focuses on there friendship and feeling alone as a teenager. I really liked the dialogue between the characters. Especially when Ivy meets Cooper's mother ( played by Cheryl Ladd ) and talks about her own mother and how she flinched every time she touched her and how she died long before she really did. It's just great. Ivy's loneliness soon starts to evaporate as she gains a mother in Chery Ladd, a friend in Sara Gilbert, but then she sets her eyes on Cooper's father ( played by Tom Skerrit ) and wants him in an intimate way. And this is where the movie starts to get erotic as she seduces her best friend's father. But Cooper is starting to see Ivy's evil intentions .....  "},{"Title":"Morbid, intriguing, trashy.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It would be the easiest thing to simply dismiss this film as yet another sleazy erotic melodrama (which it undoubtedly is), but the result is too intriguing, and too offbeat, to be ignored. Although this film will disappoint those who are expecting a well-made thriller or even an explicitly erotic movie because it's tame and practically suspenseless, it has an air of weirdness and morbidity that places it slightly above most of the run-of-the-mill entries in this genre. The performances are mostly one-note but convincing enough. Visually, it's a grim, underproduced film, but it does have a special atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Lolita in the '90s","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nabokov's Lolita used the affections of a fawning, elderly man (her stepfather) for her own purposes--which never amounted to much more than sex and cash. It only figures that today's Lolita would be dressed to kill, literally. As Drew Barrymore plays her here, she's a sexy homicidal figure with maternal delusions. Poison Ivy begins rather endearingly, with high school outcast Sara Gilbert (looking like the modern equivalent of a teen beatnik) befriended by a striking blonde student with lots o' leg and a fake tattoo. This wanton woman-child has no name; Gilbert calls her Ivy and Barrymore likes that (It gives me the opportunity to start over, she says). The tone of the picture shifts however before the midway point, with Ivy infiltrating Gilbert's dysfunctional household and seducing dad Tom Skerritt (doing terrific work). Gilbert's narration--and the surreal jumble which becomes the hectic climax--is rather off-putting, but there's a great deal of worth in Barrymore's solid performance. The film is stylish on a low-budget and is actually steamier than Nine 1/2 Weeks. Yet, it's really two different pictures struggling within the context of one. A stronger screenplay might've brought the two halves together, although, as the director, Katt Shea Ruben manages to come up with a commendable amount of incidents both amusing and titillating. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good Teenage Drama.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Poison Ivy is a good teenage drama movie, starring Sara Gilbert and Drew Barrymore, who both give great performances here. Barrymore plays Ivy a young and wild teen, who lives with her aunt. When she ends up moving in with her friend, Sylvie played by Gilbert, Ivy slowly and seductively works her way into the lives of her 'new' family. The movie has some weird moments, but most of the time it's good and keeps you interested in the plot and the characters. "},{"Title":"Pretty spooky","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy simply tells the story of a young girl who definitely gets what she wants and even resorts to murder if needs be. All four of the main characters you can develop some feeling for, and you could even feel sorry for Drew Barrymore's Ivy, although I did feel as if sometimes some characters were simply failing to believe what was pretty obvious to everyone else.An 18-year-old Barrymore shines in this role, and Cheryl Ladd is also very convincing.A young Leonardo Di Caprio makes an appearance in a perfectly watchable (but also rather short) film, with good direction from the relatively unknown Katt Shea. "},{"Title":"Body language speaks wonders.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays Ivy a Lolita-like teen that gradually moves in with a shy reclusive classmate Sylvie(Sara Gilbert)and the presence of the streetwise Ivy starts a chain reaction of mixed emotions. Sylvie's self destructive mother(Cheryl Ladd)is jealous of her husband's(Tom Skerritt) reaction to Ivy's seductive ways. Soon he is hooked and can't get enough of the perverse teen. Questions arise concerning the death of Sylvie's mother about the time Sylvie realizes what is going on between her father and Ivy.My favorite scene is the sultry love making in the rain on the car hood. It is hard to tell who is seducing who. The 17 year old Barrymore is hypnotic. I couldn't take my eyes off of her. Kudos to Katt Shea for directing this erotic thriller. Note Look for a young Leonardo DiCaprio. "},{"Title":"Is Drew worth an ocean of calamine lotion?","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is primarily a vehicle to exploit the generalized sensuality of Miss Drew Barrymore, an excellent actress and heir of a great acting family. Drew, who was so cuddily in E.T. when she was six years old or so, is now oh so cuddily and then some to a more varied audience. Here, as a scheming little poor girl, she seduces dad, mom and daughter (to varying degrees) before slipping into murder. She is sexy, trashy and very pretty.Sara Gilbert (from TV's 'Rosanne') plays the dweeby poor little rich girl daughter with veracity and some wit. Tom Skerrit is the father without a clue; and Cheryl Ladd, looking rather fetching despite the role, is the dreary mother. Yes, old TV stars can find work! Best scene is when Sara and Drew go to the tattoo parlor. Drew makes a few ugly remarks causing Sara to get up to leave, but Drew draws her back tenderly (to pay the tab), pulls her close, and kisses her. When the beer-bellied tattoo guy tries to join in, the girls give him an 'ugh!' and split.The slow-motion seduction of Skerrit seems a little drawn out. Even after Drew kisses and licks his cut hand, Skerrit just looks off into space in befuddlement. Later things heat up though, and then take a kinky turn when Mom, through a drug and alcohol haze, dimly notices Drew wearing her sexy dress and doing some love numbers on her husband.Second best scene is after the funeral with Drew sleeping in Cheryl Ladd's bed where she is discovered by Sara. Drew urges her friend, the distraught daughter, to join her. Sara does. 'Pretend I'm your mother,' Drew says. Sara confides to her that what she couldn't say to her mother was 'I love you.' Drew kisses her head and holds her close.What was intended here was a psychological study of a teenaged girl without much of a home or much of a family who is drawn to adopt her own family among those of her friends, and in doing so assumes the role of the mother, in toto. What we get is a semi-pornographic focus on a very sexy screen darling, a ridiculous murder, and an even more ridiculous finale, the details of which I will skip.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"As a thriller, the film is unremarkable; as a chance to ogle Drew, it's unmissable.","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A teenage Drew Barrymore lends her undeniable sex appeal to this otherwise unremarkable erotic thriller which uses the well-worn 'family unit threatened by a wicked interloper' plot device as an excuse to deliver loads of cheap titillation. Drew plays a sultry blonde with a troubled past who befriends socially awkward high school student Sylvie Cooper (Sara Gilbert) in order to scheme her way into her family. Sylvie is captivated by her new BFF's wild streak, unaware that the luscious lolita has designs on her father and will kill to get what she wants...Although, on the surface, this film gives the impression of being a stylish, sexy and sophisticated thriller, with an almost noir-ish atmosphere and a cool slow-burn approach, when all is said and done, this is trash exploitation, pure and simple, as one might expect from the director of Stripped to Kill and Stripped to Kill II Live Girls.Not that I'm complaining, mind, since I'm a big fan of the lovely Miss Barrymore, and trashy exploitation in general, and this film gave me plenty to smile about, namely miss Barrymore in a series of very sexy get-ups.6 out of 10, bumped up to 7 for all the gratuitous Drew! "}{"Title":"A teenage thriller that manages to avoid the cliché. Quite underrated.","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy is a beautifully filmed, atmospheric tale of teenage angst and the meltdown of a wealthy American family. It centers the seductive, manipulative teenager Ivy (played by Drew Barrymore), who wreaks havoc on her newly found wealthy, but dysfunctional family, which she basically bought her way into through her new friend the introverted Sylvie Cooper (played by Sara Gilbert). As Ivy slowly works her way into the disrupted family, she seduces Cooper's farther (played by Tom Skerritt) and goes as far as killing Cooper's ill mother, (played by Cheryl Ladd, post Charlie's Angels) and attempts to replace her.... Ivy even claims the family dog! Eventually, as the film progresses, a duel between Cooper and Ivy ensures as it becomes clear Ivy has some deep psychological problems.First of all, Poison Ivy is admittedly, a very trashy film in some moments. Its on the verge of being an art-house, exploitation film &#150; perhaps something along the lines of Pretty Poison, Lolita or Basic Instinct, it even bears some similarities to American Beauty, as both films exert a plot that centers a dysfunctional family on the verge of disintegration. There is a great deal of sexuality in this film, but I am going to be honest and say there is also an abundance of well-performed, written and filmed material, however it shifts gears in the last half-an hour, turning into a overly clichéd Hitchcock-style thriller, loosing its mystique and unique style it inhabited in the earlier moments. Barrymore, however, is top-notch in one of the most memorable performances of her career. Skerrit is excellent as the cynical, brooding husband, and Gilbert is likewise as the angst-ridden teenage daughter. Ladd is also dazzling in a supporting role as the fragile, disturbed mother on the verge of a breakdown.Poison Ivy possess a very strong, erotic and hypnotic nature that lets the film rise above the average made-for-TV thriller. Perhaps could have been more effective with a less obvious ending.9.1/10 -Luke Rowe "},{"Title":"A Sexy and Thrilling Teen Drama","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy is appropriately titled as the lead character 'Ivy' played brilliantly by a younger,blonder and trashier looking Drew Barrymore is a conniving,deceitful bitch who moves in with her friend Sylvie Cooper (Roseanne's Sara Gilbert) and slowly begins to destroy the already messed up family.Embarking on a disturbing relationship with the older Tom Skerritt,who plays Mr Darryl Cooper,Ivy is free to move in on the guy,as his wife Mrs Cooper (Cheryl Ladd) is lying in a bed a lot of the time,and has thoughts about committing suicide,sick of her pointless life.With Mrs Cooper out of the way,Ivy seduces Mr Cooper behind her friend Sylvie's back and what happens next is chilling and disturbing as Ivy gets deeper into the life of the family and shows her true colours. "},{"Title":"Does not deliver on any promises","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film, claimed to be a Basic Instinct meets The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, is a big disappointment. There is no real storyline evident, just an idea that seems to have been given about fifteen minutes work. This is a Virginia Andrews style plot, but it just does not work. Not only is it incoherent, it jumps from one episode to the next and never pieces itself together or finds direction. And the characters are poorly developed, leaving the viewer caring less about what happens to them.Barrymore is watchable, but the film is a tease as it doesn't deliver the promised sensuality.Friday, August 14, 1992 - Village Centre Melbourne "},{"Title":"Barrymore goes softcore.","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rich student Sylvie Cooper makes friends with the enigmatic girl she calls Ivy in the principal's office after phoning in a bomb threat to her television presenter father's station. Ivy quickly makes her move by moving in with the Coopers (she lived with her aunt in relative squalor) where she becomes friends with Sylvie's parents &#x96; the TV presenter Darryl & dying mother Georgie. But friendship is not enough for the young woman &#x96; she covers up Darryl's lust for her & kills Georgie by pushing her off the balcony. As the family's grief over Georgie's death pushes them to the mental limit, Ivy attempts to replace Georgie in Darryl's eyes by seducing him.Poison Ivy was probably one of the most important B-grade thrillers in the early 1990s. It was one of the very first erotic thrillers of that decade, coming out around the same time as SINGLE WHITE FEMALE, which dealt with something similar, as well as the more sensationalistic likes of Fatal Attraction & Basic Instinct. It also made a name for actress Drew Barrymore, who would later go on to high acclaim in many other comedies.Poison Ivy is something of a prototype for the B-grade erotic thriller, a genre that would be one of the 1990s' most prolific genres. The film did not make too much money in the theatrical release but picked up most of its audience on video & cable TV &#x96; something that would be fitting for a film such as this. Of course, the sex scenes in the film are so tame that the film will be something of a disappointment for those who like harder softcore fare.Poison Ivy is, from a psychological point of view, a story about how a family that lives on extremes in the wealthy community can collapse when a free-spirited agent moves into their home. Sara Gilbert is the daughter who is prone to rebelling against the system by embracing the marginal &#x96; phoning in bomb threats to her father's workplace, smoking & so on. The father is as conservative as they come but is so tightly-wound up that his mental state is beginning to deteriorate &#x96; as evident in his drinking, while the mother is suffering from lung disease & is drugged up on painkillers & sedatives. Ivy has some inherent flaws in her character as well &#x96; she seems to be extremely lonely & only goes on her mission of seduction for personal benefit & her desire to have a family she can belong to, even if the family she is building up around her is falling apart from an old one. The character also has a clear lack of motivation for her actions.Drew Barrymore is a great actress in her own right, but I was somewhat less than enthused about her role here. For one thing, the role was supposed to be for an adult & Barrymore was just barely underage, something that necessitated a body double for her love scenes. Sara Gilbert seems just as miscast &#x96; her passive neurotic nature should have been handled by a much more rigid actress but she does a decent job anyway. Tom Skerritt is perfect in his role as the stuffy, opinionated & formerly hard-drinking TV presenter whose forbidden lust ends up putting him in a tough position. Some of the plot twists don't seem natural &#x96; Skerritt's wound-up nature shouldn't have let him cheat on his wife with a teenager who is literally young enough to be his daughter & get so twisted around her little pinkie, so to speak. But this is a minor contrivance that doesn't go too far in ruining the picture. Whilst not a masterpiece in any way, Poison Ivy is still a pretty decent film, making the proto-softcore erotica work in a passable way. "},{"Title":"Barrymore's lethal comeback, in not the most lethal of films","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy marks Drew Barrymore's return to the big screen, and it's an impressive comeback, as a sexy seductress. Poison Ivy is a by the numbers Fatal Attraction type of movie, with some small thrills, shock moments, plus some tame sex scenes, as mistakenly implied to the viewer by it's R rating, one brief moment including Skeritt and Drew, doing it in the buff, which probably was more more wise, considering the age difference. Too we have a frank scene near the start, where a dog is roadkill, another scene that warrants the R. On the whole, the movie is a lot of fun, where viewers will mostly be captured by Barrymore's performance. Oh, how she has grown up. She befriends an introverted but very opinionated girl, Sylvie (Rosanne's Sarah Gilbert, who very good here) and worms her way into her rich household. The movie's fun as to see what Barrymore has in store next. Cheryl Ladd as Sylvie's ailing mother, doesn't have much to say but it's a memorable and respectful performance, probably the film's best while Skeritt as Sylvie's Dad is Skeritt, just how we usually like him. The film does have suspense here and there, and the shot with Ladd pushed off the balcony falling to her quicker doom, was wonderfully and impressively shot, an experimental shot, you could call it. The dog fetching scene between Barrymore and Gilbert was annoying, and there were some predictable moments, like foreseeing that car car crash, that had Barrymore running off in Daddy's pride and joy with Sylvie, and after the crash, turning the blame on the other, though the latter wasn't predicted. Poison Ivy isn't anything special, which in the thriller genre of this type, I've seen better, but it's quite fun nevertheless, at times, dangerous fun too. Million dollar question Can you spot Leo? "},{"Title":"Sexy, Evil and Beautiful","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie. It's on my top ten list. Drew Barrymore plays a young outcast girls that befriends a rich girl and immediately starts moving in with her and trying to steal everything from her, her life, her family, everything. Drew Barrymore is so obsessed that she tries to be part of the family. But the strange thing is that the girl is obsessed with Drew and just can't let her go. Great movie, I love it so much 10/10 "},{"Title":"What Ivy Wants, Ivy Gets...","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy has a TV film feel about it and having just watched it recently for the first time in several years I feel that she could have had more credibility if she had continued on the serious side of acting, rather than frivolous rom-coms that became her staple. Drew Barrymore never looked better than she did in this film and it's easy to see why Tom Skerritt is tempted by the teenage temptress. Sara Gilbert, who older readers may remember from Roseanne and younger readers as an occasional actress in The Big Bang Theory, plays a very good supporting role in this tight, memorable, and erotic thriller.There is a little too much on the music playing in the background but all in all, this is a good film to kill an hour-and-a-half with, particularly as it involves Ms Barrymore at her sexy looking best in a role that she excelled in. With one quick seduction, Ivy sets off a chain reaction that makes 'Poison Ivy' one of the most provocative and erotic films, of the erotic thriller genre, filmed to date. If you somehow missed this gem, give it a look soon. It is one of those very rare films you can enjoy again and again..Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"some pulpy trash fun","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvie Cooper (Sara Gilbert) is an introverted loner. Her mother Georgie (Cheryl Ladd) is sickly. Sylvie rebels against her conservative TV commentator father Darryl (Tom Skerritt). She is taken with the sexy trashy new girl (Drew Barrymore) who has a fake Ivy tattoo on her thigh. Sylvie befriends the new girl and gives her the name Ivy. Ivy starts insinuating into Sylvie's life causing trouble in her family and even seducing her father.Drew was shedding her child star status at the time. This is overwrought and pulpy. It's Lolita being even trashier. Gilbert and Barrymore are great. There is a young Leonardo DiCaprio in a minor role. This is trashy art that teases an erotic thriller. I can certainly understand how this could be dismissed but it has some pulpy fun. "},{"Title":"the Mom's a Charlie's Angel","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Not meant as a review)(but not to be hidden on the Board Posts either)Interestingly, the plot featured Drew Barrymore as Ivy replacing Cheryl Ladd as Mrs Cooper. A few years later, same thing with that overblown movie CHARLIE'S ANGELS. Let me come right out and say that I'm not a Drew Barrymore fan. Too trashy for my taste. I do however despair when seeing my dreamgirls age, being an old boy like I am, that goes part and parcel with the business, but I have to say, Cheryl Ladd, my favorite Angel, still looked great more than a decade after the TV series. Hey, she was all elegance and grace and allure despite playing the part. Hell, the only thing wrong with Cheryl Ladd in this movie was that she was ENTIRELY UNCONVINCING as a sickly dying-of-emphysema patient. She would not have looked like that, moved like that, talked like that, had she been trying to act the part realistically? Surely not?As for the movie, the character of Ivy is too superficial. No feeling is generated for her. And I am not talking about the feelings of ahem, the little boys in the back row. Bit of a dumb choice, little boys. Hollywood has much better to offer. Then, and now.Then again, I'm not knocking this movie, or Drew Barrymore, completely. Sure, there are moments. As trailer trash goes, at least Ivy is good quality trailer trash lookswiseCheryl's an angel though! (And hey! You who dare to vote my review as being unhelpful! Stupid dolt! This is not a review!)) "},{"Title":"A luscious Lolita takes over the family...","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...that's the basic plot of 1992's Poison Ivy starring Drew Barrymore in the titular role. The movie comes from a long tradition of films about a hot little babysitter (or nanny or friend) taking control of the family by winning the hearts of the kids and seducing the husband. The Babysitter (1980) and Summer Girl (1983) are two examples, both TV films (available on youtube). In Poison Ivy Drew, as Ivy, plays a friend of the awkward misfit Sylvie (Sara Gilbert). Tom Skerritt plays the slowly-seduced husband and Cheryl Ladd the withering (but still beautiful) mother.Poison Ivy is more stylized than the aforementioned examples and technically better due to a much bigger budget. One of its best highlights is its score, which is equal parts haunting, romantic, melancholic and beautiful. Speaking of melancholic, there's an element of sadness to the story because the family is so wealthy -- living on a mansion on a hill in Los Angeles (shot on location) -- but they're so spiritually bereft. It just goes to show that all the financial success and material possessions in the world can't buy happiness and love.Drew was almost 17 during filming and plays the sultry little tamale well, which brings up why people tend to look down on the film -- it's nothing more than a lethal Lolita tale with a slick garnishment and they write it off as trash exploitation. Regardless, it works for what it is; and, after all, does every film have to be Ghandi? Besides, Poison Ivy and similar films are more than just trash exploitation. They're commentaries on the power of a woman or, more specifically, the power of a young beautiful woman. In the story, Ivy comes from a troubled past but, as a blossoming woman, she realizes the power she wields and seems to bask in it.I was involved with a church for a number of years and the granddaughter of the pastor was aged 17-22 at the time. She wasn't in Drew's league, as far as beauty goes -- not even close -- yet she still had power. She would lie about people and spread rumors and, because she was the pastor's granddaughter, some morons would believe her. She started dating a naive relative of mine, who was 19 years her senior, and it was clear that she was just interested in his money. At some point she was able to get his credit card info and bought over $17,000 worth of merchandise without him knowing it until it was too late. She did everything in her power to move into his house, but his aging mother blocked the last attempt at the last minute. His mom said that she could just see the vixen pushing her down the stairs, or something something like this, to get her out of the picture. It was even discovered that the little tart tried to buy life insurance on the guy, which was very odd. You can draw your own conclusions.My point is that these lethal Lolitas exist -- young vixens who use their beauty to cause havoc, ruin lives and take control. Trash exploitation or not, it's good fodder for a movie, particularly if it's done stylishly, like Poison Ivy.The film runs 88 minutes and the unrated version 93 minutes, both available on the DVD.GRADE B+ "}{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy is now on my favorite movie list.The reminds me of a teen drama with a thriller twist. The film starts off with Sylvie discussing Ivy as Ivy swings on a rope. A little boy then runs over to tell them that a dog has been hit by a car. As everyone there is gathered around the dog a large stick swings down on the dog. The person with the stick is Ivy. Was the kill meant for good? this shows us that this girl is slightly psychotic. The next day she and Sylvie become friends and after Ivy is given a ride home by Sylvie and her dad, Best friends. Soon she even moves in with them. But halfway into the film trying to be with the father. And even goes as far as pushing Georgie (Sylvie's mom) off the balcony and claiming it to be suicide. Sylvie becomes suspicious of Ivy when she starts humming the song Sylvie wrote for her mother. A song that was playing the day she was killed. After Ivy wreaks Georgie's car and puts Sylvie into the hospital and blames the accident on her, Sylvie is sure Ivy is no good and tries to warn her dad but he doesn't listen.Sylvie breaks out of the hospital and returns home to Ivy and her father. Sylvie flees and her dad and Ivy chase after her but her dad forces Ivy to return inside. When she goes upstairs Sylvie is there waiting and Sylvie pushes Ivy off the ledge but Ivy grabs her necklace telling her that if she goes then so does Sylvie but the necklace breaks and Ivy plummets to the ground and dies. If you're into crazy girl thriller movies then you'll love this film. I've only seen this one and The Secret Society but I plan to get them all. "},{"Title":"Scripts Makes The Film Average","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The always challenging transition from adorable child performer to sexy adult star was achieved flamboyantly by actress Drew Barrymore with this erotic drama that unfolds like a paranoia-drenched Lolita also known as Ivy.Poison Ivy is a thriller directed by Katt Shea. Andy Ruben wrote Melissa Goddard's story into the screenplay. It stars Drew Barrymore, Sara Gilbert, Tom Skerritt and Cheryl Ladd.Sylvie Cooper is a misanthropic student at a private high school for children of the privileged. While calling in a phony bomb threat to the TV station where her father, Darryl is a producer, Sylvia attracts the attention of Ivy. Ivy is an orphan from a poor family, attending the school on a scholarship. She and Sylvia quickly become best friends, and Ivy eventually moves out of her aunt's home and into the Cooper household. Ivy covets the Coopers' lavish lifestyle and luxuries, so she begins plotting to kill Sylvie's ailing mother Georgie, then seduce the alcoholic Darryl and frame Sylvie for the crime, thus taking over the Cooper house. This film strikes a pleasing balance between emotion and ambiguity.Also,it is arty-trashy exploitation film is an amalgam of Fatal Attraction, Stepfather, and Pasolini's Teorema, in all of which the order of a middle-class is disrupted by a depraved interloper, if only the script were better.Despite of its willingness to take risks, and its insights into the frailties and confusions of teenage friendships, lift the film right out of the rut due to decent acting from the cast especially Drew Barrymore.Her fans will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore as a modern day Lolita and home-wrecker.","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I somehow missed seeing this movie back in the 90s, and saw it today via Netflix streaming. Drew Barrymore plays the teenage Lolita (she really was a teenager, as was Gilbert) and if I had seen this originally probably would have had a different reaction. Now she has become a star in many movies, including the Charlie's Angels movies where she is somewhat of a goofball, making it more difficult to see her as a Lolita. The movie is somewhat interesting, especially to see Barrymore and Gilbert as teenagers, but overall this story plows no new ground, and the conclusion is rather predictable. Sara Gilbert is Sylvie Cooper and Drew Barrymore is the new student, Ivy. They hit it off right away at school and pretty soon Ivy is making herself right at home with the Coopers, practically ends up living there.The dad is Tom Skerritt as Darryl Cooper, General Manager at a local TV station and clearly wealthy. His wife is Cheryl Ladd as Georgie Cooper, who spends most of her time in her bedroom, and most of that time in bed, not sure if she had a physical or just a psychological illness.Ivy has mastered the art of being devious, but then being apologetic so that no one thinks she is at fault, or forgives her for her wrongs. But Ivy sees an opening with dad because of his sadness over his wife's unavailability.The credits list Leonardo DiCaprio simply as a guy but it isn't clear where he might be seen. He looked a bit different as a scrawny teenager. SPOILERS After Ivy befriends mom, even wearing some of her nice clothes, one day on the upper balcony off mom's bedroom, asks her Do you ever think of it (jumping off)? Then Ivy pushes her, holds her over the ledge for a couple of seconds to look into her eyes, then lets her slip away. As the story progresses, and Ivy begins an affair with dad, who loses his job at the TV station, Sylvie becomes wise to everything and Ivy meets her death the same way as mom, from the same balcony, dresses in one of mom's gowns. She was poison. "},{"Title":"Silly but entertaining","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Drew Barrymore plays Ivy a young teenager who befriends a dysfunctional girl from a wealthy dysfunctional family. Drew comes across as a far too innocent type to be a scheming seductress who lures her friends father (Tom Skerrit) into a pedophilia relationship whilst causing havoc to her friend and her mother.This film did have its moments of intrigue and suspense. Fans of Drew Barrymore may find it somewhat entertaining. The Lolita theme and teen angst aspects will no doubt attract a wider audience.I give it three stars as Drew manages well to uphold her family acting dynasty. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but not a bad one either.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The saying there's nothing like the original comes to mind in regards to this movie. Of the three in the series, this one is definitely the best of the bunch.This was an ideal film for Drew Barrymore to make the transition from child star to adult actress. Her portrayal of the seductress was well done.It was hard to buy into Sara Gilbert's role as a goth-like rich kid. The idea was sound, but I don't think she was the proper person for the job.And unlike the other two, this one doesn't show nearly as much nudity, which I think is a plus. It forces the story to be carried by the actors and cinematography.Overall, not a bad movie if you just want to kill a quiet evening at home. "},{"Title":"i love drew barrymore in this movie","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" hi,i saw this with knowing about the movie.first i felt it was not a thriller,but after thirty minutes i found the story is having lot of twists.particularly the way she kill her friends mom.up to the end i saw the movie with out missing single word.at least the movie is nice.one thing i want to say i became fan of drew Barrymore,up to one month i used think about her in my dreams,i like her very much,she is a talented actress. i think who appreciates woman's beauty can see that movie.the ultimate motive for writing this comment is for appreciating the beauty of drew ,simply super,i like her very much,i wish to have one sweet kiss from her in my lifetime,OK friends i think by reading this article you see the movie,and enjoy the action of drew barrymore don't miss to see the movie ,ok then bye "},{"Title":"Poison ivy Sweet Sara","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is not as bad as what some people would like you to believe. The storyline is quite good,and the acting is good. Sexy goodlooking young thing worms her way into a friends house and seduces the man of the house,whilst his wife is ill in bed. Lets face it who would not like to be seduced by Drew Barrymore. The whole affair(no pun intended) results in death. Sara Gilbert has always been an actress I enjoyed watching,since she stopped playing the sassy daughter in Roseanne. I feel she carried off the part as a lonely young rebel,looking for friendship,quite well. Tom Skerritt does not seem to have done much since his Alien days,such a pity as he was good in that. The music score was reasonable,with a haunting tone throughout,you can get this film cheap nowadays so its worth buying.  "},{"Title":"Great Performance !","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Drew Barrymore performs excellent in this movie, she plays the role of a seductress quite well, from the first scene with her friend's dad to the last seen. The most Important is the way the characters are portrayed, the direction is superb. "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore's performance steals the screen!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In her come back movie, Drew Barrymore is fantastically expressive and proves herself as a dramatic actor. Barrymore portrays a sexy teen who lives with her aunt moves in with a reclusive teen then slowly works her way into the lives of her adopted family. If you remember Barrymore as the star child of the 1980's hit E.T., then you will be pleasantly surprised to see how she has grown into a beautiful and believable actor. Her smile and laugh are worth the price off admission. This is a must see for the younger  teenage crowd.  "},{"Title":"Amazing thriller","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sylvie Cooper goes to a private school, and she is an outcast, her father is an ultra conservative TV Network personality and her mother is dying of emphysema, she rebels against her parents to be noticed, she even calls in a bomb threat at her father's TV station.At the principal's office she meets a girl who is wild, rambunctious, free spirited, very sexy, very cool girl from the wrong side of the tracks.Sylvie asks her father to give her friend a ride home, and tells him her name is Ivy because the girl has a henna tattoo of an Ivy on her leg, and Sylvie doesn't know her name.Sylvie idolizes Ivy and they become best friends, Ivy even moves in Sylvie's house. The Cooper family has their reservations at first, but Ivy tells her story, of a drug addicted mom who killed herself and no one cares for her. Step by step she starts winning every member of the family. But things become intense when Ivy starts showing her true colors, betraying Sylvie, seducing her father and wanting to take her mom's place.The movie takes a turn into the obscure and Ivy is no longer a victim but a devious monster that's come to play and destroy the family from within.What is so amazing of this thriller is that you don't see coming all the twists and turns that rapidly pass in front of you even before you react to the previous one.It is an amazing thrill ride with astounding solid performances from drew Barrymore, Sara Gilbert, Tom Skerritt and Cheryl Ladd.I highly, highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Ivy's best friend had the perfect father...the perfect life...so she took them","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" DVD synopsisOne look and you can tell she's trouble. The bleached blonde hair, the pouting lips, the skirt just short enough to show off the tattoo on her thigh. But Cooper (Sara Gilbert), herself an outsider, like the newcomer's style. She befriends her and before long the loner she nicknames Ivy (Drew Barrymore) becomes part of Cooper's family. But for Ivy a handful of home comforts is not nearly enough. She becomes obsessed by desire for Cooper's father and vows that no-one, least of all Cooper's mother, is going to stop her from having him. And so the household is drawn into a web of deadly attractions where sex, lies, even murder are the weapons in a terrifying fight for survival.Well, the back of the DVD tells you enough, but let me tell you why i give this film 10/10.Drew Barrymore plays one hell of sinister character here. The title of the film portrays what this film is all about, so perfectly that I have fallen in love with this film. It will always be one of the best of its kind, for all time. Drew Barrymore is like poison here, infecting and taken over everything in her path. But to every Antagonist, there must be a Protagonist. All in all, this film has a certain passion to it and however deadly the new friend is, it is a beautifully told story that has a perfect beginning, middle and end. So much that I wish I had been the man to write this story for the film. 10/10 - absolutely! "},{"Title":"You'll be Itching to watch this movie!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie got a lot of nerve and a lot of passion, you won't forget. Trying to fit in isn't always easy. When the new girl is around it's hard whether to hang with her or stay away from her. Poison Ivy is an excellent movie all the way. Drew Barrymore really display the term bad girl all the way through. Having the rope between her bare legs will make any guy sweat like crazy. And the intensity level is so high it can put a healthy person in the hospital in ICU(Intensive Care Unit). Sara Gilbert, Melissa's sister role is no different from her role in Roseanne. Living with her rich father Darryl Cooper(Tom Skerritt, Picket Fences), whose wife(Cheryl Ladd, Charlie's Angels' Kris) is very sick. What's worse that Mr. Cooper is seduced by Ivy's wiles and will do anything to ruin the family. The rain scene is the ultimate love scene that steals this movie. Who knows that the rain in the woods would bring out the sexual nature in all species. Knowing that Ivy's gone too far, Sylie go at all lengths to stop her, and all Ivy got was the blue stone in her dead palm. The only thing she really wanted. A little too late. Sometime certain people need to choose their friends carefully, this movie will sure know how. Rating 9.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Poison Ivy is nothing special. It's your average, run-of-the-mill thriller with no thrills.Drew Barrymore plays Ivy, a psychopathic killer who moves in with the rich, good girl and slowly begins to wreak havoc on the girl's upper-class life.Drew Barrymore wasn't exactly showing off her acting skills in this movie.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"HER name is IVY...","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well acted (but typical typecasting) pulpy film is a pretty predictable story..but sensitive and real characters. It seems sad..Ivy was just really lonely..and Sylvia only wanted a friend..but u can't have everthing the way u want it. That's basically the way i saw this movie. I really liked the music..and the ending was touching(don't ask). This was followed by 2 annoying sequels and underrated and not taken serious by many..but i felt symphony for all characters. DREW is IVY..she played her to the top.  "},{"Title":"Tiresome thriller","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I didn't go into this film with any high hopes; all I wanted was an enjoyable thriller, but unfortunately this film falls just short of that mark. The film takes obvious influence from any number of films revolving around a callous interloper gaining a family's trust before showing their true colours - but this one doesn't work well, principally because the characters are not believable and most of the action is boring. Most of the film feels like a soap opera anyway and is more tiresome than thrilling. The story focuses on Ivy; a 'free spirit' scholarship student living with her aunt. She meets Sylvie Cooper; a weird friendless kid with rich parents and a big house. Ivy and Sylvie become friends and eventually this leads to Ivy staying in Sylvie's house with her parents - her dad, a wealthy TV presenter and her mother who is sick. However, it soon becomes apparent that Ivy has alternative motives and begins scheming her way into each family member's lives.The film somehow manages to be predictable and pointless. It's generally obvious what is going to happen way before it does, and yet the film doesn't really seem to have anywhere to go. The central character is far too ambiguous also and her motives don't have any grounding, which makes the film difficult to get on with. Drew Barrymore gives a sketchy performance in the lead role; at times she is effective, but at others she looks embarrassed with the clunky script that does the film no favours. She stars opposite Sara Gilbert; who is weird enough to make her role believable and Tom Skeritt, who gives a decent performance. The film uses a narrator for much of the duration and that plot device really just sums the lazy writing of this film up. The final nail in the coffin for me was the way that most of the focus is put on Ivy and the father character as this results in lots of tedium. The only time the film ever really approaches some interest is when it focuses on the relationship between the girls, and that is not exactly fascinating. There are plenty of films like this one that are much better than this one; meaning bothering with Poison Ivy is pointless. "},{"Title":"Tepid thriller with no edge.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy is set in Los Angeles where Sylvie Cooper (Sara Gilbert) has been summoned to the principal's office at school for phoning in a bomb threat to her father's television station, there she meets & talks to the mysterious & alluring Ivy (Drew Barrymore). Almost complete opposites the mild mannered & unadventurous Sylvie & the overt & sexually active Ivy strike up a firm relationship & quickly become best friends, Ivy practically moves into Sylvie's giant mansion where her suicidal mother Georgie (Cheryl Ladd) is very ill with emphysema. Ivy starts to take control of the Cooper's lives, Ivy starts to seduce Sylvie's rich father Daryl (Tom Skerritt) & begins to rip the Cooper family apart...Co-written & directed by Katt Shea I have to say that I thought Poison Ivy was a really limp thriller that offered no surprises or genuine tension, why exactly has it spawned three sequels & counting? I suppose the biggest problem with Poison Ivy is the lethargic & uninvolving script that has wafer thin character's you don't care about sleepwalk through the film. There's no passion here, no excitement, nothing to get the pulse racing, there are no big twists or turns & the entire thing is very predictable. It's never clear why Ivy targets the Cooper's, why she befriends Sylvie (before she finds out her dad's mega rich), nothing about Ivy's background is ever mentioned other than she lived with an Aunt & quite why Ivy wanted to ruin a good thing by wrecking the career of Daryl, killing Georgie & betraying Sylie is a complete mystery to me, I mean she had been all but adopted by the Cooper's as part of the family so why ruin it with no obvious benefit other than breaking a family up & making everyone hate her. With no background on Ivy & no apparent source of motivation it's hard to care to be quite honest. The sacking of Daryl from his job gets one short scene that feels like an afterthought & didn't seem to affect the story that much at all. Then there's the slow pace, things only start to pick up towards the end & it's not until past the hour mark when things turn really nasty & by then the films almost over. There's some poor attempts at psychology as Sylvie has to deal with her ill mother complete with ghostly hallucinations, there's the issue of peer pressure, betrayal, the idea that family is the most important thing in life & teenage rebellion but it's all just padding with little thought or effort going into it. I mean if the most extreme thing Ivy does to Sylvie for the first hour is pamper her dog too much then you know your in trouble.I must admit that I found Poison Ivy really tiresome to watch on a visual level as well, the opening scene of Ivy swinging through the air where she flicks her hair away from her face looks like it belongs in a cheap shampoo commercial. None of it is erotic or sexy & simply dressing Drew Barrymore up in a few tight outfits doesn't cut it, the sex scenes are tame & I am pretty sure Barrymore got a body double. There's one breast shot & one naked male butt & that's your lot. Personally I didn't find Barrymore attractive in this at all, her shallow pointless character & wooden acting combined to send me to sleep rather than send shivers down my spine. There's no violence to speak of & even the 'Unrated' version doing the rounds on DVD is very tame by todays standards as teen flicks such as American Pie (1999) & The Hangover (2009) are far more explicit.With a supposed budget of about $3,000,000 this flopped at the box-office & you can see why, there's nothing here other than for Drew Barrymore fans & considering this was one of her first films she probably didn't have many at the time. The acting is pretty poor, I thought Barrymore was very wooden with no menace or sexuality about her performance at all while Tom Skerritt looks bored.Poison Ivy is a terrible erotic thriller that is neither erotic or thrilling in any way as far as I am concerned, a real damp squib of a limp wristed film that delivers nothing. Followed by Poison Ivy II (1996), Poison Ivy The New Seduction (1997) & Poison Ivy The Secret Society (2008). "},{"Title":"not bad,has its moments","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" i guess this movie is OK.it has a few good moments,but it's generally pretty slow.it is watchable for sure,but given the premise i thought they could have developed the story and the characters more.for me,the villain in the movie is a bit weak,which is something i really wish they had worked on a bit more.a stronger villain would have elevated the movie.one thing's for sure,it is a weird movie.i really like the music.it's suitably sombre.the acting is good,for what the actors had to work with.i also like the dark tone of the movie.overall though,i guess i was a little disappointed.the story had so much potential which the movie barely hinted at.for me,Poison Ivy is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really one of the best teen films I've ever seen. It is about mysterious seductive girl who somehow draws the attention of an introverted girl who thinks the girl is slutty, but likes her anyway. She not only wins over sylvie's good graces but also on the rest of her family and her dog. While the mother lays dying in bed with a terminal illness, drew barrymore's character took advantage of this situation and seduces him, knowing he wasn't getting any sex from his wife . With his dying wife While slyvie gradually watch her new friend take over her life , by first getting her dog to like ivy and then earning the mother good graces. Slyvie seems like a very insecure person to me because I think she knew ivy kinda wanted to used her after she started buying stuff with constantly but I guess she thinks a freeloader is better than no relationship at all. Sylvie's insecurity really shows when she gets mad that her dog ,who is the only person her dog doesn't bark at , when the dog starts taken a liken to ivy.Definitely an underrate film. I think solid performances were both given by all the actors . The music score set the tone for the film perfectly because I think it matches the mood of the film very well. Ivy wants two from Slyvie apparently  to replaced the dying mother and to be the new sexual lover for Slyvie's father that gradually died away from sylvie's mother when she acquired emphysema. sylvie's mother and ivy had something in common that sylvie wanted from both of them Slyvie wanted ivy's appeal to risk taking situations and she wanted her mother's beauty. "},{"Title":"Lethal Lolita","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" poison ivy is an erotic thriller,drew Barrymore plays a wicked teenage vixen hell bent on destroying the lives of everyone around her,shes sort of a sociopath,she befriends a wealthy girl(Sara gilbert)and tries to corrupt her.tom skerrit and Cheryl ladd play Sara Gilbert's parents as many times as i seen this film i never seen Leonardo d'caprio in it. i think his scenes were cut out.anyway this is Drew's movie,she came a long way after being in et the extra terrestrial.i especially like the music on the soundtrack.its kind of sort of like the movie cape fear. you might call this an erotic suspense.there are two versions available an r rated and an unrated version,i recommend this movie to anyone who likes suspenseful thrillers and drew Barrymore fans.directed by katt Shea who did a little movie with roger corman called stripped to kill (1987)with Kay lenz.i give this movie 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great teenage thriller, that's quite enjoyable, with a  very good story and one hell of a sexy performance from Drew Barrymore!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a great teenage thriller, that's quite enjoyable,with a very good story and one hell of a sexy performance from Drew Barrymore!. All the characters are cool, and while I always found Drew Barrymore to be adorable, I never knew she could be this hot, as she is simply amazing in this!. It has a beautiful score, and it's pretty unpredictable for the most part as well, plus Tom Skerritt is great as the father!. But what I was most surprised about was the very good performance by Sara Gilbert, as I hated her character on Rosanne, but I really liked her here, as she had excellent chemistry with Barrymore, plus the ending is very good and somewhat shocking!. It's very well made and written, and it has some very suspenseful moments as well, plus I loved how unpredictable Ivy's character was!. This movie is quite underrated, and should be higher then 5.2 in my opinion, plus all the characters are extremely likable!. Cheryl Ladd gives an impressive performance as the Ill mother and there is a very tense scene involving Barrymore and Ladd, plus the car crash made me cringe a little bit!. This is a great teenage thriller, that's quite enjoyable, with a very good story and one hell of a sexy performance from Drew Barrymore, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Katt Shea does a great! job here with very good camera work, creating moody atmosphere, some cool angles and keeping the film at an engaging pace. The Acting is awesome!. Drew Barrymore is incredibly gorgeous in this and is amazing as always, she is incredibly sexy as Ivy, had excellent chemistry with Sara Gilbert, was unpredictable, charming, give one of her best performances, and was wonderfully devious, I adored her performance! (Barrymore Rules!!!!!). Sara Gilbert surprised me here by giving a very good performance, she was quite likable, had excellent chemistry with Barrymore, was vulnerable, and didn't annoy me at all. Tom Skerritt is excellent as the Father, he plays an emotional wreck here, and he did a very good job at it, this guy is full of class!. Cheryl Ladd is beautiful, and did very well as the very Ill mother, I felt sorry for her, and while it was sad what happened to her in a way I was glad she was put out of her misery, she played a tough role and nailed it perfectly!. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Poison ivy Sweet Sara","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is not as bad as what some people would like you to believe. The storyline is quite good,and the acting is good. Sexy goodlooking young thing worms her way into a friends house and seduces the man of the house,whilst his wife is ill in bed. Lets face it who would not like to be seduced by Drew Barrymore. The whole affair(no pun intended) results in death. Sara Gilbert has always been an actress I enjoyed watching,since she stopped playing the sassy daughter in Roseanne. I feel she carried off the part as a lonely young rebel,looking for friendship,quite well. Tom Skerritt does not seem to have done much since his Alien days,such a pity as he was good in that. The music score was reasonable,with a haunting tone throughout,you can get this film cheap nowadays so its worth buying.  "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Drew Barrymore and Sara Gilbert are great in this movie, Barrymore should play more roles like this she is awesome. I liked the story and how it ended, I only wish there was more nudity like the 3rd Poison Ivy has, but its worth your time just for Drew Barrymore, she is so sexy in this movie. "},{"Title":"Above average, but more potential than quality.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has ups and downs. It has the potential to be a fabulous film, all of the earmarks are there. The plot is a bit generic, but because of the eerie and well-written fine details, any ennui is quickly overcome. The cast is an excellent one! I have nothing but respect for Tom Skerritt and Sara Gilbert, and Drew Barrymore can be either brilliant or horrid, fortunately she picked brilliant for this one. As well, the cinematography was wondrous, some fabulous visuals and really interesting shots abound. The main weakness is that the characters are unbelievable. Coop is generic and undercut. She has promise to be exciting and interesting but falls flat. She needed a boost to her characterization; there's a similar character in Foxfire who is much more fleshed out and three-dimensional. And Ivy is too simple. Her antics are well-played but her excuses are too easy, and much of her personality is textbook and lacking in energy. Drew does the best she can under the circumstances (enough to make the film perhaps much better than it should be) and the chemistry between her and Sara Gilbert is very nice, but her character needs to be more raw. As it is she's held back too much in come cases, and too uninhibited in others. And the wild mood swings of Barrymore and Gilbert's friendship is much too extreme. Mad, not mad, manic, not manic. One second to the next there's a huge shift in tone between them which reverts again one second later. As well, Mr. Cooper (Tom Skerritt) is too simple. He's too easily attracted to Ivy, too naive about the ramifications, doesn't grieve nearly enough for the loss of his wife, and his relapse needs to be explored more. In short he feels unfinished; he's too rough around the edges. On the other hand, his erratic behaviour and very tense chemistry with Drew add an interesting and on-edge flavour to the film. The rain scene is a strong one, and their scene together while his wife was out cold on Percodan and wine was even stronger. Cheryl Ladd is the one standout; while the other actors are great considering shallow roles, Ladd is fortunate to have the one strong and complete character to work with. And she does a remarkable job with it. I only wish she'd had more screen time; her character is hidden far too often. In all, the film is quite enjoyable. There are many points that seem too unbelievable or unreal and shorten the quality; I found myself rolling my eyes a few times (especially during the final scenes, and when Sara Gilbert walks in on Ivy and her father which was obviously shot to show flesh (should have focused more on expressions and Sara's reaction rather than Tom Skerritt's butt). But the cast is very strong, and the film was very well shot, which made a movie that could have been much worse live up to a chunk of the promise it held. 7/10. "},{"Title":"a great performance by Drew Barrymore but the movie moves at snail's pace","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (my comments are based on the longer unrated version)the most surprising thing about this film is the restraint in the sex and nudity department. usually these types of movies are plotwise just an excuse to string together as many explicit sex scenes as possible.this allows the characters to be a bit more realistic than what is normally served up in films of this type. while there are a couple of fairly explicit sex scenes, they are over fairly quickly and usually don't involve a lot of nudity.there are a couple of decent plot twists but i could see the ending coming from a mile away. the other performances are solid and above average for a this subject matter.above average and worth a look, especially for Ms. Barrymore's deliciously nasty performance.rating6.5 "},{"Title":"Cool Thriller","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is the best in this movie playing a seducing bitch! Her slutty outfits make her even more perfect in a role which is perfect for her. Sara Gilbert does a good job also as the girl who tries to stop Drew's character and her run in with the tree is excellent and well executed by Drew Barrymore's character. Mad thriller which is a must see! "},{"Title":" You are not going to be friends with a girl that has a hole in her nose","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sara Gilbert is enchanting as Sylvia in this charismatic suspense flick. The supporting cast is timeless. The costumes are gorgeous. One of the good films in the genre, Poison Ivy will attract the viewer with it's venomous vines. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie, disappointing ending","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I started watching this movie without knowing anything about it. I got pleasantly surprised. I had no idea what genre this movie was, it started out as a comedy but later it changed to drama and thriller. To me this movie was totally unpredictable and fascinating. I loved the fact that you had no idea where the story would take you. Actually I think that this movie would have been even better if it hadn't ended as a thriller. It would actually have worked better as a dark comedy. I think it's wrong to rate this movie as a thriller. I don't necesarily see the murder as something calculating and evil, I actually got the impression that Drew Barrymores character actually liked her friends mother and that she, in her own naive way wanted to help her put an end to her misery. I think she took the decision to do it right there and then and that it was nothing she had planned. I think it's a bit sad that this movie had such an ordinary mainstream ending. From the car accident to the end the movie looses a lot. I often confuse Drew Barrymore with Alicia Silverstone and this movie reminded me a bit about the crush (with silverstone) but the crush had no potential to be more than a thriller, this movie is superior since it's more psychologically interesting and it's not just a thriller. The ending makes this movie look dumber than it is. Good acting and worth watching.  "},{"Title":"the Fine Actresses doesn't matter,","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"         The FINE ACTRESSES does NOT matter when the plot/ ie Storyline     was lacking in originality and any meaningful content.     PLUS CHERYL LADD IS SO VIBRANT an Actress,       she should never be cast as a sickly woman.     Teenager and older man and in his own house and, and, and      Is Not something that I want to watch.     IF THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN A MORAL to this, like the thought of    teen seducing Georgie's husband, SO THAT GEORGIE, did all in her    power AND SUCCEEDED IN GETTING WELL and patching even the betrayal    aspects of this WOULD HAVE BEEN a Ending worth waiting for....     (maybe). "},{"Title":"alright if you catch it in the right mood","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Drew Barrymore plays a nameless teenage seductress given the nickname of 'Ivy' who moves in with lonely, sexually confused adopted Sylvie Cooper (Sara Gilbert of Roseanne fame) and her family. It isn't long before she's seducing Sylvie's father (Tom Skerritt), much to the chagrin of Sylvie. Barrymore is pretty good in this, and it was nice seeing her pre-coke stroke when her face was still symmetrical. Plus the film was competently, if VERY far from expertly by Katt Shea (only notable otherwise for being topless in few B-movies). Cheryl Ladd is woefully underused as the put-upon mother and Sara Gilbert is tad too melodramatic in many of her scenes, but it's an alright movie, if you happen to be in the right mood whenever it plays on cable.My Grade C- Where I saw it @ Max "},{"Title":" You are not going to be friends with a girl that has a hole in her nose","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sara Gilbert is enchanting as Sylvia in this charismatic suspense flick. The supporting cast is stunning. The costumes are gorgeous. One of the good farces in the genre, Poison Ivy will attract the viewer with it's venomous vines. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Trashy, clumsy erotic thriller","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here's something Drew Barrymore might not want to put on her résumé. Poison Ivy was made just before her career started to take off, but unfortunately her performance here is so childish and clumsy that the first impression I got was not hey, here's young Drew Barrymore but more hey, it's that kid from E.T making out with that kid from Roseanne, which gave the whole thing an awkward feel.At its core Poison Ivy is a run-of-the-mill erotic thriller of the kind that was all over in the early 90's, it's filled with clichés that have been explored in dozens of better movies from Single White Female to Swimming Pool; but Barrymore is unconvincing in the role of the seductive femme fatale, and as it is the scenes of awkward teen Barrymore seducing older Tom Skerritt just made me uncomfortable and felt like Skerritt is the real villain. Terrible acting from some at least somewhat talented people (Barrymore, Skerritt and Sara Gilbert are all awful - Cheryl Ladd is the only one who gives a passable performance) can almost be overlooked thanks to very solid cinematography, but as the movie progresses it's impossible to not realize how silly the whole thing is. Poison Ivy recycles every trope from every movie in its genre, but it feels like a high-school production. As it is it might be memorable as a meeting between two generations of Charlie's Angels, and little else. "},{"Title":"Avoid the Rash","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Lolita-like teen finagles her way into the home of a wealthy school mate and plots to further take control of the household. The script is lackluster, the characters are cardboard, and the direction is woeful. The only reason for watching this is Barrymore, who shows that she's no longer the little girl who befriended E.T. She definitely has an alluring presence. Gilbert is pretty good as the rich kid she befriends. Ladd looks great as Gilbert's ailing mom. This is supposed to be a thriller, but the only horrific moment in this movie is the love scene between 59-year-old Skerritt and 17-year-old Barrymore. The ending is as ridiculous as it is predictable. "},{"Title":"Oh how I want Ivy.....","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Poison Ivy is the tale of a sexy, attractive and quite hot teenager named Ivy.  She meets, and moves in, with her friend Sylvie.  It doesn't take long before the father of the family develops a hot crush on her.  If there was a movie that I could just satisfy my sexual appetite with, this one would win.  Sara Gilbert gives a great performance.  Plus she is one sexy hottie.  But the winner of the I can make you masturbate award goes to Drew Barrymore.  Oh man!!  She is the hottest, sexiest, prettiest and most attractive character here.  I love the clothes she wears(espicially in the beginning).  She can seduce me anytime she pleases!!!!!  OH IVY!!!  I WANT YOU!!!!!  PLEASE TAKE ME!!!! Well, this one is obviously one sexy movie.  Drew Barrymore has really outdone herself here.  OOOOOOOOOHHHH IVY!!!!!!!  ****stars.  (New Line) "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Trashy, but entertaining film about a teenage lolita (Drew Barrymore) who gets involved with her best friend's (Sara Gilbert) dad (Tom Skerritt) and then sets about destroying the family's life, which includes murder. This film should not be that entertaining, but it is mainly because of Drew Barrymore's nasty performance and Katt Shea's stylish, solid direction. Unrated; Sexual Situations and Violence. "},{"Title":"Dark, Deadly, Drew","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Poison Ivy, Drew Barrymore is sexy and bad, it's hard to believe it's her. Especially at the beginning when she was on the rope. Wow. She even said the f word in this movie. I didn't know how dark she was at this movie, wow. Sara Gilbert did a good job too. I liked this movie a little with Drew Barrymore's perfomance. Drew Barrymore should've keeped herself like that. I thought this was a good comeback with the alcohol and stuff. And she wrote that book Little Girl Lost,   "},{"Title":"The Bad Seed, Now a Woman","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'll never understand the big deal with sex-crazed, insecure Lolitas bringing havoc wherever they go to older, quiet men who have settled into a life of complacency and predictability. This time, however, the focus is not only the father figure but the daughter in a plot that has lesbian overtones written all over it like a crazy person's lipstick-smeared face. The Lolita of the piece is Ivy, played by Drew Barrymore like she was practising for the part in an audition to find the next Marilyn Monroe with a modern, late-Eighties feel. The fact that she's blonde in a year where being blonde meant being ultra-bad (just check in on the two menacing blonds in BASIC INSTINCT) makes her apparently more attractive to the Daria-like Sylvie, here played as drab as possible by Sara Gilbert of Roseanne fame. Anyway, Ivy walks into Sylvie's life, seduces her with that mane of blond hair and well-practised confidence, walks into her house, does a couple of nasty things, and winds up in a predicament. Nothing new, but the movie in itself has a cheap, C-movie feel, like something that should have gone straight to video with lesser known actors under its cast but that inexplicably made it into the theatres and did nothing to advance Drew Barrymore's career. It incidentally gave way to sequels the kind that does make it to the DTV category. "},{"Title":"Not Quite How I Remembered It","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this a very long time ago when it was first released and being enchanted with a younger Drew Barrymore but more recently I saw this again on a DVD and all I can say is that it's not quite the way I remembered this movie.Either that or I have gotten older and my values have changed but seeing this again it really doesn't feel like the same film I saw back in 1993. I would have given this film a higher rating too had it been a bit more engaging and viewing this again through older eyes I get the impression I was swayed more by the hype over Ms Barrymore then anything else. Also how underused was Sara Gilbert and Cheryl Ladd, not to mention Tom Skerrit who not IMHO had the potential to take a bigger role in this movie, instead he plays that of a lovesick middle aged man. Yuck!!! 5/10 John "},{"Title":"We must be talking of different movies","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read all the positive praise of this movie, so I was ready for some gripping drama, and so I rent it. After 15 minutes I was so disgusted with it, I stopped it, and returned it. Here's whyIn all the Hand that Rocks the Cradle copycat movies I've seen, they ALL show us right away as how the characters meet. With Poison Ivy, the movie begins with Ivy and Coop ALREADY BEING FRIENDS, or at the very least being acquainted. To me, what makes these movies terrifying, would be that you just don't know the stranger you happen to meet, bump into, or circumstances where the paths cross. Where did Ivy come from? Instead of scenarios in which we as viewers can witness, all we have are what Ivy tells us. And for the only source of who a character is and where she comes from is from what she says, we cannot trust it. From a legal standpoint, it would be considered heresay.And not only can we not trust what Ivy tells us, we quickly learn we cannot believe what Cooper tells us either as she lies to Ivy -- and us -- by her claim of her biological father being black, and she adopted, when that wasn't true, and the lie she told Ivy -- and us -- that she cut herself trying to commit suicide, and then told us a few moments later, that THAT wasn't true, either.And Cooper's narrative time-jumps, almost as if she's in a hurry to tell her story, and within a few minutes of the movie we go from them speaking of wishing to be friends to Ivy moving in with the family. I'm sorry, but that transition is too sudden, too abrupt, too jolting, that we as viewers feel it's thrown in our face quickly to sort it out later.And Cooper's parents are the weakest parents I've ever seen. They have no backbone, no real authoritative presence, almost as if they're there for convenience's sake, they have no life outside just existing there, and within those first moments of this movie, it seems Cooper's father has no job-life.And so, for me, we have in the first 15 minutes no characters we really don't know nor trust, nor even care about. IMHO, don't waste your time with this movie. There are plenty of other good ones of this type of story. "},{"Title":"Poisonously bad","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A horrible script horribly acted makes for a horrible movie. That sums up Poison Ivy. The story, in addition to being quite stupid, is incredibly boring. There's no drama, no excitement. Everything is sadly predictable. And sadly terrible. There's also no passion in this supposed erotic thriller. Sparks don't fly, the whole thing is rather tame. After setting up its rather absurd premise the movie fizzles out very, very quickly. It's a movie which never comes alive.So what's the story? Well, there's this teenage girl Sylvie. She's a bit of a weirdo, a total loner, no friends to be seen anywhere. Then we meet another girl. She's the trashy Lolita type. And she's a real mystery, doesn't even have a name. Sylvie calls her Ivy, that name sticks and before you know it Ivy has moved in with Sylvie's family. Never mind that they know absolutely nothing about this girl. Also don't mind the fact that spending a few minutes with this girl is enough to see that she quite clearly pings the crazy meter. No, they just let her move in and assume everyone will live happily ever after. But Ivy is a bad, bad girl. So she spins her web of deceit and Sylvie and her parents fall right into the trap. Unfortunately nothing about this proves to be at all entertaining and the movie goes from bad to worse to much, much worse.Along with the lousy story we get rather lousy acting. Drew Barrymore plays Ivy and never convinces as the teenage seductress. She comes across as a child trying real hard to be an adult and failing quite miserably at it. Sara Gilbert also shows a lack of maturity in the role of Sylvie. I suppose it's Sylvie we're supposed to sympathize with after Ivy starts screwing things up but the way Gilbert plays the part it's real hard to feel anything for the character. She comes across as a petulant, and rather clueless, brat. The adults in the movie fare no better. Playing Sylvie's not so dear old Dad is Tom Skerritt who never for a moment seems comfortable. He delivers his lines in such a forced, unnatural way it's rather jarring. Meanwhile Cheryl Ladd spends the movie in a drug-induced haze playing Sylvie's very ill mother. Well at least she has something of an excuse for being so lifeless. The movie as a whole has no life, no spark or sizzle. It's a painful slog, thoroughly undramatic, most of the time quite laughable. The story is dumb, the dialogue is atrocious, the performances are wretched. This movie is poisonous indeed. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made!","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHI've seen some bad movies in my time but this one goes down as one of the worst movies I've ever seen. There is not one redeeming thing to this unoriginal, depressing, weird, pathetic thriller-and that's being kind.Firstly, this is another tale of obsessive personalities resembling such movies as Single white female, The hand that rocks the cradle etc etc. Mostly, those types of movies have become overdone and are not good unless they have some type of hook. This movie has a hook alright only it may as well shout outUNWATCHABLE. There are resemblances from every other movie of this type imaginable plus Poison Ivy is just dark, dismal, uninteresting and pretty much unwatchable. It is reasonably well acted but even the talented cast can't save this one.The movie seems to have borrowed all the worst characteristics from it's predecessors while keeping none of the best. Cheryl Ladd is extraordinary(she is perhaps one of the most underrated actresses I've seen) and Gilbert and Barrymore are actually good but the script is cliché and depressing and lacks any kind of energy to it. You just sort of coast along wanting the movie to end. Barrymore, as good as she is does not make her character remotely interesting, you just dislike her from the beginning. A good comparison would be The hand that rocks the Cradle, that movie is completely unoriginal but Rebecca De mornay plays her character in such an edgy way, she hooks you in-you wanna know what Peyton's gonna do next. With this movie it's dreary to begin with but there isn't anything else happening to make it remotely interesting.I'd have to give this movie about a zero but maybe because of Ladd I'll give it a 1. A harsh review but if a movie is gonna START OFF with an unoriginal plot like this it should have something else going for it to make it interesting. "}{"Title":"Poison Ivy","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I looked at the mention of the content, sexual references, and I think Drew Barrymore is quite attractive, but not like this. I mainly see soft core porn films just for the nudity and sex, this isn't exactly a completely erotic thriller. Barrymore plays Ivy, a very toxic teenager who has sex with nearly anyone she sees. She could have done it with with her best friend, Sylvie Cooper (Sara Gilbert), but she didn't, she just kept getting with her Dad, Darryl Cooper (Alien's Tom Skeritt). There weren't any good sex scenes at all, no tits, no arse, nothing. This does not matter, it is not the sex that give this five out of ten, it's the story. Ivy turns into a real bitchy slut. She also turns very evil, thank God she dies. Barrymore is very good at being dramatic, you saw Scream! Look out for young Leonardo DiCaprio as Guy, just before This Boy's Life. Worth watching! "},{"Title":" NO WAY worth it's paychecks","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"    MORBIDITY and Weirdness is NOT intrigue, it's   S-T-U-P-I-D-I-T-Y.  This type movie OF WHICH THERE ARE TOO MANY, is the reason Hollywood is TURNED INTO  T R A S H-wood   It's why the 1940's STARS CAN NEVER BE duplicated.    IT'S BECAUSE THERE IS TOO MUCH MONEY BEING PAID perfectly good actors FOR LESS than quality films.   IT'S NOT THE ACTRESSES I have issue with EXCEPT that they choose NASTY film vehicles to make money.    IT'S REALLY THE WRITERS OF TRASH THAT SHOULD BE STRUNG UP OVER THE Huge O in the Hollywood Sign on the Calif. Mt.  AND the producers who encourage & Pay the TRASH-Writers.  Enough said. Thanks "},{"Title":"gothic horror","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was playing on my TV set as I came downstairs one evening. I don't think anybody knew what it was. There was some dark, cheap-looking scene with Drew Barrymore and Sara Gilbert together in a room. They looked like they were kissing. Needless to say, it was turned quickly.  "}]