[{"Title":"A Super Thriller","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"58 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an outstanding thriller, a movie I have always enjoyed watching since it came out. Apparently a number of people also did since a few sequels followed featuring the main character ex-CIA analyst Jack Ryan, played by Harrison Ford.Sean Bean was excellent as the revenge-obsessed villain, a member of a splinter group, as its labeled not really an IRA extremist, but one too out-of- control for any group. Ford is the man best able to stop him and the film is very interesting start-to-finish and smart enough not to overdo the violence. Suspenseful is probably the best word to describe the movie as Bean goes after Ford's family. Anne Archer, as Ford's wife, along with the rest of the cast, actors such as Patrick Bergen, James Earl Jones, James Fox, Richard Harris and a young Thora Birch make this a well- acted movie.This is simply one of the best thrillers I've ever seen and almost every scene is interesting. "},{"Title":"Have to admit, I like this","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so it has some plot holes, and I generally spend a good amount of time detailing for my husband the deviations from the novel (which are many, since Hollywood doesn't make many five-hour movies).  And it's predictable and artless and has plenty of clichés.  I make it a point not to read IMDB reviews for a movie until after I've written my own, but even so I can guess that this one has been torn apart on these points probably at least a dozen times.  Now that that's over with, I'm going to admit that I like this movie.  It feels like a tight thriller, good for those nights when I want entertainment with some minor complexity.  I like to go along for the ride, so to speak, even though I know how it ends.  And going back to the first time I saw this, before I'd read the book, I remember being on the edge of my seat quite a bit.Thora Birch does this film a lot of good.  Her expressions and lines are quite well-acted, and she's cute without being syrupy.  Harrison Ford is Harrison Ford; you either like him or you don't, and this movie isn't going to change your  mind (I happen to like him).Don't go renting this one if you want an artsy movie, or a beautiful movie, or a movie with a perfectly tight script.  But if you can enjoy a film for simple entertainment value, and you like Harrison Ford ;), this is a good one for after the kids are in bed. "},{"Title":"Good action flick","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If I were to make a quick summary of this movie, it would be a good, but not great, action flick.  I don't think this movie was intended to be innovative, to be great, to be memorable.  What it was intended to be was entertaining, and it lived up to this expectation.Harrison Ford is the master of remaining as low-key as possible.  He has had so many films where he can over-emphasize, over-dramatize, and simply over-act.  Ford has the maturity to keep this from happening, and he does so again in this film.  Ford is supported quite well with such actors/actresses as James Earl Jones (reprising his role as Greer from The Hunt for Red October), Samuel L. Jackson, and Anne Archer.  For an action flick, acting is much above average.It was also suspenseful...thrilling.  I thought the ending had a nice build-up and climax.  I realize this is different from the book's ending...but remember, these are two different visions...not the same one. This brings up a big point in movie-watching  Comparing a movie to a book is the worst thing you can do.  They are two completely different genres. More importantly, as I said before, they are two different visions.I'm not a big action fan.  I used to be, but anymore most stories are the same.  To this end I would say Patriot Games is fairly mainstream. However, it was always fun to watch and sometimes thrilling to watch.  I'm also not a big Tom Clancy fan, but I've given the movies based off his books a shot because again they are different visions.  The result is (at least with Patriot Games) a good film to watch on a Saturday night with a bowl of popcorn.  Don't expect great things, but don't expect to be disappointed, either.Rating  7/10 "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford kicks....","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Harrison Ford kicks some major butt in this film and proves again that he is the leading action star of his generation. Ford's action movie's never really seem silly, they always seem real. Alec Baldwin should have never let the character of Jack Ryan go, because Ford now personifies the super agent. Nice direction from Phillip Noyce and a great score from James Horner make this a very good action film.   "},{"Title":"Good guys are real good, and the bad guys are real bad.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is a more than serviceable thriller, perhaps a bit out of date when viewing it now, but still a very effective good against evil piece. The source material is so dense and intricate it was always going to be hard to condense that into a 2 hour movie but I feel the makers manage to keep it fleshy whilst making the respective characters interesting and watchable. The acting on show is more than adequate, Harrison Ford is great in the role of Jack Ryan, he manages to portray him as a sensitive family man who can step up to the plate when things get ugly, and Anne Archer is solid enough as the wife and mother caught up in the web of nastiness unfolding.The baddies are led by the brooding Sean Bean who is a little under written, whilst Richard Harris is sadly underused, but the action set pieces make their mark and thankfully we get a riveting final reel that cements the steady ride we have under taken. It is formulaic to a degree, but that is OK if the combined efforts of all involved are spot on, and here they are, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford is the coolest.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Patriot Games is a very well done action movie. I didn't feel dumbed down by the plot and everyone took their role seriously. Harrison Ford is the best action star of his generation and this movie is a brillant example of how Hollywood can sometimes make a good action picture. The film is well cast and the direction by Phillip Noyce is top notch. Patriot Games is well worth your while, especially if you like smart action pictures and Harrison Ford. "},{"Title":"Very good action thriller","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In Patriot Games, the always reliable Harrison Ford stars as reluctant action hero Jack Ryan in Phillip Noyce's adaptation of Tom Clancy's Patriot Games. Good suspenseful action sequences always entertain, though the climatic boat chase isn't as impressive as it should be because it was filmed at night. Sean Bean is convincing and suprisingly sympathetic as IRA freedom fighter Sean Miller who lets his yearnings for revenge lead him astray from his cause. The talented James Earl Jones and Richard Harris are woefully underutilized though that's understandable considering this film is primarily a confrontation between Ford's Ryan and Bean's Miller. Solid if unspectacular, 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Terrific!, the best of the Tom Clancy adaptations!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I have wanted to see this film for quite a while now. Ive seen The Hunt For Red October(1990), and Clear and Present Danger(1994), and Patriot Games is much better than them. Patriot Games is a great thinking man's thriller, although its much less difficult to follow than Clear and Present Danger. It has plenty of suspense and action, and Ford's acting is terrific. I am so surprised that Patriot Games is often considered the worst Clancy film, and The Hunt For Red October considered the best, but I think it should be the other way around. Overall a great suspenseful movie. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An action packed movie that conveys a man's love for his family and a moral consciousness of right from wrong for his fellow human beings.","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I have read all of the Tom Clancy fiction books and the first time I saw the Patriot Games I was very disappointed that the movie didn't follow the book more closely. I feel that the incident in England, the way it happened in the book is much more exciting and entertaining than the movie and it carries over to the gathering at the Ryan's home later in the movie and the ending in the book is even more dramatic. But, after watching the movie a few more times and reading the book several more times I realized that because there is so much that happens in the book, there is no way to fit it in the movie. I have come to the conclusion that the story line in the movie has captured the basic tale involved showing the type of person Jack Ryan is and the principals that he stands for throughout all of Tom Clancy's books.  "},{"Title":"A great credit to Clancy that one if his books was made into a movie that almost lived up to the book","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I think this film's greatness (it is indeed great) is a credit more to Clancy than the film makers, because writing is the most crucial part of any film. Unfortunately, a novel adapted to a film will almost never be as good as the book because there just isn't enough time or money to include everything and make everything look as good as it reads. This is evident here. Having said that they certainly didn't leave it to the story to support itself. Impressive heroics from Ford and a superb bad guy performance from Sean Bean (strikingly similar to his performance in the James Bond film Golden Eye) turned Clancy's classy classic book into a classy film. I was also impressed to discover that the director was none other than Australia's Phillip Noyce. As is also sadly common among films made from books, the plot was a little hard to follow due to the audience having to fill in the gaps that were left by the film makers not having time or money to include it all.  "}{"Title":"Oh Good , A Film Where The IRA Are Bad Guys ....","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"25 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ...... Oh hold on they`re not the peace loving pacifists of the provisional IRA they`re a mad mental IRA splinter group that this film is at pains to point out have nothing to do with the  nice terrorists  who murdered over 1800 people in the 70s 80s and 90s . To be fair to the film adaption of PATRIOT GAMES the source novel suffers even worse from this objectionable point where the bad guys are not the IRA but a distinct breakaway organisation called the Ulster Liberation Army . But this is still a naive film . As far as I know the SAS don`t go around illegally wiping out terrorist training camps ( If only they did ) and once again we see an IRA terrorist played by an uberhunk . This happens with disturbing regularity in movies Sean Bean , Pierce Brosnan , Richard Gere , Brad Pitt all have played Irish terrorists . Listen next time someone makes a film about the IRA ( Which I hope will be never ) can we see a short balding actor like Danny Devito or Joe Pesci take on the role ?Politics aside I still don`t think much of PATRIOT GAMES . It`s just one of those average generic revenge thrillers that doesn`t have to feature IRA terrorists , or terrorists of any ilk. If the hero was walking past a bank and stopped an armed robbery , or walked past a drugs bust and shot one of the drug dealers you could have a film with more or less the same plot and structure -  and a lot more credibility  Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel. It`s also a poor excuse of an action film     "},{"Title":"Quite the Thriller!","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is a very suspenseful movie with great acting. This is the second Tom Clancy novel adapted to the big screen after the Hunt for Red October. I think that this movie is better than Red October. However, I heard Clancy didn't think so.In this film, Jack Ryan and his family are in London. Ryan happens to be in the area where Irish terrorists attempt to kill the Lord Holmes. After Ryan saves Holmes, he makes himself and his family targets to the Irish. Will Ryan be able to protect his family? The acting is very good. It's great they were able to get Harrison Ford. He's a fantastic actor. Sean Bean plays a wonderful villain. I was happy to see Richard Harris and Samuel L. Jackson.Overall, this is a fun, thrilling movie. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones The CIA years","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The 1990's saw the addition of orbital satellites, laser guided bombs, fibre optic cameras, night vision goggles, personal computers, state of the art hardware, and more overtly militaristic themes to the techno-thriller format.One of the best of these films, which tended to coincide with the first Gulf War and the fall of the Soviet Union, was Patriot Games, directed by Phillip Noyce with a certain classiness. The plot is a generic revenge tale, but it takes place within a world that is genuinely interesting CIA conferences, Pentagon back-rooms, high-tech gear, telephone calls from the president etc. Building on the work of political thriller directors like Costa Gavras, Pakula, Frankenheimer, John Schlesinger and Fred Zinnemann, and mainstream novelists like Michael Crichton and Frederick Forsyth in the 70s and Tom Clancy in the 80s, an entire vocabulary was being added to here.Beyond the classy direction and the cool gear on display (the film has 3 good action sequences &#x96; one involving a CIA raid viewed entirely through a spy satellite- a big deal back in 1992), Patriot Games is mildly interesting for a couple other reasons. This is another in a long line of movies in which Harrison Ford finds himself playing a meek everyman who bravely protect his family, and it's funny to see the film's scriptwriters struggling to be politically correct. They want IRA bad guys, but they don't actually want to offend the IRA, so they opt instead for an Irish bad guy who is too hardcore for even the IRA. End result writers able to serve up easy cartoon villains whilst also placating their conscience.More interesting is the way all these films popped up during the First Gulf War. Like an unconscious display of American prowess, in the form of super advanced technology and all seeing surveillance gear, Patriot Games might as well have been an advertisement for the military industrial complex and the long reaching arm of Uncle Sam.In terms of flaws, the film has two at times the villains are pure cartoon and the film's ending features a silly action scene on a boat, hastily tacked on by nervous studio heads. A better director would have extended the action sequence in the house (the film's climax features a battle in a CIA safe house) and omitted the boat sequence entirely.Released 2 years before Patriot Games, The Hunt For Red October trades Gulf War muscle flexing for post Cold War, pro Soviet/American bridge building. But though it pretends to be about the healed wounds between Russia and America, this is still a rather propagandistic flick, about a Russian submarine captain who seeks to defect to the glorious promise land of Uncle Sam. Here, like Patriot Games, a techno-culturally superior America is filled with good leaders and upstanding generals, and Russians would be crazy not to come on over for a slice of freedom.Still, the film was directed by John McTiernan (Die Hard, Predator, Die Hard 3, Thomas Crown Affair &#x96; all good action flicks), so it has a certain style to it. Like Patriot Games, once you get past some clichés and some clownishness, it's a rather serious picture with some nice hardware on display for the boys and some well mounted action scenes.Released in 1994, and again directed by Phillip Noyce, Clear and Present Danger is the most sophisticated of these films, which were all based on Tom Clancy novels (Clancy, a major tech-head, fantasises about World War 3 for a living). Here, the world isn't made up of good guys and bad guys and there are lots of conflicting, self interests. The villain here is also nothing less than the President of the United States, a gutsy move, though by now this paternal villain cliché is getting old (The Fugitive, LA Confidential, Monster's Inc, Minority Report etc). Unusual for such films, Danger points out the immorality of affairs such as Irangate, doesn't salivate over the film's depiction of a secret war in South America (which Noyce links to Vietnam), considers (somewhat) the moral implications of violence, criticises snap emotive responses and deals with political betrayals and private agendas among both the President and his advisers. Where the film differs significantly from its 1970s predecessors, is it's total lack of impotency the 90s spy-hero doesn't shy away from responsibility, and will go so far as to topple the Presidency to maintain the good of his countryWhat's funny, though, is that the film treats its central idea (the President mounting an illegal covert war in Panama) as a shockingly evil thing. In the real world, despite the fact that the American President is not allowed to deploy or instigate any military actions without Congress first declaring war, he routinely does so. Iraq, Vietnam, Korea etc, not to mention countless CIA instigated coups in places like Haiti, Iran, Chile and Ecuador, were all illegal by the Constitution of the United States. The fact is, Congress is always sidestepped, most recently in the bank bailout package fiasco.This being Tom Clancy, the main attraction is once again the gear on display laser guided bombs, F18 hornets, sniper's hidden in the grass, an RPG attack on a convoy etc. From here, many computer game franchises would spawn, and from there, a banalization of military technology. People used to go to these thrillers and marvel at the hardware, gasping at the inside looks offered of the Oval Office and Pentagon, but now such things are routine, countless TV shows (West Wing, 24, The Unit, JAG) and video games (why be wowed by the sniper on screen, when you can BE him online) diluting the spectacle that made these films popular in the 90s.8/10 - With the down sizing of armies around the world, and all technology fetishized to the point of disaffection, the techno-thriller genre (itself a genre borne from war, see Lang's 1928 Spies) looks like it's winding down again. "},{"Title":"Fair game, but not great","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I can't say that I know much about Tom Clancy's novels or the character of Jack Ryan. Whether this is a honorable adaptation of the book I cannot say either, but as a thriller, Patriot Games struck me as weak. There are good performances from a sensational cast, a fair level of emotion to the story, and a nice score from James Horner, but the most obvious problem with Patriot Games, is that nothing much happens here.While on holiday in England with his wife and daughter, Jack Ryan foils an IRA assassination attempt on one of the royal family. needless to say, Ryan becomes an automatic hero of Brittan, but shortly after returning home to Maryland, He is targeted by IRA terrorist Sean Miller for assassination, wanting revenge for the death of his brother. Can Ryan protect his family?Harrison Ford plays a great Jack Ryan, no doubt there, but the movie is not as strong as he is. The story doesn't penetrate you in the way that a good thriller should. It is neither dramatic nor clever and is only mildly exciting. To say it is a bad film would be a huge over statement, it just needs work. "},{"Title":"Average action movie","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is an action movie like so many we have seen before, it's not a bad movie, it's an average one. I think it deserves 6.5 stars mainly because of the first half of the movie, which is interesting, but after that its quality diminish a lot.The performances are OK, they are just what the film needed, the idea of the plot is interesting, but the biggest problem is that the movie last 15 minutes longer of what it was necessary.This movie would have been much better if it had only been a crime and thriller movie and not an action one.The plot is about an ex CIA man Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) whose family is chased by a terrorist because Jack killed the terrorist's brother to save the life of an important British person.Patriot Games is useful for killing time during one boring afternoon. "},{"Title":"Out of the Tom Clancy movie adaptations I have seen, this is my favorite.","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Let me say that I have only seen this one, The Hunt for Red October, and Clear and Present Danger. I enjoyed this one and Red October a good bit. Was not really crazy for Clear and Present Danger, I just for some reason found it rather boring compared to the other two movies. I do not know why this one is my favorite, but it just seemed to work for me in a way the next movie would not. Harrison Ford in the role trying to protect his wife and daughter from the revenge minded IRA terrorist had more of an emotional impact and really got you going whereas Present Danger just was missing that and basically banished Ryan's wife (the character Harrison Ford plays) to nothing more than a guest appearance or cameo. This one is about Jack Ryan who I think works for the CIA, he is over in England and spots in the nick of time a couple of IRA guys about to do some bad stuff. Well he basically thwarts them killing one of them and getting himself injured in the process. Well the other guy ends up going for revenge as the other guy killed was his brother. Some good action scenes and drama in this one and it has a really nice concluding scene. As an added bonus Richard Harris is also in it it in a fine supporting role and Sean Bean is great as the IRA terrorist. Of the three Clancy movies this one to me really hooks you in and has the best plot. "},{"Title":"Taut Jack Ryan thriller!","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Phillip Noyce takes the helm for the first time with the Jack Ryan franchise and scores big. One of the main reasons is Harrison Ford taking over the Ryan role. They work well together grinding out a terrific action thriller. Dealing with IRA terrorists and revenge adds quite a bit of tension to the story and an excellent cast made this, a film you can watch again and again. Sean Bean is great as a terrorist seething for revenge and Richard Harris is fine in a small role. The regulars, James Earl Jones as Greer and Anne Archer and Thora Birch as Ryan's family, deliver as well. This is a case of sequels being as good as, or better than, the original. This one keeps you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Once again, Harrison Ford brings action to the big screen!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Harrison Ford, perhaps one of the best actors in Hollywood, once again proves that he has the right stuff.  Ford's portrayal as the brave, yet feeling Sir John Patrick Ryan is one that makes any reader of the books by Tom Clancy imagine that Ford really is Jack Ryan, and vice versa.The movie's plot, while not exactly following the book's plot is a testament to its writers.  Although Clancy's ending had more action, it would have been difficult to bring to climax on film. But don't fear, the movie is an excellent portrayal of what can happen when Terrorists tick-off people like Jack Ryan!  "},{"Title":"A well made action thriller but not up to Clancy's others","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is a perfectly fine action movie and, as an introduction to the Jack Ryan character, it isn't awful by any means.It is however, not *nearly* as smart and twisty as either Clear and Present Danger or Hunt for Red October. Once the revenge plot is set up at the beginning of the film it more or less marches by-the-numbers down to the final confrontation.Not a bad film. Just not a great one either, and definitely the weak sister of the three. If all you are looking for is action, you'll love it. If, however, you are looking for depth in the story telling, try one of the other two first. "},{"Title":"decent Clancy thriller","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The second Tom Clancy novel made into a film ('The Hunt For Red October' being the first), 'Patriot Games' opts for a somewhat smaller scale. There's no chance World War III will result from anyone's actions here, but the CIA finds enough bad business coming from the Irish Republican Army to keep itself and those amazing spy satellites it employs busy. Harrison Ford is now Clancy's reliable hero, Jack Ryan, and Ford is a very good fit. In best Clancy fashion, Ryan is a very reluctant hero as well. He hates getting involved in other peoples' affairs and being forced to settle them, just as he hates being forced to kick ass, but what's an ex-Marine CIA agent to do? The villains this time are an ultraviolent faction of the IRA; Ryan gets on their bad side when he busts up an attempt by them to kill the British Home Secretary and his family. The rest of the movie is essentially a tit-for-tat series of confrontations between Ryan/CIA and these IRA murderers. The best scenes in 'Patriot Games' are the action ones, as well as the parts showing the CIA's supersecret and supersophisticated technology at work. Less successful are the scenes having to do with Ryan's home life, and his wife and daughter. There is an upper-class, peachy-keen smugness to them, exemplified by Anne Archer (Cathy Ryan) and her boy, this CIA stuff is a pain in the ass attitude. This type of material is not Clancy's strong suit (or the screenwriter's, apparently) and it shows. The trio of Irish baddies are all portrayed convincingly; Patrick Bergin, Polly Walker, and particularly Sean Bean in a menacing and venomous performance. 'Patriot Games' succeeds mainly because of Harrison Ford's tough, likable, and sometimes vulnerable presence. Several key plot points do not bear close scrutiny; it strikes one as unlikely the IRA and the CIA would take on one another over what is essentially a personal vendetta. But don't think too hard or too much and you'll find 'Patriot Games' a reasonably exciting thriller. "}{"Title":"Tense and Fast-Moving Thriller","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A faction of the IRA attempt to kidnap Lord William Holmes, a member of the British Royal Family who also happens to be a Government minister, but the crime is thwarted by the courageous actions of Jack Ryan, an American tourist in London with his family. During the ensuing scuffle, Ryan shoots dead one of the terrorists, Patrick Miller. Miller's elder brother Sean is jailed for his part in the attack, but is rescued by his comrades, and vows vengeance on Ryan, who is a former marine and CIA operative. When Ryan realises that Sean Miller is targeting his family he returns to work for the CIA to help with the fight against terrorism. There are a number of fairly obvious goofs and plot holes. No member of the British Royal Family could serve as a Government minister, as they are constitutionally obliged to remain politically neutral. If a foreign citizen were being made a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (one of the highest awards in the British honours system) he would be invited to a formal ceremony in Buckingham Palace to be knighted by the Queen in person. He would not be presented with the decoration in his own home by a junior member of the Royal Family. It seems unlikely that any Irish republican terror group would carry out an attack on American citizens on American soil, as to do so would risk losing the support their cause has long enjoyed among sections of the Irish-American community. As others have pointed out, it seems illogical for Ryan to take his family to their isolated summer home to get them away from Miller; doubtless the CIA could have found a safer location for them. The film lacks the political implications of Clear and Present Danger, Philip Noyce's next attempt to film a Tom Clancy thriller which involved Watergate-type misconduct by the President and his closest aides. (That film also starred Harrison Ford as Ryan). Despite the involvement of the IRA, Patriot Games makes no attempt to analyse the complexities of the Northern Ireland situation. The film also lacks any detailed characterisation. The moral divisions are straightforward- Ryan, his wife Cathy and his CIA colleagues are good and Miller and his gang are bad.The film does, however, have a strong hero in Harrison Ford. Ford has always been good in the thriller genre, and gives another good performance here as Ryan, combining decency with a strong sense of intelligence. Anne Archer and Sean Bean are also good as Cathy and the villainous Miller. There is a good cameo from Polly Walker as Miller's glamorous but ruthless female associate Annette. Despite the occasional implausibilities of the plot, this is a tense and fast-moving thriller with some good action sequences. It is not Ford's best thriller (that must be either Witness or The Fugitive), but it is nevertheless a good one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Popcorn political thrills...","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I'm not a Tom Clancy fan, only because for whatever reason I've never gotten around to reading any of his books. I would say it's because so many of them are so huge, but I've always been a voracious reader. I've read almost all of Stephen King's novels, which are also pretty huge, and I'm usually reading three or four at a time. At any rate, I have nothing to offer as far as how closely the movie follows the source material, although I really think this is incredibly important when adapting books to movies.I have read a lot of criticisms of Patriot Games (and even more of the sequel, Clear and Present Danger), and while I agree with mostly all of it, I still think Patriot Games is a good couple hours of good clean cinematic fun. But maybe that's just because I love Harrison Ford. Ebert makes the obvious complaint that Jack Ryan, when he finds himself in danger, sends his family to a remote cabin rather than a secure bunker at CIA headquarters, and it's true that this detracts from the movie, but you have to have a movie somehow, and that's a situation where making the smart, real life decision would cancel out the rest of the movie. If everyone in movies made the smart decision all the time, we wouldn't even have a horror genre, for example.Jack Ryan is described in Clancy's novels as having undistinguished features, which makes Harrison Ford seem to me like the perfect choice to play him, since I've always thought that, even though he's a brilliant and tremendously loved actor, he can't really act with his face very well. Consider one of my favorite examples of this, the close up shot of his face when he sends that kid into surgery in The Fugitive. You can literally see the effort he's putting into making his face do something moving, and it's just not happening. But the thing it, the shot still works. I don't get it, it's a mystery, as Philip Henslowe might say.Harrison Ford has played more complex characters (and less complex, of course), and Jack Ryan gets better than this, but Patriot Games is a fun introduction of Ford playing the role, and is especially a must see for Clancy fans. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan Chapter II","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The second in what looks like becoming the 'Jack Ryan' catalogue of films sees a change of director and leading star. Phil Noyce takes the helm and Harrison Ford (who has reportedly signed a package deal) slips into the role of CIA analyst Ryan, after Alec Baldwin apparently asked for too much to reprise the part.Patriot Games finds Ryan's family threatened by an Irish terrorist whose brother Jack killed. Performances are solid in a film which develops into an intriguing work. The plot holds its own until the very end when Phil Noyce opts for a predictable audience pleasing finale which is disappointing.Friday, September 25, 1992 - Hoyts Forest Hill Chase "},{"Title":"Did anyone else know","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I found out the other day that the SF raid shown in this film by satellite seems to be based on an actual raid by Delta Force in the early 80's, apparently it was its first successful mission after the bodge up of Op Eagle Claw. Cant remember the book title, but it was all about elite forces etc, and was briefly mentioned in the bit on American SF. Anyone else heard about this? I personally loved this scene, i remember at first i was hoping for something a bit more action film like, but then, that is such a cliché! The cold hearted satisfaction of that is a...kill! as a throat os cut, and Fords horror as he realises what he is watching... Makes u think how often stuff like this happens... "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford at his best!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Whether you're Irish, English, American, or just a big fan of Harrison Ford or Sean Bean, this film is a must-see! Harrison was a perfect fit for this family man, reluctant hero role. He's no super-action hero or martyr, just a man in the wrong place at the wrong time trying to protect his family and prevent the slaughter of innocents. But when the terrorists seek revenge by targeting his family, Jack Ryan is forced to use any means necessary to keep his loved ones safe. Sean Bean plays a convincing villain as usual, donning a convincing Irish accent and his signature sinister expression. His performance was one of his best to date and kudos to Mr. Bean for creating a villain with whom we can sympathize. Anne Archer's character is weak however, typical damsel-in-distress wife and mother relying completely on her husband for protection and having no self-defense skills whatsoever. Thora Birch is adorable in her pre-pubescent innocence. Samuel Jackson as usual does little to step out of his smooth-talking, sarcastic typecast and again plays the same character he plays in every film to date. The film bounces between edge-of-your-seat thriller and slow-moving CIA analysis, but the scenes of action and the superb acting of Harrison Ford more than make up for any slow parts. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Not many action movies have everything. This one has a great action star, who delivers, great music, great plot and great action sequences. The Scene in the house at the end is terrific.It is one of my favorite action movies "},{"Title":"Hair-gripping suspense is one of Ford's finest.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  PATRIOT GAMES isn't so much of an action film, that is until you're waiting for the big thunderous conclusion to come around. Harrison Ford has played heroic characters before, and it proves that he, too, can handle the role of the hunted instead of the hunter. The suspense surrounding terrorism is really the main ingredient we're looking for, as the royal family of Jack Ryan falls victim to this horrifying ordeal. The acting performances are generally powerful and compelling in a big way that it makes this ultimately satisfying to resist. Only one scene should have been cut a lady terrorist member in sexy attire killing her lover in bed, which was fairly senseless to the movie. Still, this is hair-gripping  entertainment thanks to some brilliant directing by Phillip Noyce.  "},{"Title":"who could complain?","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is clearly not a masterpiece in film making nor should it go down in history, but it is perfect for what it is, that is a big easy action flick. It has all the right elements- Philip Noyces compelling direction, James Horners tense score and of course Harrison Ford- the ultimate film hero. It may not be as good as The Hunt For Red October but then again what is? "},{"Title":"Terrorist Attack","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Philip Noyce directed this adaptation of the Tom Clancy novel that now stars Harrison Ford as CIA Analyst Jack Ryan, who is vacationing with his wife(played by Anne Archer) and daughter(played by Thora Birch) in England when he helps thwart an assassination attempt, killing one of the terrorists whose brother(played by Sean Bean) belongs to a splinter IRA group, and vows revenge against Jack and his family. Jack then goes to the CIA and his old Boss Admiral Greer(played by James Earl Jones) for help, as a wider conspiracy is being uncovered against the royal family. Richard Harris, Patrick Bergin, and Hugh Fraser costar. Worthy second entry in the series is both exciting and well-cast, with Ford a most effective older version of Jack(8 years after the first film.) "},{"Title":"Not in league with the other films, but an excellent thriller.","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" My Take Though loosely-based on Clancy's bestseller, it doesn't totally dumb it down to pure mindless affair. Ford is strong as usual. Don't ask me about Tom Clancy or if this movie adapts Clancy's novel firmly, for I haven't read any of Clancy's novels yet. But rating PATRIOT GAMES as a stand-alone flick, I have to say I enjoyed it a lot, a lot more than one might expect from someone who hasn't read its print source. PATRIOT GAMES manages to provide tight, gripping action sequences amidst its political theme. In other words, its both fun and dead serious on its plot at the same amount of screen time.Taking over for Alec Baldwin who played the role in the first film THE HUNT FOR RED October, Harrison Ford plays Jack Ryan, Clancy's brain child CIA agent, who is sent on vacation by the CIA. When meeting his wife (Anne Archer) and daughter (Thora Birch) in front of Buckingham Palace, he must thwart an assassination attempt on Lord Holmes (James Fox), a member of the Royal Family, by a band of Irish Terrorists. Thru this heroic act, Ryan becomes a public hero, but also the number one target of one of the terrorists (Sean Bean), who bears a grudge when Ryan kills his brother during his heroic attempt. Now, Ryan is back on the CIA and taking on one of the most dangerous mission in his life and career, to save his family.Much of the first things I give this film credit for is the excellent performances. Of course, there's Ford, in perhaps one of his best roles, Archer as a grief-stricken wife who delivers excellent drama in the face of danger. Bean, as well, makes a compelling villain. The supporting cast (including Patrick Bergin as one of the terrorists, Richard Harris as an IRA symphatizer and James Earl Jones as Admiral Greer) add great background characters don't aren't just decorations.One of the best things about the film is how it was shoot. The film is terrifically photographed by Donald McAlpine. This was mostly evident during the opening sequences, the shots of the vibrant desert sands, most especially the chase sequences. Mixed it with Philip Noyce tightly-knit direction and an intelligent script by W. Peter Iliff and Donald Stewart, it makes a film that both looks and feels good.Even considered by Clancy purists as the weakest Clancy adaptation, PATRIOT GAMES is still tight, seat-gripping entertainment that's both entertaining to watch and still doesn't fail to deliver its message.Rating ****1/2 out of 5. "}{"Title":"Lightweight thriller","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is the story of a terrorist seeking revenge for his brother's death based on the novel by Tom Clancy. Harrison Ford is Jack Ryan, the CIA analyst sought by terrorist Sean Miller, played by Sean Bean. Harrison Ford is the definitive Jack Ryan and brings more force to the role than Alec Baldwin or Ben Affleck. Sean Bean is also solid as Ryan's terrorist nemesis. The film had a notable supporting cast including James Earl Jones, Richard Harris, James Fox, Hugh Fraser and Samuel L. Jackson.The film is generally fast-paced and has some decent action sequences. It is interesting to see the technology used behind the scenes at the CIA. However, the film's primary weakness it its story. There is little story development beyond the terrorist seeking revenge premise and the characters are less interesting and developed than they could be. This makes Patriot Games is overall an average thriller, albeit with an outstanding cast. I'd recommend Clear and Present Danger (1994) instead of this for a Tom Clancy adaptation featuring Harrison Ford as Ryan because its story and characters are better developed. "},{"Title":"With the hope of peace at last in Northern Ireland, this film's premise may not longer be relevant but its mighty thrills are still present","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) is a retired CIA agent, teaching at the Naval Academy. On a working-vacation trip to London with his wife (Anne Archer) and precocious daughter, Sally (Thora Birch), Jack gives a lecture to members of the British intelligence. He is to join his wife and daughter later, meeting near Buckingham palace. As fate would have it, a violent faction of the IRA is lurking near the royal residence, too, hoping to kidnap a member of the monarchy. They nearly succeed but are thwarted when Jack, acting only as a concerned bystander, shoots one of the bad guys. The others flee, except for the brother of the slain terrorist. His name is Sean (Sean Bean) and he is arrested on the spot and, eventually, brought to trial, where Ryan must give testimony. Although Sean is given a long prison sentence, he vows to get even with Ryan for killing his baby brother. Should Jack be worried? Well, prison breaks do occur, don't they? This is an action film that delivers big thrills. First, the cast is great, as Ford is perfect as the thinking-man's undercover agent and Archer terrific as the supportive wife. Thora Birch, in one of her first big roles, is amazing as the very bright, very adorable young daughter. Then, too, Bean is downright frightening as the malevolent IRA terrorist, with Patrick Bergen and Polly Walker (what an aboutface from Enchanted April!) on hand to scare us as well. The sets, costumes, stunts, direction, and production are all very fine. In addition, the script, based on the Tom Clancy book, is a stunner. While the whole world is hoping that peace, thank God, is truly breaking out in Northern Island, this is a look at what the IRA was. But, in reality, it doesn't matter who the terrorists are in the realm of this motion picture. The film is a thrilling cat and mouse game, of good guys against the bad guys, with the outcome far from certain until the last few exciting minutes. Trust me. If you have never seen this action-packed film, you have been missing something very special, absolutely. "},{"Title":"Patriotic Gore.","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) is a CIA analyst who saves a royal Brit or two during an attempt by some Irish patriots on their lives. A captured IRA terrorist is Sean Bean, whose brother Harrison has just killed in self defense, and Bean will never give up his quest for revenge on Ryan and his family.It's always interesting to see what kind of heavy a movie gives us. The heavies are a chronicle of the times. In this instance it's unlikely that a story from Tom Clancy, a robustly nationalistic Irish-American novelist who plays with guns, is going to paint the Irish Revolutionary Army red, for reasons both sentimental and commercial. Nope. The gang that's after Harrison Ford and his kin are an OFFSHOOT of the IRA. It's a splinter group, see. Not the actual IRA. This splinter groups is so mean that they kill an IRA chief who tries to restrain them. And as if that weren't enough, Sean Bean turns out to be too evil even for the ultra-violent splinter group (as Ford describes them). Bean is an iconoclastic loony who shoots the members of his own splinter group when they try to dissuade him from killing Ford. Bean's group has one member, himself. I guess that should put enough distance between the evil Sean Bean, on the one hand, and the Auld Sod on the other.After the initial violent encounter, the movie turns into a game of cat and mouse, with Bean the cat and Ryan the mouse. Bean escapes from captivity, pursues Ryan to Annapolis, and tries to kill everyone in sight. The climactic fight is done by the number in typical action movie style. Two speedboats on rough seas in the middle of the night during a thunderstorm. Bean as the pursuer produces a submachine gun and kills has compadres, then takes off after Ford in HIS boat. Bean sprays the other boat with lead. Tears it to shreds and sets some convenient tanks of gasoline afire, but misses Ford. Pursuer leaps onto burning boat at top speed, which is unforgivable if only because it lends itself to such an appalling pun (jumping bean). In mano a mano combat, Ford (a CIA bookworm and schoolteacher) whips tough, highly trained Bean. Ford jumps off boat at last minute. Flaming boat with wounded Bean smashes into some rocks and explodes. Ford get medal, settles on couch back at home and hugs wife and daughter to him.The best scene in the movie shows us the CIA officials watching an infra-red live satellite feed of an attack on a terrorist training camp in Libya. The good little green dots sneak up on the sleeping bad little green dots. They make all the bad dots stop moving. Then a green helicopter comes in and the buildings in the camp blow up in big green flares. All we see are the satellite feeds and the tense faces of the viewers, including Ford's. Ford gulps as he watches the bad dots get murdered and blown to smithereens. Watching total strangers die seems to make him uncomfortable and, who knows, maybe a little guilty.What do we know about those terrorist camps anyway? Who teaches whom, and what do they teach? Do the Red Brigade and The Shining Path and the IRA and all these groups that are essentially irrelevant to one another, if not at odds, actually come together for a greater cause? What's the cause? What do they learn at a desert training camp that they couldn't learn more comfortably in a flat in the city? Target practice? Is that IT? Clancy had his fingers on the pulse of a nuclear submarine in The Hunt for Red October. A techie manque reveled in the details.But all of this is more conventional stuff. It's a more personal story with a more generic villain. We don't learn much more than those trainees at the terrorist camps learn. In the end this is mostly recycled stuff from other action movies. In fact, this is the second time that I can remember Ann Archer getting into a car accident in an attempt to protect her daughter and coming up with nothing more than a becoming bruise on her eye. (The other scene is in Basic Instinct.) And Ford has a fist fight with a young terrorist, during which Ford is repeatedly punched in the face and body, and he emerges with a trickle of blood from one nostril and a similar trickle from the corner of his lips. Didn't ANYONE involved in this -- makeup or writers -- ever watch a fist fight in elementary school? A punch in the nose doesn't result in a trickle of blood from one nostril. It leads to a gusher that splashes down your shirtfront, and when you try to wipe it away it leaves your face smeared. (See Shane for a good example.) As an ordinary action film it's not bad. Harrison Ford plays Jack Ryan as quiet and modest, but flawless too. In The Hunt for Red October the character had a fear of flying and that made him human like the rest of us. No such blemish mars the hero of this entertaining but routine action movie. "},{"Title":"Best Philip Noyce film","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This brought action to a new level. Tremendous film. Great revenge thriller - loved the beginning sequence. Ann Archer is always great. Loved when Harrison sees his wife's car wreck. Perfect film to watch on a Friday night. I don't know why Clancy's movies came down after this. The last Clancy film was terrible. We need more spy thrillers today. Spy Game was horrible, but this rocked. Would definitely recommend this to anyone. See Patriot Games and see what great film-making is no longer about Kudos to Noyce! He should direct all the thrillers. Another great thriller is 'The Genius Club' which opened in Dallas last month. Great film, too. "},{"Title":"Lacks oomph","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of many Harrison Ford action thrillers from the 1990s and it follows the standard formula for a film of such nature, so expect no cinematic miracles. Ford is former CIA agent Jack Ryan and he gets tangled up in so-called patriot games when he interferes in an IRA assassination attempt in England. Suddenly his whole family is in danger because the IRA guys want revenge and Ryan needs get back to his old CIA ways to be able to defend his wife and daughter. While Patriot Ganes is a well-made film, it lacks the oomph of most of Ford's other action films and I found myself truly unable to get into the plot at several points.Had it not been for Ford's imprinted 'good guy' status and emotive eyes, I would probably have pulled for the 'bad guys' in Patriot Games, because Sean Bean has never been sexier than in this film. What stuck with me besides rentable bad guy Sean Bean, was an interesting use of an Enya song during one murder in the beginning.Patriot Games is possibly heavier on the thriller part than the action because, frankly, not much happens during long segments of the film. This would be fine as a means to build up tension in the plot, but there are never any satisfying culminations to follow the slow, suspenseful pace until the very end--and these scenes can hardly be labeled as satisfying. Maybe satisfactory. I think the whole film is most accurately labeled satisfactory. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford In Another Tom Clancy Adaptation","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the big summer movies of 1992. Harrison Ford takes over the role of Jack Ryan from Alec Baldwin in this revenge thriller based on Tom Clancy's book. Ford plays the role perfectly as the ex-CIA agent that is forced to shield his family from increasingly unhinged terrorist Sean Bean. The film opens in terrific fashion as Ford saves British Royals from assassination by happening to be in the right place at the right time. The terrorist leader's sibling is killed in the ensuing battle and later comes for Ford's family. The film unnecessarily delves into IRA politics, etc., dragging the film down somewhat in the middle. The film picks up again with a freeway scene, with the terrorists chasing Ford's family played by Anne Archer and Thora Birch. James Earl Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, and Richard Harris have small supporting roles. The film moves at a brisk pace with the exception of the aforementioned political dealings. The ending is somewhat marred by uncharacteristic heroics in relation to Jack Ryan. Otherwise, this could have been a great suspense/thriller, instead of just a good one. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"The Simple Action Film","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Patriot Games starring Harrison Ford, Sean Bean, Samuel L. Jackson, and James Earl Jones has struck me these past 10 years as the simple action thriller.  It has a basic theme that terrorism can strike you at any place and any time.  It also has clearly defined good guys (Ford, Jones, and Jackson) who's interests are noble and pure, and bad guys (Sean Bean, Patrick Bergin, and Polly Walker) who will kill anyone who gets in their way.   Anyone can sit back and enjoy the thrills of this movie just as with any Harrison Ford movie.  I wish Harrison Ford would make more movies like these. "},{"Title":"The IRA's not stupid - a point seemingly disproved here","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In the interests of political correctness, the makers of this film decide to have the 'bad guys' not as the IRA themselves but as a breakaway group led by the insane Sean Bean. This is surely just to keep the film from any controversy whilst we are repeatedly told the IRA is the innocent party and has nothing to do with any of the attacks. Some reviews on this page suggest that the Irish attitudes and depictions in this film are prejudiced and unfair. Yeah, good one.Getting off politics, I had rather hoped Samuel L Jackson would play a larger role. One of the reasons I watched the film was because of his presence but you could count his scenes on one hand. I suppose he wasn't as big in 1992 as he is now, still playing minor supporting roles such as Stacks in Goodfellas and not yet hitting Pulp Fiction fame. The action in the film was great and kept you on the edge of your seat. I was cheering on Harrison Ford as the American CIA hero as the Irish fell one by one via shoot outs and boat chases. The action sequences were well directed and the film highly enjoyable. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An entertaining suspense film","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good film. It starts off with an exciting opening when Jack Ryan (Ford) saves the British prime minister by foiling an assassination attempt by IRA terrorists, and he kills the brother of the main terrorist (Sean Bean). Throughout the film, Ford and his family are repeatedly targeted by the IRA and nearly killed in retaliation, and the ending is very exciting so I will not spoil it. Samuel L. Jackson gives a very good performance as an admiral who works with Ford. This was very suspenseful and had good action scenes so I would recommend it to any suspense film lover or fan of Harrison Ford. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It was a good thriller mixed with lot of action. It´s not so far as James Bond movies. The story is thin but there are enough plots and twists. In the first part you can guess what comes next but the last part of the film i liked the most. Íf you like for example Bond films don´t miss this one but don´t expect too much. I gave 7/10. "}{"Title":"Action packed and tightly executed","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  While Harrison Ford added some  more star power to this film series,  his presence completely changed  everything. Jack Ryan's presence in  The Hunt for the Red October was  more subdued, this version proved to  be a more proactive version of Tom  Clancy's premier protagonist. While  some feel this is the better of the original  series, my contention is this film is a far  second. It didn't have the star power or  the dramatic tension which made Red  October so successful. I will say this, it  is quite interesting to see Sean Bean  and Samuel L. Jackson in early incantations  of their current personas. While this is  better than most action-drama films, it  still ranks below the Red October. "},{"Title":"Good Gould !","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a reasonably good action thriller although it could have been better. Sean Bean is his usual excellent self and Harrison Ford grimaces well but the real stars of the film are the SAS hit squad who wipe out the IRA training camp. After all the pathetic attempts to convince us that the Navy SEALS are the best of the best perhaps it time for the SAS, a force who actually earned their reputation as the best, to get a big budget movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Very good movie, well done.  The book is easier to read than the movie is to watch, but its still a good attention keeper.  It uses lots of good camera angles, my favorite being the spy camera under the door into the IRA occupied room, and the spy camera in the light in the bookstore. "},{"Title":"efficient film","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Patriot Games is an efficient film,that bets in the action scenes,all of them well- accomplished,and in the suspense.The story is involving,mostly because it touches in so genuine sentiments,like hate and revenge.Based on Tom Clancy's book,the film tells the story of Jack Ryan,an ex-CIA agent that,during his stay in the United Kingdom,witnesses an attempt against the royal family.Jack Ryan saves them,who would certainly be killed,but,in doing that,he kills the brother of one of the IRA's terrorists,Sean Miller(Sean Bean).Miller scapes,and begins to hunting Ryan's family,with the help of his two best friends,the characters of Patrick Bergin and Polly Walker.I certainlly think that this movie represents a good entertainment,without bigger compromises,that counts with a good script and an expensive production,directed with master-ship by Phillip Noyce,but I disagree with the choice of Harrison Ford for the leading character.He doesn't give,in my view,the image of a tough and implacable man,mostly when we see him in the first half - hour,over the bed,holding a bottle of champagne,talking to Anne Archer.Considering the hypothesis of re-casting the crew,if Laura Linney had done Polly Walker's role,things would be better. "},{"Title":"Clancy brought to life","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Patriot Games is an excellent adaptation of the Tom Clancy novel of the same name. Harrison Ford takes over for Alec Baldwin and takes it to another level. This is a tough excellent thriller and one of the best movies I've seen. Sean Bean is excellent as the IRA terrorist and it dosn't slip to far from the way the book was written. "},{"Title":"A Superb Watch!","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Phillip Noyce's 'Patriot Games' is a superb film. Based on the novel of the same name by Tom Clancy, comes out a absorbing thriller that lives up-to it's mark in those 115 minutes. The adventures of Jack Ryan were widely appreciated.'Patriot Games' is about a Ryan and his family... and of course the baddies. The film has a powerful protagonist, which makes us 'The Viewers' secure and confident. It offers solid entertainment from start to end! Phillip Noyce's direction is flawless. He has a Superb job! Donald M. McAlpine's Cinematography is eye-catching. In the acting department, Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan is fantastic. Ford, a legend, delivers one of the best performances of his career. Anne Archer has done a good job. Sean Bean as the menace, is menacing and absolutely amazing. Richard Harris, well.. he stands out, as always.'Patriot Games' is a must watch. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"As an Annapolitan - and Clancy fan - well...","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ...this movie was great! Nothing much to add, but anytime I like the movie version of a good book, well that works for me. Harrison Ford just fits as Clancy's ever-recurring reluctant hero. Gotta say I liked Red October better, but that was cause of Sean Connery as well...but Ford would have made a good Ryan in that too - no knock at Baldwin. I like the way James Earl Jones plays Greer, with that slightly bemused smirk as he tries to filter through all the political BS (though not as much in this). Anyway a good movie - and one that a non-reader of the book can easily follow as well.Seeing those old clunky state-of-the-art at the time car cell phones (wired, no less) is a minus, but lots of movies from this period are the same. I hope this is not a spoiler...but this is not a typical Jack Ryan Clancy novel, that is with the U.S. embroiled in something close to what might be seen on today's 24, this movie is really about the Ryan family, I will leave it at that. "},{"Title":"Classy Clancy adaptation for heroic-prime Ford","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A fairly straightforward action thriller that enjoys a real buzz with its top-drawer cast. Ford is the Kantian hero Jack Ryan (he spurts a line about his spontaneous heroism being down to 'rage, pure rage' but we all think he's less Id and more Olympian hero than that) whose defence of Right tangles him in the red-mist web of a violent IRA faction. Sean Bean is perfectly cast in this as the out-of-control bad guy; James Earl Jones, Samuel L. Jackson and Anne Archer are the arresting trio that back Ryan in mind, body and spirit (respectively). Philip Noyce concocts the ideal ratio of set piece and lull. The tense under-skein of how low each nefarious operation will counter in order to achieve their aims is more pertinent today as it was in the last throes of The Troubles. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining CIA mythology","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford, retired CIA active analyst of importance, is walking like any tourist to see Buckingham Palace. Innocently with wife and child. Suddenly, he's yanked back into the terrorist world of shots and explosions as IRA gunmen try to assassinate a royal personage who is responsible for Britain's political role in North Ireland. The Lord is driving out from his office block when all hell breaks loose and Ford throws himself forward into the action. A brother of a fanatical IRA assassin is killed, demanding blood vengeance. The action of vengeance never stops from then on. The IRA's skill in getting prisoners free, brutal execution of any who disagree within the IRA radicals, Libyia's active support to the IRA in the form of desert training camps, the IRA underground network, including upper-class moles and even timid bookworms in classy commercial malls all add spice. Bitter spice is also added in the form of CIA super technological superiority in the world of agents, satellites and counter terrorist offensives bitter, as the CIA is always great on film but sadly falls short of solid and comprehensive results in the real world of significant undercover actions against foreign powers and international terrorism. Earl Jones as the CIA boss for counter terrorism superbly reflects, deadpan of course, the CIA's dilemma of having to chose masterful technological efficiency rather than demanding more skilled manpower on the ground. So it is left to the man on the ground to save himself and his family. Harrison Ford does this very convincingly with great entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Games of the Patriot","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It's a little known fact that Harrison Ford was offered the role of CIA man Jack Ryan in The Hunt For Red October, but he turned it down for some unknown reason. Alec Baldwin apparently turned down Patriot Games because he didn't like the plot. Baldwin's loss was Ford's gain.Apparently retired from the CIA and expecting another kid, Jack Ryan (Ford), his wife Anne Archer and their daughter are hanging out in Ireland when they get caught in the crossfire of an IRA plotted assassination. Ford interferes and gets one of the would be killers killed. That pisses of IRA man Sean Bean and he comes gunning for Ryan. When Ryan's family is attacked and nearly killed in a car accident, he returns to the CIA so that he can use its various powers to help him track down Bean and destroy him.Ford is good in his usual quiet way. Sean Bean is a menacing villain. Anne Archer does what she can with her role as the wife.Samuel L. Jackson & the late Richard Harris also star and do capable work.  "}{"Title":"Just well done!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This one is no milestone movie, but it's very enjoyable. After having watched it twice, I taped it the third time. It's maybe the most enjoyable political thriller there is - not my favorite genre after all. Not an action fan after all, I guess I even like the action in this movie. It fits. It is not only action, you also have to think, some intelligence is required to understand the plot. But it's not too complicated or too realistic either. It's a good story managing to build up great suspense and to deserve the rating well-done, intelligent thriller(8 out of 10).OK, there is something special about the movie - concerning the way Jack Ryan's (Harrison Ford) family is involved in the conflict. Commonly, when family matters and emotions are shown in movies they get so kitschy that it really hurts. Not so here. Instead this fake sentimental attitude towards family matters is made a subject in a few dialogues here. The Polly Walker character says something like The Americans hold their breath when a little girl sprains her ankles in P.E. lessons and Jack Ryan says (roughly)Do you want me to give the media what they want? Let their camera teams into my daughter's hospital room?. That's the truth. In Patriot Games these emotions are acted out very unobtrusively, yet with no doubt touching and believeable.It is not the main point of the movie, which IS an action thriller, but I think it's quite honorable.Harrison Ford, as the main character, is a very believeable actor. Cast him and a movie that can't be perfect will be as good as it can get. Sean Bean makes a great psycho - there seem to be actors who are born for roles like this, he may be one. And now I have to make references to other movies Thora Birch, who plays Ryan's daughter is a brilliant talent - I recommend you the movie Paradise in order to convince yourself. Always good to see her in a bit part. And James Fox is good as a likeable royal snob here and in order to conclude what a great actor he is - consider that this is the same actor as the wonderful villain in 1996's Gulliver's Travels. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I love this film! No doubt about it! I usually watch this film once every 3-4 weeks, and I never get sick of it! There are not many other films that are so addictive you can watch it over and over again and not get sick of it, so this is a rarity coming from the beginning of the 90s. (other addictive films include 'Romancing the Stone', 'Die Hard' and 'A Fish Called Wanda') The cast for the film is superb! Ford is great as Ryan, who is relieving Alec Baldwin after 'Hunt For Red October'. Also, the main villain Sean Bean is terrific! Bean is one of the best actors on the face of this planet, but I still find it weird that girls drool over him, and say he's sexy! Creepy! Bean has done many different accents so believably in films, for example in this film he's pure Irish, but in 'Goldeneye' he was British, and sounded completely different! Bean always makes a good villain, but it's not compulsory to kill him in every film he's in! (the only films I've seen when he stays alive is 'Troy' and 'Flightplan'. In both those films he was an ally. Thank god!) Other members of the supporting cast, like Richard Harris, James Earl Jones and Samuel L. Jackson add to the addictiveness of this film, and they're all astoundingly great actors (God rest Harris, he will be missed!).The basic plot follows Ford as an Ex-CIA agent named Jack Ryan, who goes to London to make a speech, but when he meets up with his family after his speech he foils an attempt to assassinate the royal family, carried out by nefarious Irish terrorists! During the foiling of the attack the head terrorist Sean Miller (Bean) is captured, but his little brother is killed by Ryan. Miller swears revenge on Ryan. Miller is sent to prison for the assassination attempt, but his fellow terrorist buddies rescue him, so Miller has one more shot at assassinating the royal family, and to get revenge on Ryan! After Miller continually tries to get revenge on Ryan, his family still stands, but now Ryan is besotted with finding Miller, and stopping the Irish terrorist! Hence and action packed ending, that has some great action, and some great acting! This film is a must-see, is makes a great night at the movies, and is one of the highest recommended Ford films I've ever watched.10/10, a worthy film! "},{"Title":"Very Intense and fascinating thriller","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the books that were made into movies from Tom Clancy novels, this is the best. Harrison Fords portrayal of Jack Ryan is absolutely excellent. Unlike the movies he has been in in the past 5 years, he actually emotes in this one. His acting is absolutely top notch. Anne Archer does a very good job playing Jack Ryan's wife, Cathy Ryan. Jack Ryan runs into trouble when saving some people from a terrorist attack, kills the brother of IRA terrorist Sean Miller, portrayed with frightening accuracy and intensity by Sean Bean.Unfortunately, Jack Ryan did not Realize that Sean Miller would come after him and his family for revenge. Thus ensues a very tense and emotional battle of wills and physical strenth. Sean Miller, whose motives are not those of the IRA. Throughout the movie Sean Miller takes his terrorist buddies out and tries to kill Jacks family with their aid. What we've got here is a fascinating and intense political thriller. Even better, the supporting actors do a great job of rounding off the cast of this terrific movie. Which features an excellent story, great dialogue and a MINIMUM of awful 3 billion dollar cray generated special effects. I highly recommend it for the spy thriller afficionado who's sick of the cheesiness of your typical james bond flick. "},{"Title":"Patriot Games","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ford is quite effective as former CIA analyst Jack Ryan, who protects his family from IRA-fringe terrorists who are hot on his trail. Fine pace set by director Noyce and stand out performances from Bean, Jones, Archer and Richard Harris make this adaptation of the Tom Clancy work a success.  "},{"Title":"Stupid to the point of insulting","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan has left the CIA. He is on holiday in London when he manages to spoil an IRA assassination attempt on a member of the Royal family. However when the brother of one of the terrorists swears revenge on Ryan, he is forced to rejoin Admiral Greer's CIA in order to track down and capture Miller and the others who are in the IRA. The plot to this is full of ridiculous points - the shoot out in front of Parliament, the fudging of the IRA issues right through to Ryan being decorated on behalf of Britain in his living room. The plot is too scared to upset the Irish audience in making sure that it's not the IRA that's doing it - instead it's a group that is 'too crazy for the IRA'. This allows some of the IRA members to be shown as kindly old men etc (Richard Harris) without them being associated with Sean Beam's murderers. The story is very daft and is only an excuse for set pieces and action. It's all very daft and it is just a shame that no-one tried to make the plot stand up for itself.Ford just does his standard 'normal man in heroic situation' stuff and doesn't do anything special. Bean is good but is lumbered with a poor role and bad dialogue. Bergin is also stuck in the same boat. Jackson, James Earl Jones, Fox and Harris all add a touch of class to this that it patently doesn't deserve to have.The film is almost insulting in it's attempts to turn terrorists into good men, and blame any trouble on people outside the main IRA who are too crazy to be members of this fine upstanding organisation! None of the terrorist groups are honourable. If a splinter group exists it is not because they were 'too violent' or 'too crazy' to be part of the main group, but because the main group wants to be able to claim peace while still condoning violence. For example the protestant terrorists use splinter groups called 'The red hand defenders' while the IRA hide behind 'the continuity IRA' 'the real IRA' or any other name that comes to mind. A film that thinks that members are too crazy is clearly doesn't want to let the facts get in the way of a story.Overall this is so daft that I'm surprised it ever got OK'd to be made. Alec Baldwin played Ryan in 'Hunt for Red October' and missed out here because of high wage demands compared to a low star rating. I imagine he watched this and thanked God that he hadn't signed anything binding. "},{"Title":"Even Better than Its Predecessor with a New and Improved Jack Ryan,","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a very talented cast.This movie is the second Jack Ryan film,the first being the Hunt for Red October,but don't worry about having to watch the other one first,these movies are similar to James Bond,where you don't have to watch one before the other,because they all connect.The first movie had Jack Ryan being played by Alec Baldwin,who I didn't think was clever casting and did not suit the character,which is why I was so delighted that they got Harrison Ford to replace him,he suits the role so much more and is clearly much more experienced in playing characters like this.Patriot Games is action packed and very enjoyable and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good action or drama.When Jack Ryan accidentally gets tangled up in an attempted IRA assassination,they are now on the hunt for Ryan and his family. Best Performance Harrison Ford "},{"Title":"An adrenaline-pumping thriller ; this is a model for others to follow","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford has been in some great movies and I thought I'd seen the best of them with The fugitive, Airforce one and raiders of the lost ark. But no I was wrong. For the best of the bunch is undoubtedly 'Patriot Games'.Not many movies have the ability to hold your attention for 2 hours. Keep you on the edge of your seat. Biting your nails. You know the drill. But Patriot Games does more than that It leaves you wanting more. The plot is solid and flawless with Ford playing an ex-CIA man Jack Ryan who becomes a hero when he intercepts a kidnapping and kills one of the men. Unfortunately for Ford, this man has a brother who vows to avenge him, no matter what the cost.And so ensues a cat and mouse chase between hero and villain. This is a tried and tested formula. It either goes perfectly , e.g 'speed' or horribly wrong such as 'the contract'. What distinguishes one from the other is the villain. A good villain will be brutal, relentless , have clear objectives and the ability to send shivers down your spine. Sean Bean, who plays the villain in this movie, has the unique power of being able to encompass all four. He has a true natural presence on screen and actually matches Ford ; both having strong characters.The 80's/90's was a defining era for action movies. We saw classics such as Terminater, Die hard and the untouchables. Patriot games could have and probably would have gone wrong with a different pair of leads. But the performances of Ford and Bean are so strong that this movie is definitely up with the best. A must-see! "},{"Title":"A political Fatal Attraction ...","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford is Jack Ryan, a former CIA agent, coming to London for a conference in British Naval Academy, only to find himself in the middle of a terrorist ambush against a distant cousin of the Royal Family. Well, what do you know, he successfully disarms the terrorists, killing in the process the 17-year old brother of Sean Miller (Sean Bean), while the others manage to escape. Ryan instantly makes it to the top of Miller's enemy list and we understand it's only a matter of time before we get a hand-to-hand confrontation.The time is 100 minutes during which Philp Noyce's Patriot Games fulfills every premise of an action/thriller the bad guy's escape, the cowardly attack on Ryan's wife and daughter, a failed (but alarming) one on Ryan, and a cat-and-mouse chase via such exciting tools as political surveillance, mug shots, satellites and glimpses of memory. And after having initially declined the offer, Ryan finally accepts to get back to the CIA (all it took was to measure up how serious the threat against his family was). These are predictable elements meaning to provide the perfect dosage of adrenalin and suspense but what makes them work is the 'intelligence' involved in Ryan's quest for Miller, making him more of a thinker than a typical physical hero. The script insists enough on Ryan's expertise as an analyst.And there is the whole political back-story, as if the so-called Patriot Games were not without rules, one of them being an understandable yet redundant bit of correctness. Basically, Noyce is extremely careful on depicting the villainous group as an independent and more fanatic branch of the Irish Republican Army lead by O'Donnell (Patrick Bergin) who was part of the initial attack. It's comprehensible for a film with international ambitions to play on the safe side not to lose the Irish audience, but we get the point more than needed. One of the IRA leaders is brutally killed in his bed, by O'Donnell's sexy girlfriend (Polly Walker) and the same O'Donnell kills a friend at short range, so the distance between the IRA and the bad guys is clearly and categorically established. Yet did these precautions matter? For all the political context the script provides, it all leads up to the 'personal' story between Miller and Ryan, Miller who didn't give a damn about fighting for Ireland as soon as his brother hit the ground. Did it also matter when the portrayal of Arabs was more careless? After all, just put your terrorists in any desert camp in 'North Africa' (no need to specify the exact location), throw a name like Gaddafi (Saddam works sometimes) and that's it. I was glad there wasn't any character wearing a red Saudi top hat and shouting some Arab gibberish, to provide the little touch of authenticity. As usual, it's a camp in Libya and like all the camps in Libya, the one that welcomed the bad guys had to be bombed (recent events proved that reality could go that far).Still, it was a nice touch to show the perplexed face of Harrison Ford, during the camp's bombing, looking from infrared screens, wounded 'terrorist' dragging their way out from fire. His reaction to one of the young upstarts uttering an enthusiastic Now, that's a kill while sipping coffee, says it all, the man has gotten soft, which means in our language, more 'human' and we understand how his 'family' lifestyle turned him into a thinker. And this is the sympathetic little twist Patriot Games gives us, a different Harrison Ford character, sweeter, gentler, only using force in case of necessary defense. In one of the film's boldest moves, he's prevented from a certain death by a Naval guard. This shows how vulnerable he truly is and how even his determination isn't enough to avoid the worst. Another effective moment consisted on a shot on his face while he stares at a thick cloud of smoke coming from the freeway, indicating that a car (not any car) had crashed. This is certainly one of the film's most haunting moments as you can read the desperation of a man who realizes that his loved ones are also part of these damn games (although you wonder why they planned to kill him since killing his family and letting him live with that would have been enough a revenge) Patriot Games doesn't bring much freshness to the genre but surprisingly offers a hero who's not your typical cynical macho guy, with marital troubles. Ryan has a beautiful and devoted wife. I could have said that Anne Archer seemed to reprise her role from Fatal Attraction, but the whole film borrows elements from Adrian Lyne's classic, like the car-accident, the big isolated family house, becoming ominous under a stormy night and the mandatory daughter.Indeed, like for every family in trouble, it's a girl that accentuates the defenselessness when family comedies have young boys who wish their daddies would spend more time with them. But Thora Birch manages to appear like a smart but not precocious girl. The whole 'family' vibes feeling is clearly palpable all through the film, and it's pleasantly surprising how it is used even during the few exchanges with the intimidating James Earl Jones and Jack's buddy, played by a friendlier Samuel L. Jackson. Naturally, there is not much family feeling when the climax starts, especially when you got a fight in a speeding boat on fire about to hit rocks, a move that disappointed many Tom Clancy readers.Speaking for me, I've never read Clancy, never saw Hunt for Red October either (but I'm looking forward to seeing it) so all I had were reverse expectations, I thought I was going to see an action-packed movie starring a super-heroic Harrison Ford, and I was pleasantly surprised by how intelligent and family oriented he was. I guess I'm among the ones who see the half-full glass. "},{"Title":"It's filled to the brim with excitement and it beats Red October by a country mile!","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I was not a fan of The Hunt For Red October. It was very boring in my opinion. Alec Baldwin never really cut it as Jack Ryan for me, so needless to say. It's refreshing to say that an ideal hero like Harrison Ford took over. Harrison Ford is able to keep your eyes glued to the screen throughout the film, and I was fully involved in his plight. I wouldn't say this movie is action packed. It's more of a suspenseful thriller with cat and mouse stuff. It does the job extremely well as a thriller. It also helps that the Ryan family is a unit, and so likable. I cared about every one of them. This also has one of the most intense finales you'll ever see. It's not very often these days in which I am on the edge of my seat anymore, but the invasion scene at the end will get your pulse rising, but quickly. The boat chase sequence is especially memorable. Harrison Ford is fantastic as I explained. He's not superman, he bleeds, he gets wounded, and he's human. I felt Ford did a perfect job of conveying his emotions, and I was on his side the whole way. I'm not a fan of holier than thou heroes, but Ford isn't one of those people as Jack Ryan. I loved him. Anne Archer is excellent as the supportive wife who reluctantly goes along for the ride. I always felt she was underrated. Her chemistry with Ford was very good. Sean Bean makes for a chilling villain. His morose & psychotic performance gave me the creeps. Thora Birch was cute as a button, and played a very likable kid. Samuel L. Jackson & James Earl Jones both do well in their respective roles, and add class to the proceedingsFinal Thoughts This is a tense thriller that will make almost two hours fly by with ease. Watch Harrison Ford go to work, and have a blast! Highly recommended8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Decent thriller, arguably better than the book","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's novel is actually set before The Hunt for Red October, showing how he came to be in the CIA. While it makes for entertaining reading, there are moments of unintentional hilarity that really spoil it when it comes to passages involving the Royal Family.This film, set after The Hunt for Red October - a necessity with the older Harrison Ford playing Jack Ryan - has it's moments of silliness. Some serious off-key location shooting for scenes in Britain provide amusement, particularly a scene clear showing the Transporter Bridge in Middlesbrough which I've seen up close and personal. Rather out of the way considering Sean Bean's character was being transported from London to the Isle of Wight... Then there are the usual national archetypes.While the film does cop out a bit by inventing a Royal Family member for the bad guys to target, and doing away with the black militants in the book who help out the bad guys, on it's own terms, it manages to be an effective thriller, with some standout moments that will have your heart in your throat. The best part of the film depicts an SAS raid, as seen by infrared satellite, and we see some of the CIA guys not even bat an eyelid, giving dry commentary while watching real people being killed on live transmission. The climactic boat chase maybe more appropriate for a Hollywood action film than a Tom Clancy thriller, it does get the blood pumping. "}{"Title":"Jack Ryan witness a terrorist attack on a royal member , he intervenes and kills one of the attackers , but terrorists seek a lethal vengeance","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan's entry with lots of noisy action , tension and thriller . The title of the film is a reference to an Irish Ballad called The Patriot Game which is popular song within the nationalist movement . This is a second installment of the Agent Jack Ryan with lots of gun-rattling action , suspense and intrigue . Ryan (Harrison Ford) is a high officer from CIA , married (Anne Archer) and with a daughter (Thora Birch). Now Jack Ryan is a history professor at the U.S. Naval Academy and former CIA agent on holiday in London . As ex-CIA Analyst Jack Ryan interferes with an IRA assassination, as he thwarts a terrorist attack , outside Buckingham Palace on Lord Holmes (James Fox who replaced his brother Edward Fox) , a member of the royal family . Then a renegade faction (Sean Bean , Polly Walker , Patrick Bergin) targets him and his family for revenge . Now Ryan goes back in action for the most vital assignment of his life  to save his wife and daughter . CIA staff (James Earl Jones, Samuel L. Jackson) sanctions a covert operation against terrorists by sending crack soldiers into Libya (the country in North Africa in which the IRA train is never named, although a map of the camps is shown, and they are clearly in Libya) under the command of SAS (however in the book, it is carried out by French special forces).This blockbuster is an excellent adaptation of the novel by Tom Clancy , companion to ¨The hunt for Red October¨ by John McTiernan with Ford taking over the role of Ryan from Alec Baldwin and third part ¨Clear and present danger¨ again with Harrison Ford , who's becoming the king of trilogies ; furthermore subsequent outing starred by Ben Affleck titled ¨The sum of all fears¨ by Phil Alden Robinson . Extraordinary nail-biting action scenes, specially when Ryan is trapped and spoils an assassination attempt on an important member of the Royal Family , and of course , the breathtaking final images . Good production design , in fact , the CIA scenes were filmed at the actual CIA headquarters ; this was the first time the CIA had ever done such a thing. Interesting screenplay plenty of twists and thrills by Donald Stewart . Sensitive as well as thrilling musical score fitting to action and suspense by James Horner . However , he borrows part of his score from Aliens in scoring this film , Horner like all composers, often re-uses his own material. The satellite attack-watching sequence features rather emotional, thinly scored music , but the soundtrack is, in fact, taken quite directly from the slow movement of Dmitri Shostakovich's 5th Symphony . Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Donald McAlpine . The picture was well directed by Phillip Noyce, an action movies expert , but he directed ¨Blind fury¨, ¨The Saint¨ , ¨The Bone Collectors¨ and the following  ¨Clear and present danger¨ among others . Rating Above average, the film will appeal to Harrison Ford fans and Jack Ryan novels followers . "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" OK, so it has some plot holes, and I generally spend a good amount of time detailing for my husband the deviations from the novel (which are many, since Hollywood doesn't make many five-hour movies). And it's predictable and artless and has plenty of clichés. I make it a point not to read IMDb reviews for a movie until after I've written my own, but even so I can guess that this one has been torn apart on these points probably at least a dozen times. Now that that's over with, I'm going to admit that I like this movie. It feels like a tight thriller, good for those nights when I want entertainment with some minor complexity. I like to go along for the ride, so to speak, even though I know how it ends. And going back to the first time I saw this, before I'd read the book, I remember being on the edge of my seat quite a bit.Thora Birch does this film a lot of good. Her expressions and lines are quite well-acted, and she's cute without being syrupy. Harrison Ford is Harrison Ford; you either like him or you don't, and this movie isn't going to change your mind (I happen to like him).Don't go renting this one if you want an artsy movie, or a beautiful movie, or a movie with a perfectly tight script. But if you can enjoy a film for simple entertainment value, and you like Harrison Ford ;), this is a good one for after the kids are in bed. "},{"Title":"Seminal and Visually Interesting; the Techno-Thriller pre-1994.","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Perhap the most remarkable fact about this very influential techno-thriller Patriot Games 1992 is that it took so many decades before such a seminal special-effects thriller was 'realized'. Once all the difficult elements of such a film were brought together, as happened in the case of Ben Hur and Spartacus with their spectacular elements, other directors were quick to adopt and extend the techniques pioneered in the original work. This film from author and prolific thriller icon Tom Clancy, was more than a show of special effects, I suggest; it is unusually filled with interesting characters for an adventure of any sort; and director Philip Noyce, working from an honest treatment of the original novel achieved by W. Peter Ili and Donald Stewart was able to keep the clarity of the storyline, in my estimation, moving forward at all points. The feature's cinematography by Donald M. McAlpine and Stephen Smith with art direction by Joseph P. Lucky and production design by Joseph Nemec III) and music by James Horner, worked together quite seamlessly despite the complexity of its presenting a variety of settings, types of scenes, lighting levels and various-sized images. The final battle that decides the outcome of a lengthy duel between Jack Ryan and an Irish terrorist obsessed with his destruction has to be seen to be appreciated, on several levels. In the role of Ryan, Harrison Ford must be lover, father, PhD level professor, friend, ex-CIA analyst, ordinary citizen, and extraordinary hero; by my standards, he does very well with all of these challenges; what sets this film above for instance the comparable Da Vinci Code is that Ford played a professor successfully and the other film's lead did everything well except that classically-trained actor's challenge. Anne Archer as Ford's wife is mature, and adequate, no more. James Earl Jones is a fine presence as The Admiral in charge of secret operations; Richard Harris has a nice role as a high-ranking IRA leader; James Fox plays a high-ranking Brit powerfully; and the villains in the piece, IRA types, spies on both sides and medical personnel, etc. whether killing, saving, reporting, criticizing or being killed, are all above average or better in skill. The interiors are believable; the psychology of the characters convinced me as a writer at every point. The cross-training and tensions going on between international terrorist groups alone stamps this as a ground-breaking storyline, with its implications of a breakdown of general World order and the heralding of a new Age, only two years distant at that time. The special effects, stunts, visuals and international locations made the film seem to this viewer admirable thought out and realistic at every point. This film is superior to the showier Goldfinger; without its example, I assert that National Treasure and other techno-thrillers could not have been done as well as they eventually were. "},{"Title":"Not quite up there with The Hunt For Red October.","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was not a bad film. I respect Harrison Ford as an actor, but he did not hold a candle to Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan. Too, the problem with this film is that it was taken out of sequence from the Jack Ryan Books of Tom Clancy. It is still a good thriller and worth watching, but to me it fails to hold up to the earlier film, a much closer approximation of Clancy's novel. The one repeated and enduring role was James Earl Jones as Adm Greer. I would have suspected if Baldwin had kept to the part and better script writing had been involved this might have fared better. And what was the purpose of plugging Richard Harris into the film for the very few moments he was on film. It was an insult to his caliber as an actor. The same holds true and then some for Clear and Present Danger. "},{"Title":"Tight and entertaining little thriller","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Well, I have to say that I don't have much interest in Tom Clancy, as the only film I'd seen based on his work prior to seeing this one was the 2002 film 'The Sum of All Fears', and all I can remember about it was that I found it really boring. Patriot Games is, apparently, the follow up to the 1990 film 'The Hunt For Red October' - I haven't seen it, but to me this film stands up pretty well on it's own so I don't think that is a problem. Patriot Games is a pretty tight little thriller which holds up well despite some questionable plot points and some rather unbelievable goings on. The plot focuses on Clancy protagonist Jack Ryan, a former CIA man holidaying in Britain. He happens to be around when some IRA terrorists make an assassination attempt on some member of the royal family, and thwarts the attack by killing one terrorist and letting the other be apprehended by the police. The remaining man is Sean Miller, and he's not too happy about the death of the other terrorist as it happens to have been his brother. A personal vendetta is then sworn as the terrorist seeks revenge.The film benefits from a decent cast. Harrison Ford isn't the best actor of all time, and here he pretty much sleepwalks through the film (as usual), but somehow he has great screen presence, and since this thriller doesn't exactly demand high quality acting; he fits the role just fine. Sean Bean is his opposite number. Bean is an actor I've never really liked, but he does play villains well, and he manages to make the audience believe that he is hell-bent on revenge. The rest of the film is made up with good support turns from the likes of Samuel l. Jackson, Thora Birch, Anne Archer and James Earl Jones. Apparently, the film puts an untrue spin on terrorist groups; but my advice with regards to that is just ignore it and enjoy the action. There's a fair amount of action too, as the film features car chases, shootouts and various fistfights. It does take a while for Patriot Games to get going; about an hour in fact, but it's not boring at any point, and therefore makes for good entertainment throughout. Overall, Patriot Games is not 'brilliant' by any means; but it's a fun ride and my advice is; just relax and enjoy it! "},{"Title":"a tense, well-made film","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Gripping and suspenseful thriller has Harrison Ford well-cast as ex-CIA analyst Jack Ryan, now enjoying life as a civilian, but obligated by what he feels is his proper duty when he intervenes in a terrorist attack. His actions make him, as well as his family, the target of an infamous Irish radical out for revenge. Frustrated and out of options, he rejoins the CIA so he can have the means necessary to apprehend the IRA lowlife before it's too late. Strongly acted and well-crafted the film holds you with taut, convincing plot twists, swift pacing, and exciting action scenes on its way to a slam-bang finale. A good, sound action-thriller. *** "},{"Title":"Very Nice","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I have both read the novel and seen the film, and though Tom Clancy fans will probably be after my blood, the film is probably better. Tom Clancy distanced himself from the film due to some plot twists, but I personally think that the movie flows very well. The acting is great! Harrison Ford has always been a favorite of mine, and Sean Bean was once again perfectly convincing as the villain. I think that the entire movie was worthwhile. Despite the R rating for the film, it is not very graphic. The rating is probably from a certain sexual scene and the intensity of the violence. My only real complaint is that the final action scene, although fun, was a bit unrealistic. All in all, a great film.My Rating9 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Very intense!","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is 14 years old yet holds its own by today's action standards. It's always a nice visit to go back to the movie making days before CG. While present day action films are nonstop, in-your- face while being heavy on effects and low on plot, you don't get that here. I like Alec Baldwin, but I'm glad he turned down the Jack Ryan role for a Broadway play. Harrison Ford is so convincing you share in his anguish and pain. Too bad he chose not to take up the role again for Sum of All Fears. Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan? Give me a break! The lovely and talented Anne Archer is equally impressive. Great work from the Australian director Phillip Noyce. Can't wait to see Catch a Fire. I would have given it an 8, but the Sean Miller character was written as being too over-the-top. "},{"Title":"Do I have very bad Eyes?","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Hello! First, I don't own a copy of the Patriot Games, otherwise I would have checked it back myself.Just a Question Have I seen Osama bin Ladens picture on one of the monitors in one of the office scenes? I mean it was 1992...very early. Or is that somebody else?Beside of that bizarre stuff, I think it is a good movie, with a little bit of chill effect. Makes you wonder what kind of sick operation the secret services around the world are planing right now! Nice acting of Herrison Ford and Sean Bean. Priceless the view he has on his face as Cathy Ryan spots him in the van. The embarrassment of a terrorist. "},{"Title":"Passable thriller","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is something worth seeing when there isn't much else to do. Its an easy to watch, if slightly dated, thriller, featuring a good cast and a few memorable scenes. What I couldn't get over, however, was the 'comedy' Irish accent of Sean Bean. Every so often he slipped back into Yorkshireman, remembered his part, and tried to put an Irish twang back into his voice. The plot concerns an ex-CIA hotshot, Harrison Ford, who saves a member of the English Royal Family from assassination at the hands of terrorists. In the process, he shoots Sean Bean's terrorist brother. When Bean escapes from custody, he devotes his energy to tracking down Ford and his family, looking for revenge. Cue plenty of near-misses and a bit of shooting. The film ends with Bean getting killed on a boat, so everything works out nicely. They could have dropped the cosy final scene featuring Ford and his 'wonderful' family all happy and content, however it was incredibly schmaltzy. On the whole, though, Patriot Games is OK, but nothing more. "}{"Title":"The Power of Observation & Juxtaposition...obviously requisite character traits of a CIA analyst!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I have never read any of Tom Clancy's works, but I have seen all the movies made from them. Patriot Games is one of them.The storyline is quite simple Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford), former CIA analyst, is on vacation/lecture tour in England with his family. While on the way to meet them near Buckingham Palace, he & his family are caught in a cross-fire during an assassination attempt on a member of the Royal Family, Lord Holmes (Edward Fox), by a rogue faction of the IRA led by Sean Miller (Sean Bean). In the ensuing shoot-out, Jack killed one the terrorists, who happens to be Sean's younger brother. Jack gets drawn back into the CIA after the terrorists set out a vengeful attack against his family back in USA.In my view, the action sequences in this movie are not very exciting, when compared with any of the recent Bond &/or Bourne movies, although the entire movie is quite entertaining. I particularly enjoyed the sequence showing a real-time satellite-tracking session at CIA HQ, during which Jack & his counter-terrorism team are watching a crack SAS team conducting a black ops raid at the terrorists' hideout somewhere in Libya. The accompanying music score is realistically haunting! What excites me most about this movie is watching Jack exercising his astute power of observation & his uncanny ability to juxtapose images in a relentless attempt to track down the whereabout of the rogue faction of the IRA,...with the high-tech resources of CIA's counter-terrorism group, of course.Using vital information secured from Paddy O'Neil (Richard Harris), an IRA supporter in the USA, Jack narrows down the search through his observation/juxtaposition of CIA's satellite images (which includes an overhead snapshot of an apparently capped woman with a pony tail) with his own recalled images - a back-view glimpse of the pony-tailed driver in the terrorists' getaway vehicle during the foiled assassination attempt in England; - a side-view glance of the pony-tailed driver in the terrorists' getaway vehicle during an unsuccessful assassination attempt on his life outside the US Naval Academy; All these associations have been triggered while taking a break & walking pass a pony-tailed woman employee on the way to answer the call of nature at CIA Headquarters.What a brilliant piece of detective work - observation plus juxtaposition - on the part of Jack! The Power of Observation & Juxtaposition are obviously requisite character traits of a CIA analyst.In summing up this review, I have enjoyed very much watching Patriot Games, experientially as well as educationally. This is another wonderful addition to my resource repertoire. "},{"Title":"Family man revenge thriller","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Harrison Ford interrupts an IRA assassination attempt against the royal family.  Pure rage propels him to take on the terrorists.  Now one of the surviving assassins wants revenge. He tries to wipe out Harrison's family.  Now it's on.  It's Harrison Ford vs. the Irish terrorist. Harrison Ford wins one for all the family men out there.  When his wife gives him an order, You just get him Jack., Harrison obeys. He does what I think most of the people in the audience would hope they would do under similar circumstances.  Kill the bad guys of course.  There are many heart pulling scenes of his poor little girl in the hospital.  This drives Harrison on to be a better CIA analyst and nail the bad guys. It's all for the family.There's a brief glazing over of the IRA/Northern Ireland angle but really the terrorists could have been anybody.  The politics are not important.  This is a revenge thriller. Someone takes a shot at Harrison Ford's family and you know he is going to take care of business. I liked it. "},{"Title":"good until the end","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I would probably have liked this better if I had never read the book.  I first got interested in Clancy after I saw the movie Clear and Present Danger.  Both Clear and Present and The Hunt for Red October are excellent adaptations and include as much as realistically possible considering the length of the books.Patriot Games was good and very loyal to the original story until the end. Since I had already read the book I absolutely HATED the ending.  It was fine as a stand alone but it was completely different from the book's ending.  I wouldn't have minded them changing the ending except the book's was MUCH better and could have been used as is just as easily.  Instead the filmmakers obviously didn't like how Jack Ryan handled the terrorists in the final confrontation and decided to monkey with things- badly.  Despite that still a fairly good thriller. "},{"Title":"Worst use of a Porsche in a Movie - but still a 7 out of 10 movie","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Worst use of a Porsche in a Movie and maybe also worse use of a strong successful competent female character - as opposed to Le Mans (1971), which is the best use of a Porsche in a Movie Also LeMans has some strong performances for the women -- but don't expect there to be any Danica Patrick roles in that 1971 movie, just girlfriends and wives needed to apply. The Ann Archer's character in Patriot Games seems not to be dealing with a glass ceiling but a plate glass box, on the other hand. Although there could have been an exciting car stunt with the Porsche driven by Archer being hunted on the freeway by the IRA in a F-250 Econoline van - the Ford should not have been allowed to overtake the Porsche once the game was afoot. Road and Track has noted a 0-60 MPH time of 5.4 seconds for this the Targa Porsche Carrera 2. I don't think any van could do that, including Mr. T's - even though it could certainly vainly spin its tires for that long. The Ford van has at best the optional 200 HP 5.8L V8, but over 30 lbs to push with those few ponies whereas the Porcshe has 247 HP and at most 19 lbs. per horse power - these numbers are conservative on weight with the advantage given to the van (which if it was a rental should have had the standard 150 HP 4.8L).I think this whole scene was a missed opportunity for more drama and excitement. "},{"Title":"The Return of Jack Ryan!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games was the second of author Tom Clancy's stories about CIA analyst Jack Ryan to be adapted for the screen. We last met Ryan in The Hunt For Red October two years earlier in the person of Alec Baldwin. Baldwin was offered the role in this film, but to his everlasting regret, turned it down and Harrison Ford as a more mature Ryan was cast in the role. This story focuses more on the perils of Ryan and his family rather than espionage.Jack Ryan (Ford), a college professor, his wife Sally (Anne Archer), who is also a doctor, and their daughter Sally (Thora Birch) are in Britain for Jack's speaking engagement. As they meet thereafter, they stumble upon a plot by a breakaway sect of the Irish Republican Army (IRA), to murder Lord William Holmes (James Fox) a member of the British Royal Family. The group is led by Kevin O'Donnell (Patrick Bergin) and includes his girl friend Annette (Polly Walker), Sean Miller (Sean Bean) and his brother Paddy (Karl Hayden).Ryan instinctively jumps into the action and foils the assassination plot killing young Paddy Miller and capturing his brother Sean. Sean Miller is distraught over his kid brother's death and vows revenge on Ryan and his family.The Ryans return to their home in Maryland and Jack returns to his job as a professor at the US Naval Academy, Annapolis. All is going well until Miller escapes from custody and is consumed with hatred for Ryan, the man who killed his brother.Admiral Greer (James Earl Jones) and Marty Cantor (J.E. Freeman) visit Ryan's home and inform him of Miller's escape and try to entice him back to the CIA. Ryan refuses. Miller, O'Donnell et al turn up in the US and try to kill Jack but fail. Miller attacks Cathy and Sally in their car causing a crash in which both are injured. This angers Jack who then decides that the best way to fight these people is with the resources of the CIA, so he returns to the organization.A senior IRA representative, Paddy O'Neal (Richard Harris), in the US on a fund raising effort, swears that the IRA was not responsible for the attacks on Lord Holmes and Ryan and his family. Ryan forces O'Neal to reveal the identity of the mysterious woman (annette) whom Ryan saw when the attempt was made on his life, in return for Ryan's not blackballing the IRA.Ryan analyzes the available data and tries to locate the group's training facilities by satellite. The British meanwhile, suspect that there is an insider on Lord Holmes' staff who provides the terrorists with information on his itinerary.As it happens, Lord Holmes will be in the US on a certain date and wants to present Ryan with an award for saving his life. Since Ryan is planning a party for the return home of his injured daughter, Lord Holmes is invited to attend. The terrorists get wind of this, attack the party, killing the guards and.....................................Ford makes an excellent Jack Ryan. He brings a maturity and vulnerability to the role that was lacking in Baldwin. Anne Archer is the perfect foil for him as his wife. Sean Bean almost steals the picture as the hate obsessed terrorist Sean Miller. Bergin and Walker as well, make scary villains as well. Samuel L. Jackson appears as Ryan's friend from Annapolis Lt. Cmmdr. Robby Jackson.Followed by A Clear and Present Danger (1994). "},{"Title":"The day I turn in my own countrymen, will be the day I put a bullet in my own head.","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie for two reasons Harrison Ford and Anne Archer. I was a big fan of the Tom Clancy novels at one time and loved seeing them turned into films. Harrison Ford is the best person I could imagine to play jack Ryan. he did a fantastic job.I love Anne Archer, too. She was just so damn desirable in this movie. A special shout out to Thora Birch, who played their daughter. She is just so cute! This film is constant and hot action with a supporting cast that is to die for Patrick Bergin, Sean Bean, Richard Harris, James Earl Jones, James Fox, and Samuel L. Jackson. What more could you possibly want in a movie? "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford Finds Another Perfect Role.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Clancy's hero Jack Ryan (played brilliantly by Harrison Ford) stops an IRA assassination attempt and the terrorists decide to target Ford and his family instead. The striking novel comes to vivid life due to tight direction and impressive performances. Harrison Ford is definitely the star though as he is bar-none the best Jack Ryan that the silver screen has produced so far. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"It's good...","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Da Boat finale is goofy, sure-right outta 'Face Off' or 'the Devil's Own'-another Ford flick-but before that, it works. Ann Archer, Ford, Bean and Harrison are all fine. This one did well in June '92 and is still relevant a decade later. I rec. this one if ya like either Ford or Clancy or the other ones in the series.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford and Samuel L. Jackson","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In the same way that Laurence Fishburne appeared with Harrison Ford in 'Apocolypse Now', Samuel L. Jackson appeared with Ford in 'Patriot Games' in a minor role as a major. Sean Bean plays the northern Irish terrorist adding to his database of playing antagonists with various accents. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford, James Earl Jones and the CIA scare bad guys","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  PATRIOT GAMES is a classic intelligence or 'spook' movie. The Irish Republican Army are the bad guys who Harrison Fords character Jack Ryan thwarts in a terrorist attack. I am a non-violent person and do not like violence but there is a lot of it in the movie. As a CIA employee Admiral James Greer played by James Earl Jones is nearing retirement and about to say in American Intelligence parlance Old BOOS don't fade away they just sigh an aura. I recently talked to a retired American Intelligence SPOOK who pointed out that America has more military bases than Canada and that I should feel free to visit American Military Bases. I saw quite a few American military bases while I was in the Canadian Forces during 10 years of service. I looked at the tennis court of my new American Intelligence friend and realized that American Intelligence Community employees are winners at the game of life. I wanted to be a winner too. Immediately after honourably retiring from the Canadian forces I began informing for the CIA. I joke that I am the Omega Wolf of the American Intelligence Community. Surprisingly you have more contact with Russian and Chinese people when they know that you are American Intelligence. I don't have to worry about accidentally giving away any Western Intelligence secrets because I don't know any. I have only been trained by the Canadian Forces to say Mousy Dung. In the 1950s the Chinese Communists thought the British were saying Mao Setung, only later did they realize that the British POWs had been saying an insult. I am always polite to them in case they choose to provide information or later decide to defect to the west. Yes the cold war ended in 1990 but as Author Michael Hamilton Morgan wrote there is a Twilight. My English friend Thompson was wounded by the IRA twice as an English soldier. He and I both think that the IRA are a bunch of PUSSYS. I seem to remember informing for the CIA on a guy who donated money to the IRA. Anne Archer is great as Cathy Ryan. The viewer really cares about the characters in the CIA.   "}{"Title":"Get yer Irish up!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  PATRIOT GAMES (1992) *** Harrison Ford, Patrick Bergin, Anne Archer, James Earl Jones, Sean Bean, Thora Birch, James Fox, Richard Harris, Samuel L. Jackson.  Fast-paced Tom Clancy thriller with CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Ford at his first attempt) facing a personal vendetta by an Irish terrorist sect out for revenge after his interference on an assassination attempt on the British royal family.  Some finely directed moments and nice transition from Alec Baldwin's departure. "},{"Title":"terrific","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford stars in Patriot Games from 1992, an adaptation of the Tom Clancy novel. As the years went on, we were able to see Ben Affleck, Alec Baldwin, and Chris Pine play Clancy's hero, Jack Ryan, who appears in quite a few books.There was a time when there were films about Irish terrorists, but today, they have been replaced by another group. Former CIA analyst Jack Ryan is visiting England with his wife and daughter when he foils an abduction/murder of members of the Royal Family as they leave the Palace.The masked men were Irish revolutionaries, and Jack kills Paddy, the younger brother of one of the revolutionaries, Sean Miller (Sean Bean). He vows revenge, and he'll stop at nothing to get it. That includes escaping as he's being moved from one prison to the other and traveling to America.This is a very exciting film, with a long and detailed finale that is both scary and fantastic.Harrison Ford is the ultimate movie star, hearkening back to the classic stars of the '30s and '40s. Likable, versatile, and strong, he makes a great Jack Ryan,a man as determined to protect his wife and daughter as his nemesis is to destroy all of them. Anne Archer is lovely as his doctor wife. Sean Bean is hateful, as he should be. Lots of familiar faces -- Patrick Bergin, Thora Birch, James Fox, Samuel L. Jackson, James Earl Jones, Richard Harris, Alum Armstrong (New Tricks), and Hugh Fraser (Poirot). Quite a cast.Truly excellent -- if you never saw it, see it now. Ford plays Ryan again in Clear and Present Danger. "},{"Title":"An extremely absorbing, intelligent thriller","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Based on the 1987 novel of the same name by Tom Clancy, this is an extremely absorbing, intelligent thriller. In some respects, it is an improvement on The Hunt for Red October, particularly when it comes to the pacing, while in others it is not on the same level in that it is more plot based than character based. Clancy disowned the film before it was released and it was criticised for departing too much from the novel but, since I have never read any of his work, I can only comment on the film itself. It has a great script by W. Peter Iliff and Donald Stewart and the director Phillip Noyce proves even more adept than John McTiernan at creating and maintaining tension. Since I am from Ireland, I don't watch films about the Troubles too often since I vividly remember watching news reports about them every other week when I was a child in the 1990s but the film handles the material in a skillful way. I was delighted that it portrayed the IRA in an extremely negative fashion.The film stars Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan, succeeding his Working Girl co-star Alec Baldwin in the role. Ford had originally been offered it in The Hunt for Red October but he turned it down, incidentally. In the seven years since the events of the previous film, Ryan has retired from the CIA and works full-time as a professor of history at the US Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. While on holiday in London, he prevents a splinter group of the Provisional IRA from assassinating Lord William Holmes, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Queen Mother's cousin. In the process, Ryan kills a 16-year-old Provo named Patrick Miller. As a result, Miller's elder brother Sean swears revenge on not only Ryan but his wife Cathy and daughter Sally. Ford gives a very convincing performance as Ryan, bringing his own special brand of charisma to the role. He is very effective in both the scenes in which Ryan uses his considerable intelligence and expertise and the more action-orientated ones. However, one manner in which the film is lacking compared to its predecessor is that Ryan is not as compelling a protagonist as Captain Marko Ramius, played funnily enough by Ford's erstwhile on screen father Sean Connery.In the previous film, we only caught a glimpse of Ryan's family and home life but it plays a major larger role on this occasion. The underrated Anne Archer is very good as Cathy and she and Ford are very believable as a married couple. Cathy is a strong character and, while her life is put in danger several times, she never seems like a damsel in distress in contrast to the character's depiction in Jack Ryan Shadow Recruit. Thora Birch, one of the best American child actors of her generation, is perfectly cast as the adorable Sally. Sally is severely injured as a result of one of Miller's attacks and her spleen is subsequently removed. Putting children in danger can sometimes be a cheap, manipulative trick but the matter is handled about as well as it could be here. Sally's condition strengthens Ryan's resolve so it is at least significant to the plot. Sean Bean is quite good as Miller, not the most interesting character in the film, but his Northern Irish accent is very variable. As a matter of fact, I was not particularly impressed by any of the Irish accents on display from the predominantly non-Irish cast members. The most notable Irish cast member is Richard Harris who is excellent in the comparatively small role of Paddy O'Neil, a Sinn Féin representative who is attempting to drum up support and, more importantly, money for his cause in the US. He repeatedly tells the media that the attempts on the lives of Lord Holmes and the Ryans were not sanctioned by the IRA and, for once, he is telling the truth. As Ryan points out, he is essentially the Boy Who Cried Wolf when it comes to such matters so it is not a surprise that the media does not believe. His fellow Irishman Patrick Bergin also gives a great performance as Kevin O'Donnell, who attempts to be the voice of reason - not usually a description that I would apply to the IRA - when it comes to Miller. The only other well known Irish actor in the film is Jonathan Ryan as the IRA brigade commander Jimmy O'Reardon. The cynical part of me - which is most of me, frankly - is inclined to think that Ryan was cast because of his resemblance to Gerry Adams. It was a little surreal seeing him play an IRA terrorist because he used to present the iconic Irish kids' show Bosco. It's a bit like a Blue Peter presenter or Mr. Rogers playing a terrorist. The film also features strong performances from James Fox (who replaced his elder brother Edward) as Lord Holmes, James Earl Jones (the sole returning cast member from The Hunt for Red October) as Admiral James Greer, Alun Armstrong and Polly Walker. Oh, and it was nice to see Gerald Sim pop up in a film not directed by his brother-in-law Richard Attenborough!Overall, this is an extremely effective thriller and a worthy sequel to The Hunt for Red October, which I enjoyed only marginally more than this film. "},{"Title":"Action Spy Thriller","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) interferes with an IRA assassination, a renegade faction targets him and his family for revenge.The actors who played Jack and Caroline Ryan in The Hunt for Red October, Alec Baldwin and Gates McFadden, were unavailable. Baldwin had committed to perform in A Streetcar Named Desire on Broadway. In 2011, Baldwin says he did not appear because of sleazy Hollywood tools. I just want to take this time to say that Harrison Ford is the definitive Jack Ryan. No offense to Baldwin, and no offense to Ben Affleck, who are both being excellent actors in their own right. But Ford just has the right look of an experienced agent, and someone you expect to get in combat with another spy. "},{"Title":"good but could have been more intense","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) has left the CIA and is in Britain speaking to their military. His wife Cathy (Anne Archer) and daughter Sally (Thora Birch) get caught up in an assassination attempt on Lord Holmes (James Fox) and his family in London. Ryan saves the day. Sean Miller (Sean Bean) is captured while his brother is killed. Kevin O'Donnell (Patrick Bergin) escapes. He leads a splinter group of Irish terrorists along with his girlfriend Annette (Polly Walker). They break out Miller and set off to take revenge on the Ryan family.This is a good but not great Jack Ryan movie. Harrison Ford does this type of role quite well. The film could have tighten the tension a bit more in the first half. The courtroom achieves little. Sean Bean screaming at Harrison Ford after the shootout would have been more intense. His escape could have been a great car chase but it's surprisingly static. Other than the cold blooded killings, there's nothing interesting there. Even Jack and Cathy's phone call before the crash could have been more intense. He has literally escaped death and yet he's so coy about the danger. I do like the section where he's looking for the terrorists in North Africa with the satellite. It's cerebral and probably the most memorable part of the movie. On the other hand, the terrorists seem to be everywhere which seems odd. First they take the slow boat to America, then escape to North America and then somehow return back to America. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford protects himself and family from Sean Bean","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie listed by John Grant as neo-noir. Clearly, the latter category is very wide in his hands. Probably in mine too, but I wouldn't classify this movie as neo-noir. I'll get tougher eventually after I've seen more of the films called neo-noir and make a list of those I consider to be genuine. When I think of neo-noirs from the time period of this movie, I think of really good ones like Deep Cover (1992) and Q & A (1990). Patriot Games (1992) is an entirely different kind of movie.This movie is an action-thriller, a standard one at that. It's a basic revenge story. Ford, a former CIA agent, happens to be on the spot when a radical splinter group of the IRA goes against the IRA agenda and tries to assassinate members of the royal family. Ford intervenes. In the process he kills the younger brother of Sean Bean, a terrorist. Bean takes it into his head to gather his buddies, cross the ocean to Maryland, and dispose of Ford and family. The story gets sidetracked in Act 2 when Ford returns to the CIA fold. That's Tom Clancy's forte, I read, and may explain this part of the movie. Nevertheless, a paean to the capabilities of the CIA and a sequence involving the destruction of a terrorist training camp, seen only on monitors at Langley that illustrates a kind of push button warfare, adds nothing to the story of Bean's deadly attempts. We know what the outcome is going to be, because this movie is not neo-noir. The family man will protect the integrity of his family, even though his daughter has lost her spleen. The CIA will be your friendly, avuncular and intelligent entity represented by James Earl Jones, fully capable of turning off his Darth Vader switch. The good IRA guys represented by Richard Harris will even help Ford identify the bad IRA guys. Anne Archer will be all smiles to have her husband back and to be ready to give birth to a new family member, whose sex will remain a secret known only to Ford, Archer and their daughter, unless the screenwriter has spilled the beans somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Much better than the book (tv)","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" My explanation is easy  i tried to read the book twice and put it down twice. The first time i just didn't buy the unbelievable safety of the royals ! the second time i just get bored by Ryan's recovery. The movie is thus the wise choice because it took only 2 hours and as it's a revenge and action story the visual is the accurate medium for that instead of endless pages&#x85; In addition, you got wonderful British and Maryland location. For sure Harrison is the perfect choice because he has the humanity and the broad shoulders to be this superman ! For a Clancy novel, the international crisis is left away but it's his first dig about the stealth commando  in that field, we have again more unbelievable things as they easily follow the trail in Africa (compare it to another track !). Maybe it's was the first time that people was briefed about what can surveillance do and already nobody was asking the legitimacy about administrative offices ordering death abroad without judicial review. Maybe Clancy has answered that but to get his opinion, i suppose i should read the book&#x85;. "},{"Title":"A Straightforward Spy Action Thriller","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot Games is a film adaptation of Tom Clancy's novel of the same title and it acts as a sequel to The Hunt For Red October.It features Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan together with a cast that includes James Earl Jones,Anne Archer,Sean Bean, Patrick Bergin,Samuel L. Jackson and Richard Harris.The story takes us to a mission of Jack Ryan's attempt to foil an assassination in which he succeeds that incurs the wrath of an Irish radical terrorist group that plots a revenge to take his life and that of his family. Philip Noyce is at helm for the film.Author Tom Clancy was mad about this film adaptation as it watered down the story in the original novel.Too bad that it was reflected in the screenplay as the global intrigue provided by terrorism becomes some sort of a cops-and-criminals action thriller.In effect,it became more of a straightforward spy action thriller with simplistic political themes that viewers do not need to dwell on.Also,the decisions made by Jack Ryan as a CIA agent makes him look more like an intelligent cop rather than a spy agent.But in spite of it,the acting was great.Harrison Ford did well as Jack Ryan after taking over Alec Baldwin proving the producers that he was a good choice.Great performances can be said for the cast.The technology in it can be absorbing despite the fact that it has been more than 20 years since this film was released.Finally,the action sequences provided lots of tension,entertainment and excitement although some of them could remind the viewers the action-adventure movies Indiana Jones especially with Ford involved in it for they are somewhat out of place for these type of political thriller especially the chase scenes. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Patriot GamesCIA retirement packages should always include low-level government secrets that the retiree can sell to the Russians.Unfortunately, the former agent in this thriller is dealing with the Irish.On vacation with his wife (Anne Archer) and daughter (Thora Birch), ex- CIA agent Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) thwarts the kidnapping of the British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.During the skirmish, Ryan kills the brother of one of the IRA members (Sean Bean), who vows revenge.He makes good on that promise when the Secretary visits Ryan's family home in Maryland.Unfortunately for the IRA, Ryan hasn't forgotten how to neutralize a foreign threat.The second installment - and first star Ford in the titular role - Patriot Games replaces its predecessor's intrigue with white-knuckle action for a more satisfying, yet less cerebral, follow-up. As for how to get the IRA off your trail lead them to an Orangemen convention.Yellow Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"The day that I sell out my countrymen, will be the day that I put a bullet through my own head.","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie for two reasons Harrison Ford and Anne Archer.I was a big fan of the Tom Clancy novels at one time and loved seeing them turned into films. Harrison Ford is the best person I could imagine to play jack Ryan. he did a fantastic job. I love Anne Archer, too. She was just so damn desirable in this movie. A special shout out to Thora Birch, who played their daughter. She is just so cute! This film is constant and hot action with a supporting cast that is to die for Patrick Bergin, Sean Bean, Richard Harris, James Earl Jones, James Fox, and Samuel L. Jackson. What more could you possibly want in a movie? "}{"Title":"The Jack Ryan we knew in Red October is replaced by a stereotype. The plot has flattened, too.","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What makes Jack Ryan unique among action heroes? In The Hunt for Red October, his first appearance on screen, Alec Baldwin played him almost as an innocent, albeit a highly intelligent one. He was bright-eyed, often smiling, and joked privately to himself about the people he'd had to deal with. In the next two Ryan movies, Harrison Ford went in a different direction by giving the character Ford's own trademark scowl and seething brusqueness. Ford is entertaining enough in Patriot Games, and he can convey a lot with that scowl, or with a finger raised threateningly, but it must be admitted that a lot of action movies are helmed by characters much like his. And that's no surprise, because Ford himself played a lot of them. Compared to the strategic chess game of Red October, then, Patriot Games feels routine and even simple. Ryan's family, which includes his medical doctor wife (Anne Archer) and a daughter played by Thora Birch, a veritable acting prodigy for her young age, is targeted by a rogue IRA terrorist seeking vengeance for a perceived wrong. This personalized attack provokes Ryan to seek vengeance in return, and suddenly we have a vendetta movie that might as well star anyone other than CIA analyst Jack Ryan. The not-quite-IRA terrorists also hang around with some vaguely middle-eastern terrorists for no clear reason, which means that despite some over-the-top Irishness from the likes of Richard Harris the bad guys might as well be anybody, too. There may be something to the idea of using Ryan's family to illustrate the fact that terrorists in general, unlike Soviets or other more conventional enemies, intentionally and indiscriminately target civilians and families, but that's not really what's going on in Patriot Games. Here it's specifically and exclusively Ryan's family members who are targets, and that's a far more lazy, manipulative way of generating stakes than the intricate plotting of Red October. To be clear, Patriot Games is far from dislikable; it's an effective, even a good, mainstream thriller. It's just a bit disappointing to see Jack Ryan, our formerly wonky history teacher, turn into the kind of film character who goes around settling personal scores with his fists, his guns, and the occasional explosion. "},{"Title":"Dry and Slow of Pace with Spurts of Suspense","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There are some Deadly Serious Flourishes in this slightly above Average Spy Thriller. The Film, from the Novel by Tom Clancy, is another, the second, slightly dry account of James Bondish type stuff without the Intense High Tech Action. Clancy's, forte is behind the Scenes and is generally of the more Cerebral Stuff. Hero Jack Ryan is an Analyst, not a Secret Agent.But that doesn't stop Hollywood from putting Him, no longer on the Payroll but not for long, into the center of the Action. In this one it is actually Ryan himself that triggers the ire of an IRA Fringe Group, by foiling an attempted Assassination of a British Royal.From then on its Cat and Mouse as our Hero begs back in among the Spooks to protect His Family. There is one Spooky Event in front of Computer Screens that makes Ryan feel a bit Queasy. This is a Powerful Scene but one wonders why all the Emotional Display, after all He's been in this situation before. Hasn't He?Anyway, this is a not bad Film with a good enough Cast and some Intriguing Set Pieces, but it does have a rather Slow Pace with Spurts of Family in Peril Tension. "},{"Title":"Serviceable Ford action thriller","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It should be noted that I haven't read any of Clancy's books, so I have no idea how close Ford's portrayal of Jack Ryan is to the source material. But Patriot Games felt more like a Harrison Ford vehicle than a literary character adaptation. For me, at least. And there's an emphasis in this movie on Ryan as man of domesticity that tends to detract from my enjoyment (I speak mostly of that contrived saccharine ending). That said, it's certainly not without its pluses. There's some nice direction, and Phillip Noyce ups the tension during the action scenes (particularly during the third act showdown and boat chase). The scene with the CIA watching the camp raid via satellite maintains a bitter sense of humor. And as a Harrison Ford flick, it's a bit of a thrill to see him pick back up with the CIA to hunt down the bastards who wronged his family. Plus, there are a couple instances of the dread Ford Angry Finger Point of Doom (thank you for that, Internet). And then at the end, there's that syrupy baby stuff and a contrived smash-cut to credits. Still have a bad taste from that one.6/10 "},{"Title":"Such a great 90s film...","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" PATRIOT GAMESWhat a great thriller...I remember this getting released back in the 90s... and I was never really interested. I can't remember why because this is a great movie.The movie is about an ex CIA agent who foils an assassination attempt on a member of the royal family. Because one of the terrorists got killed during the attempt, the IRA want revenge on him. They travel to the USA and try to kill him and his family.The story is brilliant. Great action and on the edge of your seat thrills. It has got some good twists that I never saw coming and the movie runs very smoothly. I didn't get bored at all and really enjoyed this from beginning to end.This has got a host of stars. Harrison Ford takes the lead and he plays it brilliantly. I like Harrison in a lot of movies, especially thrillers. My favourite thriller of his is What Lies Beneath. Patriot Games also stars Anne Archer, Patrick Bergin, Sean Bean, Thora Birch, Samuel L. Jackson & James Earl Jones. I think all of these actors are great. I also think this is the youngest I have seen Thora in a movie. I would say the only thing I wasn't very keen on was her character. The way she reacted just seemed very unrealistic to me. People were getting shot and attacked all around this little girl and she stayed calm and even smiled at one point. I am pretty sure any other little girl would be scared, crying or freaking out.The movie has a great 90s feel to it. I always think that the 90s released a lot of great thrillers. In fact most of my favourite thrillers are from the 90s. The Juror & Sleeping with the Enemy are 2 that stick out in my mind that were exceptionally brilliant.I will give this 7 out of 10.A great thriller with a great cast list... I will be watching Clear & Present Danger tomorrow.For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Interesting, involving thriller which offers a little more than others of its ilk but cannot offer as much as its unworldly predecessor.","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Credit where credit is due, Patriot Games gives things a fair old go. Alas, in following the masterstroke that was The Hunt for Red October, it isn't quite up to the task of providing us with a deft; subtle espionage thriller which keeps us on the edge of our seat's and has its runtime fly by. So gnawing, in fact, is the feeling in Patriot Games that it merely strikes us as a project constantly aware of it's bigger brother that it ends up being a project that's a little too eager to impress and unsure of how to spend all its evident energy. A measure of how inferior Phillip Noyce's effort is lies in a scene nearer the end, a scene set in the African desert where an ally of the Irish enemies, who worked undercover for them in London, finally meets up with them following a failure in his operations. Witness the way in which the Irish terrorists eliminate him now that he's outlived his usefulness; witness the obligatory air of generic familiarity about proceedings in this scene, as if we knew what was coming. Now recall how McTiernan's October ran its course without any such instance.Things have been bulked out in Patriot Games, as if the border-line lone, enclosed locale of the nuclear submarine from before has been identified as an issue and swept aside for somewhat of a globe-trotting escapade that hops from Ireland to Libya bay way of London and Virginia. Gone too is the Scotsman doing Russian, replaced by the Englishman doing Irish &#x96; he is Sean Bean and he plays the innocuously named Sean Miller, a member of an I.R.A. rebel cell whose attempts to kill an affluent friend of the British Royal family fails when a certain somebody intervenes thus saving the day although causing the death of Miller's younger brother.The certain somebody is Harrison Ford's Jack Ryan, a man in London on business with his wife and infant daughter charged with hosting some lectures for the C.I.A. when the chaos kicks off and he eliminates Miller's much adorned younger sibling. In spite of Miller's capture, he swears a revenge on Ryan's own family &#x96; a family with whom it's already established Ryan has a wonderful rapport; right down to the somewhat romanticised exchange of love between he and his wife set to champagne and candles whilst occupying an exquisite London hotel. Needless to say, Miller does eventually break free of his judicial shackles &#x96; his desire to wipe the Ryan family out in an act of revenge is not agreed upon by the rest of the faction but he harbours his grudge anyway. In spite of this, American authorities don't believe he'll come after Ryan.... so naturally, he does and terrorism crash lands on the streets of the United States at a time when, cinematically, this sort of content would have been much more affecting.What is pleasing, however, is that while this is the American thriller whereby the hero actually bleeds when he is caught in combat and needs to spend time in a hospital recovering, the film resists the urge to depict what is essentially a movie-going revenge fantasy. Ryan is both injured and shaken; his family are a target and a threat is at large out there in the wider world. There is a sense of helplessness, of vulnerability &#x96; we do not sense that we're anywhere near the likes of 1985's Commando. In spite of its positive core values, it would be impossible for me to say that the film gripped me as much as The Hunt for Red October did, but equally difficult to say that the film was not gripping at all. The film is much more conventional, and it works as your more standardised thriller, but then this might be out of the fact the series' previous entry was of such a high calibre. The heroes and villains are cleaner cut in this edition. Ryan, the charismatic professional and family man to boot, is up against the rough and ready thug who was out to do some serious damage even before they become preoccupied with ruining Ryan's life. One's fondness for Connery's character in the last film not as a villain, but as a complicated personality doing what he was doing on top of the depiction of Ryan essentially as a middle-man hopping between the Americans and the Russians, is sorely missed.And yet there is little room for one to recommend this as a piece of dumb, fluffy entertainment. Its director, Noyce, carves something out of the core ideas that's watchable and feels somehow superior to most in its genre. There is a desire to follow in the footsteps of the previous effort in trying to construct this broad canvas upon which every-which side is depicted in this global struggle against the terrorist threat, but it just doesn't come off like it did before. The success ranges from that of the moderately engaging depiction of police officers back in Britain striving to find domestic IRA members to just plain pointless, as a member of the Royal Family tries to work his schedule around potential terror attacks. While in desperate need of a final act re-write and disappointing in its boiling down to a one-on-one Thunderball-esque boat chase, its biggest crime remains its inferiority to Hunt. The film is not without a certain energy and we invest rather a lot into it, it just doesn't have the dynamism nor guile its predecessor had. "},{"Title":"Solid if slightly workmanlike thriller","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A solidly effective Tom Clancy thriller that sees reliable action-man Harrison Ford adopting the Jack Ryan mantle and going after a gang of IRA terrorists. PATRIOT GAMES might not have quite the verve and excitement of its sequel, CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, but it still provides plenty of decent thrills along the way.Things get off to a great start with a fantastic opening set-piece (sadly, the rest of the film never quite equals this moment) which ably sets the plot in motion. What follows is fairly predictable, but nonetheless engaging, as Ford finds himself and his family on a hit list. Sean Bean is the chief bad guy, and not quite as effectively nasty as he would be later in his career; put it down to inexperience maybe.The rest of the film is populated by familiar face after familiar face. You get the then-new actors (Polly Walker, Samuel L. Jackson) and the reliable old-timers (James Earl Jones, James Fox), and they all run through their scenes efficiently and with gusto.The only reason I didn't enjoy this quite as much as I thought I would is that so much of it is now familiar from more recent movies, particularly the climactic scenes. It all feels very ordinary and expected, never quite taking it to the next level; watch the superior sequel for that. "},{"Title":"Jimmy boy.....","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" His days as an intelligence agent behind him, former CIA analyst Jack Ryan has travelled to London to vacation with his wife and child. Meeting his family outside Buckingham Palace, Ryan is caught in the middle of a terrorist attack on Lord Holmes, a member of the Royal Family. Ryan helps to thwart Holmes' assailants and becomes a local hero. But Ryan's courageous act marks him as a target in the sights of the terrorist whose brother he killed. Now Ryan must return to action for the most vital assignment of his life to save his family......Oh yes, the film has flaws, the depiction of the Irish is as bad as 'Blown Away', everyone drinks Guiness, listens to Clannad and send Leprechauns as gifts, but this is Hollywood, so it can be forgiven.As for the rest of the movie, it's one of the most taut and intense thrillers of 1992, and furthermore, it's one of Fords last movies where his name guaranteed a hit (fugitive, CAPD, AFO after this), and it still proves he was a major draw.Why? Because Ryan is the Everyman, he's not superhuman, or an action hero, he's just a family man trying to protect his family.Bean is great as the villain, and this film bases it's main plot on family. Bean And Ford meet when Ford is trying to protect his, Ford kills his Brother, Bean goes after Fords, coming around in full circle.It's really well made, with some great support from a who's who of Hollywood. It's not as action packed as one would think, but it keeps you on the edge of your seat.And it has one of the best endings a film has. "},{"Title":"Loved Harrisoin in this","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an outstanding thriller, a movie I have always enjoyed watching since it came out. Apparently a number of people also did since a few sequels followed featuring the main character ex-CIA analyst Jack Ryan, played by Harrison Ford.Sean Bean was excellent as the revenge-obsessed villain, a member of a splinter group, as its labeled not really an IRA extremist, but one too out-of- control for any group. Ford is the man best able to stop him and the film is very interesting start-to-finish and smart enough not to overdo the violence. Suspenseful is probably the best word to describe the movie as Bean goes after Ford's family.Anne Archer, as Ford's wife, along with the rest of the cast, actors such as Patrick Bergen, James Earl Jones, James Fox, Richard Harris and a young Thora Birch make this a well- acted movie.This is simply one of the best thrillers I've ever seen and almost every scene is interesting. "},{"Title":"Like a Bollywood Hindi FILM","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This film started off well enough, ran half length huffing puffing and simply gave up.. The climax is startlingly similar to a typical mas-ala Hindi film(Indian)..the hero never dies after thousands of bullets are fired at him, while baddies die even with fluke shots..How artificial can it get..Wait till the end when guns and bullets give place to fisticuffs and sticks and rods,,almost a throw back to stone age.. Is this really a Tom Clancy novel..the same as Hunt for Red October? A bad film to see Harrison ford in..the child artist is wonderful but then that is all there is to it! The CIA and IRA surroundings also look clichéd and artificial..somehow no professional touch in Direction.. "},{"Title":"It has it's moments","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie has very few things that stand out from other movies of its type. In structure, it has nothing a man is forced into defeating terrorists to save his family. The man is Harrison Ford playing the same role he does often, the unwilling hero who must negotiate evil to protect his family and ultimately the world. Being that it's a Tom Clancy story, it involves a lot of helicopters.It's worth watching though for maybe a few subtleties. For one thing, the quicker exposition of the plight of the family and how it isn't really overplayed or over-dramatized. In theory, this film could almost be a little more realistic than the usual snazzy explosion-thriller. Also it has one of those slam-bang endings that is actually pretty exciting. Thus, it has just enough stuff in it to keep it interesting and watchable, though it's extremely forgettable and rather uninteresting.For me the only thing that ended up piqueing my interest is seeing Thora Birch being her usual sarcastic self at such a young age. Whodathought that someone's personality would also go through their acting careers at completely different stages of life? --PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"Patriot Games","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A little bothered by the scene on the boat at the end of the movie. The anchor ends up embedded in the hull of the boat but the terrorist ends up impaled on the anchor. My experience with boat anchors is that it has one set of flukes - so how do the flukes end up in two places???? Am I missing something here??? Overall, a good movie. Saw it for first time on 01/02/05. Was unaware it was part of series. Where was their house??? Is this based on actual events??? Was there any backlash directed at Harrison Ford or any of the other characters from the IRA or any other Irish groups for their depiction as terrorists?? Is there a follow up planned for this movie?? "},{"Title":"I screwed up by reading the book first","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I think if I had seen the movie first, I might have liked it better than I did, comparing it the whole time. Then again, some of my friends who hadn't read the book didn't understand a lot of it.A lot of explanations for why things happened were left out of the movie, so that even I, who knew why they'd (SPOILER) bugged the book shop, was left asking Why? Characters were left underdeveloped, or were purposely shortchanged. (SPOILER, again) One of the big themes in the book was that Jack didn't ilike/i killing, and didn't iwant/i to. So what does he do at the end? Impales the bad guy on an anchor. They sacrificed a lot of good, smart story for some action that wasn't worth the sacrifice. The book was a smart read that made you think, and had enough action to be exciting. The movie was simply action, and it wasn't that you had to think, it was just confusing. Now, after I've bashed the movie, I'd like to say it wasn't ithat/i bad, just horrible icompared to the book./i Harrison Ford redeemed the movie enough to make it worthwhile.Absolutely unrelated and not important For all Sea Quest Fans, if there are any left The one scientist with the glasses, the geeky guy, was here, too, playing a geeky guy with glasses who helped Jack with the satelite shots. "},{"Title":"All right, but not as good as the novel.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  First off let me say I loved Patriot Games the book it was simply spellbinding. But the movie I didn't like as much. I feel everything was happening too fast in the movie. Right after you got through one major event it seemed another one happened. Some good effects and good acting made up for that. Overall I'd have to say it was a pretty good adaptation of the novel not the best but, all right. "},{"Title":"How About a Little Common Sense?","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I really like Harrison Ford.  His boyish smile and his pained workmanship approach to life in his movies is really enjoyable.  I thought his character was fine in this movie except the writers had him doing ridiculous, almost comedic, things to get himself into trouble.  We have this bunch of Irish terrorists, one of whom has gone off his hinges because of the loss of a brother, going bananas in his obsession with killing and punishing Ford's character.  So, knowing this, what do we do.  Oh, I know.  Let's go to the most deserted, unprotected place.  Let's take along the political figure the crazies are after, and leave them unprotected.  It doesn't matter that the wife and daughter have nearly been killed.  Let's stick them out there in as much harm's way as possible.  There is a lot to recommend this movie as far as atmosphere and a presentation of the zealots that create the situation. But, what do you know, Hollywood has to once again make them superhuman, virtually impenetrable, with the tenacity of the shark in Jaws.  This could have been a finely crafted thriller.  The situation is set up wonderfully. The terror is there.  Isn't it enough to be looking over the shoulder at every move.  It ends up being another Indiana Jones conclusion, incredibly contrived, and totally unbelievable.  I wanted to like this because I like Harrison Ford and Tom Clancy.  It could have been so much more, if the script didn't fall back on every formula imaginable. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as Hunt for Red October.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've always seen Jack Ryan as a revisionist Bond, what Ian Fleming would have written had he been ... well ..  more American and less campy.Ryan is a patriot and family, and to that extent Harrison Ford does the character credit.  However, something felt lost in the transition. Obviously Paramount thought Ford would draw a larger box office, and Ford does have more screen presence than Baldwin.  However, while Jack Ryan was a little naive, eager, intelligent and sarcastic in Hunt for Red October, Ford just seems to be monotonously brooding throughout most of Patriot Games.Granted, Clancy's book needed some major rework before transitioning to film.  Donald Stewart adapted the novel wonderfully until the last 5 minutes.  Perhaps my expectations were a little too high, but a fist fight on a power boat in the middle of Chesapeake Bay is a little hackneyed.Overall, the film is still good, definitely outranking the calibre of traditional Hollywood explosion-thons.  Patriot Games will actually engage you in an engrossing story.  I just wish Baldwin and director John McTiernan had agreed to return.  Phillip Noyce just does not understand pacing or continuity. "},{"Title":"Not necessarily bad","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the novel, but apparently it wouldn't make much of a difference; Clancy wanted nothing to do with this after reading the first draft. This is perhaps not really a movie based on a book of his, rather more of a Ford one loosely based on an original piece of writing. That doesn't have to be a negative aspect. It's put together just fine. The plot is emotional and straightforward, especially(although not only) compared to The Hunt for Red October. The pacing is reasonable, it's not downright boring. The dialog is plain and unmemorable, if not poor. The acting is sufficient. The characters aren't particularly layered, and one or two could be cut with seemingly no impact on the overall thing. Has Sam Jackson ever seemed so insignificant, before or since? This tries harder to appeal to the masses, mainly by implying sex and being crass. The violence isn't that strong. The language, however, is harsher and in greater amount than its predecessor, with no justification. The action is relatively plentiful(albeit not enough for this to go entirely work as that, nor can it be called an all-out political thriller... they should have picked a direction and stuck with it, in my opinion) in this, and it's well-done and entertaining. I recommend this to those looking for lighter fare than the preceding entry in the series, and fans of Harrison. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Fairly Good Movie Despite Its Silly beginning","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A retired CIA operative takes his family on a relaxing vacation to London England and hey presto, he finds himself in exactly the right place at exactly the right time to thwart an IRA attempt to kidnap a member of the British royal family. Yeah right, a totally believable story line - NOT! The odds must be in the billions. A film like Die Hard can get away with this sort of nonsense because it is a semi tongue-in-cheek action movie; Patriot Games takes itself far too seriously for it to get away with such a ridiculous plot contrivance. Clear and Present Danger had a far better script because Jack Ryan was propelled into the thick of things due to his being an active field operative "},{"Title":"Gimme a break!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Does anyone remember the scene where the IRA busted their fellow terrorist out of the back of that police truck? Well here's my question.Why on earth would the police have been transporting a dangerous criminal who tried to kill members of the royal family in front of Buckinham Palace.....UNARMED. The police had no weapons. Not even a can of mace.I still remember that line. The terrorists says throw down your weapons and the cop goes we are unarmed.Uh, yeah. Chalk one up for British security. "},{"Title":"Having a star actor detracts from the story","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the first half of this film but if I hadn't read the book before watching this film I'd have been disappointed that the last half hour seems to consist of a bunch of people aimlessly banging about in a dark house. This was truly awful to watch.Having read the book, the fact that every scene seems to have been written around Harrison Ford is very irritating. Tasks accomplished by teams of people in both the book and in real life are solely done by Jack Ryan. An important character in the book but not the only one.Having said that, Harrison Ford does as good a job as anyone could have in portraying Jack Ryan. The actress playing his young daughter is wonderful but the wife character doesn't ring true somehow. "},{"Title":"Better than the films before and after it","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Occasionally involving follow-up to 'The Hunt for Red October', with Harrison Ford taking over from Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan, an ex-CIA analyst who, while on holiday in London, shoots the brother of IRA terrorist Sean Bean. Bean wants revenge and terrorises Ford's family once they've returned to the States. The IRA issue is a pretty dodgy hook on which to hang what really is a run of the mill thriller, and the movie scuppers itself with its ham- fisted politics. Apparently Bean is a member of 'an ultra-violent faction of the IRA', as opposed to those nice gentle factions we normally hear about, I suppose. Anyway, James Horner's score is very good and there are a few decent bits and pieces scattered about, but this is a soulless film with rickety pacing and an irritating performance from Thora Birch as Ford's kid. A handful of effective scenes do not a thriller make. "}{"Title":"Oh Dear.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" (SPOILERS ahead)I'm a big fan of Harrison Ford and Tom Clancy and the Jack Ryan character, but this just doesn't work. It's certainly a slick and well-made film & I can see it's well thought of in America, but from our (British) perspective, it's laughable. Firstly, the idea of a member of the royal family (Lord Holmes the Queen Mum's cousin)holding a government position is completely ridiculous, it simply would never happen. As for his lordship handing out a knighthood over tea and cookies at Dr Ryan's house? Get real! The cruelty and violence of Sean Bean's IRA gang IS realistic, but the northern Irish accents are so dreadful I'm sure many viewers from the province will actually be offended. I dunno why it is but whenever Hollywood makes a movie about the troubles they always have to make a distinction between the nasty IRA men and the nice IRA men. Jackal was just the same. Some people may remember Richard Gere proudly announcing I was never a bomber! The Richard Harris character is just as daft. The only thing worth noting about patriot Games is that the character of Lord Holmes is played by JAMES Fox & not his older brother Edward. Considering there's several years between them it really is incredible how alike they are. All in all, this film is rubbish. Clear And present Danger is MUCH better. "},{"Title":"A fair flick","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I see that others have ripped the film apart. I have not read the book so cannot compare it to the film as others have done. Much has been said about depicting an IRA member as reasonable and/or sophisticated (Richard Harris's Paddy O'Neil). I believe that there are members of the IRA who have actually graduated from a University and to depict the entire organization as uneducated dolts would be erroneous. The film is a good yarn - Clancy always writes a good story. The execution of the film could have been better, but isn't too bad. Overall, I enjoyed the film, but others who live with the violence wrought by hatred obviously didn't. I feel for them. I pray that this sort of violence will stop but it doesn't appear that it will anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Great book by Clancy. Okay movie.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"   Before you judge what I say by saying I didn't like the movie that much because I read the book first...YOU'RE WRONG! I saw the movie first, was a bit let down, expecting more, and then read the book. My problem with the movie was that it was a bit too slow and boring. Don't get me wrong, I like the movie, just not a favorite of mine. Clear and Present Danger I did like better, however I still like this one too. Read the book. It's really good. I'm reading Sum of all Fears right now. Seems better than Patriot Games so far. I was dissapointed in the movie at first when I heard Ben Affleck was playing Jack Ryan, however, I haven't seen the film, and heard he lives up to Ford. Anybody could beat Alec Baldwin's performance in The hunt for Red October though. So when it comes down to it, Patriot Games works, but it's not neccesarily as great as I was hoping. Great performance by Harrison Ford made it work better though! 3/5 stars-moviecritic2003 "},{"Title":"Run of the mill","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A fairly ordinary film. There's nothing much remarkable about it, except for the bizarre way the Irish and British are portrayed (almost amusing at times - for example how a member of the Royal family is also the Northern Ireland minister!!). There is a lot of action, and Ford has always been good at that stuff. However, the real stars are Sean Bean and Richard Harris, who rise above the poor script - also true for the ever-excellent James Earl Jones. "},{"Title":"Off kilter a bit","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I like 'Patriot Games' but compared to 'The Hunt for Red October', 'Clear and Present Danger', and 'The Sum of All Fears', this Tom Clancy story is sort of elementary and doesn't have the complexity of the others. The terrorist angle seems more realistic given the state of the world after 9/11 but I still didn't like how standard the climax and resolution were.To get a clearer picture of what I'm saying, try and compare it to 1989's 'Licence to Kill', a James Bond film that doesn't feel like a Bond film at all. Just a standard action film missing all of the elements of something audiences expect and having the black sheep factor coming in to play that distances us from the other entries. "},{"Title":"unrealistic scenes and ...good/bad story","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is an average action-thriller movie about an IRA freedom-fighter who wants to take revenge for his brother's death. An ex-CIA guy interferes in a killing affair in London and becomes the target of Miller's fury.... Here again..the CIA and Ford represent the good guys and the IRA and Miller are vicious, bloodthirsty family-killers...and of course Ford does what he does in the movie to protect his family.Miller's angry, hateful and revengeful character is well reflected. Ford also impersonated the calm family man successfuly.  However, unrealistic scenes, like car bombings on the bridge, Ford's wife's and child's escape from death, and the last chase scenes seem exaggerations (not to mention the targeting of terrorist camps in libya)...with some unnecessary propaganda, the movie loses significant value. Overall...5.5/10 "},{"Title":"i found it pretty boring and slow,for the most part","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" i won't say this is a horrible film,because it isn't.i just found it boring for the most part.there are a few tense moments,and there is a bit of action.this movie is more of a drama than anything,in my mind.it's a Jack Ryan movie,with Harrison Ford playing Ryan.it's based on the novel by Tom Clancy.the acting is good,and the characters are okay,just don't expect too much character development in this one.anyway,for whatever reason,i just didn't find this movie very compelling.i don't think it translated too well from the page to the screen.it will be quite awhile before i watch it again.i have seen a lot worse,but i've also seen a lot better.my vote for Patriot Games5/10 "},{"Title":"CIA family man against terrorists - typical jingoist plot","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  My least favorite movie of 1992's summer. A former CIA agent kills a member of a (supposedly Maoist) splinter group of the Irish Republican Army. In this ficticious portrayal the IRA and its supposed splinter group are both clearly off the deep end.  The killing spurs an irrational revenge plot of the group, and a chance to glorify the perfect family-man CIA agent played by Harrison Ford. In the post-Cold War, one of the leading spy movies about personal vendettas and family, as if imperialism didn't need murderous agents of the old school anymore. "},{"Title":"A hilarious ridicule of a mediocre book","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Well, there are very few redeeming qualities for this movie. Harrison Ford delivers what is probably the worst acting of his career, both verbally and physically. His athletic gracefulness, so well displayed in Star Wars and Raiders of the Lost Ark, is nowhere to be found here. He moves like an awkward middle aged desk worker. And his speech, so rough and blue collar sounding, what a change from his earlier films, where he sounded so articulate despite his lower class roles. Ann Archer, who plays his wife, is even more pathetic as an eye surgeon (which she portrays most unconvincingly, the average viewer would have a hard time seeing her as even a nurse), reprising her role in Fatal Attraction as the victimized housewife, she even says Get them Jack, do whatever it takes. I was laughing uncontrollably at that one. Thora Birch plays the bratty little daughter, almost a duplicate of Ford's daughter in Regarding Henry (In many ways, this silly film resembles that one). James Earl Jones plays the annoyingly bureucratic CIA chief, and JE Freeman plays his incompetent flunky.The european cast is indeed much more lively and serious, but even they can't help this excessively long film. Richard Harris, Sean Bean, Patrick Bergin, and Polly Walker are fine actors, but their Irish accents are so phony sounding that the viewer has to wonder whats wrong with these people (especially since Harris was born in Ireland, and Bergin is Irish himself!!!!!!) The climax of farcicality is the SAS assassination raid on the Irish Terrorist camp in north africa, with the CIA watching through a satellite camera link!!!!!! (what dellusional story writer thought that one up???? If it was Clancy, he should be flogged) All in all, this film was a major disappointment for many, but with the cast and story, it wasn't hard to predict this disaster. "},{"Title":"Perverse fascination","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie makes part of my collection, and I watch it now and then. Probably for the wrong reason. Basically it is a modern Western. Good guy can't stand bad guys doing bad things and steps in to put things right. He has a family to protect and the family is threatened. This gives him extra inspiration for his violent defensive actions. Nothing entirely new under the sun.It is mainly the family aspect that makes me gape at Patriot Games again and again. Or more exactly It's the house the family lives in. I have seldom seen a place that looks more uncomfortable, inside but particularly from the exterior. I am not sure if this was intentional but somehow it reflects the awkward, painfully strained TV-commercial domesticity of the Ryan family perfectly. Like the house, Mr Ryan unnecessarily and inelegantly exposes himself to the extended forces of nature which, in his case, come in the form of mad terrorists. No sign of daily domestic routine can be spotted anywhere in that house. One of the most grotesque scenes shows mother and little daughter both deeply wrapped in coats and shawls sitting on a swing never meant to swing people on a porch never meant for a sojourn longer than two minutes. They are strangely lost folks, the Ryans and I just wonder what that is supposed to mean (probably nothing at all, but once a film is let loose the fantasy of the viewer runs wild). As the lack of warmth is evident in this beautifully filmed movie (even the final fire on the boat seems to be greenish rather than red), I soon started to wonder if the Ryan's place was built explicitly for Patriot Games or if real people normally live in that place. Well, I certainly wouldn't envy them. "}{"Title":"Very good action thriller","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In Patriot Games, the always reliable Harrison Ford stars as reluctant action hero Jack Ryan in Phillip Noyce's adaptation of Tom Clancy's Patriot Games. Good suspenseful action sequences always entertain, though the climatic boat chase isn't as impressive as it should be because it was filmed at night. Sean Bean is convincing and suprisingly sympathetic as IRA freedom fighter Sean Miller who lets his yearnings for revenge lead him astray from his cause. The talented James Earl Jones and Richard Harris are woefully underutilized though that's understandable considering this film is primarily a confrontation between Ford's Ryan and Bean's Miller. Solid if unspectacular, 7/10.  "},{"Title":"The American Cinema's Irish Baddies !","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Before the 1998 Belfast agreement, and the announcing of the PIRA army council of ending its army campaign in 2005, Hollywood used many clichés about the PIRA (The Provisional Irish Republican Army) and made them so prevalent. Aside from The Devil's Own (1997), the commercial American movies during almost the whole 1990s used to present the IRA men as the same unmerciful, nearly crazy, assassins. They love to blow up everything and everyone. And their best are the ones whom went to America and stayed there as peaceful citizens ! Although in Blown Away (1994) they showed the Irish man as that maniac who is rejected by the PIRA itself, finding a warrant for him to be evil with the lead, and turning the whole matter into just another revenge story of another brilliant bomber. BUT, still you've got to ask yourself why relating him to the PIRA in the first place ?! It's not why the Irish is always baddie ? It's rather why the Irish baddie must be a PIRA ?!!It leads us to the question  what's the hidden intention ? Though, sometimes there is no intention but to entertain, yet with different evil every time. Sometimes there is not enough acquaintance with the character (or its case). And sometimes there is a deliberate intention which uses cinema to display a certain negative point of view.So, according to Hollywood's many similar experiences towards many nations, would we go mad over this ignorance ?, this one-dimensional viewpoints ?, or just shut down our brain and enjoy the show ? Actually whatever the show is, we must define the shown point of view whatsoever, our opinion towards it, then enjoy the show.. if it deserves the enjoyment after! However, when you find that a lot of movies say the same thing all over, then it might be a public point of view, a common fear, a big misunderstanding, or a big companies' faith !(Patriot Games) is one of the big companies' productions. It's a thriller, action, and a piece of pure propaganda. The American lead is just the American hero; who's impeccable and super. The Irish man is surely the adversary; who's nerves mad killer. Just ask yourself what is the need to watch the capturing of the rest of the terrorists in the undeclared land of Libya as shadows in a small screen ?? It wasn't a hot action sequence as it could've been, or artistic take on that ! It is here only to show, or show off, the abilities of the CIA (that makes the movie an ultimate patriot game !). Actually I couldn't catch on the reason of the lead's so-called pain while that very scene ? Is he that idealistic who refuses violence in the world ? Or is it just his way of showing how he's excited out of the event and the high-tech that led to it ??! Anyway, apart from the fact that the next Jack Ryan movie (Clear and Present Danger) will take the thrill to a next level, being a smarter and deeper movie, it will be anti-propaganda as well; where the enemy is originally in, not out.(Phillip Noyce) is a fine director. He made a good time out of usual story. I'm not a fan of (Ford), but I love a line was said about him from one reviewer once when you need an action hero that can act, then call him. He adds a lovely truthful humanity to the character of the ideal American, which's always something rare to be found in his enemies ! (Sean Bean), acting as one of the Ulster Liberation Army (a Maoist breakaway offshoot of the PIRA), represented not the worst of what a PIRA man could be, but the worst of any man ! You can repulse that in every human kindred there are good and bad people. But simply the empty repetition of these clichés and stereotypes was ruining the Northern Ireland's case, soiling the long struggle for liberation, and stereotypes the Irish as only a terrorist ! Though, it's Hollywood ladies and gentlemen. Namely the cartoon thinking of bad guy/good guy. And they easily make their choice in that matter. "},{"Title":"PATRIOT GAMES","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  How many actionmovies do you have seen from which at the end you remember nothing? Tons of them, exactly, and if it wasn't for Harrison Ford you'd taken it for another stupid Steven Segal-movie! The whole script (based on Tom Clancy's book) is based on facts that are hard to believe (most hilarious is that Ford discover a woman one one of the many trainingcamps in North Africa because he see...sit down...tits taken on a satelittephoto!!!!). The story is very simple even if the movie is one big (useless) plot. Ford is an ex-CIA who is tourist in London and wonder by wonder....just by coincidence, he saves the life of some royal member who were attacked by some splintergroup from the IRA, and the whole picture is too much based on so called Hollywoodtheories about those terrorists that you wonder if they just never happen to see the bloody news..... But good, it's time for vengeance and terrorist Sean Miller decided to chase Ford as he killed his younger brother during the action of Ford. Just guess how it ends....... Is it a bad movie? Not really, the acting is fine....Ford in his usual style, Sean Bean playing a perfect role from maniac and Samuel L. Jackson. Just Anne Archer is nothing but screenfilling, she even looks terrible..... Some actionscenes (the slotscene with speedboats for instance) are superbly done but as a whole Patriot Games is Segalnonsenses with a Hollywoodbudget "},{"Title":"Dull and distasteful","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Second of the Jack Ryan films has little in common with its predecessor, THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER, save that it is virtually carried by the star power of its leading man (even with Ford phoning it in for most of the movie, although with such an undernourished script, who can blame him?). Riddled with plot holes, goofs and an overall air of will this do?, PATRIOT GAMES is a dull and somewhat distasteful affair. However, director Phillip Noyce kicked the Ryan franchise up several notches with the subsequent, and very impressive, CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER. "},{"Title":"Patriot Games","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is quite an interesting idea, basically someone ruins a plan and then he and his family are the new targets. When CIA cop Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) ruins an assassination, maybe intentionally, I'm not sure) he then becomes the new target. These people want to get his family involved as well. These nasty people are lead by Sean Miller (Sean Bean), and there is a really good fight scene near the end between him and Ryan. There are some pretty good chase sequences in the film, but I think it is Ford and Bean that make the film really good. Also starring Samuel L. Jackson as Lt. Cmdr. Robby Jackson, James Earl Jones as Adm. James Greer, Richard Harris as Paddy O'Neil and Bob Gunton as Interviewer. Good! "},{"Title":"Skip It","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Patriot Games, the second Tom Clancy novel brought to the screen is a poor adaption.  The book contained more action, didn't deal with the stereotypical action setpieces, and was more a tale of morals rather than cat-and-mouse.  Thinking is not one of this film's strong suits as everything is straightforward.  I really think Clear And Present Danger was better--if not the best--in the series.  If you like flicks with lots of talking, zero brain cells involved, and a very predictable endings than this is for you.  "},{"Title":" give this one a body swerve","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a disaster, from the offensive and surreal portrayal of the Irish people which the even worse book left off on, to Ford's long gone plausibility as anything resembling an action hero. Yes, this film has it all, leaden dialogue, bizarre plotline, sad stunts, miscast stars and a quite hilarious speedboat finale. Citizen Kane it's not. It goes without saying that it's another one of these films they insist on making 30 minutes too long.The only good things in the film were the redoubtable Richard Harris, his cameo as the hardened veteran Republican spokesman, however repelling, was superb and right on the money despite the best efforts of an awful script, and the Clannad parts of the soundtrack were really good particularly  when twinned in the Irish nightime killing scene.A few nice touches, but on the whole give this one a body swerve.  "},{"Title":"Director fell asleep during movie.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a sorry excuse of a movie.  I don't know where to begin.  It took me ten years to finally see this movie and was shocked to see it was filmed by a nutcase.  This guy edited the movie poorly, worked from a bad script... and relied on Harrison Ford for backup.  I assume they paid more attention to creating a thrilling movie that they forgot to pay attention to the script.This movie fails on all levels.  The two biggest errors was explaining what certain people were doing things and tying up loose ends.(Spoilers?)There's a scene in the used books store where we learn someone's been spying on the bookeeper.  I kept asking WHY???  Suddenly surprises me why are they there?  It never explains this.  And once this scene ends... we never see these strange spys again.  What happened to them?And then it builds up the two irish folks (not the true bad guy) up so they seem rather smart.  Why would they infuriate an obviously insane man? During the raid in Africa it never truely explained why they were there.  It never let us know how they seem to be fast flyers and in the end I can't believe I wasted $15 on this dvd.  Thank God Harrison has better movies than this.4/10Quality 0/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 0/10 "},{"Title":"Poor film that is only worthwhile for fans of Harrison.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Given the excellent writers and actors attached to this film, it is perhaps surprising that it turned out so poor. However, delving deeper reveals that it was directed by the dreaded Phillip Noyce, notorious throughout Australia as the worst director we have ever produced. Stay away from this film unless you are a die hard Harrison fan. "},{"Title":"A Worse than Average Thriller","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  At least I have the excuse that I used a Blockbuster bonus, and rented this movie for free... ...but I am still sorry for the almost two hours in my life that I spent watching it! I am not a Clancy fan, and I am not a Harrison Ford fan. However, I expected a better entertainment from this picture. After all, Clancy had some other books adapted to the big screen with decent results, and Ford played in 'Frenzy' by the time this film was made. What we get is a broken pace thriller, full of stereotypes, with no sex-appeal or gadgets to balance the platitude of the characters and the banality of the action. The bad guys are that bad, that even when one of the Irish IRA fund-raiser tries to be good, he actually does it by betraying his fellows. Harrison Ford's act is that wooden-like that he seems to have suffered of stomach problems while the whole movie was shot. The setting is professional, but simply un-interesting.Getting a 6/10 only thanks to some supporting good acting. If you rent the DVD for free as I did, look well around if there are no better choices to pick.   "}{"Title":"What a Bad Film","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Harrison Ford is dry and stiff as an actor in this film. Han Solo just can't cut it here. His over the top anger, his blank it's not my fault! emotion and even his raised finger to Richard Harris aren't enough to make him watchable or acceptable as Jack Ryan. Also Anne Archer comes off as a pompous snob. Thora Birch is cute as the daughter. The only good actors who do well here are James Earl Jones, and Alan Armstrong, and it was nice to see Shameless's Frank Gallagher (David Threfall). I don't know if Alec Baldwin and Gates McFadden would have been better, but I suspect so. Ford and Archer were purely names to help sell a film franchise. Sean Bean once again reprises his lunatic killer role and the film's plot makes about as much sense as his character does. Miller takes care of his compatriots just to take a shot at a fleeing Jack Ryan. A very poorly executed film that had a lot of potential and a ready following from the books. The action is watchable, and the satellite assassination was cool, but that's all you will get from this film, aside from a sore butt from watching the overly long ending. "},{"Title":"God awful book adaptation","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Why Tom Clancy even let them name this movie Patriot Games i don't know. Being a huge Tom Clancy fan, i've read the book several times over, and the only thing this movie has in common with the book is the names of the characters. Cathy Ryan is blonde, not a red head. along with other inconsistencies with the book. One day i'll figure out why author's let their works get butchered by the demons of Hollywood. A great novel destroyed. The only redeeming quality of this movie adaptation is that they found a good actor to play Jack Ryan. Don't waste your time on this movie if you have or haven't read the book at all. "},{"Title":"cheap","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" one of the cheapest propaganda films of Hollywood. simply rubbish. for the people who eats hamburger while watching such films and needless to say that not thinking, just looking without seeing. a small, cute girl with her pregnant mother, doctors, hospitals, terrorists in europa but immediately appearing somewhere asia, and surely a CIA hero. in addition, fighting in the rain. saves his country and family... sir CIA agent??? Hollywood probably is wood only! as much as ı see millons of people tired of such carbon copy waste propaganda movies but illuminati kind of organizations still pouring dollars while children in the world starving... for shame! "},{"Title":"Patriot Games - Sean Bean = waste of time","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  this film was so boring that i can't even remember half(more than half) of it.i could barely follow the plot with sexy Sean Bean as an IRA terrorist,and so after he was killed i stopped watching.i am a great fan of Sam Jackson and James Earl Jones,but i don't like Ford and Walker,so there's the balance.without Sean this would be a complete waste of time!anyway,i gave this film 2/10,and only because of Sean,for being so sexy! "}]