[{"Title":"Entertaining and suspenseful","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A wonderfully subdued and suspenseful film about a police deputy who takes on the identity of an apparent suicide victim, ostensibly to locate the victim's killer. Of course, in the process he gets more than he bargained for--or did he? Perhaps he was seeking an exciting and intriguing diversion from boredom all along.The story stretches the limits of believability throughout, yet this is easy to forgive and forget in light of magnificent performances by Willem Dafoe, Mickey Rourke and others, which draw you deep enough into the action that you'll soon forget none of this could ever happen. Rourke is the definition of cool as Gorman Lennox, a sleazy yet charismatic arms dealer. But it is Dafoe who turns in the best performance as an ordinary man who is compelled to put himself into an extraordinarily dangerous situation for reasons even he probably doesn't quite understand. I was thoroughly entertained just watching Dafoe's reaction every time circumstances threatened to blow his cover. All told, Deputy Ray Dolezal (Dafoe) is one of the most genuinely likeable characters I've seen on film.With a clever script, plenty of plot twists, outstanding performances and marvelous desert cinematography, White Sands is definitely a film worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The Good And Bad Of White Sands","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is another modern-day film-noir, featuring interesting characters played by a diverse cast. That cast is led by Willem Dafoe, who reminds me a lot of another noir actor, Dan Duryea.There is the usual corrupt government/military officials angle but the plot does have a few neat twists and is generally a non-nonsense kind of story. However, I did find the storyline a bit confusing, especially in the last half hour. On a second viewing, five years later, a few things cleared up but not a lot. I guess it will take looks to figure out everything, especially the very end.I'm not usually a fan of Elizabeth Mastrantonio, but I thought she was exceptional in here by far, the best and most interesting character. The movie has a nice soundtrack. Overall, the good outweighs the bad and the somewhat confusing story helps draw me back for future viewings.Aside notes this must have been one of Samuel L. Jackson's first films because he was listed as Sam Jackson in the closing credits. Unbilled were three always-interesting actors Fred Thompson, Mimi Rogers and Jack P. Ryan. "},{"Title":"Complicated but good southwest murder mystery","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A New Mexico state sheriff assumes the identity of a dead man he finds in the desert and sets out to solve the crime all by himself. Willem Dafoe is the lawman who bites off more than he can chew and stumbles from one situation to another, all with bad guys and mysterious women who want the money he found in the desert with the man who was killed. The plot is not easy to follow and is populated with heavies and shadowy figures but somehow the film maintains interest throughout. The supporting cast is very good, with Samuel L. Jackson, Mickey Rourke, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio and M. Emmet Walsh heading the list, and Dafoe and Mastrantonio have a nice shower scene together. Senator Fred Dalton Thompson is also good in a brief appearance. Partick O'Hearn contributes a nice music score. "},{"Title":"Overplotted but stylish.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This interesting cop thriller has a convoluted plot that gets a bit out of hand in the second half, with improbable, needless twists added only to provoke a surprised response on the audience's part (consider, for example, Mickey Rourke's true identity), but it has been stylishly directed by Roger Donaldson (who has already shown his competence with the first-rate No Way Out) and acted with restraint by the three leads; Rourke is particularly magnetic. Samuel Jackson also has an amusing supporting role.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Of course you have to suspend your disbelief...","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In order for a movie to hold our attention by presenting interesting and exciting events that exceed what might happen in our normally more mundane lives, we have to suspend our natural critical view that, 'things wouldn't happen that way in real life...'. 'It's a movie', so we cut it some slack and accept things that on the whole, might be somewhat unlikely.Right at the outset White Sands demands a great deal from our reserves of suspended disbelief, and this is because a small hick town sheriff, who turns out to be a very thorough and exacting crime scene detective, responds to the discovery in his jurisdiction, of an apparent suicide victim who has a briefcase containing a huge amount of money, by becoming the sole self-appointed investigator. Then he discovers a lead, and with no backup what-so-ever he decides to take the whole briefcase full of money and set out in a convertible '65 Corvette no less, on a quest to find information about the deceased through pretending to be that person!As our good sheriff drives off and away from his beautiful wife, in his oddly chosen very valuable classic convertible sports car, all alone and with half a million bucks in unknown and unsecured evidence in a briefcase on the seat beside him, we know that he has no idea whom he might meet. What will such people think of this money-stuffed briefcase packing shill of the victim whom for all our sheriff knows, might know is in fact dead? We may well be excused for thinking, 'That wouldn't happen that way in real life'. Do ya think?With a lesser actor in the lead role we might be inclined to see if it isn't too late to get out of our seats and go back to the ticket booth and make a scene about a refund, or to make a phone call and see if the video store is still open, but it's Willem Dafoe and he does pretty darned well with the material.If our next thought, seeing this lone man set off on his quest with his unsecured briefcase of money, is something along the lines of, 'This can't be good...' then we are treated to the fulfilment of our forebodings. It does become much better though. If we forgive the movie's presumption to this point then we are treated to a somewhat less demanding remainder. To say any more would be to do a job of telling that the movie actually does much better than I can.There are several big names in the cast and they do a commendable job. The plot thickens, the characters develop and the viewer is never required to strain credulity to the degree demanded by that setup scenario. It's a generally satisfactory movie and if not in the league of the giants, you shouldn't regret viewing it.Present ratings are rather harsh for this drama but for my part I'd think it warrants a solid 7. "},{"Title":"Superb suspense film with one of the greatest actors alive","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mickey Rourke is truly one of America's finest actors.  He has been dismissed because of his irrational behavior, however, that takes nothing away from his talent and penetrable screen prescene.  White Sands has wonderful atmosphere, capturing the desert with splendid cinematograpy.  Willem Dafoe makes for an excellent protagonist to journey with through the maze that is the plot.  A bonus in watching White Sands now is the post-Jungle Fever but pre-Pulp Fiction Samuel L. Jackson.  He makes for a slimy antagonist.  All of this and M. Emmet Walsh, in an autopsy scene to die for, make for an enjoyable movie experience. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood because it makes no sense......","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Trying to figure out White Sands is like trying to put together a jigsaw puzzle with quite a few missing pieces. This overcomplicated movie challenges the viewer's understanding way too much, and eventually you will lose interest. It really is a shame because the cast gives their best effort with what is a severely disjointed script. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio and the blue Corvette are easy on the eyes, but it's not enough to maintain momentum, and the whole thing derails twenty minutes in and never recovers. True there are a few strong scenes, but a plethora of dead material is unfortunately connecting them. Not recommended. - MERK "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not memorable","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie started out promising. Ray ( William Dafoe ) investigates an apparent suicide in the middle of the desert of a man with a briefcase full of money . After following clues ( including one found out of someone's stomach ) Ray eventually finds himself in trouble with criminals and the F.B.I. But after the first 40-60 minutes, the movie loses interest and becomes dull and boring. Even with the supporting cast of Mickey Rourke and Samual L. Jackson, White Sands trails away from the initial interest of the start and becomes a cliched  everyone chasing after the money  flick. I would only recommend this film for fans of Dafoe or people with nothing to do on a Saturday afternoon.   4.5/10  "},{"Title":"Really good New Mexico Suspense!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie on the racks at video stores for years.  I have never been tempted to view it.  Since I saw it on Cinemax, I say that I like it. Willem DeFoe plays a cop who becomes wrapped up in this undercover scheme involving half a million dollars.  He pretends like he is this man who was found dead in the desert.  The great thing about this movie is that it takes turn after turn and twist after twist.  All the characters, played by Sam Jackson (a great actor) and Mickey Rork are not who you really think they are.  The scenary is great to.  The entire film was shot in New Mexico. Scenes of Taos and Santa Fe are plentiful.  This is a must see movie for Willem Defoe fans.  I rate this movie a hefty 7 out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Cult movie waiting to happen","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie and it is an excellent rental option when you are undecided on what to get in your favorite movie rental service/place. Very good plot, the dialogs are great and the ending is definitely not predictable. Rourke was in his downhill after a flash rise to fame due to 9 1/2 weeks (if you are an 80s guy like me, you know what I mean), but he still gives a good performance and one of his lines was just the best of the whole movie. Samuel Jackson was solid and Dafoe balanced as always. As a bonus the sexiest performance of Mastrantonio in her career. The movie has ups and downs and does not keep you nailed to your chair, but that is the story telling style of the director and I am cool with it. "}{"Title":"You gotta get out of your comfort zone!","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most action packed movies ever. Great cast, great plot, great storyline to boot. White Sandsis awesome. And it's a blast. Here you have a small town sheriff (Willem Dafoe) who uncovers a big mystery. An undercover FBI Agent, and suitcase with half a million dollars. That to him is a big break from the small town life. He goes out to the motel where the victim was staying at. Gets more information, decides to fill in the role of the dead-man, and find himself way over his head. He later meets fellow agent Meeker(Samuel L. Jackson), CIA Lennox(Mickey Rourke) , and Lane Bodine (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), a woman of means join in on the fun. The question is simple, Who to trust? Well, we know it's not Lennox. He's violently murderous. He had the two internal affairs men killed in the desert. And Meeker is no good. He is bound by greed. Big money equals big ego. If I was a Fed, I would stave off temptations. Only Lane was the one he could trust. During the shower scene, she was the one who could return Dolezal back to his regular life. But when convince him that she's very helpful, he had to live it up! And does he ever. Lane's persuasive actions makes Dolezal more intrigued than ever. For the record, Meeker's greed got the best of him. That made him the dirtiest FBI Agent ever. For the sheriff deputy, I think he had enough fun in his life. As long as he doesn't mention this whole scenario with his family. Awesome, totally awesome, what more can I say? 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"One Man's Cure For Boredom","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" White Sands is a stylish thriller with numerous twists and turns and a collection of characters who frequently aren't who they appear to be. It's also a great looking and atmospheric film with stunning scenery and marvellous cinematography by Peter Menzies Jnr. The story begins as an investigation into a mystery which could involve murder and then develops into the uncovering of a great deal of corruption and even a conspiracy which may be politically motivated.When a dead body's found in the desert and Deputy Sheriff Ray Dolezal (Willem Dafoe) goes out to investigate, he isn't sure whether the dead man, who had a gun in his hand and a suitcase with $500,000 in it, had committed suicide or been murdered. Dolezal discovers that the man's name was Bob Spenser and then decides to pose as Spenser in order to continue his investigations. Dolezal rings a telephone number found on a piece of paper in Spenser's stomach during the autopsy and this leads to him arranging a meeting at a motel where he gets attacked and robbed of the money in the suitcase. The two women who attacked him then give him instructions to get in touch with Gorman Lennox (Mickey Rourke).Before he contacts Lennox, Dolezal gets abducted by an FBI agent called Greg Meeker (Samuel L Jackson) who explains that Spenser was working for him and agrees that Dolezal should carry on posing as Spenser in order to try to recover the lost money.After meeting with Lennox and his associate, Lane Bodine (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), Dolezal finds himself embroiled in a deal to buy some illegal weapons from a couple of dealers who unexpectedly demand a further $250,000 to complete the sale. Meeker is unwilling to provide the extra money and so Dolezal gets romantically involved with the wealthy and well connected Bodine as a means of getting her to raise the extra money.Further complications arise when two FBI officers from Internal Affairs pursue Dolezal because they think that he killed Spenser and stole the money and also one of Spenser's girlfriends provides Dolezal with some potentially helpful information. Furthermore, when he realises that he's become involved in an even wider conspiracy involving the CIA, he then takes an unconventional course of action which leads to what he regards as a satisfactory conclusion.This movie features a cast of top quality actors whose excellent performances are vital to its success and the pace of the action is great, especially considering the plot's many complications and unexpected developments. Ultimately, it's an extremely enjoyable and absorbing tale of a man whose boredom with his mundane life leads him to take the opportunity for some excitement by taking on a case where he soon finds that he's completely out of his depth. "},{"Title":"Brilliant modern noir, career best for rourke","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At the time this was released, no-one knew who Sam Jackson was, but now his presence gives the film the balance needed. We know Jackson. We know the kind of mean sh*t that goes down. Dafoe is the sheriff who gets involved in Jackson's plot to catch baddie arms dealer Rourke. Dafoe has to pretend to be a dead man (Rourke doesn't know about the death). The two become friendly as Dafoe is slowly sucked into his world. The last 30 minutes is possibly the most exciting stuff I've seen, filmed in the 'White Sands' of the desert, jackson running for his life with a briefcase containing money- or so he thinks. Rourke turns out to be a CIA operative, which was a little bit unnecessary, and Dafoe perhaps is too smug in his capture of Jackson- but it all adds to the fun. Look out for a young Mimi Rogers and a very young Maura Tierney, who doesn't last long when the bad guy gets wind she's in the area. Those looking for a link between Rourke's pretty boy 80s persona and his current battered hardman image will find it here. Don't know why he decided to give it all up after this, it's exceptional. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard,but still works","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had no intention of watching this film,I just had nothing better to do.However,it's worth a watch.There are faults,as there are with most films,but the film is worthy of praise.Willem Dafoe as the small time cop caught up in the mess is a great choice for such a versatile actor.With strong support from the ever-reliable Samuel L.Jackson and the controversial Mickey Rourke.The film works well,it just tries too hard to captivate the audience.Still,I am only one person,I still say this should be watched Enjoy The Film Sean "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (spoilers)I bought the score for this film in December 1996 at an Only Deals store.  for about 50 cents.  It took me 7 1/2 years to finally watch the movie.  I love the score.  The movie wasn't bad though.  It required some brain activity to watch.  Mickey Rourke playing a bad guy.  But he seemed to have a consience.  I liked it.  Too bad I didn't watch it in 1992 when it came out7/10 Quality 5/10 Entertainment 8/10 Replayable 6/10 "},{"Title":"Decent pulpy fun elevated by excellent cast","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Roger Donaldson's White Sands is a nice, picturesque piece of early 90's noir escapism. It's set in the vast expanse of the white gypsum deserts of New Mexico, where it gets its title from. The film makes use of numerous chopper shots to illustrate the landscape nicely, set to an appropriately synthy, ambient score. Willem Dafoe, in a rare lead role, is excellent as small town sheriff Ray Dolezal, who stumbles upon a murdered FBI agent in the back end of nowhere, impulsively propelling him down a well of black market intrigue and dangerous circumstances. He unwisely poses as the fed, and gets himself way in over his head with the wrong kind of people. Mickey Rourke plays a high mannered, low life arms dealer with his usual brand of slick, Mach pizazz, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio uses her unmistakably sultry presence to great effect as a mysterious, sexy financial backer to their operation. Samuel L. Jackson struts his stuff before big screen fame as a conniving FBI big cheese, and the colourful supporting troupe include M. Emmett Walsh, Mimi Rogers, Maura Tierney, James Rebhorn, Miguel Sandoval, Fred Dalton Thompson and John P. Ryan. When the slightly over convoluted plot threatens to mire us in bewilderment, like the characters get mired in the white deserts of their own morally questionable actions, the solid work from the actors brings us back on track. Even when we don't know exactly what is going on and it's over complicated for complexities sake, we're still intrigued by the lone star, almost Cormac McCarthy like nature of the story, and the cast who are more than willing to commit. Dafoe soars when given the right material and he's on fire here, giving Dolezal a borderline reckless personality and thirst for exodus from the mundane deputy's life that he sells just by being present in every scene. Rourke plays up his bad boy persona with spectacularly coiffed hair and a belligerent, laid back violent streak. It's got a lonely, desolate air to it, perfect for a contemplative yet not too heavy thinking night of cinema. "},{"Title":"Honest sheriff Willem Dafoe vs. corrupt FBI and CIA agents","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" White Sands (1992) is a well put together neo-noir suspense thriller that never lets down. The place is White Sands, New Mexico. This is where the first atomic bomb was tested on July 16, 1945 by the federal government, the first of many that released deadly radiation upon America. There is a connection between that, the title of this film and its plot. The plot pits an honest local sheriff, Willem Dafoe, against two different federal agencies, the FBI (mainly represented by Samuel Jackson) and the CIA (represented by loose cannon Mickey Rourke). Dafoe is the good guy and protagonist.Dafoe's troubles begin when a dead body turns up in his jurisdiction next to a briefcase with $500,000 cash. Dafoe insists on investigating. After all, that's his job. He uses the cash for bait, assuming the identity of the dead man. That leads him to Mickey Rourke, who is a partner in buying contraband weapons. Another intermediary is Elizabeth Mastrantonio. As if dealing with Rourke and Mastrantonio were not difficult enough when Rourke corrals the money, Jackson wants the money back, saying that it was FBI money. He blames Dafoe for its loss and insists he recover it or else.Dafoe is in the dark a good deal of the time, but he is very clever in using his wit to find out gradually what the truth of this money and the dead man are. Dafoe has a tough time dealing with both Rourke and Jackson. I found this movie thoroughly entertaining. The cast is very good. There's a very good mix of locations. The story has plenty of twists. The script is intelligent. "},{"Title":"All too easy! Although made better by the casting and cinematography.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story-line to the film is made all too easy by the way that Willem Defoe (not at his most believable) leads us into the intrigue in a way that leaves too many questions unanswered, primarily WHY! Its therefore hard to promote a film that leaves you so thoroughly unsatisfied after the first hour. Admittedly the introduction of Rourke, Mastriano and Samuel L Jackson (listed as 'uncool' Sam Jackson in the credits!) bring more cohesion into the film for the balance, but the screenplay of a good story is still spoiled by the 'blundering' opening.The upsides are the wonderful cinematography of the locations and the cleverly worked ending to leave you happy that you watched the film, although maybe unhappy that you actually own a copy on DVD! If you like the cast (although be wary of Defoe's role here) then watch it and see what you think! Personally it took too long to hook me and only really got me interested at the end. There's better out there. "},{"Title":"The quality cast and score make it worthwhile","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" White Sands (1992) is a crime/drama/thriller about a small town cop (Willem Dafoe) who masquerades as a man he mysteriously finds dead in the desert with half a million dollars. This gets him mixed up with a shady weapons-runner (Mickey Rourke) and a woman of means who is attracted to him (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio). The convoluted plot also includes a greedy FBI agent, played by Samuel L. Jackson, and many more (e.g. Maura Tierney).Although shot in and around the spectacular White Sands, New Mexico, (Estancia, Taos and Sante Fe), the film doesn't really take advantage of the locations. Another reviewer shared how the film is action-packed but this isn't really the case. There are a lot of soap-operatics as characters discuss things in restaurants, hotels, houses, rodeos, etc. There's SOME action -- mostly people getting shot -- but this is hardly an action-packed picture.What the film has going for it is a cool ambiance, a great cast, solid performances and an excellent soundtrack. Dafoe is a likable protagonist and Mastrantonio shines here, although I was never a fan; plus Jackson is formidable. But it's Mickey Rourke who steals the show. Being the early 90s, Rourke was still a young stud at 40 years of age. Since I'm only familiar with his films of the last 5-7 years, I wouldn't have even recognized him if I didn't know beforehand he was co-starring. In any event, Rourke is magnetic as the charismatic arms-runner.While not as good as Rourke's more recent Killshot -- an underrated thriller from 2008 -- White Sands is a professionally made film with enough good points to make it worth your time, if you like the cast.The film runs 101 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Quicksand in Their Hearts.","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this, some years ago, I thought it was a pretty good thriller but this time around I must have been more mature, more demanding, more suave and debonair. I thought it sucked.Not the opening, which seems bursting with promise -- a dead man and a satchel full of half a million dollars found in the arid wasteland of New Mexico, the autopsy and the release of the intestinal gas. And not the cast either -- I mean, Mickey Rourke, Willem DaFoe, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Maura Tierney, Samuel L. Jackson, and M. Emmet Walsh? Not to mention the redoubtable Fred Dalton Thompson.But they didn't bring it home, the films promise undercut by weaknesses in the script and the direction.The script. I was frankly confused. Oh, I knew DaFoe was a rural police officer who was adopting the identity of the dead man and taking his half million bananas in order to find the killers. But then he is swept up in some insane gun-running scheme in Santa Fe involving greedy and corrupt federal officers. Mastrantonio is there to provide a curiously attractive face with a smile that stretches from ear to ear. She is instantly attracted to DaFoe when she meets him, and she tells him so. Ten minutes later she is assaulting him in the shower. After a night together, she is deeply in love with him. Only in the movies. I would happily outline the story for you but I can't. If I got into it any more deeply than those few suggestions above, you wouldn't follow it. Or maybe you would, and it's my fault for suffering a few too many periods of microsleep during this viewing.The direction is pedestrian at best. Every other shot seems to be a close up, as if the production were designed for the television screen. And with the exception of the final scene that has Jackson running madly across the rolling, sugary dunes of White Sands National Monument with a suitcase full of sand, no effective use is made of the locations. The exterior of the La Fonda Hotel is real enough though, as is the hotel itself, one of the earliest in North America. It was established by the Statler chain in AD 495. Santa Fe is an artsy city with its own opera and other civilized amenities and deserves better display. I live in the poorest county in the state, but I can lie in the gutter and stare at the stars.It's too bad really, because the performances are as good as they are. Rourke is the perfect slime ball. Mastrantonio signals emotion with barely perceptible winces -- she's really okay. Samuel L. Jackson is full of indignation, authority, and irony.Yet here we are, with more than a million dollars worth of state-of-the-art arms destined for shipment to unidentified rebels, and it shows up for five minutes then disappears from the plot and the movie. "}{"Title":"More was to be expected from a movie with a premise and cast such as this one.","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Roger Donaldson always distinct itself by making mediocre films. Just think of movies like Cocktail, Species, Dante's Peak and the remakes of No Way Out and The Getaway. Now most of this movies showed some great potential but yet somehow Donaldson manages to not let this movie pass the mark of average. I really liked his movie Thirteen Days though, which was just great but this mostly was due to its compelling historic tense story. Even that movie shows great flaws in the directing. Even though he doesn't make that great movies he still makes well known wells, which also really is an accomplishment, I must admit.I'm afraid that this movie is also a typical example of a Roger Donaldson movie. The concept of the movie sounds just great and shows more than enough potential to create a tense and original thriller with, with perhaps even noir elements in it. And also just look at the cast, how could you go wrong with this? The movie is still a decent one but it leaves lots of potential unused. The movie is not really ever tense or mysterious, mostly because of the reason that the story always stays way too vague and overcomplicated with twists that don't always seem to make credible sense. In the end you just simply stop caring about the story and its characters.It's an amazing cast if you look at it. It features stars such as Willem Dafoe, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Mickey Rourke, M. Emmet Walsh, Miguel Sandoval, James Rebhorn and also actors who weren't big stars yet at the time such as Samuel L. Jackson and Maura Tierney. The actors all do their very best but at times they're obviously struggling with the confusing script and formulaic dialog. See it or don't. It's not a bad movie but it ain't a recommendable one either.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Murky Doings","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Roger Donaldson directed this undercover police thriller as small town southwest deputy sheriff Ray Dolezal(played by Willem Dafoe) finds a body in the desert with a suitcase full of cash, and no idea how or why it got there. Ray then goes to the extraordinary length of taking on the identity of the dead man in order to get to the bottom of the matter, and finds himself involved with rogue agents of the FBI(Samuel Jackson) & CIA(Mickey Rourke), and also involved with a beautiful woman philanthropist(played by Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), despite being happily married... Mediocre film has a good cast and director but an unconvincing and convoluted story that leaves the viewer unsatisfied. "},{"Title":"Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio in the mood for love","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this crime drama on a VHS player, in high&#x97;school&#x97;in '94, perhaps (--after I saw a photo from it in '93, in the Hungarian edition of a cinema magazine--); then, several times on TV. I must have seen it a few times. The most enjoyed was M E Mastrantonio's nude scene. She was a babe I knew as the maid Marian, Robin Hood's bride, and found her very beautiful. I was of course extremely disappointed by the supporting part given to Rourke&#x97;his role being my reason for searching and seeing this flick. WHITE SANDS is a movie about the drug traffic. Its best side is the cast&#x97;Dafoe, Mastrantonio, Rourke and the others &#x85;. Otherwise, Donaldson slapdash. This must also be the last movie where Rourke still had his youth features (--I never knew what to make of his surgical tale--). As a Rourke _completist, I had to see WHITE SANDS; and, as mentioned, did it several times. So, if you enjoy either Dafoe or Mastrantonio or Rourke or average crime dramas or are a Donaldson _completist, see it.Rourke is the actor with the most comebacks; I became a fan in '92, 17 yrs ago, and almost as soon as I became his fan I began hearing about his now countless comebacks. He came back like yearly. It started with White Sands (1992) (which came after what Rourke deemed as his most dishonoring movie, the funny and likable Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man; now if Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is a bad movie what will you tell about Wild Orchid, Fall Time, Double Team, Love in Paris, Point Blank&#x97;his truly nasty ones?); so first he came back with White Sands (1992); then, with F.T.W. (1994), Bullet (1996), Double Team (1997), The Rainmaker, Sin City &#x85;--he repeatedly came back to claim his place in Hollywood, weeping about his messed career, etc.. In '94 he claimed he was coming back&#x97;but he was still 14 yrs away from a true role. I knew each of his films from RAPE AND MARRIAGE to POINT BLANK (--except for 5 movies--), and from SHERGAR to PICTURE CLAIRE. "},{"Title":"Acting can't save mediocre screenplay","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story here reminds me a Michelangelo Antonioni's movie The Passenger with Jack Nicholson. That movie was a drama about reporter assuming the identity of dead arms dealer. Here we have a similar story with sheriff instead of reporter and a straight-forward thriller.The problem is with the not-so-bright screenplay by Daniel Pyne. Some of the twists here are simply dumb , while other come close to being simply unbelievable. The main twist is also easy to guess from the beginning , even for people with only half of brain. The plot is also kinda predictable at moments. The love story feels very forced , yet I don't mind because I saw breasts of Mastrantonio The best thing about White sands is acting. Willem Defoe (Platoon) plays here one of the most likable heroes I've seen. Mickey Rourke (Sin city) is great as the arms dealer. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (Robin Hood prince of thieves) is good and shows her breasts. It was also good to see Samuel L. Jackson (Pulp fiction) and veteran actor M. Emmet Walsh (Blade runner) in supporting roles. Overall , the acting is really good and the best thing in the whole movie that makes you forget about the weak screenplay.White sands has some really cool and interesting music by Patrick O Hearn. It's also quite nicely photographed by Peter Menzies Jr. Roger Donaldson is not bad director either here.White sands is worth watching mostly if you don't really have anything else to do. Otherwise look for something else. It's not terrible , but rather forgettable movie. I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Lone Cop In The Desert","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At least this film has some terrific desert scenery, especially at the beginning and at the end. But the spectacular New Mexico vistas are not nearly enough to overcome a garbled storyline about a good-guy cop named Ray Dolezal (Willem Dafoe) who investigates the death of a man clutching a suitcase full of loot. Implausibly, Dolezal then assumes the identity of the dead man, to track down the villain or villains. The plot contains several potential villains, but their real identities and their various motivations are terribly confusing. About halfway into the film, I gave up trying to figure out who was doing what to whom. None of the characters are especially interesting.The story also suffers from various standard film clichés tough guys who talk tough, characters who spend a lot of time pointing guns at each other; the obligatory nude shower scene, a gory autopsy, and so on. Another big problem here is the casting of Willem Dafoe. With his heavy-duty Northern accent, he is not at all convincing as a redneck sheriff.Lacking thematic depth or significant originality, White Sands is just another film about some cop who tries to solve a crime alone, and in the process encounters assorted characters and risks. The only thing that made the movie halfway interesting to me was the expansive New Mexico landscape. "},{"Title":"RIP Mickey Rourke","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If anyone wants to see Mickey's last serious movie (in which he was the lead... no cameo crap), you need to see this movie.  OK, I forgot Double Team... that was pretty serious...Dafoe and Rourke have some interesting exchanges, and Samuel Jackson is a riot... and its not every day you get to see a real US Senator blow up a tank with a bazookaBy the way, its not sand ... its gypsum, gypsum, gypsum... "},{"Title":"Awful suspense movie","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot is extremely lame even for a suspense movie. Viewers' high expectation easily turns into disappointment.Here is also one of Defoe's worst performances. Maybe he shouldn't have tried to smile and grin a la Rourke; or maybe the poor guy is just embarassed silly by the implausible and contrived story.Samuel Jackson, in his pre-Pulp-Fiction existence, suffers from a sad lack of screen presence. On the other hand, Rourke's charisma, if you choose to call his oily self that, proves to be indestructable. But why bother?4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Implausible","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If there was a movie that was totally implausible and simply asks too much for one's suspension of disbelief well, it's WHITE SANDS. The story, about a small town cop taking the identity of a dead man in order to figure out who the dead man is, is by far the least convincing story I've seen in a long time. The idea itself is good. It's basically the same storyline as the one in Hitchcock's NORTH BY NORTHWEST played straight. But unlike the Hitchcock film, this film suffers from the get go because one of major detail The main character, played by Dafoe, has no reason or motivation to go through all the pain and trouble of what the main character is made to go through. He's a total blank going from one incredulous situation (his relationship with Mastrantonio's silly character) to the next (Rourke's real identity), until the truly anti-climatic ending. 40 minutes into the movie and I was already drifting away from total disinterest. The acting is actually good. It's a shame that the rest of the movie is irremediably unconvincing.There's a reason why this movie is forgotten. It's just not good. "},{"Title":"Show , Don't Tell","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A man has apparently committed suicide in he New Mexico desert and beside his body is a bag containing $500,000 so local sheriff Ray Dolezal decides to keep the dead man's rendezvous to unravel the mystery A lot of people have complained about WHITE SANDS being implausiable , contrived or over plotted . My complaint is that it's really none of these things but suffers from a fundamental flaw we're warned about at basic screen writing course  Show , don't tell  . For much of the screen time the plot twists and turns well enough but ion the last 15 minutes we have to listen to characters state  I'm not how you think I am , I'm really ....  or we listen to characters give away the plot which means the climax is very much spoon fed to the audience which is something of a shame since while not being a truly great thriller WHITE SANDS deserves to be remembered more than it really is . I guess the dislodge heavy last act conspires to make this a very forgettable movie "},{"Title":"Concept concept concept","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pity the screenwriter who thinks high concept is merely about starting with an ending and working backwards.Pity this one in particular, saddled with a visual of a man running with a suitcase of white sand across white sands.Then pity any audience asked to watch what the screenwriter comes up with by way of a beginning and middle bit to precede the running man with the sand on the sand.(Might also be worth sparing a thought for what passes as local law enforcement in this movie, where the Deputy Sheriff vanishes without a word of explanation to his superiors -- and his superiors, even after several days, can't even arouse sufficient interest to find out where he's gone.)Puerile a fine example of how a back-of-the-envelope script pitch can turn, if not to sand, then certainly dust. "}{"Title":"Willem, Willem, Willem","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Poor Mr. Dafoe and his penchant for doing crap low-budget movies with incredible acting. In fact I go crazy when he does an actual decent movie because he finally gets the respect he deserves but this is not very often so I'm usually just shaking my head in disapproval. Like this for instance, all the actors/actresses delivered quite well but the plot was so shaky that it didn't add up to anything in the end. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio was incredible and reminded me once again why she can still nail a movie role here and there even though she's past her prime in Hollywood standards. Samuel Jackson's talents were wasted here along with Maura Tierney's and a few others. There's no real sense of having these big name celebrities if they're just going to be playing average roles. I did like how it worked out after all was said and done but the plot and script made no sense at times and the motivation wasn't there. Mickey Rourke was decent for his role and this was probably one of his last real works before he got all weird and slipped into drugs and depression. It's an okay watch but I guarantee you've already seen it done much better in actually good films that this took off of.Final WatchMovies Would've been an utter waste.DVD Purchase Do not want to see this again.Rental Possibly if you're serving a long sentence and have borrowed every other film from the prison library. "}]