[{"Title":"Severely under-rated prequel to one of the best TV series ever","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"163 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" By the time this film was released, critics and TV audiences had already decided its decidedly mediocre box-office fate. The usual network attitude toward anything which demands thought and interpretation assured the cancellation of the series in its second season, and Lynch's departure from the show's director's chair to begin this film project all but sealed the fate of the show. Unfortunately, this same fate determined both the critical and public approach to the film project. TPFWWM is a prequel to the two-season Twin Peaks saga, and (sort of) answers the question 'how and why did Laura Palmer die?'. Fans of the show mostly knew the answers before they saw this film, but to see Laura's life so vividly realized, and to see the TV characters cast into such a different, more harsh, surreal and disturbing light, really invigorates the entire TP phenomenon. FWWM actually inspired me to watch the entire series again (and as of 2004, I am in the process of watching it again). Fans of the series who found themselves disappointed by the final few episodes of the series because they felt it became too bizarre, are likely to find this film more gripping, though they will probably end up as unsatisfied as they were at the onset. Those who found the second season thrillingly experimental are likely to be surprised by the subtlety of and dramatic quality of this film. Those, like me, who approach the film with few tangible expectations might just find themselves, compelled, disturbed, and very entertained. The performances are generally very good, but not entirely even. Some TV cast-members, given the vastly expanded possibilities of cinema, really showed their range and depth. Sheryl Lee, MacLachlan, Dana Ashbrook, and Ray Wise were especially impressive. The cinematography is less powerful than the usual Lynchian vision (see Eraserhead, Lost Highway for extreme examples), and is more in keeping with the TV show's straightforward, but moody, photographic approach. The overall production values are, in fact, comparable to those of Mulholland Drive - also originally planned by Lynch as a TV show. Though more subtle than many of Lynch's more extravagant works, TPFWWM is very successfully manipulative and powerful. I ardently appreciate Lynch, considering him one of cinema and performance's greatest contemporary artists. And I am unashamed to state that I believe this to be among his finest works. Many of Lynch's fans love to write interpretations of Lynch himself, as if all of his films are in some way connected beyond the obvious fact that he directed (and more often than not scripted) them. I do not disagree with this approach, but, in my opinion, any such universalizing comments more or less miss the point. Lynch is one of many director's who view film as an art form, not as a craft, nor as a vehicle for specific messages and stories. As Lynch has stated, repeatedly, his films involve a dream-like reality and often attempt to invoke a dream or nightmare state in viewers. Unlike most, however, Lynch succeeds in the purity of his art. His films demand interpretation, engagement and, what's more, demand a different and unique interpretation by most who view them. If you are looking for something which can be universally interpreted from TPFWWM as part of this imagined set of Lynchian themes, I am not the reviewer to give it, look elsewhere. I have too much respect for Lynch's artistry to subject him to my own interpretive explanations. If you are looking for a simple story which will clear up the insanity of Twin Peaks, don't bother with FWWM. If you are looking, open-mindedly, for an intense, disturbing, and well constructed cinematic experience which creates more questions than it answers, and retains elements of mystery in a fatalistically driven plot environment, you've come to the right place. "},{"Title":"reflections on the film","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"69 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING  SPOILERS!!Well I've just gotten the FWWM DVD and am finally able to appreciate the film as it was intended to be seen and heard (or at least as close as possible outside of a theatre).  It's unbelievable, and after watching it a few times I was finally able to understand for myself what Lynch was doing here, and he's right;  intuition is the key;  just pay close attention to what you are seeing and your mind will intuit the rest.  In fact, understanding this film was a truly exciting thing for me.  What Lynch is actually doing here is thrilling.  As much as Lynch would (and myself as well, but...) hate to hear someone give what they consider a definitive explanation for the film, I thought I would give some ideas about some of the most interesting moments.  Any interpretation is viable, of course, but this is how I look at it.First, the prologue To understand the prologue one must understand something about the nature of the evil in this film.  I see the denizens of the Black Lodge as the physical embodiment of the subconscious.  That's what the Red Room is to me, the deepest levels of the subconscious, where there is an understanding going on that rational thought won't allow.  For example, Laura doesn't want to think that Bob is really her father, but deep down she knows (or comes to know in the film).  But Bob is really just the evil that men do, the darkest side of humanity, and he can be inside of anybody.  Since Bob is just a personification of this idea and doesn't literally exist, he really can't be caught, because eradicating Bob (and the other members of the Black Lodge) would be eradicating all the pain and suffering in this world, and that will never happen.In the prologue, Chet Desmond and Sam Stanley come across perhaps the most unhelpful town on the planet.  Much has been made of how this place is purposefully the opposite of Twin Peaks, but I don't think that's the point. The unhelpfulness is the result of the town knowing that no matter how many FBI agents are brought in, you can't get rid of what killed Theresa Banks; you can't get rid of violence.  They treat the two with disdain because they realize the fruitlessness of their search.  Lynch emphasizes the strict use of code (Lil) and constantly has characters asking what time it is to give an air of precision, but nothing gets accomplished.  The electricity reference is simply marking the presence of something bad in the area. So, a lot of investigation occurs with nothing being accomplished.  Theresa Banks is dead and will remain so.Perhaps the most obscure point in the film is the sequence with David Bowie. To make this short, Cooper's image freezes in the security camera because the members of the Black Lodge have stopped time for a second, also apparently causing a rip in whatever fabric divides this world and the Lodge.  This allows Jeffries to breifly crossover, apparently while the members of the Lodge are having a meeting.  This bizarre meeting with the grandson, Bob, etc.  is happening at the same time Jeffries appears in FBI headquarters.  He says it in voiceover  I've been to one of their meetings.  The meeting is to choose another victim.  The Man from Another Place is telling Bob to get more Garmonbozia (pain and suffering, which takes the form of creamed corn) for him.  With this ring, I thee wed, he says, talking about Laura.  Fell a victim, says the grandson, also talking about her.  The man in the chair with the beard makes a bizarre hand motion, as if saying and so it shall be done.  Bob and The Man from Another Place are shown walking through the Red Room, on their way out after the meeting, to go get Laura.  The meeting over, the rip closes, and Jeffries goes back to the Lodge.  Keep in mind however that none of this is really literal, although you have to talk about it that way in the context of the scene. It's the film's way of saying that something bad is happening again, someone else is going to be the victim of violence.  The monkey underneath the mask is sort of like a fetus, or like a birth.  They've given birth to this evil which will grow and grow and grow until Laura is murdered, and the garmonbozia is given to The Man from Another Place.  After this, the murderous thirst is quenched, and the monkey reappears, indicating that things are once again calm but will once again grow (this happens at the end of the film). And of course in the series, Madeline dies.Some quicker explanations  Laura talking to Harold, saying Fire Walk with Me, ME!!  is her talking about her temptation to degrade herself.  He says he wants to be me or he'll kill me.  This is Lynch telling us in an incredibly unique way that the abuse she's had from her father is turning into self abuse.The old lady and the grandson are like the gatekeepers of the Black Lodge, allowing one to enter and exit.  In the literal world, they are Laura's very first inclinations that Bob may be her father.  The picture is just saying that she needs to go into her subconscious to find the answer, which she does that night.  Don't take the ring, says Cooper (meaning don't be another victim; do something about your situation).  After Annie appears, Laura walks toward her door.  On the soundtrack you can hear her mom calling Laura, which references the morning after she was murdered and her mom couldn't find her.  She looks out at the stairs;  in about two days, her mom will come up these stairs to find Luara missing.  She is also in the picture looking out the door, meaning she has exited the Black Lodge, or her deepest subconscious, and is back in the rational world, almost.  This is her first realization that things might get really bad soon.Anyway, just some observations, but I'm probably running out of words, so I'll stop now. "},{"Title":"Pure Lynch","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"86 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just watched this movie again for about the 13th time, and it just keeps getting better and better. This movie is amazing! I had the chance of following the series from the pilot to the final episode in a span of three weeks. I then watched the movie for the first time right after. Let me start by saying everything that happens in Twin Peaks from the series to the movie all makes perfect sense. This is something which needs to be viewed carefully, and thought about very clearly. I'm not going to tell you what I think it's all about but I'm pretty damn sure I know, and I know well enough to say this makes perfect sense. I will also say if you have not seen the television show Twin Peaks (season 1&2) don't even bother with this movie. I am truly tired of hearing people complain about this movie because of their lack of understanding. If you have not seen the show, you will not understand this movie.. So go out and watch the show and then think about watching this FANTASTIC movie. "},{"Title":"!kcoR s'teL","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"59 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's no doubt about it, Twin Peaks changed the living, breathing face and body of television, the soul and minds of those who watched it, and the attitudes of film and television makers everywhere, who watched what was intended to be a 2 hour Tele-movie become a phenomenon. A phenomenon that dissected the way television was made and shown to its very core, and reassembled it in a fashion that no one had ever witnessed, or dreamed of. A phenomenon that would sweep the world&#133; Not since JR was shot in Dallas had the entire worldwide viewing public stopped to ask itself a question, for one brief, shining, crystallized moment, in 1990&#133; Who Killed Laura Palmer? And so, with David Lynch's Fire Walk With Me, the question is not Who? But rather, Why? This film precedes the TV show, these are the last 7 days of Laura Palmer, and after watching this film, it is pretty apparent why Laura wanted to die, she lived in a world out of her grasp and control, she was desperately fighting what she was becoming, but realized that the forces that were pulling her down, were too strong for her to fight against&#133; I knew someone like that once, and to be quite honest, it has changed the way I look at Laura Palmer. The first time I watched this film was in 1992 when it came out on VHS, I was 16 or 17 and I hated it. It wasn't Twin Peaks. It was horrible and violent and had none of the cuteness and quirkiness and lovable characters of the TV show, and I never watched it again. Watching it almost 15 years on, as an adult, I understand why I hated it so much when I was a kid. As a 16-17 year male, I had absolutely no concept or understanding of what it would be like to be Laura Palmer, completely unable to relate to her, and therefore completely unable to understand or sympathize. Completely unable to understand what it would mean to live in a world where everyone is in love with you, and how that would only make you hate yourself more, when you hate yourself so much already.This is a really sad movie. It really puts you in to Laura Palmer's world, or what's left of it, briefly. Maybe too brief, but, you know, maybe I read too much in to films, or I get too close too them, but this film has changed Twin Peaks for me forever. And it's quite possible that it will do the same for you. Even though she was dead before the opening credits, I never realized until watching this film again that Laura was never freed, she was always in 'purgatory' if you will, always in the Red Room when we saw her, or seeing a flashback of her murder during the course of the TV show. Fire Walk With Me gives something to Laura Palmer that she had been denied on television.Release.For the most part, this film was not made for the fans, nor was it made for the money, Lynch made this film for Laura palmer. His love of her is what inspired him to breathe life into her character on the big screen, after taking it away on the small. This is his dance, first and final, with Laura Palmer. It is not ours to be involved with, it is ours only to watch the romance between character and director evolve and be burnt too soon. It is ours only to witness, not too understand or judge, not to ask or question.From the opening shot, a television with no reception, which is quickly obliterated by an Axe, it is quite clear that this ain't no TV show, and if the symbolism of the TV being smashed isn't enough to tell you that, then the opening scene will. This is the part of Twin Peaks that simply never would have made it to TV. The real Twin Peaks, if you will, the dark, tortured, seedy underbelly of a town with too few people, and too many secrets, the sort of place that exists almost everywhere in the world (with the exception of Cicely, Alaska). "},{"Title":"Highly underrated film by brilliant visionary Lynch","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"80 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Since the first line of TPFWWM is Get me Agent Chester Desmond in Fargo, North Dakota, some might argue that I am biased in my praise for one of Lynch's most underrated motion pictures.  The truth is, my life has never been the same since the fateful midnight in high school when I experienced Eraserhead for the first time.  TPFWWM was savaged by most critics, who are unlikely ever to laud the unconventional Lynch again (unless he makes another film that connects like Blue Velvet).  Few other filmmakers have had the ability to depict so tangibly the intangibility of our dreams and the worlds contained therein.  Couple this with Lynch's corner on the uncanny market, and you have TPFWWM, a film impossible to confuse with any other.  My only complaint concerns the absence of Ben and Audrey Horne, who were such interesting and engaging characters on the television series. "},{"Title":"LYNCHS' DARKEST, MOST DISTURBING MOVIE; AN OVERLOOKED MASTERPIECE","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"61 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't just the darkest lynch film ever made, it is one of the darkest, most disturbing films ever committed to celluloid. It tells the tale of the last 7 days of Laura Palmer, so it plays as a prequel to the episodic story which told the tale of how her murder was 'a feak accident' (described in this film). The films contains some of Lynch's most creative touches to date, most notably in a nightclub (from hell) scene, in which the character's dialogue is bareley audible, and in a dream sequence which involves a bizarre painting of a wall. Why Lynch fans overlooked this is more bizzare than the film itself, as it attains a similar style, but does admittedly drop a lot of the characters that gave it it's quirky charm (Dale Cooper has merely a walk on cameo, no sign of 'damn fine cherry pie') but nonetheless has a sense of bizzare horror and dread and plays out quite similarly as how you'd imagine 'the Exorcist; the Adolescent Years. After touches of subtle horror that Lynch has displayed in most of his films, this is a return to the 'bizzarly terrifying' sense of dread that Lynch demonstrated with Eraserhead, but unlike that film it is very true to form in portraying a slow journey of a downward spiral as seen through the perspective of a confused teenage girl- caught up in unfortunate circumstances due to her effortless sensuality, and in doing so it is so disturbingly authentic young girls heading towards a similar fate may use it as an effective warning. Criminally underrated.    "},{"Title":"Peak Freak","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"55 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Twin Peaks was the best thing to happen to television in years. It paved the way for fan-favorites like X-Files and Six Feet Under. Even distant cousins like Buffy the Vampire Slayer owe that surreality, and that horror-opera continuity, to David Lynch's amazing contribution to television. And as much as I enjoyed Lynch's ability to re-work the failed TV pilot Mulholland Drive into the very enjoyable film it became, I'd still give my left arm for it to have remained on the air for a few seasons. Maybe it's the additional subtlety that Lynch was forced to apply when dealing with the much more touchy medium of TV (sponsors only want the type of nudity and swearing that will GUARANTEE better ratings,) but I think TV's a medium that he excelled in, and for that reason, the SERIES Twin Peaks will always be better than it's cinematic sibling. Fire Walk With Me is for Twin Peaks fans. No one else will enjoy this movie. No one else will GET this movie. And if you do, then you have more surreal and creative tastes than I do. But for all of the Peak-Freaks, this movie was the last hurrah, one more crazy, red-curtained dance party for a show that we all felt ended too soon. If you love Lynch, if you can quote every stupid line about coffee and cherry pie that falls from Agent Cooper's lips, then Fire Walk With Me will remain one of the greatest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"A great but disturbing film...","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I am a huge fan of David Lynch's movies.  Even if I don't completely understand them the first time around, they always evoke a strong emotional response from me.  This film was no different.  It was alternately beautiful and horrifying due to the duality of Laura's life.  Knowing that Laura was ultimately going to end up dead created a sense of dread that stayed with me throughout the entire film.  Scenes such as Mike confronting Leland on the road and David Bowie's appearance as Agent Jeffries frightened me, for some reason, more than any horror film I've ever seen.  But the scenes that show Laura accepting her fate are the most chilling of all; here is a girl who, under different circumstances, would have been a pure and normal individual.  But she was corrupted by an evil force and instead used her inner strength to choose to die rather than succumb completely to BOB.  Sheryl Lee's performance was flawless, and the rest of the cast turned in great performances as well.  TPFWWM is my favorite Lynch film, and one of my top five favorites.  9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"43 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is a feature film prequel to the television series Twin Peaks. The film shows the last week of a high school teenager named Laura Palmer. Laura does drugs and balances life with her male friends and her best friend Donna. Laura is also really cautious around her overbearing and creepy father. She also seems to get weird visions and nightmares on top of things, so her life is pretty complicated and she is a pretty disturbed teenager. At the end of the film it ends where the Twin Peaks television show starts with the investigation of her murder. Winner of The Saturn Award for Best Music at The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films; The Brit Award for Best soundtrack at The Brit Awards and The Independent Spirit Award for Best Original Score. Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me has good direction, a good script, good performances by the entire cast, good original music, good cinematography and film editing. I have never seen the Twin Peaks television series before, but I really wanted to see this film because I figured I wouldn't have had to have seen the TV show seeing as this is a prequel and I also wanted to see the film because I love the films by the film's writer/director David Lynch. The film is hard to describe in many ways because like so many of David Lynch's films it is very unusual and is sometimes hard to figure out. But I was intrigued by this movie and I liked the character's dialog and the eeriness of the town and the different people who live there. The film is very well crafted and put together and I like how David Lynch was able to put together such an atmospheric and stylish film. Also to write a movie this interesting and off the wall takes the genius of a great writer and director such as David Lynch. I was thoroughly captivated by the film and entertained. I was also fascinated by this wonderfully unique journey into this odd little town with odd little characters and settings. A truly unique film experience and another hit for David Lynch. "},{"Title":"The last 7 dark days of the Homecoming Queen's Life...","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"33 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Bob, Agent Cooper, Laura Palmer, Teresa Banks, The Man From Another Place, etc...Welcome back to David Lynch's offbeat town of TWIN PEAKS.Much darker than the TV series, this film was in part meant to answer many previously unanswered questions, but if anything - in typical Lynch fashion - it tangles things even further, and confuses matters all round.Lynch apparently shot more than 5 hours of the feature, and as much of these deleted/extended/alternative scenes are still missing, the movie we're left with feels rather bare and rushed.The performances are excellent, and the movie is visually stunning, and as usual the plot - while confusing - is intense and riveting.But alas it could have been so so so much more.... (sighs) "}{"Title":"The Enigma Of Laura Palmer, Uncovered","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch's prequel to his TV Show 'Twin Peaks' drowns the viewer into the psyche of Laura Palmer, who was a crucial enigma of the series (but then again, 'Twin Peaks' is full of enigmas and riddles). The darkness of the human mind has been a consistent theme in many of Lynch's works. Other more recent examples include 'Mulholland Drive' and 'Inland Empire'. 'Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me' is brutal, stark, graphic and horrifyingly disturbing.'Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me' may not be as technically 'polished' as Lynch's other films and the low budget shows (but is not bothersome at all). Yet, the closeups have a very strong effect as it provides some evidence of fine acting. Sheryl Lee is at the centre of the film and she is astonishingly superb. Someone should give this actress more roles. Ray Wise, Moira Kelly, Kyle Mclachlan and the rest of the supporting cast are of note. The visuals, even though this is during the pre-CGI boom, are mesmerizing. And of course, what would a Lynch film be without symbolism. They are plentiful but I won't give my interpretation as they are best discovered first hand.Many feel that the story is inconsistent but to me it all fits well together. Towards the end it is depressing, as the viewer has witnessed all the layers of Laura's agony in detail. It is not a comfortable film to watch. After all, she was just a normal American teenager who has experienced the worst of life and this movie grips the viewer and shows her life breaking into irreparable pieces. Yet, given the heavy theme 'Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me' is a film worth experiencing, especially for fans of the series and Lynch's other works. "},{"Title":"How does a woman feel in the dark?","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I lack the ability to objectively scrutinize this film's value on a movie-goers' level. This film's artistry took me beyond the aesthetic and intellectual, and into a phsychological landscape I haven't been before or since.One must grasp the chaos, or have been a witness to it in their own reality, to feel the depth of this film and Lynch's use of contrasting landscapes of innocence vs. evil, duality, contradiction, femininity, nostalgia, Etc., that somehow manage to make perfect sense as long as we don't try to make sense of it. This film is about getting lost. It must be intuited, felt in the dark, to be truly appreciated. It's the only cinematic experience that I call magical. I was unable to review this in an impersonal way.Besides that, and for those who don't really get it, the acting, directing, production, writing, plot, Etc. all make the film worth seeing more than once. But those are just the little things. "},{"Title":"For Twin Peaks die-hards only","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you were not a fan of the Twin Peaks television series you would not want to bother watching this film. Fire Walk with Me pretty much requires the viewer to have already seen every episode of the television show. If you haven't you will be well and truly lost as you watch this film unfold in the bizarre Twin Peaks universe. Assuming you have the requisite working knowledge of all things Twin Peaks heading in you'll at least be able to understand the film. Whether you'll like the film is an iffy proposition at best.Fire Walk with Me is a prequel to the television series which means Laura Palmer is alive. But before we can get to Laura there's a thirty-minute or so prologue (a prequel within a prequel?) about the investigation into the murder of Teresa Banks, whom all the Twin Peaks die-hards know was the first victim of the killer who would eventually murder Laura. After what any fan of the television show will see as some typical weirdness, and not much in the way of resolution, the prologue ends and we move forward in time, jumping into the final week of Laura Palmer's life. It's nice to see Laura alive for the first time. The television show had already established Laura was not the sweet, innocent homecoming queen she seemed but her demons were, for the most part, only hinted at on TV. In Fire Walk with Me those demons are on full display. Where the television show was subtle, the movie is in your face. A little too much in your face some might say as David Lynch takes full advantage of all the opportunities provided by producing an R-rated movie. Certainly nothing is held back here as we watch Laura Palmer spiral downward towards her sad end.In the rather brutal telling of the story of Laura Palmer's final days all the charm of the television series has been lost. For all the terrible things that occurred in the series the show always had that small-town, quirky charm. Not here. For the Twin Peaks fan it's nice to see those familiar characters again. And the film does add a lot to the Laura Palmer story and allows you to get to know her much better. But you may come away wishing you hadn't gotten to know her quite so well. Perhaps some things are better left unspoken and unseen. There were two sides of Laura Palmer and this film shows you much too much of the dark side. There was a lot of good in her, watching this film makes it hard to remember that even as you can't help but sympathize with the way she is being taken advantage of and the way she will meet her ultimate fate.If you're a real Twin Peaks fan you really do have to see the movie. There is a lot to like about it. The story is captivating as ever, if decidedly less charming in this go-around. And the performances from the cast are mostly very good, most notably from Sheryl Lee who finally gets to play a living, breathing Laura Palmer after having been introduced to the world dead and wrapped in plastic. And Ray Wise as Laura's father Leland also does fine work in portraying a disturbing and complicated character. We never got to see Leland and Laura interact in the series and their relationship is fascinating to watch. Fascinating and also more than a little creepy as the movie's Leland is a constantly ominous, threatening presence. You'll miss Lara Flynn Boyle who for the film has been replaced in the role of Donna by Moira Kelly. Kelly fails to bring the same spark to the character that Boyle did. And while many of the characters from the show return you'll miss those who notably don't. Audrey and Benjamin Horne, Sheriff Truman, Deputies Andy and Hawk, Doc Hayward and Pete Martell and Big Ed...would have been nice to see them and some others one last time if even just briefly. It is nice to have the opportunity to go back to the Twin Peaks universe. Unfortunately it's not quite the universe you remember. This is a much darker, sinister and decidedly less enjoyable Twin Peaks. Sometimes you can't go home again. "},{"Title":"In Twin Peaks,no one is innocent","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a fan of the TV series i was waiting for this to come out,now I'm hoping that David lynch will release the DVD with all the lost footage. as a prequel to twin peaks,it answers a lot of questions,the movie is more in your face then the TV show.its bizarre and creepy.Sheryl lee does an awesome job as the late laura palmer.while co stars;ray wise and grace zabriskie play Laura's parents.there's a lot of stars that were'nt in the TV show like harry dean Stanton,David bowie,Chris Issac, and kiefer Sutherland.David lynch has a style of film making that is unique.Moira Kelly takes over for Lara Flynn Boyle's role as Donna Hayward.the evil bob is enough to give Freddy Krueger nightmares.kyle maclachlan returns as agent cooper.look for a cameo by;heather grahmn. if you never seen the series watch this before you do.otherwise you'll be very confused.on behalf of all twin peaks fans,lets all hope that they release the special edition twin peaksfire walk with me,with all of the edited scenes with all the great twin peaks characters.10 out of 10.a David lynch classic. "},{"Title":"The evil that (wo)men do","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This remains my favorite of Lynch's difficult films of the last decade, which include Lost Highway and Mulholland Dr. Absolutely no one can establish a mood of dread like Lynch, and this film is superlative in this respect. Images, sound design, and Sheryl Lee's near-miraculous performance all contribute to something much closer to a Horror Film than the genre with the actual namesake.It seems that many fans of the Twin Peaks TV series were very disappointed with this film. I read over and over how peakies feel the movie lacks the quirky, off-beat, kinda funny tone of the TV series. Well, step back and consider something the central themes of the movie AND the TV show are 1.) father-daughter incest, 2.) drug addiction, and 3.) murder. I guess we're all pretty desensitized, what with TV shows like Law and Order and Jerry Bruckheimer movies all purporting to give us action and thrills that are gritty and hard-bitten.Lemme tell ya, that stuff ain't gritty and hard-bitten. Rape victims on TV shows are paper-thin stereotypes compared to the Laura Palmer of Fire Walk With Me. Why? Because Lynch shows us the HORROR, the inescapable, fenced-into-a-corner hysterical inevitableness of a young girl who can't cope with her father's abuse of her, who then turns to drugs and increasingly can't cope with those either, and who finally sees the true tragedy of her life before it's even finished playing out. The wings disappear from the picture.What Fire Walk offers in its portrait of evil and abuse is the full gamut of emotions, not just fear and anger (though there is plenty of that), but also aching, aching sadness, loneliness, abandonment. Lynch did a fairly good job of conveying this within the confines of a TV show with commercials (remember how the first half hour of the pilot was just people crying?), but in the movie he really gets to go town.Incest and drug abuse are absolutely devastating. This movie is absolutely devastating, and so touches the truth. "},{"Title":"Gone is the fairy tale called Twin Peaks..","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" They say it's a prequel to the series Twin Peaks. However, it is in stark contrast to the hit series. This movie is dark and raw, colors are flat, nothing comes close to the slick looks of the series. It is almost a ritual farewell by David Lynch regarding his Twin Peaks the series. Gone is that fairy tale like feeling of the series, this movie is B-style in your face drama with typical Lynch weirdness.If anything it's prequel to Lost Highway and Mulholland drive. Disturbing images, road rage, shots of a highway at night. Twisted characters. Nothing makes sense at first, you cannot take it literally, you have to read into it. When stripped of its madness, what's left is a tale of an abusive father, raping his daughter. And she uses drugs to escape this reality and ends up in the darkness of our lives. A side we all know is there, but try to deny for as long as possible. The opposite of the fairy tale so to speak.So if you're a fan of the series, this one might just be too raw for the senses. Expect violence, nudity, drugs and disturbing images. "},{"Title":"Maybe my favourite movie of all times...","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is very difficult to find where I live but after I have fallen in love with the brilliant series and all the other works that David Lynch has done, I was really looking forward to watch this prequel that many professionals had heavily criticized. Many people said that the movie didn't have the same charming way of the life in a small and mysterious town, many people commented that the characters weren't as intense and believable as in the series and some people regretted that some of the series's characters like Audrey Horne or Harry Truman didn't appear in this movie and that some other main characters like Dale Cooper only had small roles.But I think that those people didn't understand the intention of this movie. It is sure that a movie of two hours and fifteen minutes can't develop the characters as much as a series with almost thirty episodes. It is also sure that this movie is about the last days of Laura Palmer and that's why characters like Audrey Horne have not much to do with this movie as they had no closer connection to the main character. This movie has a faster development than its series, it is straight forward and maybe less mysterious.But this movie is intense in every sense of the word. It is frightening, has a very dark and desperate atmosphere, it is horrifying and it is brilliantly played by Sheryl Lee and we get a true insight of the character of Laura Palmer and her everyday life along side her strange father, her weak mother, her many different friends and especially boyfriends. This movie shows in a very straight and hard way the wasted life of a beauty that has lost its youth and innocence. This movie is about sex, drugs, violence, crime, murder and fear and how to get drowned in a circle of desperation. The scene were Laura and Donna are in the discotheque is one if the most intense moments ever filmed in cinema's history with its strange music, weird light effects, ugly sex and violence scenes and the feelings that evolve from there. You feel hypnotized and desperate about the characters. The scene where Laura and her father are in their car and surprised by a strange one-armed man is strange, disturbing and extremely weird. The scene where Laura meets the strange Bob in her sleeping room is spooky, haunting and could create nightmares. The scene where Laura finally faces her destiny is brutal, uneasy and pervert. The conclusion and final scene of the movie is the only part where you feel a little bit of piece and hope in a very transcendent and spiritual way.David Lynch plays with your emotions and your wildest dreams and drowns you from one feeling to the other. While watching this movie I was frightened, I was almost crying, I was disturbed, I was delighted and I was absolutely impressed. I never thought that this movie would mess up with the best series in history but this flick is absolutely at the same level even if it is different because of its intensity.But even though this movie is straight and heavy, there are still many mysterious details and typical trademarks of the series from time to time like the weird introduction of the case by Gordon Cole and the dancing lady, things that only a genius could have invented. The weird scene with David Bowie is also one for the ages and extremely cool. There are also many little hints to discover that concern the fate of other characters of the series for example the scene where a bloody Annie sleeps next to Laura and transmits her a strange message.A sure thing is that this movie is no easy stuff and more scaring than any horror movie I have seen in my life. That's why this movie hasn't been a success for the masses and its very particular style is in fact very charismatic and different from anything you might expect. The point of desperation is that you know what will happen if you have seen the series and that you know that the characters are damned or even lost and the frightening about all of this is that you know that there is no escape and that you don't exactly know how or when it might happen. I really felt with the characters in this movie and this is something that has been developed in the series over several episodes but in this movie, I had the same feeling only after a couple of minutes. I have never seen or felt something as intense and strong concerning a movie in my whole life.I always thought that David Lynch's masterpiece concerning a movie is Lost highway but after watching this flick I am no longer sure about it. This is a masterpiece, a mysterious, weird, scaring horror movie with some dramatic elements. This movie doesn't need much blood or gore effects to frighten you, it's all about the atmosphere. This movie is so intense that you simply don't have the time to miss Audrey Horne and all the others that I have liked so much throughout the series. That is something brilliant and unexpected that only David Lynch could create and it's a shame but as well typical for the mainstream masses that they didn't accept this style at the time and that there haven't been any more movies about Twin Peaks. At least, the legacy found its end on an absolute climax.I would recommend this movie to anyone that likes movies and has a little sense of genius and is open-minded enough to accept the flick's very unique style. It is probably my favourite movie of all times or comes at least quite close to it. "},{"Title":"Strictly for Lynch devotees; anyone else, steer clear","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had heard much about the cult television series Twin Peaks, and decided to buy the First Season on DVD. When I found that none of the stores near me had it in stock, I decided to pick up the movie instead. In some ways, this was good. In some, it was bad. Let me explain ...In 1991, Twin Peaks was canceled. Immediately popular director David Lynch, who also created and wrote most of the show, said that he wasn't finished with the show yet ... and set to work making a movie that would close off the Twin Peaks phenomenon. Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me - this film - is the result, a 135 minute journey into a realm where insanity and madness reign supreme.Fire Walk With Me is a prequel to Twin Peaks. The first thirty minutes deal with two FBI agents, Chester Desmond (Chris Isaak) and Sam Stanley (Kiefer Sutherland), who are investigating the murder of a young girl in the small town of Twin Peaks. Just when Desmond seems to have a suspect, we fade out and find that we are months later. From there, the film follows the events leading up to the mysterious death of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee), which the series focused on. Kyle MacLachlan has some screen time as the series' main character, Dale Cooper.This is probably the hardest film to review in the world. First of all, let me say that if you aren't a fan of Twin Peaks or of David Lynch, you will be lost shortly after the film begins. This movie was created solely for Twin Peaks lovers, and if you haven't seen the show, the mystery of who killed Laura Palmer is unveiled in this movie.If ever there has been a movie that is pure insanity, it is this. Fire Walk With Me is one-hundred percent madness. And yet, throughout the whole film, I was completely mesmerized. And when the movie ended, I couldn't speak or do anything for about an hour. This movie truly has an effect on you, whether you're a fan of the show or not.The cast is terrific, but it's David Lynch and Angelo Baladamenti who steal the show. Lynch is either a madman or a genius - I can't decide between the two. But Baladamenti is certainly a master composer, because his score for this film is beautiful.Seeing is believing. That fits perfectly from this film. Perhaps after I watch the show, I will better understand this film. Until then, I can just say that it the most indescribable, frightening, mesmerizing, and astonishing film I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Aging very well....more high art from Lynch that will stand the test of time...","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't buy into the fact that you have to be a huge Lynch fan or die-hard Twin Peaks cultist to enjoy this film. In fact, it is some of those cultists who were most infuriated by this. Yes, it's all the absurd brutality and strangeness of Peaks without any of the ironic humor or quaint characters. However, if you go into this film without any foreknowledge of the Twin Peaks experience, I would imagine you would be overcome with the same feelings as people who enjoyed Lynch's Mulholland Drive. As a stand alone film, this is a brilliantly conceived puzzle-box/mobius strip of celluloid art. Yes, it is a mystery, and yes, it doesn't make any sense (which it really does if you think about it, and then doesn't when you think again), and yes, it is art. This is also not for the faint of heart. In the end I think it shows the damaging effect child abuse can have on the human psyche, and in a universal way artistically depicts the damage to our hearts and minds when we are bombarded by the horrors of our own human existence. "},{"Title":"The Blue Rose -- The Holy Grail","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Lynch's vision always consists of two worlds, clearly differentiated but enfolded. This has been the case in every project (though very subtle in `Straight'). In `Drive,' one world was real, the other imagined. In `Velvet,' the solution was to pit two film genres against each other.Here, the two worlds are derived from the King Arthur legend, the source of all magical folding in literature. Every element here is from that legend the log, the backwards time, the chamber, the ring, the sexual conflict.The timeframes are folded, from the instant of Lynch's imagining the story during a spoonful of corn, to a few days in the life of the hapless girl, to the `film/video' time which the investigators (including us) enter and are dissolved. It is all rather clever, but less so than other Lynch voyages to my mind. The one thing that really grabbed me was the prologue the setup of the initial investigators (who diffuse into the dissolved space between realities) and their own abstraction of the story -- that dancing girl.That is novel, an invention unique in all filmdom to Lynch. That blue rose is what lasts in my visual memory when all of the relatively artless photography has faded. One example of the artlessness of the vision itself the blunt device of blue haze when shifting realities. Another the scan of debris on the floor of the One Eyed Jacks after the night of debauchery. This is extremely watered down Tarkovsky (from `The Mirror').That Canadian retreat The One Eyed Jacks, is a reference to the first modern double reality in film. See my comment of that film (`One Eyed Jacks'), to see the conflict between the creole film worlds of Brando and Kubrick that Lynch inhabits.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching. "}{"Title":"Cold, like a turkey","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After the cancellation of Twin Peaks, there were a lot of questions left unresolved and the series's general meaning was unclear. The fans that had remained through the show's second-season decline doubtlessly wanted a conclusion to the show's many narrative strands. A feature film could have provided a sense of closure, as with future cult TV shows Firefly and Veronica Mars. But of course, David Lynch has never been one to give people what they want.Fire Walk with Me is a prequel, and one that doesn't really provide any information about Laura Palmer's death that isn't revealed in the first half of the TV series. As such, it's inessential even for fans of the show, and at times can feel like a rehash of old material (especially in the first half hour, another quirky detective investigating another murdered young girl).So why watch Fire Walk With Me? Well, there are some fun appearances by the likes of David Bowie, Kiefer Sutherland and Harry Dean Stanton. But more importantly, the film pares down the supernatural tangents and weird townspeople that littered the TV series. Those things had their value, but they eventually made the murder of Laura Palmer a half- forgotten conceit. As in so many murder mysteries, the actual murder victim becomes inessential. In Fire Walk With Me, that violence takes centre stage. We see Laura Palmer's world, a world of constant sexual violence and her futile attempts to cope by owning the depravity. It's Lynch at his bleakest, and it's genuinely unsettling in the way that, say, the Log Lady is not. Rather than being the story of a strange small town, Fire Walk With Me tells the story of Twin Peaks as a story about a girl who is repeatedly raped and eventually murdered, and there's absolutely nothing charming about that.It might just be because I was less focused on deciphering the plot, but Lynch's style seems heightened in comparison with the TV series and even some of the other movies he made around this time. The story unfolds in a kind of jazz-like alternation between absurdity, kitsch and horror. There isn't really a plot, but nevertheless I couldn't turn my eyes away. The return to horror makes Fire Walk With Me a worthy companion to the original series, and much more worthy of a revisit than some of those season 2 episodes. "},{"Title":"Inner Demons of Existence","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This review might contain spoilers of the TV-series Twin Peaks, but not of the film itself. Twin Peaks is a true cult phenomenon with a mythology of its own. Its eccentric humor, blue atmosphere and portrayal of the dark side of human life have all had an essential impact on the Lynch universe and its aesthetics. Thus it doesn't come as a surprise that director David Lynch found it suiting to continue the series with a feature film Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me (1992). Although the film offered a lot of the elements which fans of the show wanted, such as Badalamenti's score, the return of their favorite milieu and characters; and dramatization of some of the scenes of the past, it came as a disappointment and became a financial and critical flop. It is easy to judge afterwards, but it seems to me that this was only due to audience expectations and not the actual substance of Lynch's film. The film consists of two distinctly different parts. The first tells about an incident outside of Twin Peaks which might have a connection with the murder of Laura Palmer. The second, which takes place about a year later, focuses on the final week in the life of Laura Palmer. The film has a heavy, melancholic atmosphere reminiscent of the TV-series, but at the same time it lacks the humor of the show as a balance, which was probably responsible for the alienation of many people from the film. Yet I beg to differ. The absence of humor is partially due to the shift from TV to cinema but also the subject matter; that is not the idyllic surface, but what lies beneath. In other words, the film is meant to be watched after the series even if it was a so-called prequel. Since when it comes to the final episodes of Twin Peaks, the film is very similar mood- wise. Although the film consists of two parts, its main focus is on the second one. In this part we meet Laura Palmer as a disturbed person who takes drugs and has serious mood swings. The film grows into a tale of her unending drowning into existential abyss. It must be stressed once more that the series has to be watched first because it is there where Lynch destroyed the image of Laura Palmer, and therefore it remains for the film to portray the life behind the image. An important observation is that psychology doesn't concern Lynch. The possibilities of social pressure or mental problems in the account of Laura Palmer are secondary, external factors such as the interpretation of her father as a schizophrenic. These are elements emerging from Lynch's treatise on something else. For it is the human mind which puzzles him, but not from the viewpoint of a psychologist. Lynch studies the inner demons of existence. Although inner, these demons aren't necessarily merely subjective. They can be inter-subjective and thus Lynch's cinema in general isn't just concerned with private fear and anxiety. It is about something shared in human existence. In addition to the lack of humor, the lack of explanation might have been one of the reasons which turned contemporary viewers off. Yet I think anyone with some sense will agree with me that this isn't the right way to go and watch Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me. Lynch doesn't care to explain himself and neither should the viewer care to try to solve the mystery. There is no mystery except the same mystery which haunts every one of us who exist. Perhaps all the audience wanted was a continuum for the series. They wanted to experience the same which they loved once. But that's not art that's factory-like industry. Instead of just immersing back into the world of Twin Peaks (which was arguably among Lynch's reasons to make this film), Lynch has created many new elements to the film. One of these is the white noise of a television screen. This noise embodies not only the idyll to whose parental embrace the people lull themselves into but also the truth beneath the surface of reality. It's a noise that can't be hidden with another noise. "},{"Title":"The final word on Fire Walk With Me","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's difficult to come to terms with this movie if you're a huge fan of the TV series and a huge fan of David Lynch.There are a lot of problems with this movie. I believe that ultimately the Twin Peaks formula just didn't translate to the big screen.The first half hour is a completely different movie. And it's fantastic definitely the best part of the movie. Then it snaps into Twin Peaks mode. But we forget what Twin Peaks was all about, and so the intentionally corny dialog and melodrama just seem like corny dialog and melodrama instead of the campy irony that the TV Series had. In the TV Show, the occasional shots of the soap opera Invitation to Love really drove the point home.The production value of a movie instead of a grainy TV show is working against this movie, as well.And then there is just no light-hearted fun, here. All the charm of Twin Peaks is subsumed by focusing on its dark underbelly. Swearing, violence, incest, drug abuse. If you read the original script for the movie, there was more of the original wacky and charming characters, but it never made it to the final version.Finally, so much time has to be spent setting up everything so that it aligns with the show that's the problem with prequels.Yet with all these problems, this movie can't be dismissed. It has a lot of great, weird moments. The first half-hour, the red-room stuff, the cream corn, the grandmother and the magician, etc. It's a chore to sit through a lot of the stuff that depicts Laura Palmer's descent, but it's worth it to get to the wonderful bits of weirdness. But, alas, it never resurrects the indescribable magic of the TV Series. "},{"Title":"It's not the Twin Peaks TV show!","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me' is not for the faint-hearted, unlike the 'Twin Peaks' TV series which was another thing altogether. For those who aren't familiar with the original brilliant television series it is essential to watch that before 'Fire Walk With Me' even though this film is called the prequel to the TV show. There are several reasons for this. The most important is that the sweetness with its underlying darkness and mystery of the TV show lays a solid foundation to prepare you for this utterly dark, violent and frightening feature film. The memory of the original series makes this film all the more poignant in its deep sadness. If you expect this film to be anything like its predecessor you will be deeply disappointed, but if you go to it with an open mind, remembering other Lynch films for the big screen, you will be highly satisfied. This film goes beyond 'Blue Velvet' in its violence and brutality and also possesses the element of surreal nightmare to be found in 'Mulholland Drive' and 'Lost Highway'. I think 'Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me' is AS good as those two great Lynch films and was dissed by the critics at its release because they wanted more quirky and humorous material ala 'Twin Peaks'.Lynch is in top form here. Angelo Badalamenti's music haunts the memory for days afterwards, as he always does. The strobe-lights, the red room and other Lynch icons are well in evidence. Most of the characters from the show are in the film, but not all and most of them have minor roles to play. Even Special Agent Dale Cooper is a VERY minor character.The show is carried almost entirely on the shoulders of Sheryl Lee who turns in a tour-de- force performance as the doomed Laura Palmer. She is one of our greatest actresses and I am surprised she does not appear in more major films. I hope Lynch will find another leading role for her in his future work.The climax of this film is quite violent and difficult to watch at times but it ends on one of the most sublime notes that has come from Lynch, underpinned by the moving music of Luigi Cherubini's Requiem in c minor.Essential watching for all Lynch fans and also for lovers of great film in general. "},{"Title":"Even for David Lynch this is pretty disturbing","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A prequel to the cult TV series Twin Peaks. It chronicles the last week in the life of teenager Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee). She's beautiful and popular...but there's a lot of disturbing things happening with her that people know nothing about. In the TV series it was hinted at or talked about--in this movie it's in your face and pretty disturbing. Also the movie has bits and pieces showing the residents of the town that because regulars on the series.This movie had problems. The original cut was 5 hours long (!!!) and was cut down to 135 minutes. A lot of peoples subplots were reduced or eliminated entirely. It was booed when it played at the Cannes Film Festival and died at the box office here in the U.S. I can see why people didn't like this. It's dark, vicious, cruel and there's barely a let-up. Lee is in practically the entire film and she's just superb. She had an extremely difficult complex role which involved plenty of nudity, sex, drug taking and abuse. Her acting is so good it's hard to just shrug this movie off. Ray Wise as her father Leland matches her.DEFINITE SPOILER!!!! He's basically raping his daughter while possessed by an evil spirit called BOB. BOB is only in him at certain times. You literally see Wise's face and expression change when he's possessed or going back. That's gotta be hard but Wise pulls it off. END SPOILER!!!!The entire cast is good too--especially Dana Ashbrook and James Marshall. I loved it at first. Lynch keeps throwing images and bizarre dialogue at you and giving you just enough to figure it. But, halfway through, there's a bar sequence that goes on far too long and is extremely unpleasant. After that I started to get bored and disgusted. Lynch never stops and when it ends I felt drained. The acting, directing, music and everything is great here--but the dark tone and constant negativity really wore me down. I DO recommend it though--in a way. It challenges you and doesn't treat the audience like a bunch of idiots. How many movies can you say that about?Wanna hear about our specials? We don't have any! "},{"Title":"Bob&#133; I want&#133; all my&#133; garmonbozia","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I saw this movie for the first time, back in 1996, I was completely astonished! I had never heard about this guy named David Lynch, in spite of knowing a series called TWIN PEAKS that six years sooner had passed on Portuguese TV. From the series I remembered almost nothing, except the name of Laura Palmer, an agent of the FBI and the introducing song, which I used to appreciate&#133; But when I watched this movie everything changed! David Lynch! Who is this guy? This man is a genius! I thought&#133; Well, I started seeking more movies from him and in the following year LOST HIGHWAY was released...I became a fan! David Lynch was making movies as I had never seen before surreal, allegoric, complex&#133; To my mind they were simply fantastic! Since then Lynch became, for sure, my favorite director! Besides, I think that nowadays he's one of the few directors which really sees cinema as an Art!So, TWIN PEAKS &#150; FIRE WALK WITH ME was the first Lynch's movie I've ever saw, and from all the movies I've seen from him since then, especially the later ones, have been influenced, in my mind, by this movie&#133; I mean, if it's true that David Lynch uses the same kind of icons/allegories in many different movies &#150; no matter if they are more recent or older (we can watch the red curtains in a great part of his movies, for example, but there are much more of these Lynchian symbols/icons) &#150; I think that David Lynch doesn't explain so well in any other film what some of these symbols might signify, what is their meaning&#133; Probably I think that way because it was the very first movie I've seen from Lynch, but even so, I think this movie explains many things (especially concerning to these icons) about the ones he did latterly as LOST HIGHWAY, or MULHOLLAND DRIVE. I also think that one who has seen this movie first will easier understand, for example, what possibly mean the Red Curtains, The white face's guy or the Cabin on Fire in LOST HIGHWAY&#133; Of Course it's all just my personal interpretation, but I still think that TWIN PEAKS holds the key to solve many mysteries of his most recent films &#133; But that's just what I think&#133;About the movie itself, I think it's great! TWIN PEAKS is a classic, whether we refer the series or the movie. Laura Palmer's murder is revealed just in the movie, as it was done to report what happened before the point where the series begins. The film is really fantastic, because it shows us a story full of allegoric dreams, mysterious characters and sick relationships; but essentially it demonstrates how twisted and wicked the Human soul can be&#133; A few words that illustrate all of this sickness, and which I will never forget, are the ones said by the little man, almost in the end of the movie Bob&#133; I want&#133; all my&#133;garmonbozia!&#133; But are really Human all those characters which appear in this movie? Are they real or just part of strange dream?... I don't know for sure, but I think there's something else behind the red curtains and the black and white pavement! And for me, it's the key to penetrate in the twisted mind of David Lynch&#133; On the other hand the movie creates incredible ambiances and scenarios these places, which we don't know if they are real or not&#133; the sounds, the lights, the music&#133; it's all combined in an excellent kind of cinematography. The dancing scene, with the red light, in the bar, was very nice, and the soundtracks which are behind this one and many others are also great! But we can't forget the acting! Sheryl Lee is amazing! If Laura Dern is a great part of INLAND EMPIRE we can almost say the same about Sheryl in this movie&#133; She has a fantastic role because her character is too complex, with impulsive and dramatic changes of behavior and personality, and she did it really well. Her character had moments of pure drama, in which we can see fear, weakness and despair on her face, but also of craziness, absurd hilarity (when she's stoned in the woods with Bobby), and Sheryl made it perfectly, with excellent acting changes.It's definitely a classic to me, not only in Lynch's cinematography, but also in all movies' history! "},{"Title":"Dark, Disturbing, BRILLIANT!","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a fantastic prequel to the best TV series ever broadcastedIn FWWM you will witness the seven last days of Laura Palmer's short yet very troubled life.If you haven't seen the series then I would definitely not recommend you to see FWWM due to the content of massive spoilers.A must see for all Twin Peaks fans!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant and disturbing","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Right up there with BLUE VELVET. Contrary to most posters, I do not believe you have to view the TV series first to understand this movie. It is Lynch's highly original take on incest and its horrifying effects, including drug abuse and murder. Just as BLUE VELVET was his wild re-imagining of a stereotypical Hollywood murder mystery. If some of his other films have been rather pedestrian (ELEPHANT MAN), incoherent (MULLHOLLAND DRIVE) or just plain inept (DUNE), the fact is that Lynch is also responsible for masterpieces like TWIN PEAKS and BLUE VELVET -- and the intriguingly titled STRAIGHT STORY! And I agree with those who feel Sheryl Lee should have at least been nominated for an Oscar for her incredible performance as the doomed Laura Palmer. Veteran character actor Ray (JEEPERS CREEPERS 2) Wise is no less intriguing as her deeply disturbed father. "},{"Title":"Do you know who I am?","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks FWWM gets a lot of heat and it's easy to understand why. If you haven't seen the TV series, you'll be left scratching your head at what you've just seen (which is why you should see the TV series for the scenes to exert their full impact). If you have seen the TV series, you might wonder what happened to it and its iconic style when it transitioned to the big screen. The thing is FWWM isn't about returning to Twin Peaks per se. It's about what really happened to Laura Palmer, or at least a very small glimpse into the horrors she experienced, and that can never be sugarcoated. I imagine David Lynch didn't want to sugarcoat serious issues with classic Twin Peaks humor. That's what the show is for -- showing an investigation and the lives of the townfolk with a sense of campiness and therefore sterility and detachment. No matter how emotional the grieving was, the show couldn't really capture the horror of Laura's nightmares, because it skirted around the issues. Having seen the show, I knew what happened to Laura, but did I really know? Did I really understand the scope of her situation? Apparently little, because FWWM absolutely terrified me. Now, don't get me wrong. There are physically scarier movies out there with better jump scares and grislier images, but that's not my point. FWWM terrifies, because despite its weird Lynch-esque symbolism, it is able to hit close to home through its everyday characters, setting, and situations. It asks all of us to walk alongside Laura and by doing so, it spares nothing, because the truth requires everything. It demands our attention. So while some will find FWWM to be far too raw, sad, and humorless, Laura's gripping story deserved to be told from her perspective. Only then will we be able to say we know. We truly know. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's most underrated film","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not Lynch at his best(that would be Blue Velvet, though personal favourite is The Elephant Man), it is a very good film and should please fans of the TV series, even if darker in tone and lacking the show's humour. Lynch's films may be strange, unconventional and not always easy to understand for some, but all of them are visually striking, dynamically scored and with great performances, atmosphere and direction as well as working amazingly as mood pieces and being among the most unique films in existence- the only film of his that I didn't care for was Dune, was mixed on Inland Empire too but that still had a lot of the above components.Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me may not be as good as the TV series but did not deserve the negative reception it got at the time. The few flaws it has has nothing to do with being darker and lacking the show's humour, they are not even flaws. David Bowie did stick out like a sore thumb and to me was embarrassingly bad(though a lot of it was to do with how his character was written) but the film's biggest flaw was that you could tell that it was originally written as a much longer film, with so much truncated there were parts where things felt under-explained and incomplete, a longer length would have helped(personal opinion of course and not one other people will share).Coming onto however what was good about Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me, the film does everything else right. As said before, Lynch's films are always visually great, and to say that Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me looks great visually is not enough. The film in fact has wonderfully moody cinematography and lovingly designed sets, while the surreal imagery looks so mesmerising that regardless of whether the story confuses you you cannot possibly look away. Lynch's direction as ever is impeccable, his style unmistakable and the haunting soundtrack draws you in effortlessly. The story won't be everyone's cup of tea, I did find myself completely engrossed and found it along with Sophie Scholl The Final Days one of the most powerful films personally seen in a while. Sure, it did feel under-explained and incomplete in parts but it never bored me and like every other Lynch film as a mood piece it's amazing. Parts were incredibly intense and shocking(the most intense parts making for one of the most disturbing films there is) but others were genuinely emotional as well. Regarding individual scenes in a film where one hypnotic scene follows another, the strobe-lit disco degradation stuck out in particular.Apart from Bowie, Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is very well-acted, Sheryl Lee is superb and at times heart-breaking as an easy-to-root-for character while Ray Wise is just terrifying as one of the scariest father figures on film. Harry Dean Stanton, Kiefer Sutherland and Kyle MacLauchlan are on fun form too. In conclusion, a very under-appreciated film and undeservedly so. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"A dark, strange and excellent prequel to the Twin Peaks series","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It seems that when this prequel to the 'Twin Peaks' TV series was released in 1992 it didn't go down very well either critically or commercially. The series had been cancelled after season two a year beforehand so 'Twin Peaks' fever had died down considerably. Yet it seems that many of the fans of the show were disappointed with Fire Walk With Me anyway and I am guessing it was primarily for three reasons (1) it was tonally very different from the show - weirder, much harsher and more confrontationally disturbing, (2) it did not feature many of the loved characters from the series and (3) it did not resolve the cliff-hanger posed at the end of season two, instead it went back in time and detailed the last few days in the life of Laura Palmer. The latter reason was simply because director/creator David Lynch was most interested in the character of Laura Palmer and he wished to revisit her over and above anything else. Consequently, it's hardly surprising that the film only focuses on characters that were vital to Laura's last seven days, while the nature and reasons for her murder mean that the material was always going to be a lot more intense and disturbing. It's probably no coincidence that this film begins with a TV being smashed - from the outset it's clear that this is to be a definite re-imagining of the Twin Peaks universe.I myself am a big fan of Fire Walk With Me. It's much stranger than the series as well as being tougher. The freedoms of cinema allowed for this and TV was a great deal more restrictive content-wise back in the early 90's. On many occasions it goes very left-field and certainly does not explain all events in a neatly presented fashion. In this sense it ties in with much of Lynch's other film output. The weird moments are often very well executed and once more show the spectacular imagination of the man. But the bizarre aspects never take away from the basic story-line which does follow a linear path more or less. The story is at its heart a very dark and depressing one, after all it is largely about the systematic incestual sexual abuse of a young woman and her subsequent downward spiral. The surreal presentation adds considerable horror genre elements but distances us from the realistic true horror of the abuse. At this juncture it should be said that the acting of Sheryl Lee (Laura Palmer) and Ray Wise (Leyland Palmer) is extremely impressive and a considerable step-up from the TV show. Lee is in most scenes and has a very wide range of emotions to convey, while Wise is simply terrifying as her abusive father.I am pleased that Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me has been enjoying something of a critical reassessment in recent years. It's so far on from Peaks mania that I think it's much easier to now see more clearly the strengths of this film. It fits into the filmography of Lynch extremely well and in many ways is one of his most interesting. As a finale to the 'Twin Peaks' phenomena it actually feels very apt and was a very satisfying way to finish things off. "},{"Title":"Twin Peaks in name only","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The TV series of Twin Peaks was widely regarded as 'monumental' and some of the most original TV-viewing ever made. However, it's second (and untimely last) season was dogged by cast in-fighting, schedule changes, production difficulties and network pressure to tell the writers what to writer. Therefore, it was cancelled, but left behind not only a lasting legacy among loyal fans, but also a 'cliff-hanger' ending which had Twin Peaks' followers begging for some sort of resolution.Therefore, many were pleased when a film was made straight away - everyone thinking it would pick up where the series left off. It didn't. And it paid the price.What the fans (and cinema audiences in general) got, was a darkened version of their beloved show which seemed to belong to a different story entirely. In short... 'Fire Walk With Me' couldn't win. It wasn't the 'ending' TV viewers were hoping for. And yet it relied heavily on people having watched the series to really understand what was happening. Half the cast were missing and it became a prequel to the series, showing us the last week of murder victim Laura Palmer's life. However, if you watched the TV series, you'll already know what happened to her, so watching what we already knew seemed a little pointless.The TV version of Twin Peaks had a certain charm. Yes, it covered (very) adult subject matter, but it also had a quirkiness which gave it a healthy dose of light-heartedness. The film however only has the darkness with none of the humour. A lot of fans found this jarring. In some ways Fire Walk With Me is more in keeping with (writer/director) David Lynch's later works Lost Highway and Mullholland Drive, both of which are 'dark only' in tone.However, Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is a good film (believe it or not). But, I can totally see why it wasn't successful. For a start, if you haven't watched the TV series then you'll probably have no idea what's happening. But, if you watch the film before the series then you'll totally ruin the series (should you ever decide to watch it) as the film has MAJOR spoilers for the TV show. Despite lacking all the 'favourite' characters from the show you will find a damn fine horror movie which is both hauntingly atmospheric and visually stunning. Just don't expect to understand what's happening if you haven't watched the series.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Welcome To Twin Peaks","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am writing this after watching this film for about the 50th time. I was a huge Twin Peaks fan and this is of course a prequel to the show, though there are elements of a sequel about it too. The film was rated 18 so was free from the constraints of the TV Show and it shows. There is no humour and the film is dark, very dark. The first half an hour takes place away from the town of Twin Peaks and concerns the murder of Teresa Banks. Two FBI agents are sent, played by Kiefer Sutherland and Chris Issak and they play right into the Peaks mythology and feel right at home while feeling uncomfortable too. That is the whole essence of the TV show and the film. The duality of it all. The list is endless Twin Peaks. Black Lodge and White Lodge. Bobby and Mike, twice. Madeleine and Laura. The Double R Diner. Good and Evil. Even Heidi being too busy to jump start the old man features twice in the TV episodes. I could go on! The Twin Peaks section starts after that and we see Laura Palmer alive for the first time which is a treat. In many parts of the film Sheryl Lee looks so beautiful as Laura. Especially during the burst into fire scene. Of course, a lot of the film you see her tragic descent into what would be her death. The last seven days build to a climax which i will touch on shortly. Some of the film misses the mark slightly. No disrespect to Moira Kelly as she gives her version of Donna Hayward but it is hard to except it is the same person initially. To her credit she does have some touching and wonderful moments. Berated by some is the CCTV scene with David Bowie. Now the original plan was to make this 3 films and they would have developed Bowie's Phillip Jeffries and 'Judy' at that point. Sadly as we know that didn't happen and will leave non TP fans wondering what the hell was going on. There are some real stand out moments though. The One Armed Man approaching Laura and Leland at the traffic lights is amazing and equally hard to watch at the same time. The nightclub scene where the audio is quieter than the music and lasts for about ten minutes is also up there. Thankfully it is subtitled as amazingly in the original UK DVD release they didn't have time to put them in and we were all left wondering what the hell was said. Only in recent years have i got the new version with the right subtitles and do note, there are major plot developments regarding Leland, Laura and Teresa in that section. Laura's descent is heart breaking. Lee plays the character, having been sexually abused from the age of 12 to then, in this film, finding it out it was her own Father but then discounting it later, so movingly. She has confirmation that it is her Dad in the last day and those 24 hours, knowing what we know as a viewer of her upcoming murder from the show, this tears the last pieces of our hearts to shreds. In the show Leland seems unaware of BOB's possession and his actions but what makes this a very tough film to take at time is the observation here that he knows what he is doing. I always thought you knew it was me is very telling as well a few others occasions that i will let the viewer observe themselves. As a fan i come at it as a possession and of course with all the elements of the Black Lodge that is plain to see but the daunting and uncomfortable notion that just maybe Leland was aware and wanting to abuse his daughter, once again, is tough to watch.Just as the original footage for the film is nearly 5 hours long until it was edited for cinema release, there is so much i want to say about the film that i am leaving out. What i will say is Laura's murder is one of cinema's most amazing moments, beautifully filmed, epic, gruesome and truly heartbreaking. Angelo Badalamenti's score is second to none and really makes the film and the cinematography in places is a work of art. Watch the TV series first, then come to this film. Do not have expectations as the film leaves you with more questions than you get answers but that is great cinema, making the viewer do some of the work. The greatest TV show ever, but not the greatest film ever. It will, however, leave you with images and memories you will want to revisit one day. "},{"Title":"Great half-movie.","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't comprehend WHY it is that this movie was so resisted when released. Personally, i watched it right after seeing Twin Peaks and while it may have many flaws, it does a pretty decent job explaining many things that the series couldn't/didn't wanted to. I think the main reason is the disjointed nature of the movie. The first half may have almost nothing to do with the second part (or with the original series actually), but it is in no way a boring movie.I think that, if you can ignore the fact that, some actors are not the originals, and that the first half of the movie is kind of obscure and far fetched, (I mean, you're watching Lynch's material after all) it's a very enjoyable and well done movie which will clarify and fill a lot of gaps. "},{"Title":"Possibly the most surreal film I've seen","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Having enjoyed the television series 'Twin Peaks' I was keen to see this as well as a little trepidations; could it possibly live up to the series? Now I have just finished watching it I'm not sure what to think; it was just that strange!The film doesn't open with the events in Twin Peaks but with the previous victim Teresa Banks; two FBI agents go to investigate her murder; one of them takes her body to Portland to be examined while the other stays being to ask a few more questions; this one then vanishes without a trace. Cooper is then put on the case. Moving forward a year the action heads to Twin Peaks where we see the final events leading up to the death of schoolgirl Laura Palmer.This may be set before the television series but it is best not to watch this first as it shows who killed Laura and that is the key mystery for most of the series&#x85; it might be interesting to watch this before watching the series for a second time though. Since she died before the first episode Laura didn't feature much in the series but here she is the protagonist Sheryl Lee plays her once again and does a fine job depicting a girl who is terrified of what is happening around her but is powerless to stop it. Several cast members return although Donna is now played by Moira Kelly; she does a decent job but it is odd seeing somebody other than Lara Flynn Boyle in the role. Since no murder has been committed at the time we don't get to see any of the Sheriff's Department; nor do many other familiar faces.Many viewers may be surprised at just how strange this is, I certainly was! The opening scene sets the tone though when an FBI agent is given advice about his case by the appearance of a woman in a red dress&#x85; she does not say a word; just makes a face and moves her hands a bit while walking on the spot! It isn't long before that seams positively normal&#x85; there are visits to the Red Room which are not subtitled so it is hard to understand what is being said; there are similar difficulties during a long scene where loud music is played; this serves to increase the feeling of confusion; in a good way. It sounds a strange thing to say but I think I enjoyed this but I'll have to watch it again before I can be sure&#x85; I'd recommend it to fans of Lynch's other works and fans of the series should definitely try it&#x85; even if they might end up hating it! "},{"Title":"The perfection in the puzzle","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Indeed, I wasn't sure what this film was going to do for me after watching the TV series and wondering what happened to the happy ending I was waiting for. But then again I didn't fully *understand*. People who watch this should not *expect* and should simply *enjoy*. I'm not going to go into any story of plot because I don't have time, but I don't really need to because if you are looking to watch this you are familiar with the TV series- and that's enough. Lynch is a genius. It is important to note that it doesn't matter if Dale Cooper gets 5 or 55 minutes. People choosing to watch this should expect to be interested in and compelled by the new ones. Once again I emphasize- don't *look* for answers.. it's like looking for answers in a Stephen King book and reading another one to find those answers. Nothing is specifically *revealed*, but there are direct associations if your brain has the recollection and the understanding to put things together. Twin Peaks is a lateral film. it is not 'straight forward' and should be observed cryptically. As for the dark and disturbing side of things, yes it is exactly that, but I would not run away from it for that reason. I've seen reviews stating that the violence shocks. I'd disagree. What actually shocks us is SPOILER the nature of evil that motivates a father to rape his own daughter and the effect that has on her personality. There is nudity in the 'bang bang' bar, but I find none of this nudity remotely sexy or sensual, it is like descending into a nightmare when you consider that is the alter self that Laura created. Damaged goods looking to score for drugs.. perhaps an inner rebellion of the severed tie of father and daughter by the unspeakable. Anyway, you get the idea. Highly recommended for the patient and the affiliated- not a casual popcorn flick. "},{"Title":"As Weird & Wonderful as Twin Peaks was, This Is Even More So","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" On the fractured landscape of TV fiction, in terms of pure creativity and shear audacity, David Lynch's Twin Peaks is the towering summit (summits?!). For us rabid fans Twin Peaks reigns as the most original, most compelling, most memorable television series ever broadcast. Lynch's creations are often unclassifiable, never confined to a single genre, but Twin Peaks, more so than not, is a mystery thriller that also abounds with outrageous humor. The comedy normally arose from his deft handling of the intensely melodramatic atmosphere which he often interrupts with moments of unparalleled bizarreness. David exacerbates scenes of heightened sentimentality with audaciously maudlin music, nudging it into the realm of farce or parody. These tactics often illicit from the viewer a nervous chuckle that then grows into full throated guffaws as the scene plays out to increasingly demented proportions. The program ended abruptly after only its second season, and as it never truly revealed the mystery of Laura Palmer's murder there were substantial questions lurking in the minds of its disappointed viewers. The film set out to answer many of those questions and also manages to raise a few new ones, just to keep things interesting. Fire Walk With Me certainly isn't Lynch's finest film, and it really doesn't have to be because it only needed to conclude what the TV series had initiated. Freed from the confines of broadcast TV's censorship the film more confidently employs morally challenging, shocking elements. Nudity and profanity are effectively exploited to instill a more palpable, more visceral anxiety. Laura's sordid home life, which was only suggested in the series, is here fully revealed in all of its Freudian horror. The series leisurely developed its quirky rhythm by relying on its recurring hour long format for its unusual pacing, often taking three or four episodes to reveal a plot line. It was almost random in it's approach to narrative, jumping from one character to the next as the story veered and strayed. The film, however, is a much more focused character study with nearly every scene centered on Laura Palmer, with a single arching story line, progressively escalating in dramatic intensity. Fire Walk With Me very nearly succeeds as a fully independent film that is not entirely dependent on our familiarity with its particulars, yet it does derive much of its impact by how masterfully it takes advantage of our prior knowledge of the heroine's demise. Many films are built around the conceit that its destination is no secret, and a gifted storyteller makes that ride worthwhile. Lynch makes it thrilling. And hypnotic, and gorgeous, and entirely unique. There's no one even close to him for exploiting an audience's willingness to suspend disbelief, elegantly balancing an impossibly absurd combination of outlandish fantasy and soul gripping realism. His stunning visuals are matched by his irresistibly compelling audioscapes. Importantly, he is diligent to keep us acutely aware that what we're experiencing is in fact a contrived, fabricated illusion, which is exactly what a true artist aught to do - acknowledge the artifice of his (her) creation while dazzling us with superb technique. David understands intimately the magical & unspeakable role that cinema plays in the human psyche, and he tailors his art to our deepest desires, fears, and mysteries. It doesn't always make sense or obey common rules of logic but it is always thoroughly captivating. So even if you're baffled by the oblique plot and convoluted structure you can still be helplessly entranced by the macabre parade of lurid paranoia that marches across the screen. David Lynch's images and sounds are the best in the business. "},{"Title":"Closure","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's important to point out that FWWM does not stand by its own right; there's no point in watching it if you haven't seen the whole series first. But this prequel does more than just solve unanswered questions from the series; in fact it creates more questions than it solves, and therein lies its greatness, and Lynch's. The atmosphere is much darker than the series - much closer to Lynch films like Blue Velvet and Lost Highway - with none of the small-town quirkiness and charm, and with absolutely no comic relief, which makes it an even more difficult watch. For fans of the series, it's essential, but make sure you watch the whole series first. "},{"Title":"Beautifully disturbing. Not for everyone...","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those films that stays in your mind for days, maybe months. It can be described as haunting, disturbing, scary, hard to understand. It's typical Lynch with a macabre atmosphere surrounding it.The plot is hard to understand at first but then it gets very interesting and you get to understand the metaphors and the principal character's mental condition.There are plenty of horror elements such as B.O.B. and his freaky appearances (love the fire walk with me sequence, brrrr). There are highly sensual moments, exceptional cop investigation, and the usual WTF moments like the nightmare (it has even been parodied by The Simpsons) The ending is absolutely mind blowing and I rank it very high amongst those endings that leave you cold.The score by Angelo Baladametti is wonderful! The Direction is as always perfect. Lynch creates his own world and we are free to roam around it.Give the opportunity to this groundbreaking film. I wonder if the highly coveted Black Swan was inspired by this little gem. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, mesmerizing, and completely daring. Lynch in top form","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks has become one of my favorite television shows of all time. I watched it in the span of 3 weeks, since it was THAT engaging. I finished the series one day before watching the film, and the series finale was completely amazing, one of the best television episodes ever. Seeing the completely mixed reviews for the film made me cautious as to what type of film it would be. Would it have the same humor that the series so wonderfully had, the same characters' story lines? Well, I was blown away by the film in many ways.The film is definitely darker than the series' tone. It shows the crumbling life of Laura Palmer, and in that it works as a prequel (although it cannot be seen before the series, or else the big mystery is revealed). The film connects together all of Lynch's best qualities- suspense, mystery, horror, and surrealism perfectly together. Many will seek this film out to answer questions, yet that is not Lynch's intent. He combines to make the audience ask questions, not seek answers, and just like in his other films, he knows that what the audience doesn't understand just makes a film more mesmerizing and engaging. The film contains many horrifying scenes that prove how much Lynch has cared about this project and it's story.With this film we see with our own eyes (and not everyone else's like in the series) the type of person Laura is. She can be happy and sweet, and also very dark and fearful. Sheryl Lee really got her chance to shine here, since she is the central focus of the film and gives a completely daring and powerful performance. I was surprised to see how little the other actors from the series appeared, but in the end, this was Laura's story (although Sherilyn Fenn should have at least appeared briefly as Audrey)I am really shocked to find out that the film was booed at the Cannes Film Festival. Maybe audiences at the time were not prepared to find out the true horror to the victim's life and how flawed the victim actually was as well. However, ultimately it does not matter because this happens to be one of Lynch's best and it shows him in top form. A completely daring, mesmerizing, and truly horrifying film that will sink it's essence into your psyche "}{"Title":"I enjoyed it, but I can't love it","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" So, I'd never seen the television series before watching this film. But because it was said that having a foreknowledge of the series is good for this film, I went ahead and read the basic plot and character spoilers on Wikipedia before getting into this film.My immediate impression of this film is that it has that very noticeable David Lynch vibe from the very start. The way the movie is lit, the camera direction, the acting--all of those aspects shared similarities with the other Lynch film that I'd seen, the trippy Mulholland Drive. I guess the man's imprint is indelible. I suppose I should check out another Lynch film to make sure it's not isolated incidences.Anyway, like the other mentioned film, this one is quite surreal, although surprisingly grounded. It features the story of Laura Palmer, the murdered highschooler in the television series and what happened that caused her to die. Along the way, we meet the inhabitants of the small town of Twin Peaks. And the story unravels itself.First of all, you really do need to have seen the series to get much out of this film. I had to pause the film and look up characters and such in order to make sense of exactly what was going on at times. There are some pretty strange additional characters as well, portraying the strange otherworldly beings that inhabit the town of Twin Peaks. And then there are the regular strange inhabitants of Twin Peaks as well.Of course, all the supernatural stuff is fine and good. The artistic direction in this film is remarkably strong and sometimes Lynch pulls some impressive and surprising performances out of his actors. The story is surreal, but certainly not as crazy as what I've seen from surrealists like Luis Bunuel and it's not too hard to get a grasp of the motifs that are running through the film. There is evil and there is good and there are secrets and there are fronts. That's good.But I had some problems with the film. First of all, the opening chunk of the film is dominated by an investigation into the death of a different character. This wouldn't be a problem if it was shorter, but it was significantly long and changing gears into a completely different story left a lot of problems. Second, I know that the Agent Cooper character was central to the television series, but in this film, he served as a time-waster. We didn't need to see him or any of the FBI at all. They could easily have been excised to help keep the film moving along.The other is that, although the supernatural mystery is fine, a little more exploration into it would've been nice. And that really leads into the second problem with this film. It really should be able to stand by itself. Perhaps if it was lumped with the rest of the series, it might be fine, but as it stands, the film doesn't hold steady. No one should have to carry an episode guide and character list in order to make sense of the film, as well as an explanation of the supernatural forces that are at work in Twin Peaks.But that said, some of the moments in the film are remarkable. Especially the interaction between Laura and her father Leland. The terror that exists is palpable and it makes one of the moments, where Leland gets his head straight briefly, that much more potent. It's not naturally acted--it's almost got a soapish feel to it, but despite that, it's still emotionally convincing--and that's saying a lot.But it still can't save the film from its problems. And for that, I have to say that I enjoyed it, but I can't love it. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Forget about what critics said, and take a visit to Twin Peaks.","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire walk with me was trashed by critics. Even the AFI put it on its list of top 100 stinkers (worst movies). I totally disagree with the critics and AFI. I feel that Twin Peaks Fire walk with me is definitely a strange and unique masterpiece as only David Lynch could conjure up. The movie is a prequel to the show and deals with the bizarre disappearance of an FBI agent and later traces the final hours of Laura Palmer's life. At times it is very psychological and dark. We get to know more about Laura (Sheryl Lee) including her drug addiction, sex life and the dirty secrets of her family. We also see a slightly different side of her best friend Donna (originally played by Lara Flynn Boyle, but she turned down the part due to nudity) In order to understand the story better, Laura's father can best be compared to Bill Pullman's character in Lost Highway. This film is dark, disturbing, violent, mesmerizing and filled with dream like images that still haunt me. Twin Peaks fire walk with me is a cult masterpiece; regardless of what critics have said. Not to mention, the first half hour is somewhat humorous in a Lynch like way. In order for the film to make sense, watch the complete Twin Peaks series first before viewing the film "},{"Title":"A Few Things For the Cofused","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just watched FWWM for probably the 10th time, after having just watched the series again, and I realized that each time I come away with a bigger and bigger picture. I have never thought of the Twin Peaks saga as having a conclusive answer, and I think that's an important basic framework within which to view both the series and the film. The series has obvious inconsistencies, by virtue of its being a television show, and subject to revision and the different styles of all involved. By the same token, the film has its quirks, including Laura Flynn Boyle's replacement by Moira Kelly, and the fact that it was condensed from almost three times the final length.Regardless, I noticed a few things in this viewing of the film that I hadn't before. When Mrs. Palmer is shown in bed and she sees the horse, I always thought of it as just a weird David Lynch moment that we are not meant to understand. We must remember, though, that she is under the influence of whatever drug Leland gives her to make her sleep while he (under BOB's control) terrorizes Laura. Also, we learn early on in the series that Sarah has frequent visions/hallucinations. The significance of the white horse could be a biblical connection, a sign of a coming apocalypse of sorts (ie, Laura's murder). I find this idea interesting, as it brings in not only ideas of fire, but also the later use of angels.Laura mentions angels in her response to Donna's question about falling in space. She says that they will not help you as you fall faster and faster, bursting into flames. Near the end, Laura spirals further and further out of control, and in the train car the angel comes to Ronnette's aid, but not to hers. Once in the Black Lodge with Agt. Cooper (the good Dale that Annie speaks of), another angel appears, and Laura cries tears of joy, perhaps realizing that she was mistaken, and that in death she had been saved from Bob's clutches. The strange thing, of course, is that this all happens well before the point (in Season 2) where Cooper becomes trapped in the Lodge. Metaphysical places, however, are not necessarily bound by space-time.Other problems or confusing areas also arose this time around. First of all, in the scene where we witness Bob revealed as Leland, Laura is supposed to be asleep. This is rather hard to believe, as we see her snort three giant lines of cocaine right before this happens. Also, I find it strange that Bobby was never held accountable for the murder he commits (the victim of which is obviously not Mike, as he is alive and well in the series; is it not the sheriff's deputy from the beginning?). This part seems tacked on and out of place, but maybe next time it will make more sense.These are just some of the things I noticed, and I wanted to share them with anyone who feels frustrated by the movie. It has a very different feel from the series, to be sure, but I don't think it is so detached that it should be dismissed. For Lynch fans, and for fans of the series, there is still much food for thought, and interesting connections to be made. "},{"Title":"Everything shall move forth cyclically","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is in fact both a prequel and a conclusion to the Twin Peaks television series.  So please see the series first or it won't make sense. In fact this is one of the reasons why the film was received so badly by critics.  Many of them were unfamiliar with the schematics established by the tv series which are critically necessary for any real understanding of the film.* Spoiler Warning *As the title suggests, the Twin Peaks series was an exploration of the duality (and unity) of a range of different topics.  The series blended drama and comedy, surrealism and realism, etc.  And the series also explored a range of different subjects, such as industry vs nature, consciousness vs unconsciousness, modernism vs post-modernism, good vs bad and so on.The film Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me, was not as playful as the series. Mark Frost (creator of Hill Street Blues) added a real sense of comedy and romance to the quirky characters.  However Frost did not work on the film. And topics which were only hinted at during the series, are explored in full blown techni-colour in the film.  This makes for one of the most disturbing films ever made.  However this doesn't mean that the film is bad.  It's not for the faint of heart (or mind), but the film is an abstract masterpiece. Here Lynch is at his most innovative and his most impressive.  Often the film may appear to be too abstract, but therein lies the appeal of the film. It's unlike anything before it, and nothing (not even Lynch) has been able to create anything to reach the same heights or lows of this film.Possibly the greatest thing about the film is that it is both a conclusion and a prequel to the series.  Fans who were expecting a continuation of the the series (and possibly a resolution to Cooper being trapped in the lodge) were initially disappointed.  However upon closer investigation, the film does provide some resolution.  Cooper can now utilize his place in the black lodge to help people.  In the lodge time doesn't exist.  Is this the future or the past? This means that Cooper can help others and bring some light to the black lodge, and so can Laura.  And if Cooper had never come to the black lodge, he would never have been able to solve the murder in the first place.One of the lines which was cut out of the film featured the little man from another place stating that everything shall move forth cyclically And fans can now enjoy the series cyclically.  You can watch the series, and then the film.  And since the film doubles as both a conclusion and a prequel, you can start the series again and never lose any chronology.But do approach the film with caution.  It can get very intense and it is not for everyone. Enjoy and try not to judge the film by your first viewing. It may take a number of different approaches before you're able to truly appreciate this unique, outstanding achievement. "},{"Title":"WiTH THiss ringg...I thEEE wed.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So speaks the little man from another place.  But what about Bob?  This is the formica table...green is its colour.  They took the arm...If you're a major fan of the television show--indeed, the whole community of Twin Peaks--all that will not sound like incomprehensible garbage.  Much like every thing else David Lynch does, you have to love his stuff to see it as more than just junk.Fire, Walk With Me is a look into the last days of Laura Palmer. Unfortunately for itself it's told in prequel fashion, so that to get anything at all out of it one would have to have seen the entire series, followed it all, and enjoyed it.  For major Twin Peak fans, this film is a treat, a wonderful glimpse of the events leading up to that fateful Thursday night in February. For anyone else, it's a mishmash of strange dreams, weird people in weird places, lots of drugs and sex, apparently benign references to coffee and the FBI, and general incomprehensibility.  And that's too bad.The world of Twin Peaks, like most David Lynch worlds, is both wonderful and horrific, both real and surreal, both familiar and strange.  This film version manages to capture all of those elements, although it spends so much time in the darker half that it is easy to see how viewers can become lost, disjointed, and indifferent--perhaps even disgusted.But for myself, I loved it all.  We are faced with not just an explanation of Laura Palmer's life, but with even more questions, such as who is David Bowie's character, really; what happened to Chet Desmond; what is with the white mask the boy and the man in the red suit wear; what IS with the creamed corn; when is Dale Cooper dreaming and when is he not?The only fault I can find with the movie is that not everyone from the television show returns.  I miss the Great Northern, Ben Horne, Lucy and Andy.  But there was so much to tell, some things had to be cut...let's face it, the film's long enough as is!Like most of Lynch's best work, this challenges our perceptions of reality, but one has to look at it in the right light, that is to say one has to delve into the world and examine all possible sides.  Art is supposed to express some aspect of our humanity, and part of that is throwing out unanswered and unanswerable questions.  David Lynch does this, but one has to delve much further into his dreamlike world to realise this.  Many people are turned off by the first impressions, but many people, like myself, are very very intrigued.This film is not for all tastes, but what film is?  It is no classic, but it is worth the while if you are willing to step out of a comfortable, steady existance into the wonderful world of questioning everything...even the owls.It is a strange, frightening, funny, happy, pleasant, amiable, miserable, depressing world.  To even attempt to convey that in a single movie, let alone succeed, is admirable.And remember the Good Dale is in the Lodge and cannot leave.  Write that down in your diary. "},{"Title":"TPFWWM is one of Lynch's best","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To understand this movie, first watch Twin Peaks, then the series (available on DVD)    then Fire Walk with Me.....This is possibly Lynch's most brilliant film.  Fans of the series won't understand it, and fans of his other movies won't get it, but people who were drawn in by the original TPs will understand what Lynch was thinking. This movie is a closure of sorts, and fans of the story will be satisfied. Again, as with all of David's films, there is questions unanswered, but only to spark discussion and/or intuition. "},{"Title":"Damn good movie(SPOILER WARNING)","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing the Twin Peaks series twice, I saw TP FWWM. I love David Lynch's movies(although I only know Lost Highway, Blue Velvet and Wild at Heart), and FWWM is just as good as them.  don't like the Donna character, not just because she isn't the same, but Moira Kelly doesn't play in the same way as Lara Flynn Boyle. But Sheryl Lee is absolutely astonishing. The terror in her eyes and so on. It is a good and frightening movie. And I have to say, that I almost cried, when Laura finally finds the peace in her heart and the angel comes down to protect her. Well, the conclusion on this movie must be A damn good movie "},{"Title":"great bad great","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this at the cinema. It didn't feel like watching a movie. It felt as though I was experiencing something directly. The experience was immediate, scary and vivid. and stayed with me for weeks. This was in a way that no movie has been since the first movie I ever saw (age 4).I saw TPFWWM again on video a few years later and it seemed a bit lame.I caught it again a year ago, and it seemed like a magnificent movie again.I suspect that whether or not people like movies like this depends partly on their state of mind when watching it.This movie is unfortunately branded as Twin Peaks, a prequel to the damn fine series. For me, it was a terrifying study of incest and child abuse, which the quirky series wasn't really about at all.Having made this, Blue Velvet, Elephant Man and Mulholland Drive, I hope Lynch will go down in history as one of the all-time greats. He is so much more than the king of weird. "},{"Title":"A 10, but not to everyone.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  David Lynch makes some of the most provacative and entertaining movies of this era. It is unfortunate that most people can't except his style. If you are not willing to think a little when watching a film then you can forget about Lynch's work. Fire wallk is one of my favorite films. It is one of only a handful of films that I can watch repeatedly without getting bored. The characters and confusion of this film create an intense atmosphere for the story to work within. The film is very captivating and disturbing, but given the subject matter, it should be. This is a horror movie about the human predators that really do exist. "},{"Title":"bravado filmmaking (as expected) by David Lynch","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In 1990, there was no question on television hotter than Who killed Laura Palmer?  The master, David Lynch, finally answers the question with this 1992 feature film.From the opening shot of a television screen with a beautiful jazz score behind it to the final shot of Sheryl Lee's beautiful face, Lynch's film is filled with suspense and cool f'n imagery.  This is the way films are supposed to made, and no one does it better. "}{"Title":"Not all films are for fun","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!! ONLY FOR THOSE WHO KNOW ABOUT BOB AND EVERYTHING.Many people regard Twin Peaks -Fire walk with me  as rubbish, because it isn't as funny as the series. No, it isn't funny. Being haunted by spirits, hooked with narcotics and sexually used by own father is hardly considered funny. The film is about the last week of Laura Palmer. It explains her sudden and cruel death. I don't think there's anything funny about that.Lynch is the master of macabre suspense. He creates a dark dream world where Laura tries to struggle against her death. She knows she's going to die and she finds out who is going to kill her. She finds out who is Bob, the bogeyman who's been sexually abusing her from child and who has caused her to change from daddy's little girl to a drug-using nymphomaniac. Lynch doesn't give viewer any relief or hope that everything is going to be fine. He drags us through the living hell of Laura Palmer to her unevitable death.If you rated this film under 8, you should watch Disney's animations. Or are you afraid of the dark...side. "},{"Title":"Compelling reason to watch the series","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Who else but David Lynch could provide -- with his &#145;loose canon' of often extraordinary, often bewildering movies, that despite inciting equal measures of admiration and disgust among critics, prove nonetheless consistently popular, especially among his loyal band of fans -- a more apt definition of  the &#145;cult director'? And what other TV show but the haunting, labyrinthine, Lynch-directed Twin Peaks could  serve as a more suitable exemplar of &#145;cult TV'? Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is, critically, a risky project for Lynch. Based on the hugely popular TV show, about a rural town shaken, divided, and ultimately exposed as a result of the discovery of the dead body of Laura Palmer, a young high school student, it offers itself as a prequel, purporting to explicate the causal chain that led to the discovery of Ms Palmer's beaten, blue-lipped corpse in a plastic bag in a nearby river. The result is that any moviegoer not au fait with the series may well find themselves baffled rather than enchanted by these &#145;behind-the-scenes' shots of the town -- and events surrounding -- that regular viewers of the TV show became so involved with, and also much of the complex mythology that the series introduced, and this, in a nutshell, is probably Twin Peaks biggest flaw to form a motion picture storyline from reference to events and characters -- not to say those marked by the kind of esoteric subtlety, verging on wilful perversity that distinguished, and defined Twin Peaks, indeed Lynch's work as a whole  -- is perhaps one demand too many for the average audience to accede to. Which leads one to question whether Lynch ever intended this film for the &#145;average moviegoer' (ie non Twin Peaks aficionados.) For as a stand-alone movie, I would have to qualify with one caveat any recommendation to see Fire Walk With Me, namely; do not expect a coherent, fully-rounded, easily digestible experience. Yet it is shame, having said all of this, that such obstacles to the movie's greater dissemination into the public consciousness exist. Though hardly a departure for Lynch (the film features many of his staples -- hallucinogenic dream sequences, the exposing of facade, a wilfully scattergun approach to plot, interesting characters conversing in laconic, often abstruse bursts) it is, nevertheless, a startling watch. Say what you will about the Lynch's storytelling shortcomings, stylistically his abilities are, quite literally, there for all to see. Without recourse to computers or robotics, and as if the blue-screen never existed, he appears at least to have a startling aptitude for creating magic and suspense, weirdness and shock, using really very traditional methods. This is a wildly entertaining film in both visual and visceral respects. A major factor in its success -- particularly as regards the latter quality -- is the performance of Sheryl Lee, as the tale's tragic heroine, Laura Palmer, who seems to slink her Cocaine-addled way along a fine white line between melodrama and mawkishness, and heart pulling resonance and chilling sympathy throughout the film, more often than not coming through unscathed. There is something in her portrayal of the lost, apparently abused -- though in the fashion of the rest of the movie it is never made explicitly clear -- and drug addicted teenager, while consisting largely of anguished looks and ululatory cries, interspersed with expressions of alternately, longing and coquettishness, that leaves a imprint, a likeness on the mind after the credits have rolled, and the reason, again, conveniently conforming to the tenor of the rest of the film, is never quite clear, though she seems to fit the part unusually well, and displays a remarkable duality -- common in abuse victims -- now vulnerable and terrified, now predatory, wilful, and aggressive. Other performances are less noteworthy; singers Chris Isaak and David Bowie betray a surprising inability, especially in light of the latter's theatrical stage presence and previous acting experience, to describe interesting characters that convince the audience of doing anything more that work through their predetermined verbal and literal steps; Laura's twin love interests could conceivably (though no doubt, reluctantly) have been transplanted from the LA sets of Buffy or Dawson's Creek to the desolate environs of the rural north, and the dwarf who dwells in the apparent waiting room between life and the afterlife is, well, just plain creepy. Yet for some reason, whereas other Lynch films -- Lost Highway particularly -- left one feeling frustrated and rather cheated by the writer/director, Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me haunts, and intrigues, hallmarks of any good mystery, be it as obscure or as traditional as you like, and it is upon this predicate would I base my argument that perhaps, even if you have not seen the show, you should go and see this movie after all. Just approach it as you would, as a stranger, approach a real small, insular rural backwater like Twin Peaks with an open mind about the inhabitants and the tales they have to tell, and no prior expectation of a warm welcome, despite what it says on the sign. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mastermind Lynch makes another brilliant flick...","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The prequel to the excellent television show. One word of advice watch the tv series before the movie. Many people didn't like it because they never watched the show. People who expected a teen slasher movie were dissapointed, people who like everything explained to them were dissapointed. Only true fans of Lynch and TP would understand it right away. Overall, I give this film a ten.P.S. It also gives away who killed Laura. "},{"Title":"Excellent and heartbreaking film... some spoilers if you haven't seen it","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have read people criticizing this film due to its sole focus on Laura Palmer and its emittance of many of the characters made immortal in the television series.  I think that is missing the point of this film.  The basis for the series is the investigation of Laura Palmer's death and how this little town of Twin Peaks played a role.  It is only right, therefore, that there be a film about this poor girl who started a chain of events that captivated so many viewers.  Her character deserved her own story time and I believe TPFWWM served her well.Sheryl Lee did an amazing job as Laura, offering a very emotional and tragic portrayal of a character with the potential to be cold or just too messed up to be related to.  However, we see in this movie how heartbreaking and painful Laura's life had become and how she was aware of her downward spiral, but could not find a way to get out.  To involve Donna or James would have been to show them her level and Laura did not want them to know such a place existed.I believe the last scene of the film with Laura and Dale in the Black Lodge, when they see the angel is not a scene of hopelessness of doom, as some reviewers have said.  I believe it is a scene of redemption.  Laura is saved by her death, an escape from her pain and renewed with hope in that her angel has come for her.While many of the scenes in this movie are surreal, confusing (I still wish I knew what that blue rose meant) and indeed just bizarre... this film is not meant to be logical.  If one watches it with their emotions and heart and not just their head, I believe it is well worth the questions raised that will never be answered.   "},{"Title":"Something really rather special","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is unique. Utterly unique. As it acts as a prequel to the series, it can only be truly appreciated alongside the series itself. But aside from that, this film is quite unlike any other you will see. A definite Lynch classic. Not as surreal as Eraserhead, and slightly more down to earth than Lost Highway, this is Lynch at his surreal/realistic best. Also, it was one of the few films that made me yell aloud out of fright. I have to recommend it, but only if you've seen the whole series. "},{"Title":"Strange story told in a strange way","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What else would you expect from the master of weird movies?  This movie will be many things to many different people.  Just like all art, some will herald it as genius, and others will just dismiss it as bizarre rubbish.  I think it's somewhere in between.  Of course, you may not be able to fully appreciate everything without viewing the first movie and the TV series.  Also, many parts of this movie are not just weird, they are completely disturbing.  But I think there is definitely a good story here and of course lots of weirdness for those who are looking for that.  The music of David Lynch, Angelo Badalamenti, and the haunting voice of Julee Cruise make this movie complete!  Many outstanding performances, especially Ray Wise, who deserves an Oscar for this movie! "},{"Title":"A magic world around Laura Palmer and Twin Peaks.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a essential prequel to David Lynch's TV-series Twin Peaks. It helps us to understand that magic world created by him and showed to us during the series episodes.  It also show to us how was the life of the so polemic teenager Laura Palmer, since she was already dead when the show came to televisions.OK, I confess, it's not good as the series was, but I think this movie complements the series, so I think I'll give three full stars.By the way, I think the pop singer Chris Isaak was terrible is his role as the FBI agent. I prefer him singing. But Sheryl Lee was fantastic playing the role of Laura. She took off a tear from my eye at the ending scene, at the Black Lodge.  "},{"Title":"THE WEIRDEST MOVIE I SEEN......","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ......but weird movies are good. Something different. Something that doesn't make much sense the first time we watch it and then keeps you up all night trying to make sense of it. David Lynch does that with all of his movies ( Lost Highway, eraserhead, Blue Velvet) I like this movie the way it sort of has puzzles for you to figure that hold big pieces of the plot. Like the little midget saying he is THE ARM and how the ONE ARMED MAN cut off his arm. The midget is the ONE ARMED MAN's arm. And when agent Jefferies points at Dale copper saying  Who do you think this is referring to later on when they are  two dales in the black lodge. The good Dale and the bad Dale. This movie keeps you thinking. Its the best!-Ben Andress "},{"Title":"scariest damn movie i have ever seen","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the weirdest scariest movie i have ever seen. If you liked Blue Velvet you will love this. It has some great visuals also. If you do watch this movie watch it in the daytime. I was personally too scared to get up and turn off the tv. "},{"Title":"nothing short of exceptional","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, this movie doesn't come to explain the series as some might suggest. Twin Peaks shouldn't be explained. Its greatness is in the different interpretations it offers. FWWM is a ballad to the dead Laura Palmer. Lynch created her, and now he has brought her to her death and final redemption in the most beautiful and touching style. This is not a TP movie. Most of the main characters are left out. This movie is Lynch dealing with Laura's persona and he does it with such care and loving that its a joy to watch. However, if you haven't watched he series (or you watched it casually) the film might seem like a boring and pretentious mess. This film aims strictly for TP fans. Even Lynch fans should steer away.   "}{"Title":"While this answered some questions......","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"   Okay, while this answered some of the questions of Twin Peaks, it brought up even more. We found out more about Laura Palmer, but David Lynch took us down a intreging and confusing path once again. All in all a good movie, but the show hooked you more. This movie left me, and I'm sure others, with one big question; what did the blue rose mean? So while a good movie, it didn't answer a lot of the questions your left with after watching Twin Peaks.  "},{"Title":"If you like surreal movies... this is a masterpiece","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you don't... you're out of luck.This is definitely one of the most haunting movies I've seen. I've never even saw the television series, and I still love this film. The scenes with David Bowie are the most intense moments in cinema I've witnessed. It leaves you with a mystery inside your head, and you won't be able to shake it's images for days. I loved it. "},{"Title":"overlooked masterpiece....","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a fan of the highly influential (and years ahead of its time) tv show, Twin Peaks, I might be a bit biased.  But as a stand alone film, David Lynch has constructed a brilliant, haunting portrait of a family ripping apart at the seams, and a look at an sickening underworld in small town USA.  Laura Palmer - all American girl, prom queen, drug addict, victim of incest - became a household name with her televised death in 1991.  In the film version, Lynch shows us the troubled events leading up to her death/murder.Once again, Lynch leaves the viewer reeling with his stunning visuals.  He is a true artist.  Who else on the planet could show a simple streetlight wavering in the wind and have it evoke so many different emotions - fear, sadness, anticipation. Though not always cohesive, Fire Walk with Me is never anything less than compelling.  A true masterpiece, perhaps the best film of the decade. "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite movie.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's hard to explain, but this is probably my favorite live action (Anime is another catagory altogether) movie. If you go a Twin Peaks web page and read the FAQ about the series and this movie, it will just blow your mind.  It's so dang complicated it makes your mind do jumping jacks. Only certain times can I watch this movie though, you have to be in the right mood.  Sometimes I have turn it off and put in a John Woo flick or Shaft or something because I can't take it.  But every once in a while, something about me and Twin Peaks just clicks and I'm in heaven... "},{"Title":"mysterious","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  TP is a modern mystery.  The majority of people who watch this did not fully take into account the initial line of the journey, and are hence ignorant towards the content and techniques employed by Lynch in this version.  The aim of this mysterious drama is to inspire the audience to think.  The audience will contemplate and devise means of understanding. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie before I ever rented the T.V. mini-series.  I never realized until I saw this movie why people even bothered with film making. I was hysterical for about twenty minutes after it ended.  This is the king of psychological thrillers.  If not, it will at least give you the creeps. It takes the open-minded viewer into a world never before realized, except perhaps by the subconscious mind.  Lynch has redefined expression through film. "},{"Title":"nightmarish teenage","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is highly underrated, thats true. But for a peaks freak who loved to watch the famous tv series again and again and again while eating loads of donuts and drinking to much coffee this is pure cinematic LSD... It is just like you would have entered the black lodge in the forest of Twin Peaks and left it on the wrong side. It is madness. It is pretty unreal and it tastes much more bitter than the sweet-cherry-pie-tv-stuff... It seems they have used a different set-design to the tv series sometimes... Some parts of this movie have to be classic. There are so beautiful scenes in this movies which are meant for a best-of-lynch-gallery. But I recognized that the audience at a local cinema wasnt able to follow the whole thing entirely. 135 min. have been to much to a lot of german people. But I loved it. It was ... a ride ... again. It was terrible but it was beautiful. I loved it. Some of my favorite movies so far. I saw myself in it. And I was shocked. Thanks, mr. Lynch, You described it as a cherry-pie to all this furious Peaks Freaks out there and it was that way. But you gave some LSD in the cherry pie. This is one of the Lynch-Movies which I am not going to show Spielberg-Lovers. I guess they wont like it as much as e.g. Blue velvet... by the way Lynch has gone HARDCORE in the 90s, hasnt he? TWIN PEAKS-FIRE WALK WITH ME / LOST HIGHWAY - these have been dark and surrealistic movies, very frightning.  "},{"Title":"completely different approach to moviemaking","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I LOVED this movie. there's so much to absorb and each time I watch it, i discover something new.  I have never seen the tv series, but after watching this, I am trying to track down a copy! Many people will say it didn't make much sense, but if you know David Lynch, I don't think it was supposed to.  His movies are bizarre by nature! There was a lot cut from the movie, but who cares, it entertained me from beginning to end. The Black Lodge scenes were my favorite, with the creepy characters recorded talking backwards.  And I really enjoyed the overall eerie effect this movie had, with so many odd, out-of-place things.  It may sound crazy, but there were parts of this movie that gave me the chills the way no other movie has.  I screamed along with Laura when 'Bob' was behind her bureau. The David Bowie scene was another weird one. So the movie has twists and turns; so it doesn't wrap up in a neat little package for you and let you leave the theater content and never give it a second thought.  It challenges you to use your brain.  Not many movies let you do that, most just tell one story and are forgotten.  This movie was on my brain for weeks and still is and I am STILL recommending it years after I have seen it!  A creative masterpiece!!!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding music track; one for Twin Peaks tv fans.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Upon seeing this a second time, it became apparent how sensitively and affectingly the music illuminated the action.  Outstanding work!Twin Peaks on television dwelt with the question, Who killed Laura Palmer? who appeared only as a corpse in the first episode.  This movie followed the tv series and answered the questions of who was Laura Palmer, how she came to her untimely end, and who would reach out to her in death to understand and to bring justice.I can't predict how someone not familiar with Laura Palmer's milieu in the tv series might respond to this follow-on effort.  Suffice it to say, this movie was made with the same care, originality, and quirkiness as the tv series.Definitely a must for Twin Peaks devotees.    "},{"Title":"Strange, but very catching","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this film at least ten times. The series I have seen 3 times, every single time something really bad happened with one of my family members. It just realy catches me. Curious as I am, I want to know what happened in little town twin-peaks. It puzzles me, I can't figure it out. Every time I think I know what exactly happened, I come up with more questions. The whole story is so full of fear you can't seem to catch. That's what I think is so great about Lynch. He tries to tell you something, but doesn't tell what it is. The scene, Bob is in the mirror in the car when the car is at the traffic-lights next to the one armed-man. The scene when Laura comes home and finds her dad to be Bob. It's creepy. I love it. Can't explain why, just do. "}{"Title":"The most underrated movie of the 90's","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of the most critically panned movies of the decade, but only because the world's film critics are too full of their own self-importance to bother watching a masterful TV series like Twin Peaks. All Twin Peaks fans know that this movie is monumental enough to transcend criticism, sure it makes no sense to those who have never seen the TV series, but those people have never lived anyway. Twin Peaks FWWM, brings a genuine sense of tragic martyrdom to the death of Laura Palmer, as well as being one of the scariest, most surreal and atmospheric movies ever made. Never seen Twin Peaks? Watch the TV series on video first, and then see this incredible prequel.  "},{"Title":"A trip through the dark side of our soul.","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Quite simply, one of the best movies I have ever seen, and, in my opinion, ever made. Too bad that the mass market is brain-dead and cannot appreciate the intricacies of FWWM. Simply put, a masterpiece. If you like true psychological thriller, and want something more than the tame and pale successor to Twin Peaks, The X-Files, then Fire Walk With me is for you. Once you see it, you will never go back. "},{"Title":"Lynch rocks!","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's easy to see why Fire Walk With Me flopped. The TV studio messed around with series 2, putting it on at different times so eventually very few people could actually catch up with it. They also pressured David Lynch and Mark Frost to reveal Laura's killer (who was never supposed to be revealed) too early. All of these cock-ups resulted in the show being tragically cancelled and panned. However, David Lynch didn't want to end it all there, and wished to explore more of his fascinating, almost martyr-like character, Laura Palmer. The girl who was the name on everyone's lips throughout the show. Unfortunately though no one seemed to get the visual reference in the opening of the film, where a TV blows up, thus the film received a cold reception. It goes in a different, darker direction to the TV series and ties up very few loose ends which no one seemed to like. However, I'm sure that if people opened their minds and expected something darker in tone, then they would've found a lot to like. Because I found plenty.I loved Twin Peaks, especially its masterfully nightmarish finale and also love David Lynch. I think he's one of the greatest directors of all time. He understands that film is a true form of art, thus he creates incredible moods in his films. They're more like experiences, and aren't supposed to be fully understood. Half the time he does something surreal because it feels right and it really does! Fire Walk With Me is a surreal near-masterpiece. If it was an episode, then it would by far be the best. It rightly leaves the show's comedy elements behind and delves down an incredibly dark and often sad path. It's not very often that I say a film over two hours didn't feel long enough, but here I can proudly say that. Fire Walk With Me just seemed to get better and better as it went on.The film opens strangely. It introduces two new detective characters, investigating a suspiciously similar murder to Laura's in a suspiciously similar town to Twin Peaks. However, this town isn't the charming town that Twin Peaks is. It's a much grimier, darker and depressed land where every place has adverse names. The locals are also weirder and angrier, which is understandable if they live in a caravan site called, Fat Trout Trailer Park. It's a suitably strange opening that seems to have little to do with the film that follows. Nevertheless it is very interesting and evokes a strange atmosphere, just like Twin Peaks did. The film also reaches its surrealist high point which I won't spoil. All I'll say is that it features the wonderful Dale Cooper, David Bowie, a security camera and the black lodge to a seriously unsettling effect. The film is full of strange moments, but this is one of the most frightening.After this though, the film really starts. It's one year later and we see the iconic Twin Peaks sign alongside Angelo Badalamenti's incredible score... It feels like we're back home. However, Fire Walk With Me presents Twin Peaks as a much more sinister town. We don't get comic relief from supporting characters, we just become immersed in Laura Palmer's world. Despite being dead in the series, Laura was always the most interesting character and here we really get to delve into her wonderful character. There's a very sad atmosphere throughout the film, because we know how it's all going to end. Laura's life is really quite a mad one. She's basically a cocaine-addicted prostitute, yet she's only a girl who's crying out for help. No one really knows her, not even her best friend Donna who is the opposite of the seductive Laura.Fire Walk With Me is full of masterful sequences. Of course there are those wonderful dream scenes which David does so well, but there are also some intense moments too. One of my favourite moments is when Leland is toying with Laura at the dinner table. The atmosphere is so suffocating in that scene, it's so powerful. Laura's final moments are also very dark and powerful stuff. The splashes of heavy surrealism and symbolism also make the film even deeper, richer and sensuous. Who exactly is BOB? Is he real, or is he a metaphor for the evil inside us? What is the black lodge? Who is The Man From Another Place? All of these elements (and many more) serve to make Fire Walk With Me a memorable and unsettling experience.The complaints I have with the film are minor. I would've liked more scenes with BOB because I just think he's such a fascinating and frankly frightening villain. I also would've liked more evidence of the love between Laura and James Hurley, but this doesn't hurt the film much at all. Fire Walk With Me is a flawed masterpiece from David Lynch. it's got a strong nightmarish atmosphere and is full of amazing immersing moments such as the hypnotic stroboscopic bar scene. It's a wonderful companion piece to the series. Fire Walk With Me is a strange and unforgettable journey which really gets under your skin and stays there. I thought the ending was pretty much perfect. Tragically sad and powerful, yet strangely hopeful. I'll look forward to experiencing it all again, as I thin it's something that will get better with repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Masterpiece...","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I haven't yet seen Twin Peaks TV series yet, but since Mark Kermode in his blog recommended his listeners to watch Twink Peaks Fire Walk With Me without seeing the show, I checked it out. And I loved it. It's easily my one of my favorite David Lynch film up there with Blue Velvet and Elephant Man. Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is a perfect example of atmospheric, surreal horror at it's very best. I loved the creepy and unsettling images, the otherworldly performances by the cast and Lynch's flawless direction. Yes, it doesn't make that much sense, but here the plot isn't whats important. The character of Laura Palmer and the atmosphere are the elements you should be focusing on, rather than trying to piece together what's going on. The central performance by Sheryl Lee is absolutely great. I love very intense, operatic performances, especially if they are done in David Lynch/David Cronnenberg films. The only problem with the cast is the age of so called teenagers. Sheryl Lee looks slightly too old for the character she was playing, but that didn't bother me that much since she completely immersed me with her exceptional performance. The supporting cast provide your usual types of performance you would see in David Lynch's films. From terrifying and creepy to goofy. Watch out for the appearance by David Bowie and enjoy the terrible line deliveries by Mr. Lynch himself.Everything about Fire Walk With Me worked. The soundtrack was exceptional and created a very strange mood that's both unsettling and very relaxing at the same time. Visually it's as good looking as other works from Lynch. It's absolutely beautifully shot and the surreal atmosphere just draws you in as you watch it. There are many problems with it but they just didn't bother me at all. I never try to focus too much on the plot in David Lynch films or try to understand everything about them. I just let the dreamlike world to draw me in and just enjoy the film for what it is. Then after I have seen it, I would try to piece it together.Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is a standalone film that doesn't require seeing the TV series at all. And go watch as a standalone film and forget that the show ever existed. If you can do that, you will significantly increase the chance of enjoying this great film for what it is. If you can't stand the work of David Lynch, then stay away from it because it will only cause you pain. "},{"Title":"The circle of mystery","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There are many interpretations to this movie. The first time I saw Fire, Walk With Me, I didn't remember much from the series, so the movie didn't make any sense whatsoever. It seemed exceedingly self-indulgent and completely gratuitous in its violence, condescending, weird just for the sake of being weird. There was no punch line, no explanation. I didn't realize the movie was both a prequel AND a sequel to the series, and in fact everything makes sense, except a few details, which Lynch was going to elaborate on in further films. Unfortunately, due to the poor response, that didn't happen. There is powerful imagery here, and Lynch has this unique ability (I'm referring strictly to the Twin Peaks franchise) to be incredibly disturbing on a visceral level without resorting to cheap shocks. I don't know how he does it. Some scenes are harrowing, with a genuine feel of terror and desperation. The whole experience is eerie and frightening, sometimes funny, especially in the first half, which has a different tone. The only problem is with Lara Flynn Boyle's replacement- it's awkward and difficult to accept another actress playing the same role. The film can be discussed forever (isn't that a hallmark of good cinema?), just watch it after you've seen the series. "},{"Title":"Meet Laura Palmer....","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all those thinking about seeing their first Lynch film or checking out the whole Twin Peaks world this is probably not the film to start. This is simply a delicious treat for people who have followed the show and finally get a chance to meet Laura Palmer and see her last week on earth. After taking in the whole series, I was approaching the film with a little anxiety as throughout the show due to the constant stories and visual reminders of Laura Palmer I had build an idea of what she would be like in my mind, I was hoping I would not be disappointed. However what I have found since discovering David Lynch and his work, he has rarely disappointed. Sheryl Lee gives a brave and full on performance as the beautiful, lonely and disturbed Laura Palmer. She gives an outstanding performance of a girl on the edge, losing her grip on reality and pushing those who love her away and herself towards a path of destruction. Fans of Lynch will know all his trademarks are here. Its sensual, erotic, violent, weird, scary, unsettling, humorous and although answers some questions lingering from the show, brings up new ones. The inventive use of image and sound to set an unsettling tone which most directors don't know how to do now. It has scenes that stick in the mind - for instance a beautiful and sad moment as Laura walks into a club to meet some men who are going to pay her for sex and as a sad song is being sung and she breaks down crying and the extended scene in the sex club, with the almost hypnotic music pounding away and the use of subtitles as we can't really here what the actors are saying.When the movie finished it made me want to go and watch the series all over again! Thank you David Lynch and Sheryl Lee this is what I was hoping to see. "},{"Title":"Absolutely gorgeous film in all regards!","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Fire Walk With Me holds a bizarre place in the halls of the Twin Peaks cannon--for some it is terrible, unclear, and the tone veers too much from that of the series. However, for myself, I found Fire Walk With Me to be the most rewarding and satisfying of Lynch's films.It is tempting to approach the movie with analytical feelers, intellectualizing certain abstract images and sounds into concrete plot points. For some I'm sure this works, but it also threatens to minimize the impact of the images and sounds. This is a film that you have to surrender yourself to--you have to have decent volume on a clear system, with an immersive picture. You have to trap yourself in the film. If you do, the rewards are glorious--some of Lynch's most beautiful, soul-stirring images, sounds that summon great swells of emotion within, and performances that create characters so complete and so tragic that you cannot help but connect with them.Sure this review may sound like one of a fanatic fan, and indeed it may just be--but you owe it to yourself to live in the world of Twin Peaks one last time in Fire Walk With Me. Don't let the negative reviews deter you from seeing the triumph that is the artistry of this film. I can only thank David Lynch and the actors, mostly Sheryl Lee and Ray Wise, who create such a magnificent work. It is truly spectacular in all regards. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fascinating","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch is a genius. A mini series is a very difficult genre because each episode is rather long and must end with some unsolved suspense. Moreover altogether it is many hours on one single essential piece of suspense and it runs the risk of getting boring, of slowing down and of losing interest for the audience. What's more that genre is used quite a lot on American television with the soap operas. That miniseries also runs the risk of being compared today with the film, and of course it is. The film is short, dynamic and to the point all the time, perfectly concentrating on one single line of suspense. So what can David Lynch do to rejuvenate the genre, to regenerate the rules and inspiration of that genre? He does a lot and that's where he becomes a genius. First he embeds in his own miniseries short scene of a standard soap opera as the counterpoint of his own work. Then he multiplies allusions, visual or not, text or images or music, to many other series and authors. For one example the appearing of a black raven here and there is similar to the use of that animal in some of Stephen King's films or books. But these allusions are never comical, never derogatory. They are always there to provide the film with more depth, a cultural depth that I call a cultural ellipse. Those who see the ellipse get to that depth. Those who don't see it don't miss anything in the meaning of the film itself. But the best part of this series is the way the actors are directed. The scenes are systematically banal, standard, very trite even, especially the dialogue, and these scenes and these dialogues have been used many times in many TV series or films. But the actors are directed in such a way that the satire that could appear in these scenes is totally defused because the actors play them in an absolutely serious, truthful and even sincere way. Finally the various episodes are so inventive in surprises and even shocking revelations that we are really taken along in quite a dynamic way. So that watching the series after the film is quite interesting because of all the levels the film was obliged to push aside and that are developed here in full length, particularly all the elements showing the ugliness of life in this small community torn apart by rivalries and hatreds among the people, especially those who have some responsibility as for the future of the community itself. So get to it and enjoy it, especially if you like the succulent and over-ripe style that David Lynch uses so often.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Come on, Bob, Light my fire (DVD)","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was my first steps with the Twin Peaks and the David Lynch universes.As it is a prequel to the show, I couldn't be deceived by failed expectations like the already fans and on contrary, it was the movie which inspire me to watch more.If movie and show are a bit different, they share the same qualities great artistic vision, great songs, great music, great locations, great mystery, brilliant play with ideas (ex the Duality Giant-Dwarf; Fire-Water; Black lodge-White lodge; Sweet social mask-Dark personal truth.When you got tons of scary movies without substance or poetry, Fire walk with me looks like a gifted one each scene is deep and makes echo to something bigger. Even the opening credits is crafted moving sad music in a world of blue, that appears to be a blank television screen, which is violently crashed by a hatchet For a French critic, it is a message for the liberty and power of cinema directors against the television world. This constant dual voice is great what's on screen works by itself and symbolizes something else.This deep texture is strengthened by the artistic writing what is normal looks abnormal (the family relationships, the high-school,...) and what is extraordinary looks ordinary (the spirits a old woman, a jazzy dwarf; their hide-outs a store, a living-room,...). Again, a duel...So, if you want to share a great experience, let you consume by this fire.... "},{"Title":"Sleeping with Bob","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a big fan of the original TV show I had to see this movie. A lot of people said, that FWWM sucks, but I decided to give it a shot. The TV show really impressed me, so I expected a lot from this movie.Fire walk with me is a prequel to the Twin Peaks show and it's focusing on few events, leading to the beginning of the TV show.1. One year before the mysterious murder of Laura Palmer, a young night - shift waitress Teresa Banks is murdered in the small Town Deer Meadow. Two FBI agents are called to investigate the murder and one of them soon finds a clue to the mystery. But soon after that he disappear without a trace. Agent Dale Cooper from FBI is sent into investigation to find out what happened to the missing agent.2. One year later, we are witnesses the last days of Laura Palmer, a 17 - year old high - school girl, popular among everybody, but with a lot of emotional problems. She's fighting with her addiction to drugs and prostitution. What's even worse, she is seeing a creepy figure of mysterious Bob, who tries to take her soul. Later on the movie is showing events, leading to Laura's tragic death.FWWM is really a dark, depressing and disturbing movie with a lot of old characters, but now everything is more focused on Laura Palmer and her life. They are some small roles of some characters from the TV show (Kyle MacLahnan, Mdchen Amick, Eric DaRe) in much more darker tone, but most of the time everything is focused on relationship between Laura, Leland and scary demon Bob. There is a lot of controversy in the movie (incest, drugs and prostitution among the young people) and that's why many people didn't like it. It's quite understandable, because this movie is not like a Twin Peaks TV Show. It doesn't have any humor, funny characters or even easy story to watch. But overall the movie is great. It shows the real face of Twin Peaks and I like dark, disturbing stories... FWWM is like that. Dark, disturbing, not easy to watch, brutal and violent.Music is also much more darker and brings a serious tone to the movie. There is a lot of excellent scenes in the movie; the most tragic scene is the performance of Julee Cruise & The Band and showing Laura crying at the same time to the sad song. There are also a lot scenes with secrets and codes, so the movie can be interpreted in many ways. And that's what's great about this movie. When you see it, you don't forget it. There is so much opened material in this movie you can't even imagine. I find it challenging to decode everything in the movie and trying to find my own interpretation of the events. FWWM is the most intelligent teen - slasher movie I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"Darker than dark","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Characteristic of David Lynch, this film is typically surreal and blacker than the sky on a moonless night.Following up on the TV series this film picks up before the series started and explains it all. I doubt very much that Fire Walk With Me stands up on its own but it does stand as very much more than a TV spin off.*spoiler alert* The mystery of who killed Laura Palmer that ran through the series (if anyone has not seen the series - sorry she does die at the end) is explained here. What we see is her slide toward the inevitable conclusion. What should be tender and romantic, sometimes even erotic is crude and seedy and often just nasty. This is as it should be.As we saw on TV a steady stream of hints is presented as to who her killer would be. It is a testimony to the vision of David Lynch that I was able to identify the killer early in the series, this being down to a professional familiarity with some of these matters. Even the red herrings could not throw me off because they only ever seemed to be an irrelevant distraction. This standard of observation is carried forward into the spin off movie.Missing for fans of the series are some of the side characters and sub plots, so don't come expecting to learn much more about the mill or the hotel or whatever. The biggest disappointment is that there was never a second film to follow up on some of those. There are a lot of unanswered questions (where did the missing FBI agents go - what about the paper letters - what does the blue rose mean). What the film does deal with makes sense of some of the key mysteries of the TV series. As far as it goes this is a fine piece of work. "},{"Title":"A certain must for Twin Peaks fans","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Being an avid fan of the cult series Twin Peaks, the prequel movie Fire Walk With Me was greatly anticipated and received. I do believe watching the series first will help the viewer understand the movie a lot better. And despite the one major question being answered Who killed Laura Palmer? in the wake of it's revelation it leaves more questions to be asked. Different people have different views and opinions on what the whole Twin Peaks thing is about. I believe that this is part of the beauty of both the movie and the series, Lynch leaves it up to you to decide what you think has really happened. As with other works i.e Mullholland Drive your own interpretation is a key element to the enjoyment of the film. Sheryl Lee really bought Laura Palmer to life for me, and although she featured in the series as Madeline (laura's cousin) she was somewhat missing in the T.V show, here in Fire Walk With Me you can really start to understand Laura Palmer and all the darkness that lies around her. The now dead Frank Silva who plays BOB is in my mind on of the most frighting characters in film history. With other great performances from the likes of Ray Wise, Kyle MacLachlan and David Lynch himself this is a must see for Twin Peaks fans who want to gain access to the last seven days leading up to the death of Laura Palmer. A haunting classic with some answers, but not enough. 10/10. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's most underrated film","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had heard Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me wasn't that good at all. I didn't have high expectations, but it turned out to be amazing.The film came after the cancellation of the series, but instead of answering questions about the cliff hanger ending of the series, David Lynch went back to his original vision and made the film about the last 7 days of Laura Palmer's life.Sheryl Lee gives an incredible performance as Laura Palmer, and its truly a shame she wasn't given an Oscar Nomination since she truly deserved one. I think that her performances helps make this movie as brilliant as it is. Ray Wise as Leland Palmer was also fantastic.The film definitely has its Lynch trademarks with symbolism and not giving answers for everything, which in my opinion, also helps make this a masterpiece. A great companion to the series, and definitely one of the best movies based on a TV series. I also think its David Lynch's best film, closely followed by Blue Velvet. 10/10. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem.","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When this film came out it was panned by the critics, why? well because it was different, weird & surreal. David lynch is one of the masters of surreal cinema, & in Fire Walk With Me he takes the viewer into dark territory, the film has a dream like quality, it also has a sinister under layer which i found appealing, its hard to categorise this film, it's part mystery, part horror, it's got a bit of romance & it's also quite funny, it mixes all these aspects & the result is another Lynch masterpiece. I first saw this film when it came out back in 1992 & i knew i witnessed something special, when i revisit the film i always get something new from it. The film ages like a fine wine the older it gets the better it is. Do yourself a favour check it out, but remember watch it with an open mind! "},{"Title":"I have always loved this movie","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was a fan of the show from the moment it went on the air! I got a little bored of it however once they solved the mystery of Laura Palmer. The show ended with a cliff hanger. To me it is still a cliff hanger. However the cliffhanger may be solved if the deleted footage of Fire walk with me ever gets released! However on with the review.Now if you ever want to watch this without seeing the TV show your making a big mistake! You should watch the first 7 episodes of the TV show and then watch Season 2 until the murder of Laura Palmer is solved.Now I always loved this movie. My only complaint is that Lara Flynn Boyle is not in the movie! She played Lauras best friend in the TV Show but is replaced here by Moira Kelly.The first part of the movie is fine! Lots of fans hate it. I do not understand that! I thought it was great! However all of these people were never not from THE TV SHOW! So I think this p-o'd fans of the TV Show! The movie is creepy and has aloud sound-mix. You should watch this with a home theater strand sound system! It rocks! The cast does a great job. "},{"Title":"I smell the smoke... I see the fire.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love the people who try to write out a plot synopsis for David Lynch movies. They only sound jumbled, confusing and morbid, and though those are words synonymous with the incredible writer/director/producer, they miss the point. David Lynch isn't the kind of filmmaker who produces a point A to point B story. He is an abstract artist painting a picture of the human condition. Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me may be a depiction of the final days of Laura Palmer and a last hurrah for a beloved series, but at its heart, it's a portrait of an abused and very deeply disturbed woman. I watched this movie without having ever seen the series, and I have to admit the first time took me aback with the film's shocking and often abrasive imagery as well as it's... unique... dialog, which can at times seem over-the-top or even corny, but after the second, third, and eventually fourth viewings, the film became a world unto itself filled with both beautiful and disturbing scenes accompanied by creative dialog that accentuates the condition of each character. Don't see this movie with expectations in comparison to the series (which this film inspired me to watch) and don't see this movie casual pop-corn thriller. Make an event out of it because what you'll get is a thought-provoking probe into the insanity of a genius at the peak of his craft. "},{"Title":"Teresa Banks and the Last Seven Days of Laura Palmer","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As the title implies, this film is a prelude to the cult TV series 'Twin Peaks'. Unlike the TV show, however, this film delves into the brutal, and shocking aspects that could never be shown on primetime. It is a masterful companion piece to the TV show, and a must-see for any fan of 'Twin Peaks'.As a stand alone film, tho, many viewers will be scratching their heads and wondering what just happened? If you're not familiar with the Twin Peaks universe, you will undoubtedly feel lost by the story, and even full-fledged fans come away with only slightly more insight into the story told.However, David Lynch fans will not be turned off by such things as coherent plot and logical progression. This is true Lynch-ian movie making, right here. And, only David Lynch knows just how much of this film is meant to be deciphered, and how much is just surreal experience. Whatever answers anyone seeks, to questions about Lynch films, will go unanswered as Lynch himself refuses to interpret what motivates the characters in his films, leaving every viewer to come to his and her own conclusions.The acting is top-notch, and Sheryl Lee has the most demanding role in the film (and probably of her career) as the doomed Laura Palmer. It's a brutal film, and has some truly terrifying and heart-wrenching moments. Beware, this isn't a big-screen version of kooky Agent Dale Cooper and his love of apple pie. It's a psychosexual thriller dealing with sex, drugs, murder, and (finally) some of the most vile acts that can be committed. One has to wonder how Lynch managed to successfully pitch these topics for television 15 years ago.Angelo Badalamenti's ethereal and jazzy score add wonderfully to the feel of the movie, and the sound editing is genius. Who else but Lynch can make an entire scene, where all the dialog is drowned out by music in a nightclub, work? Or, score a scene with such nuance that it inspires dread without hitting you over the head with a 52-piece orchestra? This film isn't for everyone. And, judging from the critical drubbing it took, it's likely you may not enjoy it either. It is my favorite David Lynch film, however. And, love it or hate it, parts of this film will stick inside your head for a good while afterwards. "},{"Title":"Neo-Gothic-Archetypal Horror","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a horrific film. The whole Twin Peaks phenomenon to which I was a young participant in the early '90s' is a disturbed, in-depth study of a case of long-term paedophillic incest and physical torturous abuse of a struggling and high-achieving teenage girl by her strongly socio-and-psychopathic, high-standing, serial killer father.The scene where Leyland is ?Zeus? being pulled by a chariot of Laura and Ronette is pure neo-Gothic-archetypal horror that I don't believe I have seen so intensely portrayed in any other scene in cinema.The fact that the young Jennifer Lynch, David's daughter, wrote the book of Laura's Diary where the torturous abuse is described in almost unbearable detail something that is not mentioned in the film or TV series is a relevant and intriguing fact.The film is discheveled and more so than an average surreal Lynch film, although it turning into a more intense study of Laura's death for already fans is captivating in its entrancement.Leyland dies, in the story to which this is a prequel. That is a final event that without judgement will cease this case, however affected Agent Cooper was by the affair.Heather Graham gets another good role in this cult.--- by Jerome, computer coder, author, and voter of 1,000 films. "},{"Title":"Unjustly Maligned","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Fire Walk With Me, the prequel to Lynch's Twin Peaks, is an unjustly maligned masterpiece, which, though it lacks the raw energy of Blue Velvet or the maturity of Mulholland Dr. and The Straight Story, is nevertheless among the man's best work. It's also as bizarre as Eraserhead; he just happened to have a more sure directorial hand at this point in time. The opening section, involving Chester Desmond and the search for Teresa Banks is, probably, one of the best pieces of film-making that Lynch has ever produced. It's funny, surreal, and terrifying (those scenes in the trailer park give me the heebie jeebies just thinking about them). Lil the Dancer is also a brilliant addition (and Lynch's performance as Gordon Cole is luminous as well, but we knew that already from his appearances on the television show). The rest of the movie is no slouch either. It's a fascinating dissection of what we've already seen, in part, in the television show--the disintegration of the Palmer family. In Fire Walk With Me, though, there's more emotion (told as it is from the family's perspective and not the Agent Cooper's) and more release. The film is a sad one, despite its uses of irony and the absurd, which is what separates it from the television show. That Fire Walk With Me has feeling, I think, it what places it in the upper-echelon of Lynch's films. His best films have emotion--and very visceral emotion--while his weaker films feel, as Roger Ebert described Lost Highway, like kissing a mirror. "},{"Title":"One of a Kind","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I LOVED this movie! There really aren't very many movies out there that are weird and mysterious in the way Twin Peaks was. It always left you with the element of surprise. And quite frankly, i like the fact that you really don't know whats going on until the end of the movie. A lot of movies you don't even really have to pay attention to, and you still know whats going on, where this movie you basically have to be GLUED to, or else you're lost. David Lynch is a genius! This movie, Blue Velvet, and Mullholland Drive are masterpieces! I think more movie makers should take a note or two from Lynch. This is definitely going to be scored in my top 10 of favorite movies. Its just brilliant, and unlike anything I've ever seen. i would recommend this movie to anyone who likes mysteries and....well just weird things. "}{"Title":"Surreal, Mystifying and Creepy","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For those who are not familiar with the works of David Lynch, or the television show Twin Peaks, then Twin PeaksFire Walk With Me may go over your head and make you look at the screen, wondering what the hell did you just watch. On the other hand, you may want to watch it over and over again to try to figure it out, or watch the series.Although the film starts with a body floating in the river and the mysterious disappearance of an FBI agent, the gist of the film is in regard to the final days of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee). Laura may have the looks of a homecoming queen, but she is far from innocent she's a chain-smoking, coke-snorting, hussy. Anyone can tell you that leading this type of double-life will lead to a dead end. And the catalyst involves her father Leland Palmer (Ray Wise)and the mysterious Bob (Frank Silva).Any Lynch fan knows and expects some weird imagery and even weirder characters. For the novice, this may prove to be a tad too much. If you haven't seen the series, you may want to check this out while watching the episodes. Fans of the series will be disappointed when many of the series characters never appear in the movie, and Agent Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan)is only in it for a few moments. Worth a peek. "},{"Title":"Surreal, perplexing and highly underrated","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a pretty big Lynch and Twin Peaks fan I suppose it's no surprise that I thought this was one of the most wonderful films I've ever seen. Memorable imagery, genuine scares and enough bizarre happenings to render the film eminently re-watchable. Lynch's distinctive style is very evident and it's safe to assume if you enjoy films such as Lost Highway and Mulholland Drive (or perhaps are a fan or surrealists like Jodorowsky and Bunuel) you'll enjoy this film. Word of warning - it helps to watch the TV series in it's entirety before watching this. It'd be time well spent. My friends and I got through the full 30 episodes and feature film and it's safe to say we emerged has major fans. Perhaps not to everyone's tastes but for those who are tired of the linear and obvious films mass produced by Hollywood it's a welcome change like all Lynch's work. "},{"Title":"Explore your Subconscious with another Lynch Masterpiece","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot say enough about this film that has not already been said. I feel like the personal impact on my life is where I can add unique information.To me personally I was no moved by this film I was up the entire night thinking about it. I'm not going to say much other then this  Do not deny yourself the pleasure of this file. Also note This is absolutely not suitable for children or people who are easily shaken.Also, I am very upset that the extra footage is NOT AVAILABLE in any format that I am aware of. I have seen some rare photos from filming but I firmly believe we should not be denied this extra footage.Kind Regards, Damon Carr CEO http//www.agilefactor.com  "},{"Title":"This film has remained my all-time favorite.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Twin PeaksFire Walk With Me may be the most underrated film in history. I have seen the entire television series several times, and this film is an outstanding prequel. From the acting of an incredible cast to the award-winning style of direction by David Lynch, and from the haunting mood set by Angelo Badalamenti's heartbreaking musical compositions to the realistically offbeat screenplay scripted by Lynch and Robert Engels, this unique film easily rivals other Lynch classics such as Blue Velvet and Eraserhead, whether you have seen the Twin Peaks television series or not. It has the absurdities of A Clockwork Orange and Pink Floyd-The Wall, the sorrow of Boys Don't Cry, the shock value of Pulp Fiction and Wild at Heart, and the humor of Fargo. A very distinct feeling is obtained when watching this film; a feeling that guides the viewer into an understanding of the horrific and otherworldly events. I first viewed this movie in 1992 on video before ever having seen the television series, and it attracted me as an unfinished puzzle very much. A mystery left somewhat unsolved leaves the viewer to imagine and wonder and re-live. Along with the Peabody award-winning television pilot (viewed by 35 million people when aired), the Emmy award-winning television series, and the numerous books and recordings that evolved, Twin Peaks-Fire Walk With Me becomes larger and even more grand. Sheryl Lee's performance as Laura Palmer remains my favorite by an actress, and, in my opinion, the greatest ever by a leading lady. She is haunted, distant, flirtatious, terrified, confused, demanding, and innocent. Ray Wise as Leland Palmer is one of my all-time favorite performances by an actor. He has more expression of warmth, deception, guilt, and anger in his face than most actors could ever work up. Fire Walk With Me is a severely underrated film which holds up, on all counts, as an award-winner and a cult classic. With the television series ending in a factually unpredictable manner, the movie lives on both as a sensational piece of cinema and as an unfinished and burning mystery; a mystery that all loyal David Lynch and Twin Peaks fans wish would be solved in another Twin Peaks production by Lynch and Mark Frost involving all of the Lynch Mob performers and creators that have made the world of Twin Peaks worthy of it's current cult status. This film has remained my all-time favorite.  "},{"Title":"I always thought you knew it was me.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love this film. 10/10, but I certainly would NOT attempt to watch it if you haven't seen at least the 1st season of the TV show. It's just I as a cinema goer am just drowning in Hollywood excrement- hundreds of films that are basically photocopies of each other- and then there is Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me, Lynch's darkest and most nihilistic vision. You could argue that it was stubborn of him to do it like this but what compared to Die Hard 38 or whatever it's a relief. For me the film encapsulates a sense of dread and inevitability better than any other horror film, Lynch's familiar theme regarding the dark underbelly of the middle class being taken to the extreme. The acting is great, and Angelo Badalamenti is the best film composer in the world bar none. You can complain that it is too surreal, but it's a film that expects it's audience to have an opinion about what it means, the final scene being my favorite scene in any movie ever regardless of how you choose to read it. You can read many things into its scenes, it is so unlike these popcorn films you struggle to remember 5 minutes after the lights go up- I love the fact 10 years after it was made there it is still actively discussed on the internet. It is just an interesting film that stands out miles. David Lynch I salute you. "},{"Title":"If you can survive this, you can survive anything","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so lathered in addicition, brutality, dysfunction, pain and genuine horror  that I may check myself into rehab just watching and listening to it.  There is an excellent chance that this movie is genius but it's so skewed that it's a real challenge to interpret and most won't be able to stand it.  I must admit that I didn't see the TV show so that makes the challenge harder still.  The movie starts out with a pointless (though hilarious) segment with Chris Issaks and Kiefer Sutherland playing FBI agents on the trail of the murderer of a young woman named Theresa Banks.  Not much happens, other then Issaks disappearing.  There are some really cool, weird moments along the way though.  The real twisted material is in the second program which details the sad and tragic life of Laura Palmer leading up to her death.  The storyline is the rape of Laura Palmer, physically, mentally, emotionally, spiritually, etc.  The relationships are depraved, the sexuality is depraved, the politics are depraved and the layout is brutal.  Ray Wise, as Leland Palmer, is as repulsive a character as I've seen in film and the Canadian group that Laura hangs out with isn't far off.  On the positive front, this may be the greatest movie in the history of mankind for promoting communication between family members, or anyone else for that matter.  Watch it once, write down your thoughts and, whatever your problems are, talk about them.  This is not one of those movies you want to carry in your subconscious.     "},{"Title":"A Character Study of Laura Palmer","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I see this film as an excellent psychological character study of Laura Palmer during the last week of her sad life, Lynch style. This means that it can and does go beyond simply stating facts - it also leaves room for the visualization of moods and perceptions. I have sadly only seen the first series of Twin Peaks (which I loved) and I can see how some TP-fans miss the humour of the show - however, Laura's life is just such a sad affair, full of fear. Kind of hard and forced even to pump lots of laughs into this. To me it is also logical Lynch would choose Laura as his subject matter for this film - the whole series revolves around her. And ofcourse Lynch doesn't pull any punches - he takes us into the deep. The first part centering around Teresa Banks was pretty good, on its own, although the connection to Twin Peaks does not go very deep. However, the trademark humour is in this part of the film.. I also felt they should've left Cooper out, until the end (in the lodge with Laura Palmer). His part did almost nothing for the film now (also because McLachlan could only be on set for 6 days, I understand).Two parts were missing that would connect this film better to the series - firstly, the absence of Audrey (I know, Sherilyn Fenn was doing Jennifer Lynch's Boxing Helena at the time). Even though she wasn't very close with Laura, her part is pretty big in the series, so I would've liked to see her in this. A real omission imo is the absence of the psychiatrist Dr. Lawrence Jacoby - I don't know how that storyline evolves in the 2nd series, but seeing as Laura was making dubious tapes for the doctor and seeing the doctors obsession with her, I felt their relationship should've been explained more.In the end the film left me with the sentence poor, poor Laura repeating in my head. I believe it to be an excellent, stylized representation of the psychological chaos in her head, her emotional life torn to tatters.Finally, this is also the most scary of Lynch's work, in my opinion. Many a moment that shocked my socks off. "},{"Title":"The essential apocrypha of the essential Pacific Northwest TV series","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Suffering and redemption. That is the theme of this movie. The task of this movie is to put into context the amazing TV series David Lynch produced, Twin Peaks. The movie is far more intense then the series was  as a whole. Although certain episodes are also an epiphany. In the movie we get to experience the desolation that is the core of small town United States. Far beyond Faulkner, Ford, or Himes. Here we have incest as the heart of the American Dream. This film is beyond violent. beyond horrible. The mirror most American's feign ignorance of. Despite his rightist politics, or perhaps because of them, Lynch finds the soul of divulges the most horrid and agonizingly truthful parts of life in white middle class United States. NOT for the light hearted. "},{"Title":"A severely underrated film","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  David Lynch does it once again. It being, successfully creeping out the audience with well scripted weirdness, wonderful chracterization, and amazing visuals. Twin PeaksFire Walk With Me is the motion picture followup to the  most unusual television of all times, Twin Peaks. Lynch's purpose in the film was to tie up a few loose ends(more than a few really) and actaully explain what happened that night. He manages to do this successfully, without confusing avid watchers of the television show too much. This film was universally, and unjustly panned by almost all critics. They complained it was far too confusing and too fragmented etc. I disagree, the film appeared fragmented, because that is just the way Lynch films are. This film was intented ONLY for perceptive fans of the show. The general public, understandably shunned the film at the box office.As for acting directing etc. I say, good job. As always, Lynch's direction is unsettling and creates believable characters with a strong personality.  The cast is pretty much the same as the show, Lynch himself portraying the head of the FBI in charge of Cooper(Kyle Maclaughlin), with a few interesting cameos by Pop Superstar, David Bowie and weird actor Kiefer Sutherland. The only problem I had with casting was the replacement of the original Donna( I forget her name) with actress Moira Kelly. While Kelly is by no stretch of the imagination a bad actress, she is completely wrong for the part. Her Donna is far too goody-twoshoes/daddy's lil' girl etc. She seems like a victem, instead of the strong Donna in the original series. All in all TPFWWM is a wonderful Lynchinan film for fans of Twin Peaks and David Lynch. I reccommend to anyone who is fan of either. Watch it more than once though. "},{"Title":"Walking in Laura's shoes...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As an incest survivor who has experienced some of the main character's issues, I find Laura's character to be a very accurate and realistic portrayal of someone who is trying to survive her situation and yet retain her sanity in the midst of maintaining her public face at high school, with her friends, and her family.David Lynch was able to delve into the psyche of an incest victim to a rarely seen degree that most people just cannot help finding confusing and shocking.  I found this film to be an amazing depiction of an all-American-girl-next-door who is living in a nightmare that is for her an unfortunate reality.I felt that Laura suffers/survives by mentally splitting, disassociating, and escaping, and she exists in a state of denial to assume her place in the pretty family picture living in a small town.  Her use of drugs, alcohol, and sex is simply a way for her to cope.  There is much about this that normal people cannot truly understand, and I have experienced this firsthand.  Laura lives a life most people really don't want to know about let alone understand.Much of the plot line is devoted to showing us just how disturbing it is to be an incest victim with an emphasis on how the people in Laura's life are watching her unravel in front of them, until finally, in death, she rises above what life has made of her.The remaining plot is a mental odyssey that drives a person to strenuously debate the shades and nuances until you realize that only one truth remains, life is a crazy and senseless thing and we are never going to know all the answers to everything.Watch, observe, go ahead and take notes, but it still won't help you to connect all the dots, because no matter how many times you see the movie and the television series, the only one who can give you the answers to the questions about this movie and the series is David Lynch himself.  Lynch has an excellent skill for direction, and this film is visually interesting and laden with symbolism.  If you want a terrifically dark and mysterious psychological ride, then this one is sure to spin your head for a long time. "}{"Title":"A brilliant beginning--and end--to the visionary TV series","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had the unique opportunity to introduce a friend to the eerie wonders of Twin Peaks, and did so by first showing her this movie (she was befuddled, of course), then watching the entire run of episodes (over the course of five months' worth of lazy Sunday afternoons), then watching this movie again.  She was amazed, as I was when I first saw _Fire Walk With Me,_ at the intricacy and ingenuity of the Escher-esque story loop David Lynch created.While many fans were disappointed with this film because it did not end the series in a conventional manner, by having Cooper escape and redeem Laura or something more Hollywood, _Fire Walk With Me_ does bring the Twin Peaks saga to a horrifying finish.  The very last scene of the film, the haunting tableau of Laura choking on her own laughter and tears while a benign Cooper smiles on, leads us to the dreadful conclusion that both souls are trapped forever in the otherworldly manifestation of the evil that infests Twin Peaks.It is disappointing, to be sure, that so many beloved and quirky characters from the weekly drama had to be cut for this film to achieve a standard running time.  But it is also more true-to-life to show the greater portion of the action from Laura's point of view, intersecting with people a student/closet prostitute would encounter in her last week on earth.  The editor and Lynch showed admirable restraint by not wandering off into tangents that could be stigmatized as being weird for weirdness' sake. So many scenes of this film are brilliant.  Until Phillip Jeffries enters Gordon's FBI office, we nearly forget the occult  underbelly that made the TV series so intriguing.  But when he enters, Lynch opens the flood gate; in one instant we are reintroduced to the bizarre sideshow of Black Lodge inhabitants, accompanied by trademark Badalamenti jazz.  This jarring image manages to be both surreal and moving, refamiliarizing us with that netherworld while portending the events to come.  Ronette Pulaski's first appearance is also stunning she somehow fades _into_ the movie, giving life to a character of whom we knew so little in the TV series, and again recalling what horrible events will transpire.If you have the time, you really ought to do what I did view all the installments of this truly epic creation, with this film sandwiching the TV series' beginning and end.  If you do you will enjoy the most cohesive and ambitious story loop ever committed to film. "},{"Title":"Leaves the viewer with more questions than answers, but is nevertheless a worthy and fascinating prequel to the TV show","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Few TV shows have caused such a stir for being prematurely canceled as Twin Peaks when ABC decided to end the series in 1991 after only two seasons (30 episodes) fans went mad, particularly because the finale closed on a shockingly dark note (it was revealed that Special Agent Dale Cooper, played by Kyle MacLachlan, had actually been trapped inside the Black Lodge, while his evil doppelganger, controlled by the demonic Bob, had taken his place in our world). In an attempt to satisfy angry viewers, David Lynch continued the story in a feature film, Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me, only to confuse or irritate even more people when it turned out the film was actually a prequel.On one level, Fire Walk with Me tries to answer certain questions; on the other, it raises more doubts on certain aspects of the series (especially the supernatural ones). This is evident in the prologue, where Regional FBI Chief Gordon Cole (Lynch himself) asks Special Agent Chester Desmond (Chris Isaak) to investigate the murder of Teresa Banks, a waitress with an obscure past. With the help of his partner (Kiefer Sutherland) Desmond starts seeking answers, before mysteriously disappearing and being replaced by Dale Cooper. What happened? We never find out. It seems like the first 32 minutes had the sole purpose of explaining how Cooper got involved in the case, as well as give him the opportunity to say I have the feeling the killer will strike again.And thus the film really begins the familiar Welcome to Twin Peaks sign appears, Angelo Badalamenti's unforgettable theme music kicks in and the focus shifts on the movie's real protagonist, Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee). The picture chronicles her last seven days of life, and what a miserable seven days not only is Laura on drugs and unfaithful to her boyfriend, she also does some weird business with the wrong people and is beginning to scare her best friend, Donna Hayward (Moira Kelly), and her parents (Ray Wise and Grace Zabriskie) with her increasingly odd behavior. All of that, however, is nothing compared to the horrors she experiences every night, as she is regularly raped by Bob (Frank Silva), a demon who has been abusing her since she was 12.Although much of what happens on screen had already been told on the show, Lynch chooses to show everything, leaving no room for doubt and delivering some of the most violent images of his career (the final twenty minutes are almost unbearably nightmarish). The film is very affecting, mostly thanks to Lee and Wise's performances, but the feeling that something is missing remains the director's aim in the last episodes of the TV series (and the third season, had it been made) was to clarify Bob's origins, yet we are offered nothing substantial on that subject, and several other questions are left unanswered. What is the real role of The Man From Another Place (Michael J. Anderson) in all this? What exactly is the Black Lodge? How come Laura and Cooper had the same dream several days apart? Whatever explanation there was is probably buried in the hours of footage that was cut from the film, leaving only David Bowie's all too brief cameo to try and sort things out.Another flaw is, even though this is supposed to be a Twin Peaks movie, there isn't enough of what made the TV version unique the movie is entirely Palmer-centric, leaving everyone else out of the picture. There's no sign of Sheriff Truman, Josie Packard, Catherine Martell or the Horne family. Crucially, there isn't enough of Cooper either, reducing MacLachlan to a mere guest star on what used to be his show. This affects the film's tone as well whereas the series kept a balance between tragedy and humor (mostly related to Cooper's immortal Damn good coffee! or Cherry pie that'll kill ya lines), the movie is relentlessly bleak and scary throughout, with not a single moment of lightness to provide some relief.Overall, a bit of a frustrating experience it is not what most people would expect, and some will probably be turned off by the dark tone and lack of answers, but in the end Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me is a compelling film, and proves to be a worthy closure for what seems to be the best mainstream television product of all time. "},{"Title":"Great movie mostly for Twin Peaks fans","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A superb prequel to an even more excellent TV-series. The only thing that really bothers me is that it wasn't Lara Flynn Boyle that played the part of Donna Hayward... I don't know why but I find these things quite irritating, especially since all the rest of the cast was original from the series. I'm not aware of what kept Lara away from the part as Donna, if it was due to scheduling conflicts or the nude scenes i do not know but I'm sure she had her reasons. Not that Moira Kelly did any thing wrong, she is a very good actress and really captured all of Donnas features but she is not Lara Flynn Boyle, otherwise I liked it very much. Just as weird and mystical as the series, complete with the same eiry felling. In my opinion the soundtrack is one of the key elements of Twin Peaks, the music by Angelo Badalamenti really made both the movie and the TV-series. About the rest of the cast (Moira Kelly included) one can only say Job well done "},{"Title":"a different kind of horror film....","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film was not well received when it first came out. People who loved the TV series were very disappointed. None of the series charm, humor or cosiness is in the film and few of the original characters are present. Some even replaced by other actors! Agent Cooper is given very little time and several stars show up like Chris Isaak, Keifer Sutherland and worst - David Bowie for very little reason and are just distracting.But it is a movie worth watching if you like Lynch. The beginning is confusing with many unecessary odd characters that just distract. Much better is the second half. It is absolutely terrifying at times telling the last days of Laura Palmer, the character the whole series revolved around.Playing her is Sheryl Lee, who is remarkable. Its chilling to see her descent into hell as she witnesses her fathers mental illness unravel.Some scenes have stayed with me since I saw it 12 years ago for the first time. Like when Laura sees who leaves her house after she sees Bob in her room. Like when she laughs hysterically at the shooting of Mike. Tremendous performance of panic and madness. The film is like the most horrid fever nightmare.  "},{"Title":"A really interesting and enjoyable film","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I suppose that the best way to enjoy this film is to have watched the tv show and and fallen in love with it and the memory of Laura Palmer. I waited for this movie for years and then when I first saw it (I was  14 I think) I was very disappointed. But I taped it and watched it again a couple of years later and found it absolutely fantastic. Its strange and wonderful and really gets a hold on you, just like the show. I guess its Laura, her destiny was so sad and yet she was such a strong character even when dead. Anyway, dont watch it unless youve seen the shows, its all connected. Best of all is to get really obsessed and delve into all the mystery stuff. Enjoy )I gave it a 10 since its one of the most enjoyable films Ive ever seen. I like David Lynch and his surrealism and dream madness. "},{"Title":"An objective review of a highly underrated film...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING Spoilers...From the getgo, it is easy to see why a good majority of both critics and fans of the TV show Twin Peaks were less than satisfied with the prequel film. Fire Walk With Me is an examination of the events that led up to the untimely and gruesome demise of Laura Palmer.The first flaw with this film is the murder of Teresa Banks, the impetus for the initial investigation of a killer from a parallel world...it's way too short. Barely lasting the first half-hour, we are given two new characters, Agent Chester Desmond and Agent Sam Stanley. Aside from a brief mention of Sam in the pilot episode, these two characters are never mentioned in the show (as far as I know), and they are very likeable. From Stanley's slight naivete to Desmond's sardonic nature, I found myself wishing these characters could've found their way into the series. Secondly, is the nature of Desmond's disappearance. While the astute fan (and I'm talking someone who seriously watched and analyzed the show) might be able to piece together where he disappeared to, it happens far too soon. Perhaps that is as Lynch intended, but keeping in mind various scenes that were left on the cutting room floor, it seems as if it could've been drawn out a little more. Finally, the Teresa Banks case seems to bear little significance to the rest of the story, even though attempts are made to integrate it into Laura Palmer's story.And then there's Laura Palmer's story. Again, keeping in mind that there were many scenes left out, it is still unexcusable that many key plot points of the series that would've added to Laura's plight were left out. Everything pertaining to the Packard Saw Mill and Benjamin Horne's dealings, everything about Ed Hurley and Norma Jennings, and her incarcerated husband (who seemed connected to every evil deed in Twin Peaks) were all left out. Dr. Jacoby was also missing, as well as the ever-vigilant Twin Peaks sheriff and deputies. The absence of all these characters is a reminder to viewers why they liked the show in the first place...it wasn't just the stories, it was the characters...without them, a good portion of the appeal is lost. Therefore, this film suffered from too little of what was necessary.However, one can not blame David Lynch for this, since it is an apparent habit of his to create stories so long and elaborate it would take more than the average movie length to tell it. Forgiving him of this, I think Fire Walk With Me is still a great film. Some viewers did not find it agreeable that what was merely implied in the series is very visible here, but I found it gripping, frightening, and sad. The scenes pertaining to Teresa Banks' murder are my favorite, especially because of the subtle ties to Laura's subsequent murder (for one, the ring on top of a mound of dirt, not unlike the necklace in the pilot episode). Every scene with Laura had elements of the gritty underworld of Twin Peaks, revealing the decrepit underbelly of the seemingly perfect town, the effects of evil's hold on even the most quaint of people and places. I found the film utterly frightening in the last hour, from Laura's dealing with her possess father, to her erratic behavior, to the actual killing. Normally, I'm desensitized to this sort of material...but I almost found myself unable to watch it unfold. And the ending almost had me in tears. We finally get to see the real Laura Palmer, and while she died a horrible death, and we certainly see that she probably brought a lot of her pain onto herself, the final shot of her smiling at the onlooking angel, with Agent Dale Cooper smiling with her gave the sense that she'd finally found some sense of peace. I thought it a brilliant visual to end the film. Aided by a jazzy score by maestro Angelo Badalamenti, and Lynch's familiar style, this was one of the most horrifying murder mysteries I'd ever seen. Even the scene where Agent Desmond disappears (the picture pauses as he finds the ring, and then fades to black) was eerie. The acting is also pretty top-notch...all-in-all, as a film, it's pretty good.Fire Walk With Me suffered from too many flaws as a result of its connection to a TV show, thus not enough time could be given to the average movie length in order to complete the story. With any luck, someday a special edition DVD will be released with the additional scenes, providing viewers with all the characters we know and love, as well as tying up the loose ends left by their absence. We can only hope...but after all is said and done, Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is actually a pretty good film in itself. Flaws aside, I think it should be respected. What do you think? "},{"Title":"Most underrated movie of all time.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm still angry with myself for listening to the negative reviews on TWIN PEAKS FIRE WALK WITH ME and thereby missing it on the big screen.  FWWM was almost universally panned,  Roger Ebert even said it was incomprehensible (only Empire magazine gave it 5 red stars). Why on Earth the critics did this I'll never understand. When I finally caught it on video I was simply mesmerized!!! David Lynch at his wonderful best!! That one viewing started me on a quest to track down all 29 episodes of the TV series and that in turn converted me into what I refer to as a Mystic Warrior.  You'll have to see the show to know what that means but I much prefer that term to Peakie!  Ask my favorite movie  I'll say TWIN PEAKS, FIRE WALK WITH ME!!! Ask my favorite TV show  I'll say TWIN PEAKS!!! It's a story that starts on February 24,1989 and ends around Easter, March 27, 1989, with each episode one day in real time , the movie FWWM takes place the week prior to the TV Series. It is about an FBI agent investigating the murder of a beautiful girl,  Laura Palmer.  All this translates into something like 30 hours of pure viewing pleasure,  and that's not to mention the 2 books that go along with the epic LAURA PALMER'S DIARY and DALE COOPER'S book.  They even have a  TWIN PEAKS FESTIVAL every year near Seattle that I've been compelled to attend!!!  I really don' want to discuss any plot details or characters,  see it for yourself and you'll find it is a very unique experience,  you may never be the same!!!  See you in the trees...    "},{"Title":"HIGHLY UNDERATED","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The fact that this film has almost universaly bad reviews is nothing short of criminal.This film is absolutely beautiful, and i don't think most people understand Lynch's irony and wit.This film is beautifully paced and i don't think i'd be wrong in calling it a horror film of the modern age (millenium?). "},{"Title":"The Blue Rose","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me begin by saying I am very biased in my opinion on this film.  I am a rather fervent fan of the TV series that begat it.  I also believe that when David Lynch is in full command of his ambition, his dadaist/surrealist visions are equalled only by Jodorowsky.  This is a case where he was in command.Most of the irrationally harsh criticisms aimed at this prequel claim that the film is poor because it is virtually incomprehensible to anyone who has never seen the series (and also, incidentally to most of those who took the series at face value).  This debate has popped up a few times in recent years for an intriguing variety of films (Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle and Naked Lunch are the first examples that spring to mind).  Is a film required to appeal to any viewer, regardless of their predispositions to be interested in the subject matter or not?  Would a person to whom the music of Pink Floyd is uninteresting enjoy The Wall (the film)? To my way of thinking, the answer to that question is a resounding no, and thus my bias towards this particular movie.  The film is not without its flaws overlength being the prime one (I get the feeling while watching it that it should be about fifteen minutes shorter, although I admit I can't say what fifteen minutes could be excised).  That leaves the good stuff to ponder  A scene in a traffic jam which turns into one of the most unbearably intense moments in modern film (upon first viewing in a theater, the scene felt hours long; I was shocked to discover, later on at home, that the scene runs about three minutes).  The Pink Room sequence at a seedy Canadian dive, strobes and music pounding away.  The inexplicable foreknowledge of the old woman and her grandson.  Not, of course, overlooking the uniformly fine performances given by the large ensemble cast.  Fans of the television show's mythology will love this film, the uninitiated will probably loathe it, and the average filmgoer will be utterly confused.  Let's face it, folks, isn't that the way it should be? "},{"Title":"Wild David Lynch.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  David Lynch's hypnotic television series is given the royal treatment in this big screen movie that completes the mystery that was never solved during the program's short run on ABC in the early-1990s. Twin Peaks was a show that found an audience, but most others had nothing to do with it. The same is true with this movie. Fans, or some of them, should love this, but people who are not supporters of David Lynch or the series should avoid this one. The final week of Laura Palmer's (Sheryl Lee) life is shown in this production which acts as a prequel to the stunning series. Ray Wise, who was always the best actor in the series, is definitely solid here as Laura's father. The movie is dark and highly disturbing as prostitution, under-aged sexual situations, Canadian drug-smuggling and abuse, whacked dream sequences and that odd cherry pie are all prevalent tools used by Lynch here. The haunting score and the cast from the series make stunning returns. Many supporters of the program rubbish Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me saying that Lynch ignored too many characters and got away from the quirkiness that made the series so popular in some circles. For me, the film goes well with the series and Lynch's innovative film-making makes the movie a success overall. Not for all tastes, but most definitely interesting like the short-lived television series. 4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"The GREATEST PREQUEL never understood...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After a much-hurried end to the greatest television show of our time, David Lynch re-captures the magic and mystery and weirdness of the beloved town of Twin Peaks with Fire Walk With Me.Although widely misunderstood,Lynch's dream world of Twin Peaks is still crystal clear to it's loyal fans who will not rest until another movie can reveal the secrets left untold in the original series.(and a prequel to Fire Walk With Me wouldn't be bad,either!)Some may come to believe other prequels(in a galaxy far,far,away)are superior,but I believe that,right here on earth,in your own home town,lies the never-dying spirits that keep Twin Peaks alive and TWIN PEAKS-FIRE WALK WITH ME... The GREATEST PREQUEL Of ALL TIME!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Watch it with your right brain!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although the plot line is fairly straight forward--the last days of Laura Palmer.  This movie makes much more sense on a purely emotional, visual level.  The use of Kabuki and dream sequences combined with some odd visuals satisfy on a much deeper level.  When viewed stoned, this movie is almost the perfect incarnation of the mood flick.Sheryl Lee would have probably gotten an Oscar(R) nomination if this film had been more commercially successful.David Lynch will probably go down with Alfred Hitchcock as developing his own unique visual thriller style.This film is for serious film buffs only. "},{"Title":"Gothic, extremely vicious and erotic, brain storming and senses awakening","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice. Both times I reached a very high degree of alienation from my surroundings (my room, my things). I was brought somewhere else, in another dimension. I was astonished to discover that further to the thrilling emotions it aroused in me, that vicious, abstract, Gothic, atmosphere aroused in me also strong sexual vibrations. I am used to watching thrilling movies and going to sleep soon after. But with this movie, both times, I couldn't get asleep since it caused me a complete awakening of mind and senses. David Lynch is really extraordinary. Everything makes sense in the architecture of this movie (characters, sound track, scenes, dcors and any details) although nothing is supposed to have really sense. You must let yourself get absorbed by it without thinking too much and you will find yourself almost in a state of hallucination. That may appear a contradiction with what I said two paragraphs above but, indeed, paradoxes are surely another characteristic of what this movie may create in you. This is an artwork, not a movie, you definitely must see it! "},{"Title":"Waste of time...","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I think the TV series finally gave me an insight into Lynch's mind He likes to torture you with meaningless symbolism for comedic value. I loved the series. So much fun to watch, however it did go off on a tangent towards the end. The film brings you right back to the beginning to try and put some closure on the mystery. In the very simple sense it does, it lets you know who did it. On the David Lynch level it simply bombards you with useless, meaningless nonsense symbolism until you just can't take it anymore... Nothing makes any sense, or maybe I just don't understand things on the level that Lynch means for me to...or maybe I am not worthy of this valued understanding...whatever...some people actually think they read the lips of a 3 second monkey face shot and it meant something related to the plot..get real people...Enjoy the series, skip through the movie as fast as possible. That's my advice. "},{"Title":"Sinks deftly into the crawlspace between nightmares and reality...","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Blistering account of insanity--surely meant for die-hard David Lynch addicts; all others are likely to get left behind. Lynch, the creator-director of the acclaimed late-'80s TV series Twin Peaks, also helmed this critically-drubbed theatrical prequel, an expansive chronicle of lives in a sleepy lumber town, in particular a coked-up prom queen just before her mysterious demise. Fatuous indeed, but undeniably intense, amusingly weird and high-strung. Full of exaggerated rage, sex-obsessed characters, and hellish set-pieces. Sheryl Lee is terrific as doomed Laura Palmer, Ray Wise equally magnetic as her father. For all of its outrageousness, Lynch's finale is truly moving. This guy has some big talent--if only someone could persuade him to reel-in his more gruesome excesses, he might yet be more widely acclaimed as a film-making genius. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Moria Kelly was wrong...","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Moria Kelly said in an interview that if you loved the TV show then you would love the prequel. I disagree quite vehemently.I really really like Twin Peaks, the TV series. I'm not one of these fanatics who knows every word Ben Horne uttered in episode 1.3 or anything, but I really enjoy the show.I really enjoy the show, mainly for its quirkiness. It's an oddball, funny and intriguing show, at times terrifying (altogther now BOB) and often very engrossing. It had a light feel to it the situations never got so bad that there wasn't time for a light quip or two.FIRE WALK WITH ME fails to capture the same mood as the series, despite having the same characters.Sheryl Lee is very good as Laura, the girl who is so cursed that she can only save herself by dying to escape the clutches of BOB and her abusive father, and she manages to convey Laura so well that we feel every punch she does.The rest of the cast are a let-down. Moira Kelly, while good, just isn't the right replacement for Lara Flynn Boyle. The first half hour, involving Teresa Banks does nothing but delay the movie it sheds no new light on the situation.And the characters have become caricatures. Bobby is a pain, James is under utilised, as is Donna and Shelly and Norma are barely in it. Jacques is given too big a role and Dale Cooper is a completely different character sullen and morose as opposed to the screwball Coop we know from the series.When we finally get into the swing of things, the last days of Laura's life are dreadful to watch, because we know how it ends. Her death scene is brutal and disturbing, as is most of what leads up to it.Ray Wise is terrifying as Leleand, Frank Silva less so than in the series, although he still manages to elicit a chill down my spine.It's also quite irritating being back in Twin PEaks and only dealing with the characters we don;t care for. I miss Sheriff Truman, Lucy, Josie, Audrey and Pete. I miss the mystery of the series, and the oddball humour. Instead we have a washed out wasteland of confusing scenes and nightmarish imagery.I would be giving this movie a generous 5, if it weren't for the beautiful scene of, after her death, Laura in the waiting room, as she discovers she's been accepted into the White Lodge and is being guided by the angels. It's still disturbing, seeing as she's dead now, but I found that scene tender and moving.Other than that, it is a disappointment coming to it after such an excellent series.6/10 "},{"Title":"Primordial Jung-le","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch's main goal as an artist seems to be creating the ultimate,resonating archetype of evil itself,its inner dynamics,from the stores of his own unconscious.This film pulls all the stops on that process,leaving the viewer with only one decisiondid that mirror or tweak even the most race-memory levels of my unconscious dream-life?If not,you're probably never going to enjoy a David Lynch film.  A.O. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, what can I say? I haven't seen the TV show, but I understood the movie. Of course, some details are unexplained, but nothing serious. The plot is perfectly clear This is the story of a girl who lives a nightmare, that's all. This film is moving, scary, marvellous, oneiric, sometimes funny, tragic, hypnotizing. This is a magnificent portrait. Laura Palmer is to me the most beautiful character ever, and Sheryl Lee's performance is outstanding.So WHY DID THE MOVIE CRITICS HATE THIS FILM??? Maybe it was too different...Honestly, I still don't understand.TWIN PEAKS FIRE WALK WITH ME is certainly one of the most underrated films ever, and, with ERASERHEAD, LOST HIGHWAY, and MULHOLLAND DRIVE, the best film from David Lynch. "},{"Title":"Underrated tour-de-force","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a great admirer of David Lynch's films, but what I admire most about TP FWWM is the central performance by Sheryl Lee. In my opinion, Lee gives one of the most extraordinary, visceral performances of the 1990s in this underrated film. She transforms an iconic but actually fairly notional television character into an unforgettable cinematic presence, with great complexity and depth. It is true that Laura Palmer contains elements of cliche and perhaps even a kind of sentimental misogyny (beautiful but occasionally sluttish high-school prom-queen, whose glamorous facade masks hidden tragedy) but this is more a fault of Lynch's writing than Lee's performance. Rarely has an actor put more into a role only to be met with such hostility or indifference at the hands of critics and the public. I still hold out hopes that Lee's career will one day enjoy greater visibility and lead her to the roles and the praise she undoubtedly is capable of winning.   "},{"Title":"Dark, scary and tragically beautiful.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The opening 15 minutes are just beyond all what I have seen on films. It is just so well balanced. Many said that they wanted a lot more from Twin Peaks motion picture. More answers where wanted. Well, just as in the series-find you're own conclusions! I say that this movie with Twin Peaks series are historical pieces of art. Beautiful yet filled with mysteries and mix this with Angelo Badalamentis dark/beautiful music and you have a very good film! Recommended! "}{"Title":"Not really Twin Peaks","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It would have been better to film this with no Twin Peaks connection. Its vibe is too different to that of the series. Much of what made the show was the feeling of evil beneath the exterior of the peaceful little town. This movie doesn't get that. There's no sense of place at all. It's more a pale & fragmented imitation than a fully realized story. It's surprising that Lynch made it himself. It suffers from flat photography, awkwardly staged scenes, and amateurish acting. Despite the budget estimate on this site, it looks like it equaled whatever pocket change Lynch had on him at the time. The series was fantastic. I really wanted to like this movie, but it isn't much more than twisted and quirky for its own sake. For aficionados only, and not even for all of them. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My friends and I spent the last four months watching the TV series in sequence, and we really enjoyed it.(The following may be spoiling.)For me, the ending to the series was not a surprise, I'm used to Lynch's predilection for the unintelligible and the surreal.For me (a realist) an artists purpose is more to communicate the meaningful than to portray the uninterpretable.  I usually see Lynch's endings as a cop-out, and a disintegration of the plot.Unhappily, I saw the whole of his Fire Walk With Me in this fashion. None of it made much sense and it never came together as a whole for me.  I also missed many of the regular characters Audrey, Sheriff Truman, Mr. Horn, Pete...I voted this film a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrible crazy movie.","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm sorry but this is one of the worst films I've ever seen. I know that within the film industry originality and alternative approaches to telling stories are usually praised but this movie is a waste of time. I've seen some other David Lynch movies, and there are a few I like, particularly Lost Highway. But not only does this movie not make sense, it is boring and very dry. Inland Empire was at least crazy enough to keep you watching but this movie starts out for 30 minutes as an FBI investigation and then the remainder of the film is about a high school student. The story never comes back to the FBI investigation or the first missing girl. In all, I just feel that this movie was trying too hard to be hipster and out there. It failed miserably in my book. "},{"Title":"Disappointing like the final episode of the series.","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" My son and I enjoyed the quirkiness of the entire first and second seasons, up until the last episode, which was a total bummer. It left a bad taste in my mouth. Like that final episode of the series, this movie is really sad and confusing. One viewer says in his positive review, It really puts you in to Laura Palmer's world, or what's left of it, briefly... Fire Walk With Me gives something to Laura Palmer that she had been denied on television. Well, it's quite possible that it will do the same for you. Laura was tormented and tortured, sexually abused by her father or Bob (we never truly know) and she was always in 'purgatory' if you will, always in the Red Room when we saw her, or seeing a flashback of her murder during the course of the TV show. I for one am not entertained or enriched by seeing someone's art film portrayal of psychotic, damaged people. The twisted characters like the dwarf (little person) in the Black Lodge never made any sense. It was like the end of 2001 where you had to insert your own meaning. The TV show at least had interesting characters and a plot you could half-way follow. "},{"Title":"Good, but seems like you shouldn't watch before seeing the series","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A prequel to the Twin Peaks television series, Fire Walk with Me begins after Teresa Banks has been murdered. Chester Desmond (Chris Isaak) and Sam Stanley (Kiefer Sutherland), two FBI agents, have been called in to investigate. After forty minutes or so, this story line is dropped and we meet Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee), an oddly adult high school student who was homecoming queen and who looks like a stereotypically cute, perky, middle American living behind a proverbial white picket fence. But Palmer has a dark side, which Fire Walk with Me takes a great deal of time exploring.I probably shouldn't be writing this review yet. I'm just now getting around to the Twin Peaks universe, and I haven't yet watched the television series except for Chapter 1 from the first season. I'll likely completely change this review at some point in the future, but I'm posting it now in the hope that it might help someone decide whether the film is worth viewing for them, or at least it might provide some interesting comments.If one wants to avoid spoilers and have a better chance of understanding this film, it seems like maybe Fire Walk with Me should not be viewed until one has seen the television series. Here's why I watched it first I've long been a fan of Lynch's films. When Twin Peaks appeared on television in the early 1990s, I was working as a musician on a cruise ship and did not have the opportunity to watch it. I knew there was a film made, but I didn't realize it was made after the series, and I did not want to watch it without being able to also experience the television show. Cut to 2002. The first season is finally released on DVD, so I figure here's my chance to watch it. The beginning of the first episode says, Previously on Twin Peaks. Previously? I'm pretty obsessive about watching series in order, so previously bothered me a lot. I ran to the Internet to look for Twin Peaks chronologies, and I find out that there is a two-hour pilot episode--often those are simply thought of as feature-length films, so I figured that Fire Walk with Me is it.I finally picked up Fire Walk with Me yesterday. Before watching I double-checked just enough of the DVD box synopsis to be sure that I should watch it first. It said prequel, so I went ahead, figuring that prequel just meant it was the initial film. I know prequels are usually made later in film series, but even when that's the case, I more often than not watch prequels in order before the other films on subsequent viewings. Besides, I thought that prequel was likely just being used in a different way here. When you're a fan of someone like David Lynch, you often expect almost everything they do to be deeply enigmatic.So is the film worth watching under circumstances similar to mine? Well, I did enjoy it, but primarily for the reason that attracts me to Lynch--I'm a big fan of surrealism, absurdism, etc. Fire Walk with Me is nothing if not bizarre. However, unlike other Lynch films there seems to be an absence of clues within the film to figure out Fire Walk with Me. I'm only assuming that the series will provide more clues. I may be wrong. But at this point, I'm not about to read others' interpretations of the film, as I'm worried they might give further spoilers for the show. As I've mentioned, I've only watched the first episode of the television series so far. I finally figured out that the two-hour pilot episode is something different, and not included on the Season 1 disc, but it's too late now. I assumed that the Previously on Twin Peaks intro was just Lynch being bizarre again, but unfortunately that's not the case. While we're at it, I have to note that based on the first episode, the series isn't doing much for me. It's far too normal and non-Lynchian (of course not helped by the fact that Lynch doesn't direct most of the episodes). I'm not a fan of soap opera-like, realist drama, and so far that's what the series primarily seems to be.As always, Fire Walk with Me has Lynch's extreme attention to and manipulation of cinematic details. For example, there is a sequence of long, odd silence (in the police station), there is a production design-related instance of weird, minute clues in the appearance of a woman in a pink dress, characters are directed to use strange speech mannerisms, there is an unsettling combination of eras in the setting (cars of different eras, characters acting liking combinations of 50s and 80s youths per popular depictions, etc.), there are peculiar layers of information, such as the cowboy/redneck bar band playing uncharacteristic music, and of course there are cutaways to bizarre people, saying and doing bizarre things--such as the midget talking about Formica tables and saying Garmonbozia. I love all of that stuff.I was a bit disappointed that the early part of the film was abandoned, as the investigative story was good, but the material about Laura Palmer was intriguing in its own way. Her behavior, and the behavior of those around her, became increasingly more abnormal and fascinating as the film went on, so that worked for me well. But I still don't know how to interpret the film, and I hope the series doesn't put me off. I also hope the series is eventually released in its entirety (including the two-hour episodes at the beginnings of seasons--it was a crime to leave that off of Season 1). Fire Walk with Me is worth watching for fans of Lynch weirdness, but I can't really recommend watching the film before watching the series. "},{"Title":"Murder Case Turned Eerily Kafkaesque","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If the words above could be used to describe another Lynch movie - the much applauded Lost Highway (1997) whose plot is inspired in part by Kafka's Die Verwandlung and the well-known O.J. Simpson-case - they are as much descriptive of his earlier and less critically acclaimed film Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me (1992).After two fascinating intermezzos (namely Industrial Symphony No. 1 1990 and Wild at Heart 1991) David Lynch returns to the ever more surreal and absurd mystery of Twin Peaks (1990-1991) together with writer Robert Engels. While the TV-series opened to rave reviews and much acclaim, audience interest dwindled and critics grew tired during the much debated second season. Leaving no finite answers as to mystery of Laura Palmer's murder-case, the series went as far as to finish with a question - in fact, a strangely diabolical one How's Annie...? There are perhaps no definite answers either in the prequel Fire Walk With Me, however the subjective story of Laura's Persephony-like descent into Hades remains as tantalizing and surreal as ever - at once more impressive and more horrific than that of John Merrick in Lynch's 1980 classic The Elephant Man. To be true, the story of Laura's dire straits even resembles that of Fred Madison in aforementioned Lost Highway. And there will never be an ending quite as persuasive - though explicitly violent and misogonistic - as when Laura's strangely picturesque thrashing is underscored by the classical masterpiece Requiem in C Minor. - A final scene not without a certain likeness to the visually explicit misogyny in Blue Velvet (1986) where strongly saturated close-ups of Dorothy Valens' bloody teeth make for a scarily scoptofiliac and visceral experience.Two scenes in particular from Fire Walk With Me deserve mentioning as perhaps two of Lynch's most explicitly and vividly subjective sequences ever (1) - an almost (andobviously intentionally so) unintelligible scene in a filthy bar near the American-Canadian border where Jacques Renault apparently (though never audible to 'us') gives hints as to the murder of Teresa Banks.and, (2) - an excessively loud, noisy scene where Laura and Leland, both seated in Leland's car, are held back in traffic by a timber truck and an old handicapped couple. The eerie tone slowly turns deafening before erupting in a violent (almost abrasive) musique concrte - mirroring the abuse of Laura and the (beautiful?) absurdity of life in an almost Epsteinian fashion.The film has so often fallen victim to misreadings and critical devaluation, but in its uncanny and eerily surreal stimmung it should, instead, be recognised as the very essence of Lynchian. Demanding as it may seem, Fire Walk With Me is meant to be experienced and felt, as much as it is meant to be intellectually understood. "},{"Title":"Surrealist Horror at its Best","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch is the king of surrealist horror! From Eraserhead to Blue Velvet, Lynch has created some of the weirdest, creepiest, and greatest films in cinema history. Lynch has gotten praised time and time again, from being nominated for multiple Oscars to directing a Palme d'Or winner (Wild at Heart), but sometimes he can still manage to make a brilliant film that is severely underrated.Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me serves as a prequel to Lynch's T.V. series Twin Peaks (which I recommend you watch before seeing this film, for the film will make a bit more sense, and the series is EXCELLENT, trust me), and it follows the last days of Laura Palmer.During the series, you learn a lot about Laura's friends, family, secrets, and so on, and a lot of this is recreated here. For some reason, it's just so fascinating and exciting to finally actually see these events take place on screen.On top of all that, these events are shown on screen in a truly powerful way. The last 10 minutes of this film include some of the most horrifying stuff I've seen in a film! The murder sequence is made so disturbing thanks to Lynch's genius editing, directing, and lighting (trust me, the lighting plays quite a big role in that sequence), and you really should see it for yourself. How so many people managed to hate this back when it was first released is beyond me. "},{"Title":"The badder, the better!","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  4.5 out of 5 stars. Like most of Lynch's brilliant, often genre- defining films that raise the bar for inspiring film-makers, TPFWWM gets better with repeated viewings. So multi-layered with so many lines to read between, not like most of the near-brainless popcorn crap that sadly most audiences love to flock to, this has become a real cult gem in 24 years. In 1992 Cannes festival-goers booed it, and I was particularly intrigued how it was once brazenly marketed with Siskel & Ebert's famous TWO THUMBS DOWN! in letters on a poster larger than the title itself. FWWM was never designed to appeal to the masses - par for David Lynch and par for me. Sheryl Lee's performance is superb, and the newly available 90 minutes of deleted scenes on Blu-ray enforce this performance, ESPECIALLY Bob's possession sequence with Laura's slowing widening toothy smile - one of THE downright creepiest cinematic scenes you will ever see. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Sheryl Lee discovers her dark secret too late","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me (1992) is a neo-noir. This is what I got out of this twisted tale, on one viewing. It tells the story of a teenager named Laura (Sheryl Lee) who has been a victim of her father's (Ray Wise) sexual predations since she was 12 or so. She has blocked this from her mind and replaced it with the belief that a teenager named Bob (Dana Ashbrook), who supplies her with cocaine, sneaks into her bedroom at night and has sex with her. Her boyfriend James (James Marshall) doesn't understand the whole story of what's going on as Laura slips into a worse and worse confused mental state and begins sexual affairs. He's ineffectual. Laura's father has murdered a blonde sex partner who wore a green ring. He will eventually murder Laura too who puts on the ring and whose image seems to fuse with that of his first victim.Because Laura's mind is breaking and she uses cocaine heavily, we can't be sure about the reality of a number of characters and sequences that we see. The movie has surreal images. It has devil-like or horror-like characters at times. It has one extended nightclub sequence in which the music drowns out most of the dialog, intentionally I guess, but who knows? Laura has a close girl friend who reluctantly delves into Laura's sexual explorations with her, but Laura tries to stop her from doing so.An extended part of the story at the outset shows us an FBI investigation of the death of the first girl. This part of the movie is strange. It's played as a comedy in parts, something like a Leslie Nielsen Naked Gun movie but less so. Still it has quite a few oddball characters and interactions, odd dialog and surreal elements as the investigation proceeds. This first part is virtually stand-alone because it is simply dropped and its characters almost disappear from the second half. One agent comes into the second half in a surreal sequence in which he warns Laura about the ring. This major disconnect in the story makes the movie incoherent until the second part begins to accumulate and portray Laura's life 1 year after the first killing and investigation. This seems to be because the movie is actually two television episodes hitched together.Throughout all of this, there is some bad or, to be charitable, uneven acting going on from Ms. Lee, I'm sorry to say. We might attribute how she comes across as due to the tribulations and fantasies of her character, but there is still a noticeable residue of scenes in which the challenge of conveying this troubled person overwhelms Ms. Lee, despite her best efforts.As a neo-noir, this movie is a searing attack on a dysfunctional family with a pere fatale. Laura is the Homecoming Queen whose sexual urges she cannot control, who is addicted to cocaine, and whose mind is snapping under the exterior that no one else grasps, not her boy friend, not her girl friend, not her mother, and not herself. Even in the classroom where she is drugged out, no one notices, including her teacher. She has to cope with her devils, whom we see on the screen, virtually alone. She knows people but they don't know her. There is no community except that which she begins to build with the devilish characters who want to exploit her sexually in a steamy and sleazy nightclub. Her father's incestuous exploitation of her make him into a monster, and he is shown as such with a vampirish and wolfish doppelganger at times.The picture also takes aim at love as a solution to the deep and dark human psyche. There is one song that explains how love vanishes inexplicably at times. The love of Laura and James doesn't save her. She seems to feign love for Bob to get drugs. Her father tells her with tears in his eyes that he loves her, apologetically, but that doesn't stop him from his evil deeds. Her mother is ineffectual; she mostly smokes. The vision in Twin Peaks is very dark indeed, as the devilish impulses have their way. "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" yes, it's not as good as the TV show, but if you judge it on it's own merits, then the film is great. I mean, compare it to Any other movie in this genre, and you can tell it's still way better then most. Now with the deleted scenes, we can see what happened to all out favorite characters, so even if you are a slave to the TV show, this film still has merit, since U an see what happened to our favorite characters ) As a first time viewer, I would be more optimistic to watching this film, then the TV show reboot that doesn't have David Lynch involved. This show is his baby, and we were lucky enough that he shared this show with us. I have no interest in watching a new show with someone's else's interpretation of what they think David Lynch would do. "}{"Title":"David Lynch's masterpiece","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch's big screen prequel/sequel to his television phenomenon Twin Peaks departs from the shows light, kooky and benignly eccentric sensibilities. It starts at the more surreal, dark atmosphere which sometimes materialized in the show, especially in the last episode, and plunges headlong down a rabbit hole of sex, murder, mysteries, federal agents, parallel universes, psychological torment, otherworldly spirits, supernatural phenomena, incest, more cups of coffee (Im not even kidding, there's a scene where a stressed out looking Harry Dean Stanton makes a 'cup of good morning America'), and above all, Laura Palmer. The beautiful, mysterious homecoming queen we only saw as a corpse in the series comes to wild, screaming life in this film, and what a performance from the gifted Sheryl Lee. She perfectly captures the menace, hurt, confusion, hope, torment and wild desperation of Laura, in a towering, stunning performance. Ray Wise is equally magnificent as Leland Palmer. Angelo Badalamenti switches up the tone as well, letting the beautiful Laura theme and the classic Twin Peaks tones only play in limited, selective fashion. His theme for the film is a powerfully dark, otherworldly melody which lulls you right into the film's deep velvet grasp and haunts you in ways you can't describe. The angel of the Roadhouse, Julee Cruise, gets another tune to croon as well, and it might just be my favourite of the bunch. Laura tearfully looks on as Cruise intones 'Questions In A World Of Blue', a transfixing lament that seems to be meant for her alone. Lynch is a true master of the subtle touch, and you'd have to read many an online forum as well as watch the film and the show several times to pick up on all the hidden implications and shrouded ideas that aren't readily presented to you in a traditional narrative. That inaccessibility and refusal to play by the rules by serving things straight up is difficult for many people to get their heads around. To me though it's such a fascinating way to tell a story. He doesn't necessarily leave everything open to interpretation, he just hides the answers in a bewitching blanket of surreality, subtlety and dream logic, challenging the viewer to think using the unconscious mind and intuition to feel your way through the story, as opposed to tallying up facts and plot turns to analytically arrive at your cinematic destination. Perhaps this is why he meticulously oversees many of the DVD releases for his films, leaving out scene selections and unnecessary bells and whistles. The story matters most to him, in singular, unbroken form, a segment of his soul encapsulated on film in one cohesive effort, like a dream caught unawares by the lens. Fire Walk With Me was unfairly bashed, booed and downright critically clobbered for its stark and outright changes from the shows lighter tones, as well as its leaving out of some of the more popular characters that fans loved. Although this is jarring, I feel like Lynch has distilled all the elements in the show that mattered the most to him, and woven a gorgeous, seductive tapestry of pure Twin Peaks 'feel' and spectacle, as a loving gift to the fans who truly get it and are open to the wilder ideas explored briefly in the show. The film expands greatly on the ominous Black Lodge, and it's dwelling spirits, including the strange Tremonds, the one armed Mike, and the little red suited Man From Another Place. The killer demon Bob is very prevalent in this film, and if you thought he was scary in the show, well.. His scenes in this are downright soul shatteringly. Moira Kelly makes a softer, doe eyed version of Donna Hayward, which I quite liked. Miguel Ferrer returns as the cynical wise-ass Albert, Lynch as the hard of hearing FBI boss Gordon Cole, as well as Heather Graham, Grace Zabriskie, Eric DaRe, Madchen Amick, Peggy Lipton, etc. Newcomers to the Twin Peaks mythology are great as well, including Chris Isaak and Kiefer Sutherland as more FBI agents investigating the case of Teresa Banks in Deer Meadow, Jurgen Prochnow as a trapped soul in the spirit world, and a confused looking David Bowie as an agent who has been mired in the time bending fog of the spirit world long enough to render him brain fried. It's a love letter to the fans, really, but one that doesn't compromise an inch and is every ounce a Lynch picture, capturing the director at his most creative adventurous. He strives to plumb the depths of human behaviour and the forces beyond our perceptions which govern and influence from other planes. Seeing these tricky themes explored so rawly in a film based upon a TV show that had heavy roots soap opera and an often lighthearted tone only garnished with the disturbing elements in the film can be hard to swallow, which is no doubt the reason for the sour reception upon release. The film has stood the test of time and aged wonderfully though, seen by many grateful, loving fans as a dark dream straight from the heart, and a perfect film. If one is willing to accept the changes in tone and ambiguous, challenging nature of Lynch's storytelling (which I love!) then Fire Walk With Me is a sumptuous, gorgeous looking, vital piece of the Twin Peaks world, and in my mind Lynch's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Dreamlike, surreal horror of the best kind...","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For those even loosely familiar with Twin Peaks, old and new fans alike, this is a must see. There is debate over which you should see first; this prequel or the series (30 episodes). Either way, this has to be seen to get a grip on the Twin Peaks universe, and this film was made to clarify a lot of events and situations which there was not given time to do in the TV-series. It's rumored the network company stressed the storytelling in the show to reveal Laura Palmer's murderer earlier than Lynch and Frost intended to, due to dwindling viewer numbers, and that the series was intended to run for a longer time.For Lynch fans, this film is pure gold - I think it's probably his best film to date. There is a lot of details in the film, and it can seem slight slow-paced, but it's for a reason, Lynch does not rush things. As usual, there is a lot of riddles, surreal dream-like sequences and quirky, dark characters, all with secrets to hide. Few films I've ever seen has had the kind of dark, brooding, unsettling mood seen here, combined with strange surreal backwards sound effects and an rumbling sound-scape which creates real fear.It's not easy to understand, but that's the beauty of it, it will require several viewings to get all the symbolism and the different characters intentions. There is a real sense here that you're not really supposed to get it all, there are things we can't comprehend, that takes place in dimensions outside our reach. When our dimensions clash, it shows the helplessness of human beings, that often we are at mercy of powers that intends to destroy and corrupt us.And Lynch's way of putting those dark beings in a kind of ordinary, but severely twisted kind of locations just beyond our normal daily life is horrifying. Few films has actually frightened me like this one, on a far worse level than most other good horror movies.But there is also great beauty in it, a great sad/sentimental soundtrack which take on almost hypnotic, pulsating forms as when Laura and her friends visit the Bang Bang Bar.So, for all Lynch fans, see it, and for others, give it a chance! "},{"Title":"Must be viewed as a companion piece","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Chronicling the last days of a teenage girl that leads to her murder, which is linked to a previous F.B.I case.Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me like it's TV series has found its place in entertainment history, no doubt with season 3 of Twin Peaks on the way it'll find more fans along the way. Firstly it's probably essential that both seasons of Twin Peaks are viewed prior to David Lynch's spin off as it will make little sense without its predecessor. As a standalone film it simply doesn't work unless viewed as a piece of art house as it acts as a prologue and epilogue to the TV show.Lynch's Fire Walk with Me is a dark, seedy and edgy prequel with the expected atmosphere, satire and surrealism. The theme music returns along with many of the cast of the original show. Like it's ground breaking cult TV parent it's unorthodox, somewhat non linear storytelling with a masked child, a red suited dwarf and its bizarre operatic style and humour. It's sexually graphic, slow paced, off beat and unpleasant. Twin Peaks series regulars Lara Flynn Boyle, Sherilyn Fenn and Richard Beymer do not return. There are an array of bit parts from the likes of Lynch himself to David Bowie and Kiefer Sutherland. Donna has been recast by Moira Kelly which is a shame but only from a continuity perspective. Special Agent Dale Cooper Kyle MacLachlan, Ray Wise, Chris Isaak appear to name just a few but the focus is on Sheryl Lee as Laura Palmer throughout. Like the show it's difficult to judge the performances given the subject matter's own style.It charts Laura's drug abuse, loneliness, shame, guilt, confusion and the devastation of incest. And also deals with the perverse torment of the father. The themes are heavy and are a lot to stomach. This is not fun viewing and caution is advised. Some critic's and fans have grumbled it adds nothing new, but I disagree slightly, okay so you know who killed Palmer but it gives you a further insight into her mindset and Agent Cooper's fate having been trapped in the Red Room and replaced by Bob, there's hope of escape in the clues that lay in Laura's foresight laced diary. Fire Walk with Me does suffer from a TV feel possibly by design for linkage to the show, it's unlikely due to lack of production values. It's far from the polished Mullholland Drive (which originally was intended as a spin off film).Like the series, Fire Walk with Me is one of those fictional worlds that you either buy into it or you don't. Intended for completist fans only. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.... but we still don't know how Annie's doing","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is a lot like how you might expect a Twin Peaks movie to be. It's strange, compelling, and written well. It is a solid movie that is definitely worth watching, especially for fans of the show, but I certainly have my fair share of gripes with it.The reason I fell in love with Twin Peaks from the start was because, even after just one episode, Laura Palmer was one of the most interesting characters I've ever seen. The way that David Lynch romanticized death in the form of Laura Palmer was fascinating. It sucked me in and wouldn't let go. So a movie about the week leading up to Laura's death would be great, right? Well, not exactly. My main problem with Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me was that it accomplished basically nothing. Yes, Laura Palmer is one of my all time favorite fictional characters, and yes, it was great to see exactly how she was murdered. However, we knew most of what had happened already. The movie felt largely like a visualization of events that we, the viewer, already knew the conclusion to. Because of this, it lacked the suspense and tension that the series had. Not only that, but Lynch focused solely on adding details to a story we know, rather than continuing the story that ended so abruptly. I can't help but question the decision behind this. This movie was also weird purely for the sake of being weird, even more so than the TV show. In the show, the scenes from The Black Lodge were my favorite. They were strange, but not too strange and seemed to at least have some symbolic meaning to them. Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me tried to replicate the success that the show had, but failed in my opinion. I mean, honestly, what was the purpose of David Bowie's character? What about the kid with mask? The ring? Who knows? Not me, that's for sure. Truly understanding most of these messages basically requires a frame by frame breakdown of the movie. I shouldn't have to look up what happened in a movie to actually understand what was going on. *cough* Donnie Darko *cough*With those issues out of the way, I'll focus more on the things I actually liked about the movie. There is a lot to enjoy about the movie. While I did complain that the movie was basically a play- by-play of Laura Palmer's dead, that is, without a doubt, a great thing as well. I'll say it again Laura Palmer is one of the most interesting characters in television history, so it's no surprise that this is very much a positive trait. Another positive most of the characters you got so attached to are back! Most notably, other than Laura, are Cooper, Donna (who is totally not portrayed by the same actress), and, of course, the log lady. The movie also focuses heavily on the relationship between Leland/Bob and Laura. Those were easily the most riveting scenes that the movie had to offer. Most of the movie is solidified in the craziness of Twin Peaks that we've all come to love, and that is mostly what this movie has to offer.All in all, if you are a fan of Twin Peaks, you will most likely enjoy Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me. This does not necessarily mean that you will be satisfied per se, but it should at least keep a fan of the series entertained. It is, without a doubt, worth watching and does provide some sense of closure to the series, but doesn't necessarily give answers to the questions that we have been patiently waiting for. "},{"Title":"A Great Horror Film By David Lynch","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me is a psychological horror film that serves as both the prologue and epilogue to the television series Twin Peaks,that was created by scriptwriter and director David Lynch together with Mark Frost.The story revolves around the investigation into the murder of Teresa Banks and the last seven days into the life of Laura Palmer,a popular high school student in the fictional town called Twin Peaks located at Washington.The movie stars Sheryl Lee, Moira Kelly,David Bowie,Chris Isaak,Harry Dean Stanton,Ray Wise and Kyle MacLachlan. This is definitely one of the masterpieces created by David Lynch.It has an unconventional storytelling techniques that will definitely be appreciated by viewers from all ages.Added to that,the moments of horror that the movie has are definitely far from the typical horror films for they are far from being typical as they are strange and Lynch made them new and groundbreaking. "},{"Title":"Walk into the flame, as Lynch does us solid again","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love David Lynch, but I've never been a fan of the Twin Peak Series. I hired the film because it was rated R, and the movie deserves it too, thanks to some sick violence, and a pulling back finger nail CU scene in an autopsy room. The film did have a limited release in Adelaide, where after a week of it's closing, it was brought back by popular demand, and this film demands attention, if suffering at the box office. The movie starts with the murder of a girl, found floating naked in a river, where at the time, this seems very unrelated to what ensues later. But this first 40 minute part of the film, with agent Des Cole and his young brilliant and little pathologist, Stanley, (a wonderful Kiefer Sutherland) going through the forensic, and investigative process, with a couple of obstructive and unwilling figures, is necessary. Again we don't forget, we're in weirdorama land, where these Lynch films get us thinking. He has a genius with all these weird drawn scenarios where underneath, is an all too real reality. That's his talent. He just telegraphs reality, in a more different, bizarre, and interesting style. We finally meet the infamous Laura Palmer, and we share her wild and no holds barred, 'living on the edge behavior', a week prefore her death, day by day, where we observe some very unsettling stiff. We have these really weird unforgettable scenes, like the ones with the midget, and agent Desmond on that stage, flanked bu a gaudy red curtain, and the whole film is an appreciated view, in it's after, although I must admit I really enjoyed the screen time with Kiefer. Yeah, you do find out who killed Laura, and it's worth waiting for, but my advice after watching this, let the brain, depress, and just know you enjoyed something special. Well acted performances, all round. Hell it even has the guy from Electric Dreams. Although it's Sheryl Lee who we really watch. "},{"Title":"A must for Twin Peaks Fans","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie starts with two FBI detectives investigating the murder of hooker Teresa Banks. Chris Isaak as tough guy Special Agent Chester Desmond is heart-thumping handsome. Kiefer Sutherland plays his meek sidekick Sam Stanley. Then, before they even get started, they both suddenly disappear and nobody seems to care.The rest of the movie is exclusively about Laura Palmer, the girl whose murder forms the core of the Twin Peaks series. Sheryl Lee was cast in the TV series for her ability to impersonate a good-looking corpse. She has a body like a Playboy Vargas drawing come to life. To my astonishment, she was a totally convincing actor in very complicated and demanding role. I simultaneously hated her, wanted to throttle her, pitied her, and wanted to help her shape up.This is very R-rated movie, packed with female nudity, drug taking and violence. There are many grotesque scenes of teenage girls having sex with hideous older men.Laura is addicted to cocaine. She gets her drugs by charming Bobby, now a drug dealer, hooking, and trading sex for drugs. She takes any drug without even asking what it is. She abuses her body so badly, but oddly it remains in perfect condition.Bob, the evil homicidal spirit that possesses people and makes them kill, take on an alternative explanation. Leland sexually abuses his daughter Laura. Laura is in denial about her willing participation and hallucinates that her father is some grizzled intruder Bob.Many of the characters from the TV series get to make a short appearance. If you had not seen the TV series, these appearances would make no sense. The actors are still young and beautiful, just as they were just after the TV series was filmed.The story unfolds with the inevitability of the biblical crucifixion story, leading inexorably to Laura's murder, tying the movie in neatly to the first episode of the TV series.They replaced Laura Flynn Boyle with the much leaner Moira Kelly to play Donna Hayward.There is the usual Lynch strangeness, a backwards-talking dwarf, a boy with a pointed nose mask, a old lady beckoning, a one-armed man... but it does not overpower and spoil the movie continuity.One continuity problem with the movie is you are puzzled how you could possibly have missed what wild lives Bobby and Donna were living right from episode 1. "},{"Title":"You can't miss this film","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film went over everybody's heads when it came out. The reality is, it is definitely one of Lynch's best films. One of the most dark, experiment, and boundary pushing for sure. So terrifying at times I couldn't even bare it. Sheryl Lee's performance is giving me goosebumps just thinking about it. So operatic, so dire, so raw. Sure, it is different from the show, but that isn't an issue because its beautiful. The end of the film when Laura Palmer is being killed is up there with my favorite scenes in any film. The way Lynch uses bright spotlights to increase intensity is so original and natural. The music, the pace, the very disturbing uncertain feeling you get for Laura throughout the entire film makes it truly bone-rattling. If you like Lynch, or if you think you might even maybe like Lynch, you HAVE to see this film. So underrated and under-admired. "},{"Title":"Pieces of the Jigsaw Puzzle","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Warning  This review may contain spoilers and utter nonsense. Saw this (in French)when it came out in 1992. Tried to watch it again a few years ago and thought that is so 1990s Watched it again last night and while I still think it has faults (way too much crying) for a TP fan it is an important part of the puzzle as it adds so much to Laura's life we wouldn't otherwise have known. I am glad I read some of these reviews before I watched it as it told me something about David Lynch's storytelling I hadn't thought about for a long while, namely 1 His movies are are like an abstract art canvas there to provoke thought rather than offer any answers 2 There is no clear division between the world of reality and the world of dream, as shown where Laura asks her father if he had been back to the house. Yes she knows it and wants to see if he will lie but she also wants to see if it was a dream. 3 The Red Room and it's accompanying architecture follows no rules of time and space. Anything is possible and there may be symbols thrown in by Lynch just to give us something to talk about.I think this movie has aged well in that is has aged. Let me explain made in the 90s there was a 50s look to it. Now viewed in 2013 the 90s style (hair, clothes)also looks like a parody of another time. I would like to see a follow up to it using the original actors as they are now (some of whom look older than their years) with the premise that they have travelled back to 1990 from the future. In the last episode of the TV series Cooper is shown as an old man, with gray hair and old man thin-ness. On the contrary when you look at Kyle Maclacklan today he has middle age man heaviness which is more appropriate. (Why did they think he would get thinner as he got older, just think of all that cherry pie) Going by the TP festivals in the US and the UK the interest is still huge. There is of course a seediness to the movie that could never have been shown on television. The Pink Room nudity with accompanying music shows us the underbelly of the prim and prissy American Homecoming Queen. Drugs, prostitution, bondage (laura gets tied up), motel, money, murder, madness. Jim Morrison would have loved to have been there and in the world of David Lynch, he probably was. "},{"Title":"Released too soon!","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie would have been a treasure if shelved and released a decade on. The magnificence of David Lynch is his power of suggestion. He is to film-making what Houdini was to magic! You're able to get pretty much everything that happened in this film from the series and as a result, it ends up feeling like a waste of time. I'll admit that it's a bit uglier than I had imagined but not by very much. I crammed the series a week ago after viewing only the pilot at the time of its original airing. It was way ahead of its time and Lynch & Frost delivered then what networks seem to be getting their heads around now i.e. LOST, etc. Fire Walk With Me is gifted film-making as always but it's the equivalent of checking the answer key to a completed word puzzle. "}{"Title":"A black fire walks with me at night.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There is an investigation into the death of Teresa Banks that leads up to the story of Laura Palmer. People go missing, a lady with a log tells a story, a midget dances and hands go unwashed. If they don't have any specials, they sure have lied. This is a strange movie that has many twists and turns and some of them go no where and some go to strange bars in Canada.The last week of Laura Palmer's life is depicted as bizarre and unusual. She does drugs, has sex, and then she also sees a woman with a painting, Bob, and pages of her journal missing. Her friend Donna follows her around (tries to figure her out) but it is really Laura who is is being stalked and chased.I have never seen a movie like this where so many weird things happen. A lot of David Lynch's movies (Eraserhead, Mulholland Dr.) have a plot and a story up to a certain point but then it packs its bags and gets lost somewhere. Fire Walk With Me really doesn't have or need a plot or a stable storyline. It is great with in itself.The thread will be torn, write it in your diary! "},{"Title":"The Prequel.","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me (1992) was a prequel to the short lived television series that was created by David Lynch and Mark Frost. This film chronicles the last seven days of the life of Laura Palmer. She was a tragic figure who wished her life could have been different. But family secrets and a wild lifestyle brought and end to all of that. The film begins with a similar case a year before the events of Twin Peaks. A murder in a small town that's the opposite number of the small quiet burg of Twin Peaks. It's a town that is as black as the soul of it's residence. There's an evil their that's as old as time itself. Two federal agents (Chris Issak and Kiefer Sutherland) come in and investigate. What they find their boggles the mind. A year later, the film goes back to Twin Peaks and that's where we catch the final days of Laura Palmer.An interesting premise that was not what people were expecting. Many people and fans were counting on a wrap up to the series. But in order to see the present we must look back at the past. I enjoyed this movie. We finally get to see the real Laura Palmer, not the sweet innocent girl that people reminisced about in the series. She was just another victim of B.O.B. We find out how B.O.B. came to become such the evil presence it was in the the series. Leland Palmer was a victim of B.O.B. as much as Laura. He was possessed by this terrible entity who has caused so much pain and anguish. Instead of becoming another tool of B.O.B., Laura sacrificed herself.Sherilyn Lee defined the character of Laura Palmer. Kyle Mac Lachlan returns as Agent Dale Cooper. Moira Kelly replaces Lara Flynn Boyle (due to some content issues) Ray Wise co-stars as Leland Palmer and David Lynch makes a cameo appearance as the lead Federal Agent. Miguel Ferrer, Madchen Amick and David Bowie make brief cameos as well.This is a must view for fans of the series. New fans will be initiated when watching this one as well. "},{"Title":"Essential Reading","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have to admit that when I first saw FWWM, I was kind of disappointed and my interest in Twin Peaks in general lapsed. Then years later came the internet and all the easily accessible information with it. By accident, I stumbled upon the Secret Diary of Laura Palmer which is hard to read sometimes but still fascinating. This book really gave in my opinion vital information relating to the prequel and the television series. I then had to hunt down FWWM which I watched first, then I watched the television series again. After which I was definitely not disappointed. So I guess, for casual users like myself, who have rediscovered the Twin Peaks mythos my advice is to; 1. Firstly, read The Secret Diary of Laura Palmer 2. Watch FWWM 3. Watch the complete television series (try to get your hands on the 8 video set), but down here they are really rare. "},{"Title":"A Stunning Masterpiece!","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After viewing Twin Peaks the series I was in complete awe of this stunning Masterpiece of Serial Drama and was very adamant to see the movie as soon as possible. My luck came in and a friend lent me his DVD of the movie Fire Walk With Me and to begin with I was not to all impressed. It's an intriguing first 30 minutes but a very slow one at that. It starts with Two FBI Agents searching for clues to the murder of Teresa Banks. The two Agents played by singer/songwriter Chris Isaak and Kiefer Sutherland come across more than they bargained for when suddenly Federal Agent Chester Desmond after a little investigating goes missing. Amongst all this we are taken into some of Agent Cooper's most odd moments like we have never seen before. Then comes the beginning of Twin Peaks and Laura Palmer and her last seven days of her life. Nearly all the characters reappear to give you a more insightful look at Laura and her last days but this time it's more concentrated on Laura and her relationship with her father Leland. We see a darker side to One Eyed Jacks, more of jock, the bitter relationship between Bobby and Laura and Donna and Laura doing some female bonding especially in One Eyed Jacks etc.As much as this film is very good and very weird to say the least, I didn't really feel comfortable and convinced till the very last 45 minutes which just suck you straight in as you know the ending is nigh and the final outcome to Laura's last few hours are about to be revealed. It's not rocket science to know who her killer is but the time the movie reaches the one hour and thirty mark it leaves you in total suspense while it unfolds. Now correct me if I am wrong but Twin Peaks the series is more a detective searching for a killer type of programme but the movie takes you into a darker more narrative and feels more like a horror movie. Everything about the last part of the movie is exactly how I wanted it and not what I expected in some parts. It finishes in total madness and in great fashion with some not typical moments from Lynch that you would expect. David Lynch is well known for odd creativity and complete terror but there were some moments in Fire Walk With Me where I was hiding behind my pillow as the scene watching Laura take notice in the picture on her bedroom wall with the empty room and slightly opened door is more suspenseful than a Alfred Hitchcock movie. Is more than perfect in her role of Laura, Ray Wise is quite the comical actor and even though Agent Cooper's scenes are brief they set the mood for the when he appears in and has a big impact.There is nothing I would change about the movie apart from the running time.I think an extra thirty minutes would have been quite good so we could have had at least another half an hour of Dale Cooper and co. Don't expect much from the first hour or so as it drags in parts but is quite inquisitive but hard to bear in the best of moments. Though as soon as the jigsaw is starting to be put into place you will look back and appreciate the first chapter to where the rest of the film takes you and you will not be disappointed as you will finally see what The Twin Peaks saga is really all about. I finally started to understand Twin Peaks whilst watching Fire Walk With Me and it will answer the questions that were unanswered or confused you in Season One.This is to me a horror movie as there are far to many moments where you just can't predict what is to happen next but when I say horror I don't mean Wes Craven horror where Freddy is right behind you, I mean Texas Chainsaw Massacre horror where everything is full of madness and it's playing with your head. David Lynch has created one of the best Serial Drama Series of modern time and I just hope millions of TV lovers and movie fanatics will keep watching Twin Peaks for a very long time to remember how good it was and to see what paved the way for cult TV series like The X Files.A Stunning Masterpiece  "},{"Title":"nothing to prove","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  -may be a spoiler-Fire Walk With Me is a film that obtains its power in the same way as Lost Highway, Eraserhead or Mulholland Drive. It is a movie that leaves its viewer with some weird, fantastic feeling that reaches an area of the mind that no other director can enter. And if they do happen to try to get there, like,say, Richard Kelly with Donnie Darko, they become illegal immigrants. They become moronic. Ridiculous. Lynch is the only one that can create a world where we have never been before, yet make it so realistic and familiar. Of course, we all know that Lynch's movies do not make sense,and, as Lynch has said before, the world does not make sense. And it really doesn't. I mean, when you are in the company of people, and you are doing something in which you are surrounded by all different people, like walking downtown, you hear so many words and you see so many gestures and actions that it becomes overwhelming. Obviously, you have no idea what the people you are walking by are talking about or how they are relating their gestures and actions to the subject they're talking about. So, in a nutshell, nothing makes sense! Why, in a movie, does every single gesture and word from every person have to make sense, then? When every word that is heard makes complete sense, it is unrealistic. Lynch has achieved something extraordinary because he has made this conscious or subconscious realization, and has linked it to film. Fire Walk With Me is a movie that proves it. Another fact that should be known before watching this film is that it is a prequel. Therefore, it has nothing to prove. Prequels are basically showing truthfully what happened before everything else. This allows the director or screenwriter to have more rights. If the viewer does not like the outcome, the director or screenwriter can say,  well, I'm sorry, but this is what happened. And nobody can disbelieve what actually happened, so, if they don't like it, that's just their problem. Actually, prequels could be fun for a director because there are no guidelines. Similar to David Cronenberg's Naked Lunch, based on the Burroughs novel. Cronenberg can depict whatever he wants, none of it has to make sense, because it is based on the hallucinations of Bill Lee, and, of course, hallucinations don't make sense. I hope you catch my drift here, because if you do you can take a ride along with me in my buggy. And, if you still disagree with Fire Walk With Me, you'll be seeing me two more times. Goodnight.  "},{"Title":"Extremely good","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you have seen Twin peaks the TV-show and liked it, you will most likely love this film.I think it is one of Lynches best films.I have never been so scared when watching a film before.Lynch uses extreme images to drag you into his world,and he does it in class.I also think Sheryl Lee acts extraordinary well,her character is really believable and you can truly feel her fear.And Kyle MacLachlan delivers as always.Lynch really captures the mood and feeling from the TV series, which is quite unique.I think this movie is nearly perfect, because it keeps its tension through the whole movie, and you never dear to relax.The scariest scenes in this film are some of the rawest i have seen in a film and I am very surprised that this movie is not more acclaimed when speaking of David Lynch. "},{"Title":"Questions in a world of blue","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" So I once heard a crazy guy at a cafe discussing heart of darkness and saying, I understand the term murderer, but I don't understand the term victim. Besides absolutely freaking me out, the guy - years after the fact - gave me something to chew on in pondering TPFWWM. The ostensible plot (with many Lynchian diversions, often inscrutable) concerns the evolution of Laura Palmer as both victim and villain (David Foster Wallace wrote a great essay on this character in, A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again) and Ray Wise as both Daddy and killer. These are the interesting points of the film, and where it remains most linear. Then we have the diversions...plot threads (big ones) that lead absolutely nowhere. If you like David and you're willing to go along for the ride, it's all good, if you don't know what you're in for, well I guess you deserve what you get...On another note, I hear on the DVD documentary that there were four hours of scenes shot, where are they? You know, you get good features on big blockbuster movies of scenes that ought to have been cut, but with unsuccessful movies, we never get good extras that show us what the film could have been in a different editing incarnation. "},{"Title":"Despite the lack of appearances from 'TP' favourites this film stands on it's own two legs as a stunner.","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Many fans of the series were disappointed by Lynch's big screen prequel to Twin Peaks but not without good reason, all the time you could have been watching Dale Cooper, Dr Jacoby, Pete Martell, Audrey Horne, Sheriff Truman etc. We were instead looking at Chris Isaak and Keifer Sutherland for roughly the first half hour. However, people need to be aware when watching this that it is an account of the demise of Laura Palmer and circumstances that circled her fate not a history of the town 'Twin Peaks'. For this reason I feel the Teresa Banks mystery to be a great start that really sets off the mood for what becomes one of the greatest, most atmospheric, melancholy and truly scary experiences in cinema history. Shock-Horror films will never capture the same intensity and fear that I witnessed while watching Laura Palmer's life fall apart. What I found most outstanding about this movie though (SPOILER WARNING!)... was how Lynch symbolised the psychological effects of sexual abuse, child abuse, drug abuse etc. No film I have ever watched has ever touched on issues like this in such a eerie and unsettling yet beautiful and romantic way and the ability to successfully turn an ordinary murder mystery into such an epic weave of emotions and surreal environments what appears to be demonic intervention is why I see him as the most truly gifted director of all time. "},{"Title":"Lynch's walk on the wild side is a great feelbad experience.","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In these multicorporate times, very few movie directors are allowed to bring their vision to the big screen without an element of compromise.  Back in 1992, David Lynch was one of the few directors to do just this.  The TWIN PEAKS TV series had been pulled because it was just too weird for prime time viewers, so Lynch decided to tell the story of Laura Palmer's last seven days on the big screen where the restrictions on language, sexuality and violence would not be a hindrance.  It's hard to think of any other movie with such a sense of doom throughout.  In the town of Twin Peaks, nobody is what they seem and Laura Palmer's descent into her own personal hell leading to her brutal murder is graphically illustrated as only David Lynch could do.  Sheryl Lee gives an outstanding performance as Laura and it is indeed a great shame that this was not recognised at the time and did not lead on to bigger or better things for the actress.  Ray Wise is suitably manic as her unhinged father and if you ignore an annoying prologue with Chris Isaak and Kiefer Sutherland, this movie represents David Lynch at the height of his directorial powers.   Be warned that this is a gruelling experience and the demise of Laura is one of the most shocking scenes ever committed to celluloid.  However, wherever or not you followed the TV series, this movie represents a compelling tale, a great feelbad experience definitely not for the faint-hearted. "},{"Title":"It was always going to be fascinating","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, in the cool light of day 11 years later, it is clear that Fire Walk With Me was always going to split fans of the original TV series of Twin Peaks. Lynch clearly delights in showing and doing what he couldn't on network TV and has Laura Palmer snorting cocaine, swearing and baring her breasts in equal measure. The plot is coherent enough for fans of the series but will probably alienate those unfamiliar with Agent Cooper, Bobby Briggs and the like. Even die hard fans may find the sometimes shocking and always unusual imagery a little hard to stomach. Characters come and go - David Bowie utters one line, while series regulars like Peggy Lipton and Madchen Amick are given very little to do. Still, it is a fascinating coda to the series and moments are unforgettable - the angel, the dwarf, the white horse... it's all here, as inexplicable as ever. Sheryl Lee is fabulous as Laura Palmer, the photography is gorgeous and the soundtrack was the rightful winner of numerous awards that year. It certainly doesn't deserve the panning it got then, although Lynch's more recent work, namely Mulholland Dr., is arguably finer still. Entertaining and disturbing, Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me is an experience for Peaks and Lynch fans alike, as well as those who are willing to watch just for the experience. "}{"Title":"Fire Walk With Me6.3  Men In Black6.8?(something's really wrong with that)","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is one of the few that qualifies as pure cinematic art to me.Raw,original visual power-like most(or all)of Lynch's work,it must be experienced with as few preconceptions as possible-I feel that it stands on its own-the tone and intensity of it are different than the series.Mulholland Drive is the same thing in the sense that,even though it was meant as an open-ended pilot for a potential ABC series(the execs & programming guys were too weirded out by it..didn't even get back to Lynch after the screening to explain WHY they didn't want it),and was re-edited,and even extra scenes shot,it stands as a kind of entity unto itself.Peakers who didn't like this prequel were too linear in their need for all the threads to be tied together,but I'm sure now that 13 years have passed,most naysayers can appreciate this film for what it is-a dark,tragic journey through the world of Laura Palmer,Homecoming Queen,and a glimpse into an entirely original conception of a first-circle of Hell,the Black Lodge.I recommend viewing episodes #2,#10,#29(the finale)of Twin Peaks,THEN Fire Walk With Me,then...................... "},{"Title":"Must see for Twin Peaks fans","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The master of moods gives Twin Peaks fans a real treat. There are some wonderful scenes in this pre-quel, and they will never escape my memory.As a devout Twin Peaks (TV-series) fan, I enjoy this one a lot. It starts out sort of slow-ish, but accelerates into a fiery storm of what is later shown in the series.Had it not been for the cast omissions (compared to the series) I'd given this a 9 out of 10. As it is, it gets a 7. The replaced cast is by no means bad, but the original cast & scenery would have added to the intense experience this movie really is. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, engaging, scary","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lynch is really good at what he does.  Although most don't consider FWWM to be his best film, I'd argue that it's definitely up there, surpassing _Blue Velvet_ and possibly _Eraserhead_ (this latter being probably the only movie that beats this one in terms of obscurity).This film is probably the most rewarding one I've seen from Lynch.  His typical M.O. is to obsessively circle on one idea for an entire film.  While this works very well sometimes (_Eraserhead_, _Mullholland Drive_), it and also lead to dead ends (_Blue Velvet_).  However, this is NOT the case with _Twin Peaks_.  In fact, there are so many ideas and levels here that the whole experience is almost intimidating, leading many to denounce it as incomprehensible garbage.  This is unfair.  FWWM *does* have a story, firmly rooted characters, and so much emotional intelligence it should embarrass anyone connected with mainstream Hollywood film.I saw this movie before the TV series, and so my judgment is somewhat shaped by that.  Know that this is much darker territory than what we see on TV; however, that's also a theme addressed by the film that has gone unnoticed by virtually all the critics.  The first half (with the autopsy of Teresa Banks) is cute and lighthearted, because the ugliness (a murder) has already happened.  When you're on the other side of a murder (Laura's story) things are understandably much nastier.Terrific.  "},{"Title":"BOB always freaks me out","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've always loved scary movies, and I think Lynch is a master ofcombining visuals, sound effects and music to produce some ofthe most fantastic scares in cinema.BOB is a horrifying creation and the the thought of him leering upfrom the foot of MY bed...yikes! "},{"Title":"A Must-see...but Never Watching Twice","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie talked about a topic that we don't wanna talk about---incest. After I've seen this movie,I felt sad for Laura. I really don't wanna this happens in the real world, but it truly exists...  The world is as clean as crystal is a kind of wild wish.Remember Never watching twice!,'cause it's a nightmare.  "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, so a few FBI agents fall off the edge of the earth.  Still, the movie holds together quite well, obviously better for those who have seen the TV series, but even for the uninitiated as well.  The acting is great, the directing is great, and the music is great. Maybe a bit macabre in places, like in the beginning, with the autopsy. But powerful and even poignant towards the end, when you finally realize what has been happening. Best viewing for those who can relate to the use of the surreal as a vehicle. Really, quite a movie.  None other like it. "},{"Title":"Even though I didn't see the entire film...","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...I only missed a chunk and found this film fascinating from what I saw.I never watched the TV series, but being a big David Lynch fan I enjoyed this film a lot. Well, maybe not enjoyed, but I was entranced at the originality of it. The cast was superb and the surreal sequences were extraordinary. I don't know why this is disliked by so many critics and film fans, I thought it was just nearly as good as Lynch's other critically acclaimed films like Eraserhead and Blue Velvet. A very good and underrated film. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Speechless","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie leaves me speechless. There are no words to describe it, it is an absolute masterpiece. It perfectly describes the absurdity and desperation of everyday life. It gives no hope because there is none. It is incomprehensible because that's the way life is. It is the definitive metaphor of reality. Nothing has any meaning, nothing really matters, there is no cause and no consequence, only casualness and loneliness. "},{"Title":"mediocre prequel to great tv-series; contains minor spoilers for people who are watching this film and never saw the tv-series.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love Twin Peaks. I STILL love Twin Peaks. As of today, the series still have a prominent place in my video cabinet. I have T-shirts; posters; promotional cards; TV-scripts; books; newspaper articles, etc. I was one of the editors of Dutch fanzine `The Lynchburg Chronicles'. A couple of months ago, almost ten years after the pilot was aired for the first time, I flew to Seattle and decided to wander around in that strange twilight zone where places from a piece of fiction really exist. I took the greyhound bus to Snoqualmie and North Bend and shamelessly behaved like a crazy tourist, even taking pictures of cherry pie while having lunch at the Mar-T diner (renamed as Tweed's diner) which featured prominently in the pilot episode. Anyway, a friend of mine once stated that only a real Peakie should be allowed to review the bashed movie prequel Fire Walk With Me -- what do you think, folks, do I pass the test? But seriously, people who hadn't seen the series didn't understand what the heck was going on in that film. But, hey, neither did Peakies so I don't necessarily agree with that friend.A lot of filmmakers fail when they do something for television. In my review of `It', I pointed out that directors like Tobe Hooper and Tommy Wallace, whose feature film work heavily relies on violence and gore, had some trouble with dealing with TV censorship, resulting in little creative or scary projects. Although the feature work of David Lynch very often contains violence and gore, he is also capable of creating a very unsettling atmosphere. Lynch uses sounds, darkness, silence, lighting, and suggestions to make you feel uneasy. When he turned to television to do Twin Peaks, he had to leave the nudity, violence and gore behind, but pumped the unsettling atmosphere to the max, creating dozens of unforgettable moments, like the shocking death scenes of cousin Maddy and Laura Palmer.In 1992, Lynch did FWWM, which was a quickie as less than a year went by from producing company Ciby 2000 giving the director the green light, to the movie premiering in Cannes; it shows as the movie looks kind of cheap, less polished as most other Lynch features. The film's first cut had to be brought back from 4  hrs to 2 hrs 15 minutes. As a result, the film isn't the story of the people of the town of Twin Peaks, but only the story of one of them, Laura Palmer. After a so-severely-cut-it-hardly-makes-any-sense-prologue featuring a bunch of stars &#145;investigating' the death of Teresa Banks, we move on to Laura's dark world of sex and drugs and stay there for more than an hour and a half. Do you expect any answers to questions you had in the series? Well, forget it, &#145;cause not only Lynch doesn't answer any one of them but even creates new ones with a incoherent story where (new) characters are doing weird things for the sake of weirdness. And yet, unlike the series, the tone has become serious and pretentious. There's no real story here, just a collection of moments from Laura's last week in no real particular order (Kubrick's The Shining had a similar flaw). But what mainly bothers me about this movie is the fact that not only Lynch couldn't resist the possibility to use nudity and violence this time, but that these particular Lynch characteristics replace all the other subtle one he used to full extend in the series and which made it so interesting, unique, and scary. So, this time around, we HEAR Laura and Bobby cussing; we SEE Laura getting raped, getting drunk, getting high, getting naked. Hey, Lynch starts the film with a television set being smashed to pieces. Was he making a point here? Was he happy to return to the big screen? What do YOU think? The most painful moment, emphasizing this film's primary flaw, comes when the movie concludes with recreating a scene we already saw in the series Laura getting killed. In the series Lynch uses sparse lighting, deep darkness, eerie sounds, silence, certain expressions on his actors faces and suggestive camera-angles to create a very haunting moment. In the film, Lynch just uses violence and blood to create...well, a rather dull scene.Of course I own the movie on video. Of course I (kind of) enjoy it. But whereas many critics slowly and carefully start to give this film a second look, I guess the film's many flaws become more noticeable with every viewing. I'm two steps away from calling it a butchered, uneven, incoherent mess.The acting? Well, Sheryl Lee delivers a performance that's somewhere in that gray area between Oscar-material and overacting. Same thing goes for Ray Wise. Chris Isaak and David Bowie ARE Chris Isaak and David Bowie. Moira Kelly is mediocre. The best acting can be found with the supporting cast Dana Ashbrook (Bobby); James Marshall (James); Walter Olkewicz (Jaques); Grace Zabriskie (Sarah).The scene where Chris Isaak comes to a small town and is ridiculed by a dumb deputy, a giggling secretary, and a bad ass sheriff is quite impressive and, in my humble opinion, the film's sole merit.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you love David Lynch, a must see","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Those who haven't seen the series don't seem to like this movie.  Well, no wonder!  It's not the type of film the general public can go enjoy while contentedly munching popcorn.  BUT if you love Twin Peaks and David Lynch, you will love this movie.  It truly displays the genius of Lynch. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Work of Art, and the Upcoming DVD May Have Deleted Scenes","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Fire Walk With Me is David Lynch at his Finest ! Such sheer intensity that was never truly captured in such a pure form in the original series. True, many people were disappointed that the movie didn't include many of the original cast members, but the upcoming DVD may include many of the deleted scenes that were cut.I would recommend this to anyone who loves David Lynch's work, because this is as good as it gets ! "},{"Title":"Brilliantly affecting","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When Lynch unveiled Twin Peaks Fire walk with me in 1992, critical reactions was hostile, and only now is the movie enjoying a degree of cautious but sympathetic critical re-evaluation. But it is, undoubtedly, one of Lynch's cruellest, darkest and most brilliantly affecting neighbourhood visions. Even if it managed to displease diehard fans of the series. Lynch had refused the obvious the movie did not pick up where the series had left off (the cliffhanger ending of Bob's triumph over Special Agent Dale Cooper), nor did it simply reprise the sub plots, humour and folksly catch-phrases that hade made the television show so popular. Instead, the film elects to go back to a hidden past - the last few days of Laura Palmer's life - for a brilliant but excoriating account of incest, abuse and brutality, exposing the very heart of the TV series.  "},{"Title":"A visual masterpiece","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What David Lynch did making this movie is the demonstration of his best work concerning the photography. The colors are the most wonderful colors I've seen in a movie. Lynch really showed us what he meant when he said that he wanted to add movement and sound to his paintings and pictures when he was first a painter. His shots are true living paintings and the visual pleasure I feel every time I watch it is always bigger.Moreover, actress Sheryl Lee, playing Laura Palmer, is literally possessed by her character. It is incredible the way she makes us believe that this is reality. She makes us laugh, cry, scares us and was able to make the character of Laura so likeable. We become close to her and we also become her, possessed by her the same way Lee is.Fire Walk with Me is full of secrets and it will make you discover some more every time. "},{"Title":"Loving it more and more...","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was 12 when I first saw the series on swedish television in 1990. Never before in my life I had seen something that affected me so much. I recorded the second episode and all the rest. Since then I've seen the series about eight times. In 1992 Lynch made this prequel. It's far more darker than the episodes. Some scenes are still confusing for me, but that only makes it more intriguing. Like Lost Highway this one is made for your inner, darker feelings. If you really think about what Twin Peaks and the movie is all about, you'll realize that it's more scarier than any X-Files-episode. BOB is the worst nightmare you can experience. Jason, Freddy & Michael Myers are only kiddie stuff in comparison. BOB is the Evil, the total sense of Evil.I love FWWM and I will always be grateful to David Lynch. He made a place and a cast of characters that changed my view of everything in TV and cinema. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you haven't seen the T.V series yet...Don't see the movie!! Even after you find out the murder of Laura Palmer, still don't watch it. There is so much to this movie. Not all just about Laura Palmer. The main person in this whole series and movie, is Agent Cooper. Most people just think that this whole series is just about a small town murder. It's not! There's more to it, much more. It's Cooper's story. The whole reason that Laura was killed was to get Cooper into Twin Peaks. You find much more about that in the final episode in the series. There's the thing called the 25 year cycle. Notice how they always speak of 25 years in the show. Like when Cooper talks to Laura in his dream 25 years later in Episode 3. Anyways, there's a 25 year cylce that has someone new come into a small town and get possessed. That may sound kind of crazy but when you think about it, it all makes sense. Wyndom Earl was possessed 25 years ago by Bob, Cooper became his partner a couple years before the series started, Cooper fell in love with his wife, Wyndom Earl found out and killed his wife and wanted to find Cooper. So the same thing is going to happen. As we saw in the final episode, Cooper was possessed by Bob. Cooper will later marry Annie, get a young partner, the partner will fall in love with Annie, Cooper will kill Annie and he will track his partner doen to a small town, and the same thing will happen to his partner. We saw in the final episode Bob sucking out Wyndom Earl's soul, that was Bob's soul. It may sound crazy, but it really does make sense if you think about it. So everything that happened was all for Cooper. The whole murder, everything. That is the unbelieveable! It's all for Cooper. Bob's character is the character that represents the evil in all of us. And now he's in Cooper. I think the movie lacted a little from the show, but it was still good. The whole beggining investigating Teresa Banks was really cool and mysterious. David Lynch's best work came from the T.V series. You'll never see anything like that on T.V anymore. First of all the violence, second of all for some strange reason the producers think that we'd rather see Luke Perry return on 90210. New's flash! We could watch 90210 in any other show. It's the same exact thing. But Peaks is the most original thing that I have ever seen. Recommened to everyone who has an imagination. "},{"Title":"I had the feeling....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  that many of these cherry-pie-eating TWIN PEAKS-freaks were shocked about the movie... But as you switch the medium, youll switch the feeling. It was so terribly dark... I loved the episode about the Theresa-Banks-murder. This one felt like on of the best TWIN PEAKS-episodes ever, never seen on TV. The Laura-Palmer-Diaries destroyed the several views on Homecoming-queen Laura Palmer, because you would havent seen her this destructive and sick before. I missed Lara Flynn Boyle but I loved this movie as an outstanding thing. "},{"Title":"Watch it on the Big Screen","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first 4 or 5 times I watched this movie I had to watch it on television (video). I really did like it, I thought it was a great movie. Until the day I had the chance to watch it in our local cinema ... I had to realize this movie is even better. It works much better on the Big Screen (and perhaps you have to know it to enjoy it...). "},{"Title":"Why did I watch this...","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Listen to me. Don't watch this movie. Just don't. You will never be able to get this 2 hours of your life back. It's not worth it. In any way. Just don't... Don't do it.. Under any circumstance. Don't. terrible. just terrible. If i could rate this 0 stars I would. I would actually encourage IMDb to add a 0 star function specifically so that I could give this movie 0 stars. I may actually do that. Worst movie I have ever seen in my life. I don't write reviews. I have never written a review for a movie on IMDb. I felt so compelled to write this review simply to warn the world of how terrible it is. for every 2 hours wasted watching this movie an incredible film goes unseen. watch any other film.. Just not this one. Trust me, this may not be the best articulated review but if you don't watch this movie you'll be glad you read it. and if you do watch this movie after reading it I'm sure you will be also writing a shitty review like this wishing you had listened to me. "},{"Title":"An overall disappointment,...but recommended for fans of the series","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In a town like Twin Peaks no one is innocent. And to anyone who's never seen the influential David Lynch series, no part of this movie is comprehensible. David Lynch's movies never exactly have a demographic and usually in his films, much like the author Franz Kafka - when you allow yourself to fall into his bizarre world, eventually you are delighted to have no idea what is going on. Mulholland Drive, Inland Empire and even the critically panned Lost Highway share this Lynchian quality and all have the potential to appeal to a broader audience. Fire Walk With Me however is one notable exception as to the uninitiated to Twin Peaks, this movie means little to nothing I have never understood why Lynch took the decision to make this movie a prequel rather than continue the story that was so cruelly brought to an end in 1991 when the TV series was cancelled. Continuing on from where he left of could've potentially relaunched Peaksmania and given Dale Cooper and Co. a new life.The resultant movie is a complicated, multi layered horror story which features many of the main cast (with some of the regulars either busy on other projects or cut out of the movie altogether), and at the same time introducing a whole host of new characters to the story to make this even more disappointing. In fact, the first 40 minutes of the movie doesn't actually take place in Twin Peaks but on the road and in the offices of Pennsylvania, with the hero Dale Cooper clocking up less than 15 minutes screen time in the entire movie.Not to dwell on the negatives, Lynch does dedicate more time, explaining the ambiance and utter horror of the Black Lodge. It is great to finally see exactly what happened to the delightful but anything-but innocent Laura Palmer in the final seven days before her death. However, a continuation of the series would've been the logical move before exploring the back story.For fans of the series this movie will certainly come as some comfort for the abrupt ending of the television series, but for the full effect this movie must not be watched before the series Over all Fire Walk With Me, though at times attempts to tie up some loose ends, fails and frankly the less questions asked the better "},{"Title":"One of the scariest films I've seen","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Before Laura Palmer was murdered she led a normal life &#150; Prom Queen, cheerleader etc.  This film follows her last few days alive to see how see got involved in the life that eventually killed her.  Meanwhile FBI agent Dale Cooper investigates the disappearance of several FBI agents who have been investigating the murders of several girls.Made after the show was cancelled, many people hoped this film would pick up from the end of the show (where Cooper had been possessed by the demon Bob) and end it out.  In typically awkward fashion Lynch chose to make a prequel to the show and look at the days leading up to Palmer's murder.  While this didn't answer the question `what happened next' it does serve to give a fuller picture of the Twin Peaks story.  And what a strange picture it is, freed from the constraints of TV Lynch produces an 18 rated film (in the UK) rather is scary in terms of being unsettling rather than being gross or violent.The story opens with Agent Chester Desmond investigating a murder similar to the Palmer murder, shortly before he disappears.  We then jump forward to Cooper closing the case on him before leaping ahead to find Palmer alive and well, unaware of what's coming.  The story is unnerving because of how it's told.  At heart it's a tragedy &#150; we already know the fate of Laura.  However it is told with such an unnerving weirdness to it that you can't help but be disturbed by it.  Images of the demons are surrounded by looped sound effects and backward playing images etc that create a supernatural feel.  Adding to this effect is that some dialogue is inaudible &#150; in fact in some versions, it's subtitled to cover this, however this just adds to the weird feel to it.The story may be straightforward but it also is weird.  Unfortunately some parts were meant to cast more light on the story but, for one reason or another nothing is fully explained.  The background of the demons isn't explored, although they are looked at in more detail &#150; a lot more scary detail.  If you think there's nothing scary about a kid in a mask clapping and jumping then Lynch will show you what a little mood can do!Lee is good as the tragic Palmer and has to do a great deal.  Ray Wise is also on good form as her father and the weapon of her destruction (if not the wielder of the weapon).  The rest of the Twin Peaks cast are all there and all give better performances than in the TV show.  The more adult nature of the film means that what was only implied in the show can be expanded on here.  The majority of cameos are good, Chris Isaak makes a good version of Cooper, people like Harry Dean Stanton and  Sutherland are good and Lynch himself reprises his role.  The main weakness is David Bowie who plays an agent who has been missing for years &#150; having been `taken' by the demons in the same way as Cooper was at the end of the series.  His role was meant to be the role that cleared up a lot of questions and gave a lot of information to the FBI (and us!).  Sadly Bowie was so bad that his role was cut to literally a few lines that were mixed in with images etc.  The overall effect is still good, but it's a shame to think that was would have been a pivotal scene and instead it now just adds to the confusion and feeling of otherworldliness.Overall this film has a great sense of fear around it, a great feeling of being uneasy and unsettled as you watch it.  It may not be a great draw for the multiplex crowd etc but it allows the story to be expanded and for things that the TV implied to be fully explored &#150; i.e. the drugs and the sex etc.  This may only be for fans of the show but it is a good enough scary movie to satisfy other audiences. "}{"Title":"6 out of 10","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is based on a very good and different series.  At times the series seemed to drag a little and I presumed that in having to compress the material to film length this would cause the writers to further distill their product.  The result diverges from the series.Very quickly, almost immediately a strange atmosphere is created.  This is highly commendable, and this is improved by the inclusion of two new characters (the detectives) who are both interesting and usefull in moving the plot.  The reintroduction of the amusing figure of Gordon Cole is an instant Triumph, and the use of the excelent Kyle Mclachlen increases the appeal for established Twin Peeks fans.  I love the introduction it works really well, asks a lot of questions and gives a good airing to Lynch's humour.However, after the introduction the film starts to go downhill.  I have watched and throughly enjoyed many of Lynch's films, but this is the only one in which I have got bored.  I even started channel flicking towards the end.  The reason for this diminuendo is the process of focussing on Laura Palmer.  She just isn't the character you really expected her to be, and nor is she interesting.  This main body of the film also requires a lot of experience and knowledge of Twin Peeks to understand it.  This is surely a failure.  Old characters are used once (eg the log lady, David Bowee, and Bobby's future girlfriend and her husband) who simply need not be in.  They are only there to appeal to people like me who had seen the film.  Perhaps with the exception of Bowee, they offer nothing nothing to the film in plot or even tone.Laura Palmers last days simply are not interesting enough.  Perhaps the film should have focussed on something else entirely or brought in other sub plots.  I appreciate that sub plots could have been a disaster in this film causing a total lack of focuss, but the main story was rather dull. It also needed to be more mysterious, by following Laura as the main character too much was explained, and the audience felt that more needed to be explained. I would have preffered another, a more normal charcter to have been the focuss. Maybe Donna should have been the main character with occasional focuss on Laura.  The mystery was lost.I also did not like the potrayal of Leeland.  Leeland was a nice guy who's dark side was well hidden - in the film he was obviously a fruit cake and the Bob - Leeland connection was shown all too soon.Overall I found the movie dissapointing but not without some very good points.  The introduction was excelent. "},{"Title":"Interesting, spooky and fun!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This move came out when I was only 14, but I had watched the entire series with my older sister. I loved the series, though I didn't quite understand it at the time in all aspects, I got the basic jist of most of it.  The movie really helped clear up everything I didnt understand from the series. I have met people who saw the movie and never watched the show... Big Mistake. Watch the series first. It is only 2.5 seasons and well worth the time.You really need the series to fall in love with the characters and understand the movie. Then you watch the movie and watch the puzzle un-puzzle. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The film on its own is not as good ( or nearly as good) as the series - although the second season was - more or less - after the killer of Laura Palmer was revealed - rather uninspiring.I rate it as six. I guess the rating would be even less if I did not see the entire series and all episodes and did not like it . ( I rated the Twin Peaks series an eight).I liked that we got the chance to see what Laura rally was before the murder and what was going on. Some parts of the mystery surrounding her were lifted up. Too bad the 'real' Donna is not in the film. And even more shame Audrey is not there too.I find that the first part of the movie where the murder of a girl from a year before is invastigated is quite iseless per se. But I found interesting that singers Chris Isaak and David Bowie were in the film.I can conclude that if you did not watch the series, this would be totally not interesting to anyone as it may raise more questions than answers. "},{"Title":"Coffee not that darn good","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks ended on a cliffhanger. The film Fire Walk With Me was an opportunity to resolve what happened to Agent Cooper.Instead we get a prequel on the last days of Laura Palmer until her demise but hold on we knew what happened to Laura Palmer because we watched the TV series.Maybe Kyle Maclachlan demanded more money or was reluctant to appear in the film which lead to a drastic change reducing his role to a cameo.Director David Lynch starts the film brightly with his trademark surreal and silly scenes and sounds, in fact the first scene is of a television set being smashed as if the director is telling us this is a departure from the TV show. We have a focus on Kiefer Sutherland and Chris Isaak investigating an earlier murder. The cinematic film allows Lynch to be more darker and include more stronger sex and violence.The film kind of gets bogged down in the middle, the movie lacks some of the regulars from the TV serial who are sorely missed and some of the youngsters appearing are dull, wooden and in the case of James Marshall also beige. Sheryl Lee steps up to the mark however as Laura Palmer bringing a more rounded edge and tragedy to her character.The film is still frustrating, a missed opportunity to provide the answers you wanted when the show finished. Even Lynch could not pull off the prequel idea and you can only hope that newly announced continuation of Twin Peaks will lead to more satisfying story strands when we return there in 2016. "},{"Title":"Mildly Engrossing Big Screen Adaptation of the Failed Series","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Following the cancellation of the short lived soap opera Twin peaks, creator David Lynch attempted to keep the story alive with this theatrical follow up which delves into the already familiar territory of how Laura Palmer came to die. Knowing the identity of the killer going in to Fire walk With Me damages it's dramatic worth somewhat but the small cult of admirers who stuck with the show should be entertained. There's the prerequisite, self indulgent flourishes Lynch likes to engage in, a handful of actors familiar to the series and an excellent musical score by Angelo Badalamenti. Although it's not discernibly better or worse than the material which inspired it, Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me was famously booed at Cannes. "},{"Title":"The Other Side of Dad","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch is the kind of director who will present a blissful, near-perfect setting, and slowly turn it over its head and let the little monsters that have been hiding within scamper out until in a fit of rage he'll shake the now upside-down setting vigorously until all that is left is nothingness, black dread, and a monster looking right back at you with hungry eyes.Revisiting the placidity that was the veneer for dark perversions in BLUE VELVET, Lynch here goes back to the little town of Twin Peaks and instead of beginning the story from the death of Laura Palmer like the series did, he decides to go back in time one week and describe how this beautiful tease of a girl spiralled into the black and became the myth that spawned the series.Lynch is one of the most efficient workers of Surrealism in contemporary cinema, taking off in his own way where Bunuel left due to his death in 1983. Presenting a doomed scenario, his eye has a habit of describing events a little slower than they usually would happen in reality. There is a dream-like quality of everything within the Twin Peaks universe, where people who have never met communicate with each other, and weird apparitions filter themselves into our world fueled by Laura's own terror. As a matter of fact, it's Laura's dysfunctional relationship with her father that is at the core of these strange events that seem at times so convoluted to cause a migraine headache (unless you've seen the entire series, then you're fine). The problem is that the final product looks and feels like one huge, incomplete mess, but an interesting one to look at. TWIN PEAKS FIRE WALK WITH ME is like watching a cross between a Magritte and a Dali, implausible, but seductive, and with no apparent solution. "},{"Title":"Don't Watch This With the Lights Out","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Whenever I think of Twin Peaks I am reminded of a moment when, as the sole American in a London youth hostel, channel surfing I came upon Twin Peaks and, having been a fan, decided to leave it on.  A collective groan from the 20 or so other hostel residents in the room said it all.  They had previously been unresponsive to my choice of viewing material but Twin Peaks stirred something in them and forced a response -  a negative one.You either love or hate a David Lynch film.  Good art should divide and provoke.  David Lynch makes art - creepy, strange, provocative art.  I don't claim to always understand it but I am always interested enough to try and am endlessly intrigued by the mysteries that I can't get my head around.You do not need to have watched the TV show in order to enjoy the film. The film expands on certain themes dealt with in the series and eliminates others.  It is different from the TV show.  It is darker -much,much darker.The acting as usual in Lynch's films is all over the place.  Leland and Cooper are great.  Moira Kelly as Donna is surprisingly good.  James manages to look constipated throughout while channeling James Dean.  Worst of all is Sheryl Lee.  She is embarrassingly bad as the soon to be dead Laura Palmer. It doesn't help that she has the distinction of having to recite what is possibly the stupidest line ever in film I'm gone like a turkey in the corn - gobble gobble and this with tears in her eyes! (Worth an honorable mention is I am the muffin).  I could recount a few scenes where the over the top award should be handed out but I'm laughing too hard just thinking about them.  It's okay though because creating believable characters that you care about is not the point.  Neither is the plot the point.  What you're really here for is to have the holy bejesus scared out of you by the dwarf who talks funny and the one-armed man and the monkey behind the mask and the picture on the wall of the door and the ceiling fan and BOB!  It doesn't matter how many times I see this movie and I know that Bob will appear from under that bed, the suspense in that scene is unbearable and I can't watch.Roger Ebert said a genius thing when reviewing Mulholland Drive that can also be applied to this film - he said movies that attempt to explain all of their mysteries limit themselves to the mysteries that can be explained. Maybe the mysteries of Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me aren't necessarily inexplicable.  One can choose to work them out or not.  In this case, the unresolved in just fine with me. "},{"Title":"I guess there *are* good Lynch movies out there...","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing every commercially available Lynch film from Blue Velvet to Mullholland Drive, I have had mixed opinions on Lynch. My favorite up until now was Blue Velvet. Now, I have to say Twin Peaks is my favorite Lynch film. This is a truly awesome film. It's captivating and pretty much does it for me. Only one question I noticed Heather Graham was in the opening credits. WHERE IS SHE IN THE FILM???? Don't tell me Annie Blackburn, I can read. But which character was Annie Blackburn? I looked over the credits here and yes it's the same actress from Boogie Nights and Lost in Space, so where is she in Twin Peaks?? Someone please respond with this info, it's driving me nuts! Thanks. "},{"Title":"HMMMMMMMM...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was an interesting movie.  More disturbing than anything else!  Interesting and strange.  Really inexplicable. Not sure if I would recommend it.  I'd have to know who I was talking to. "},{"Title":"Not up to standard","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a huge David Lynch fan, however this movie ended up being a huge disappointment. There were so many character changes (meaning they behaved differently) from the series as to be totally confusing, and the story did not connect well (most likely to due the inordinate number of deleted scenes).We are given a good insight into what Laura was like before she died, but with an unsatisfying ending, and it seemed it was perhaps one of a few endings shot, in which they picked one of the worst.There are several excellent scenes though, including the one where agents Desmond and Stanley confront the woman at the diner. Brilliant. Unfortunately, there's too few of them.I can only assume that its the result of a troubled production, which it seems to be. "}{"Title":"Unusual to say the least.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought that the series was weird in a good way, but this film is just plain weird. Perhaps the producers of the show lost a bit of direction after Laura's killer was revealed, which I think led to the show's eventual demise. I thought that this movie, the final episode in the Twin Peaks saga should have laid a lot of unanswered questions to rest, especially about the series' abrupt ending. Instead the movie tries to answer some of the questions surrounding the death of Laura which I think would have been better left a mystery. I especially didn't like the excessive violence and drug related scenes. The R rating was definitely warranted. To sum up, if you're a Twin Peaks fanatic, then you might enjoy this movie. I didn't. Even so, you won't be any worse off if you give it a miss. "},{"Title":"get rid of the first act....","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was about to shut off the VCR because I was watching for what seemed like hours and Laura Palmer hadn't even appeared on screen yet.  I love Chris Isaak and yet I didn't have a clue as to what that whole part about the first murder of that girl Theresa had anything to do with anything.  I mean, the first murder was important to the plot but they didn't need to go on for so long about it.As soon as Sheryl Lee as Laura Palmer appears on screen, the movie became hypnotic.  It connected with me in a terrifying way that I felt was even more effective that Blue Velvet or Eraserhead.I was a little disappointed with a couple of things though.  Moira Kelly as Donna  what happened to Lara Flynn Boyle?  Why didn't she sign on?  Also the drug use.  There are lots of scenes with people doing coke and no one seems to really know how someone on coke acts.  Everyone just acts drunk.I bet that if they just eliminated the first act and started the movie when Laura first appears on screen, the movie would totally work as a whole.  I recommend everyone who watches this movie to hit the fast forward button on their VCR until they see a blond high school student walking to school. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, weird, yet you can't take your eyes off it.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch is either fantastic (Blue Velvet) or terrible (Lost Highway). Twin Peaks is somewhere between. It's an undescribable mixture of fantasy, thriller, suspense, mystery, black comedy, satire and horror. It's a prequel to the television series, where the body of Laura Palmer was found wrapped in plastic.It focuses on the last seven days of her life, and what a bizarre life it is. All sorts of weird things happen to her, like paintings which move, or dreams of dwarves that talk in reverse. Her seedy life consists of topless dancing in a club that emphasises red lights, illicit drugs and promiscuity.But, instead of creating a good film, what's happened is that Lynch has made such a bizarre film and wasted so much that it had going for it. Other than that, it's very intriguing.Watch out for the cameo role (although somewhat superfluous) that David Bowie plays.Seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Makes sense to me! What's YOUR problem?","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Actually, not even the most die-hard Peaks fan can make heads or tails of everything in this essentially pointless but still kinda interesting recount of the last days of Laura Palmer.  Not one for the ages, or for anyone unfamilliar with the seven years-deceased series.  But Peaks fans like myself can fully appreciate Lynch's darkly imaginitive imagery, which, except for Eraserhead, has never been more powerfully bizarre than here.  The Black Lodge concept is a true stroke of genius, if still a bit hopelessly obscure (even Lynch, who made all this stuff up as he went, is clueless as to what most of this means).  The one thing everybody should be able to participate is Sheryl Lee's performance.  Lynch is always tough on his actresses, and this film is no exception.  But she does come through.   "},{"Title":"It just gets better and better...","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks has beautiful woods, the streets and houses are so pretty, some people may be quirky, but all of them mean well, and Twin Peaks High seems like a nice place for a young girl to be educated... but from the onset we know that there is something, probably a lot of things, not just as they seem in this little American Garden of Eden...This was probably my third or maybe fourth viewing of 'Twin peaks fire walk with me' and even though the scariest parts (those with Bob) can't possibly be as scary as they were the first time, the film becomes more and more fascinating to watch, and remains scary enough, too. In the beginning there is some comic relief when David Lynch as FBI man Gordon Cole shouts into the phone and such, but pretty soon mysteries are abound and an increasingly nightmarish tone sets in that is no less than haunting. David Lynch himself must be otherworldly, and he brings that world into the world of Twin Peaks with so much power, confidence and precision that this film, to me, becomes a world unto itself. The acting parts by (primarily) Sheryl Lee, Ray Wise and David Silva and 'the agents' are by the way essential 'components'. It is rare for me to appreciate a film so much more when I've already seen it at least two times, but there it is.I have never seen the TV-series, so that will probably be the next step, so that I can watch this one again after that. It used to be 8 out of 10, but that is no way nearly enough; 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My first experience with Twin Peaks","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me Noir/Murder Mystery/Fantasy I had never seen anything Twin Peaks related before, but had always heard about how weird the show was. In the last year, I've had an increasing interest in David Lynch films and lo and behold, on cable, I had the chance to catch this little gem. This is billed as the prequel to the Twin Peaks television show. Ha, and you don't even need to worry at all about spoilers here, I seriously doubt I really got what was going on.This film is about the town of Twin Peaks wherein a girl was found murdered. And for whatever reason, the FBI has taken an interest in the case and they sent, of all people, Chris Isaak to investigate. Eventually, to replace him, Lynch constant, Kyle McLaughlin wanders into the story to investigate. But he plays, as usual, a very odd person who's humanity can never really be spotted. The film also follows closely the story of an exceptionally loose girl as she bounds around town doing as many drugs and men as she can. All the while, she appears to have some issues with her father. And everyone has issues with bizarre dreams, hallucinations, and flashbacks.Here's the breakdownThe Good--Well, the acting is quite interesting, and pretty good. --Excessively bizarre story and characters&#151;all really interesting and attention-grabbing. But strange none-the-less. The story bounds frantically around, as one would expect in a Lynch film, and becomes almost more an art piece than a film.--Brilliant atmosphere and cinematography. But then, who would expect anything less from Lynch? Tension is carried along with rampant strength and it's hard to take your eyes off the screen for several moments during the film.--Nice special effects when we have them, and a decent amount of nudity.--For those who like weirdness, this film has it in spades. From the backwards talking dream sequences with the little guy, to the wacky sex-n-drugs club the main girl meanders into. --Some pretty good violence, and some nice shocking surprises. And some disturbing ones&#133;--I'm generally not a fan of musicians, pop stars or the like appearing in movies. To me, it's Hollywood pandering to the fanbase of those people desperate for higher ticket sales. These people are not actors and for our modern times, I'm flat out sick of seeing Rap stars popping up in films&#151;granted, Redman actually did a good job in Seed of Chucky and wasn't trying to play the tough black guy or the comic relief black guy&#151;but this sh*t is getting old. Here, however, Chris Isaak manages to act quite well and suits his part better than I could have thought. David Bowie wasn't prancing, acting, singing, or dancing (thank god) and popped up briefly just to be the human oddity that he is. (Oh, and Iggy Pop in Dead Man also did well.)Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--For me the jazz/noir music dominating the early part of the film was extremely tedious, but some people will likely enjoy it. Decent mood setter, I suppose. There are moments of better, though loud and strange, music during a scene in a club.The Bad--This movie is beyond strange, so much so that many people will have trouble following it, or even for that matter, getting into it. So, it's for a specific audience. And audience that likes their entertainment as weird as can be. Luckily for me, I like stuff like that.--The beginning is rather plodding and takes a bit to pick up. But at least you ladies have Chris Isaak to ogle. The Ugly--The main girl in this movie sure gets around a lot. And her taste in men is all over the place&#151;one would think she'd be able to do someone better than a fat redneck&#133;Memorable Scene--When the female protagonist finds someone in her room&#133;Watch For--David Bowie, Miguel Ferrer, Heather Graham & David Lynch in small roles.A Note About the Influence of Twin Peaks--I'm sure we've all seen the Simpsons episode(s) recalling Twin Peaks, like the unicorn dancing with someone. But here's one many of you will likely not know The Death Metal band Konkhra has three songs which, at least appear to be, about this film, and possibly Twin Peaks in general. Bands are famous for sampling single lines here and there from movies, but Konkhra's interest lies in these three tracks Inhuman, Pain and Sorrow (segue), and My Belief. Pain and Sorrow connects the other two tracks and is about two minutes of constant sampling from this film, including inspiration from the music. These tracks are from the Weed Out the Weak album.Acting 8/10 Story 8/10 Atmosphere 9/10 Cinematography 9/10 Character Development 7/10 Special Effects/Make-up 8/10 Nudity/Sexuality 5/10 (some nudity and disturbing sexual stuff) Violence/Gore 6/10 (very little gore) Dialogue 8/10 (a lot of backwards talking and subtitles) Music 6/10 Direction 8/10 Cheesiness 1/10 Crappiness 1/10 Overall 8/10So, there you have my two cents on Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me. I thought it was a good movie and extremely interesting. However, it's also weird as all hell and not for everyone. Pretty much for Twin Peaks and David Lynch fans&#133; or fanatics. (Keep in mind, the opinions of dedicated fans of the Twin Peaks series may have better insight than mine on this film.)(www.ResidentHazard.com) "},{"Title":"Very Good, though parts are better than the whole","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This uneven, but nevertheless fascinating companion piece (not really a sequel or prequel) to David Lynch's hit TV series will most likely appeal more to die hard Lynch addicts than fans of the show. It starts out with a captivating prologue in which two FBI agents (Chris Isaak, Keifer Sutherland) investigate the murder of a young woman a year before Laura Palmer's death. The remainder of the film follows Laura (Sheryl Lee, in a superb performance) for the final week of her life, and the many odd and nightmarish experiences she has along the way. Lynch creates some haunting imagery, and several surreal sequences rank among his best work, particularly an intense sequence in a nightclub where the music is so loud we need subtitles to tell what the characters are saying.However, the movie is a narrative disaster characters and events pop up and disappear with little or no explanation (David Bowie's bewildering walk-on is the most glaring example of this), and many scenes seem incomplete. Who is the battered old woman who wanders into Teresa Banks' trailer? What does Carl mean when he says, I've already gone places? What's the deal with the monkey? What matters when James says to Laura, It does matter, we're in love? Lynch does not answer any of these questions. In Lynch's next movie, LOST HIGHWAY, he also left many questions unanswered, but gave his audience enough information to figure it out for themselves. He does not do so in FWWM, and much is left unresolved.Despite this, it's a good film with some great moments. Just don't think about it too much. "},{"Title":"I was intrigued by Laura Palmer but irritated by the movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ***SPOILER WARNING***I have no objection to a director who fancies himself a stylist but once in a while I do ask that a stylist occasionally let me in on the joke.  David Lynch has always been the master of his own work, sometimes brilliant but often times baffling, confusing and frustrating.  Frustrating because he tries so hard to outsmart the viewer and himself that often, I think, he forgets to just make a movie.`Twin Peaks' was no exception.  I didn't mind being taken into his comic nightmare on television (however one or two episodes were about all I could take) but this senseless and tiresome movie grates on +your nerves the moment you realize that it isn't even going to try to make an attempt at any cognitive reason.  In my mind the movie plays like a stubborn child who won't budge from his seat and keeps smiling just the irritate you.What I saw of `Twin Peaks' on television I foolishly thought could be explained here.  `Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me' chronicles that last seven days of the life of Laura Palmer, the McGuffin at the center of the entire enterprise.  The series begins with the discovery of her dead body and the subsequent investigation to trace how she got there.  The movie takes us back a full year before that discovery to lead us through Laura's life up to the day of her murder.The movie begins with another murder under investigation by two FBI agents (Chris Isaak and Kiefer Sutherland) who predict, rather predictably that the killer will kill again. Agent Cooper (Kyle McLaughlin) has a vision about this time of a red room and some babbling nonsense about garborzonia. Then we meet Laura, whom I found to be a robust, fascinating and very well written character.  She lives with her parents, she persistently abuses drugs and her own body in pursuit of reckless sex.  Her father (Ray Wise) has an unhealthy fixation on her and her mother (Grace Zabriske) is too much of a weakling to do anything about it.  The only solace that Laura seems to find is in her friend Donna (Moira Kelly) whom she almost takes down with her.All of this is fine and good.  I wanted to see a movie about this particular subject but Lynch isn't satisfied with just a simple story, no, he has to leaden it with a lot of weird rooms, backward talking midgets, nonsensical twisty timelines and unnecessary plot machinations.  I swear the last hour of the movie just seems to completely leave the earth.I would like to have seen that story.  I think Lynch had it in his hands to make a great drama about a trailer trash girl with a drug habit, an unhealthy sex life and a home life that is a ticking time bomb.  That would have made for the kind of drama that Tennessee Williams would have envied.  C'mon David use your gifts for great filmmaking and stop with the self-indulgence already.Rating * (of four) "},{"Title":"It may be art...but I don't see it!","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I only recently saw the entire TP series, when it came to Netflix. Previously I think I had seen part of the pilot. I watched all 30 episodes over about five days, and I can see why it has a dedicated following...and also why it was canceled. Now I've seen the movie, and I can't begin to express my disappointment.I had hoped for a movie that captured the best of the TV series, but what I got was another David Lynch film. Indeed, I couldn't sit through the whole thing at one time. I only watched it through to the end to be sure I was being fair, and in the end, the best part was putting it into the mail back to Netflix.This movie was to me at once disturbing and tedious. It was like the worst of the TV episodes plus typical David Lynch let me see how much I can get away with without getting an X rating material. That's kind of a shame. Tempered by broadcast FCC rules, it seems Lynch can turn out pretty good work. Turned loose with a movie, he generates trash.Just one opinion. "},{"Title":"The tender boughs of innocence burn first, and the wind rises, and then all goodness is in jeopardy.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" - This film is essentially a prequel to the television series Twin Peaks. The movie begins one year before the television show with two FBI agents investigating the death of a waitress, Teresa Banks. After a half-hour, the focus of the movie switches to events that take place in the week that leads up to the murder of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee). The events during the last week of Laura's life are filled with drugs, alcohol, and sex , and her murder is extremely brutal and violent. At this point, the television series begins. And things lighten-up quite a bit.- The primary focus of the movie is the relationship between Laura Palmer and her father, Leland Palmer (Ray Wise). While Lee is adequate in the role of Laura, Wise excels at giving life to Leland. His ability to express emotion (fear, sadness, rage, etc.) is amazing, if not a little over the top. Another actor/character worth mentioning is Frank Silva as Bob. His character and performance are among the most frightening I've ever seen.- As I said, Lynch has a lot of different things going on in the movie. Many are not really essential to the plot and could have, perhaps, been left out. For example, the first thirty minutes has almost nothing to do with what follows. Lynch could have shortened the movie to 90 minutes and made a tighter film that might have better appealed to an audience beyond the built-in television audience. In my mind, the padding contained in this movie is its greatest weakness.- While the original television series presented life in a quirky town that could never exist in reality, the movie takes the bizarre nature of the town and stretches it to the point of non-believability. Take the scene with David Bowie as an example. He is seen walking down the hall at an FBI office and entering the office of his superior. As he gets halfway to the desk, he disappears. No one seems overly surprised - they act as if it is a normal part of the day.- I was a huge fan of the television series during its initial run and was very excited when I first heard that Lynch was making this movie. While I enjoyed Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me, I doubt I would have liked it nearly as much if I hadn't seen the series before I went to the theater. I don't think a non-fan of the show would have a clue about what was happening on screen. "}{"Title":"A great series turned into a mess of a film","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Lynch is a visionary director - following his vision, he's created masterpieces like Mulholland Drive. He's also behind Dune, a terrible film, although this was a much the studios fault as his own. Fire walk with me, however, is also terrible - and here there's no one to blame but the man himself. This is Lynch out of control.Twin Peaks - the TV series is brilliant, but uneven. The show balances so many ingredients - a murder mystery, surrealism with supernatural overtones, soap opera clichs, parodies of soap opera clichs, romance, and absurd comedy. The pilot is an absolute masterpiece, and the first season is one of the best things ever shown on television. The second season opens with a killer Lynch-directed episode. The second season continues fairly strong, then loses its focus completely midway, and finally gets a little bit better towards the end. By the last episode Frost and Lynch had returned after leaving the helm of the ship for awhile, frustrated by ABC forcing them to make decisions they didn't believe was in the best interest of the show. The drop in quality mid season 2 wasn't their fault - for more info on this, watch the excellent Making of Twin Peaks documentary. By the end of season two Frost and Lynch knew the show would probably get cancelled and Lynch decided to go out with a bang - a very Lynchian bang. The last episode is complete surreal weirdness - a path that the Twin Peaks movie continues its fiery walk on. The balance of all the different elements, Mark Frost being the levelheaded scriptwriting pro to Lynch's surrealist auteur, is now replaced with Lynch following his every hunch and throwing the idea of having a traditional narrative out the window. However, TPFWWM is far, far less entertaining as a whole than the last episode of the TV show.I'd only recommend Twin PeaksFire walk with me if you've seen the entire Twin Peaks series. And even so, you can just as well skip it. It doesn't add to the enjoyment of the show, and is mostly for completists. The film does have a few great surreal dream sequences, where you can sense the magic touch Lynch can have when he's in the zone. But the film has several problems that even his feel for mood, cinematography and sound design can't solve.First of all, the film lacks an overarching narrative - something even the surreal Lynch films Eraserhead, Lost Highway and Mullholland Drive had (more or less). What's it ABOUT? Well, the film is split into two parts, and they have almost nothing to do with one another. The first part revolves around FBI agents and the murder of a girl killed by the murderer of Laura Palmer a year earlier. The second part - which makes up most of the film - is the part set in Twin Peaks showing the last days of Laura Palmer. However, this is the polar opposite of what made the beginning of the TV series so compelling. The TV show started with a mystery and had a plot that slowly revealed more and more, keeping the viewer hooked. If you've seen the show you won't find a lot here you didn't already know - the mystery is already revealed, it just feels like a tedious waiting game. And if you see this film without having seen the show, you'll just be confused and feel alienated. In both cases you'll be left wondering why was this film made?Another problem is replacing Lara Flynn Boyle with Moira Kelly - it probably would have been wiser removing Donna Hayward from the plot altogether. A lot of sets are also noticeably different from how the TV series looks. The exterior shots in sunlight, the streets, the houses, Shelly and Leo's place, Harold Smiths room - the don't look like they did in the TV show. All this affects how you view the film coming from seeing the show - you don't feel like you're in Twin Peaks. This actually ruins some of the magic of both this film AND the series. It ruins the illusion and the feeling of Twin Peaks being a real place.And the feel of Twin Peaks is, as mentioned, gone. The movie is very dark and takes itself very seriously, often crossing the line towards being pretentious. There's very little comedy and parody to lighten the mood. Scenes are either completely clich (most of the actors do a good or decent job delivering the completely uninteresting dialogue) or Lynch being weird for weirdness' sake. Watch the second episode of the show - it's directed by Lynch and perfection from beginning to end. The surrealism doesn't feel forced, it seems to flow naturally and furthers the story - not the case here.I felt compelled to write this review since a lot of the reviews of TPFWWM on IMDb are either rave reviews by Lynch fans who love everything he's done, or people who don't like Lynch or who haven't even seen the Twin Peaks series bashing the film. Well, I'm here to give my two cents - the middle ground. I love Twin Peaks and I'm a huge fan of Lynch's style when it works (like in Mulholland Drive) - but Fire walk with me doesn't cut it. It's the only Lynch film that I feel is a waste of time seeing - if there is a puzzle here to solve, I don't feel like solving it. I'd rather hold on to the feeling the TV show gave me, and maintain the mysterious feel around who Laura Palmer was when she was alive.David Lynch's son does look cool with that bird mask on though. I'll give him that. "},{"Title":"Garbage. Not even worthy of the TP faithful.","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Massive disappointment, and I went into it thumbing my nose at those who had widely panned it. But, sadly, after watching the show faithfully for two full seasons, I will concur that this can only be described (and in particular, for the TP series faithful) as a load of forced crap.Lynch is very good at both portraying the surreal and (in his own odd way) character development. Success in surrealism however, at least in film, is dependent on establishing a good juxtaposition with established norms... and for whatever reason, Lynch and his screenwriters here missed the boat (or perhaps ate too many mushrooms while waiting for that boat to depart).The characters (and actors who played them) are weak shadows of who they were in the excellent, quirky, TV series. The story is weak, and (most importantly) McLachlan's 'Special Agent Dale Cooper' is a boring, wooden caricature of himself. Bowie and Issak were obviously added for a heavyweight celebrity presence, as were Harry Dean Stanton and Keifer Sutherland... but even if they were fans of the original themselves, they bring nothing a few recent acting school grads couldn't have easily brought.Small wonder why the promoters were quick to point out that this was successful in Japan, as only a foreign audience not accustomed to the idiosyncrasies of the original (which is what help make the original series so great) would appreciate it.Two thumbs down. Just glad I only paid 5 dollars for the used DVD. "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I admire David Lynch's films but TP FWWM is a step too far. The film is a confused and confusing mess; a vain, self-indulgent attempt to reignite the hitherto successful franchise that was Twin Peaks. Unlike Mulholland Drive which successfully cast aside its TV roots, FWWM can't escape the burden of its televisual origins. Here Lynch has fashioned a messy prologue and epilogue to TP, destroying the enigma of Laura Palmer's death; and herein lies the problem with FWWM; it's simply too literal and overt for Lynch. There are some wildly inventive and unforgettable scenes but there are also too many scenes that flounder in their self-indulgence; scenes were muffled dialogue tries the patience of viewers. It's a slap in the face for viewers, one that insults our investment in the film.The other central flaw is the structure. The dual story of Teresa Banks and Laura Palmer is clumsily told; and it often seems Lynch has fashioned two films in the first hour, bridging them together later on. The genesis of the film's turbulent production is also evident in the gluing of these two films together, and the haphazard use of Special Agent Dale Cooper role just doesn't work. Another flaw is Sheryl Lee's portrayal of Laura Palmer. As befits many Lynchian figures, she is a curious entity, torn between innocence and desire, but as is usual for most Lynchian characters, she lacks empathy and sympathy. It doesn't help that Sheryl lee overacts in a hysterical fashion which was probably the intention but it's still unintentionally hilarious to watch.It's not all bad though. The framing is excellent as well as the audio. I know there is a campaign to restore this film to its original glory but it seems what can only save this film is to re-edit it further. "},{"Title":"unnecessary","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I found this movie an odd experience. On one hand it has the trademark lynchian surrealism in abundance, at least throughout the first half, many of the images sure to play in your mind long after wards. on the other hand, the movie completely disregards the playful and comedic charms that made the series so lovable. The cast has been pared down to the bare necessities, mainly those revolving directly around Laura and her family, offering very little opportunity to offer any relief from the relentlessly dark and bleak plot that, for anybody familiar with the series, is mostly predictable. Overall a disappointing and unnecessary finale to the twin peaks phenomenon. "},{"Title":"Stupidity at its best","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Recently I did two mistakes. I saw Mulholland drive and then I did a bigger one to watch, Twin Peaks- Fire walk with me. To some extent, I found Mulholland Drive understandable, but this film was totally incomprehensible.The movie starts with two detectives coming to a weird town investigating a murder case of a girl. Then out of a sudden one of them disappears.Then there is no mention of the other detective throughout the film. Neither the David Lynch bothers to tell this. Then story is turned towards Laura Palmer, a troubled teenage girl. And she is somehow connected to the prior murder case,. I don't want discuss the further story, because it is rubbish.Some people watch David Lynch's films, two times or even more than two times. But, we view films simply to be entertained not to get bored. As always, there are some stupid character blurting out some stupid dialogues, ludicrous situations, overacting and especially NO SCRIPT. Again there are some loose scenes put together and called a film.I didn't understand the film at all,in the midway I got so bored that I even didn't care, and was waiting for the film to be over. Some 'This may contain spoilers' reviews said, you have to see the Twin Peaks series before you watch the films. They should have put up a board saying such thing.Some people say you need to be intelligent to understand Lynch's films. I saw 'Inceptions' once understood it completely. (Pretentious)People digging Lynch's work will like this film and normal sane people like me won't like this film. Whether intelligent or not a film should entertain you, and this film fails to do so. There are some usual weird characters in this flick (as they were in Mulholland Drive). The story seemed so good in the first fifteen minutes, but when the detectives disappeared and no evidence was given about where they went, I lost my interest and further story which made no sense whatsoever, added to my frustration. I might understand this film if I see it one or two times more, but I'm lethargic to do so. Because, the film was very boring and dull.I have vowed that I'll never see David Lynch's any film ever again. "},{"Title":"Who is this for?","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a stylish yet pointless excursion. I can't figure out who the audience is for this film. For Twin Peaks fans, it's too much of a disjointed rehash. You learn nothing new from watching this film. For the newbies, however, this film doesn't teach anything - it's too confusing to make sense without having seen the series. It's a lose-lose situation for Lynch.  "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Beautiful film, subtle exploration of Kafka's masterpiece nuances, slices of novel's atmosphere but only an ordinary adaptation.In fact, a film about one of Palmerini's texts are an Utopian gesture. The sense of pages, the shadows of characters, the angst, fear or illusions, the magnificent style of one of best writers are crushed by vision of any director or art of actor. And the images are pieces of cold beauty without soul or honesty.For Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me is always present a trap the image of Joseph K. as avatar of Kafka. Franz Kafka is only a Kakania's citizen, civil servant in a large empire, with small ambitions and desires, toy of his doubts and hesitations, dreads and lures.Kyle MacLachlan is a correct interpret of character but, the fundamental error is the ambition to be a perfect Special Agent Dale Cooper. So, his acting is barren and empty.Catherine E. Coulson as The Log Lady is charming but the interpretation of character is exercise of one type incarnation, the same in many nuances. Same situation for great Grace Zabriskie.The important virtue of film is the presence of Sheryl Lee and the colors, shadows, illusions and accents gives to parable. It is not example of brilliant art but the science of words sense description. The words- medusa, words- ash, words- sand, words- velvet. In this small text is the crux of cinema and film.A splendid film, a acceptable adaptation. "},{"Title":"for fans only","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love Twin Peaks. I love David Lynch. I enjoyed this movie because I had already developed a relationship with both, and after finishing the entire Twin Peaks series I still wanted more. Fire Walk With Me is not as good as the TV show, but instead serves as a supplement, or dare I say, a fan video. I don't believe it works as a stand-alone film. For that, I would recommend instead watching the full pilot of the TV show, as it was made to work as a movie if the series didn't get picked up. Or better yet, watch the whole series, then the movie will seem good. I honestly don't know why Fire Walk With Me isn't better. There was so much to work with from the series. I am willing to forgive a lot of cringe moments for the sake of more Laura Palmer, but the bottom line is that it really was just kinda OK. "},{"Title":"Common Lynch dream-like experience","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have never watch any episode of the Twin Peaks show, and as a consequence I could hardly foresee any of the plot's elements. This movie, just like Mulholland Drive for example, is closer to a dream than to the common film plot. The point is not so much what the film is about, but mostly how it translates feelings into video and music. Although I mus admit that I did NOT linked all elements together to build up an overall understanding of the movie, I still really got entertained. I gave the movie 6/10 because I found it harder to link these together although I really love Lynch movies, this movie is clearly the one I had the most difficulty to understand. For those who find the courage to embark onto a Lynch journey, this is a must. But beware reality and dream are mixed together into some sort of frightening feeling that what you think is coming up will eventually happen. The central scene in Laura's bedroom is expectable, but still not easy to foresee for those like me who have never seen the series TPeaks ahead. As a consequence, the viewer feels like he expects something but still wonders (and hopes) he's not right. As usual with Lynch, please do not stop the movie this must be a one time experiment. Stopping the movie would spoil the entire thing. ENJOY! "},{"Title":"she's my cousin","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" i will never be able to say once and for all whether 'fire walk with me' lived up to it's potential. due to the number of difference between the television show and movie it is almost impossible to compare the two. for one thing, lynch could no longer allow his mind to wander and play with the viewers mind as he introduced red herrings and various oddities. with a set time limit he was forced to follow much more of the traditional story arc then he ever had before. this was also a twin peaks that no one had ever seen before. regardless of whether donna was different, and audrey had faded into thin air, laura palmer was alive, and for this reason alone the movie would have little in common with the television show it served as a prequel to. "}{"Title":"Parts of the script were cut out","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A friend of mine recommended this movie to me for it's weirdness quotient. I watched it with him and I couldn't agree more. However, I went over the script a while back and parts are cut out that would at least have made the movie a bit more consistent. There are more conversations that seek to explain Gordon Cole's eccentricities. There is also a scene in the script that was deleted that has Laura and Donna eating muffins fixed by Donna's mother. Laura calls Donna a muffin. This scene was omitted and the scene where Laura says that she is the muffin (after the guy says he's the Great Went) makes no sense. Much of the cut script are the parts that make Laura's life seem at least a bit normal and a bit routine. There is also a dinner scene with Laura and her parents before the dinner where Leland makes Laura wash her hands. The script actually flowed somewhat smoothly when you read it. The movie just turned out to be a mess for whatever reason. "},{"Title":"Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me (1992)-Big disappointment","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After watching Twin Peaks on TV for many weeks and thinking it was indeed Quirky with the stream of so many weird actingcharacters and beginning to enjoy the strangeness and trying to find the murderer before the FBI agent did, I found that when so called director and writer David Lynch entered as another actor the TV series took a nose dive. In the prequil Twin Peaks-FireWalk With Me, It seemed that Lynch added weirdness for any plot. Short or long pieces of boring film were spliced together to form a disappointing climax that held no suspense for any Twin Peaks TV fan. I think any future film that David Lynch directs (Mulholland Drive,etc.)will be avoided by me.  "},{"Title":"A difficult movie","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me has the same problem as Wild at Heart and Lost Highway, its violence is tasteless and offensive. Too bad  there are some wonderful moments too. In my opinion, no director works better on the subconcious level than David Lynch. The bizarre humor, the silly dialogue and the strange images will put your mind in a state of confusion, just like in a dream. Overall, only some scenes (mostly in the first part) in these movie are actually brilliant, and the movie is worth watching just for these scenes, but the rest of it is just unpleasant poorly acted and, worst of all, cliched.   "},{"Title":"terrible, just terrible","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The acting is terrible, the story is rediculous and it is just plain boring.This movie went downhill as soon as Chris Isaac disappeared. It was weird before that, but afterwards it just went down the drain. The lame story of this Laura Palmer chick just went on and on. We know she is a drug addict. We know she is abused by her father. We know she is a bad actress. Oh wait, we weren't supposed to figure that out.....The scenes where she is dreaming are the worst. They don't make any sense. For example I am the arm...I sound like this. This is spoken by a midget who sounds like they recorded what he was going to say backwards first, and then played it in reverse so it would sound normal. All of the dream scenes are like this. For what reason, I don't know. There are too many parts that don't make sense. Saying you have to have seen the show does not make me feel any better. This is a feature film. It should be able to stand on it's own.  "},{"Title":"An abstruse, stylish and sinister delve into the dark side","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This feature prequel to the series begins with a funny scene involving three FBI agents, one played by the director Lynch, and a strange lady who uses some weird sign-language. Then it becomes apparent that this film is going to be abstruse. Soon after this the other two agents disappear inexplicably and then we are introduced to the central figure, Laura Palmer, played well by Sheryl Lee, who we find has a dark side, which includes taking cocaine and prostitution. She is also troubled by visions of a demonic figure. Some of the other sequences involve a strange little man and a one-armed man and a bizarre brief cameo from David Bowie. It is difficult to explain the purpose of these characters but that is where the film succeeds with its stylish and surreal aberrations, another example being a scene in a bar where we can't hear the characters speak and the film is slowed down with strobe lighting effects. It concludes with seemingly a theme of salvation and it is a very stylish and surreal film. "},{"Title":"Surreally ugly","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*First off, I loved the TV show. It had its own cool, weird vibe going on. This movie just has one surreal scene after another that gave off a splitting headache. I knew I was in trouble right from the start when they brought in that squinting women at the airstrip and Chris Isaak was interpreting her dance. Oh no. It drove off a cliff and exploded.Special agent Cooper was my favorite from the show. I know this was a prequel but I still needed more Cooper. That was a disappointment but understandable. The main problem is that even though the show dipped into weirdness, it usually didn't jump headfirst into complete abstraction. It kept one foot in reality or at least a toe. This movie veers like a madman.And it was just ugly. Usually I enjoy massive amounts of female nudity but I started to feel bad for Sheryl Lee. She seemed like she was really getting the boot to her. It was also hard to enjoy her nakedness when everything around her is an abstraction of an abstraction. While the show was cool and understated, the movie was explicit and ugly. The R rating didn't help it. Neither did its many surreal scenes. It was too much.   "},{"Title":"For Tasha","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Once upon a time in an enchanted heartland of quaint coffee shops, scenic rural vistas, adorably smarmy trailer parks, deranged ingnues on drugs, sado-masochistic sexual mass hysteria, flying scorpions with skulls for heads, and old school midgets riding unicycles and speaking in backwards tongues, the spirits of Ed Wood, John Cassavetes and Jim Wynorski begot the creature we know today as David Lynch. Ole Davy boy, or Eye-slicer Mango Crotch, as he is know to his friends, had a vision of such laser like insight and brain-stem bursting perspicacity that he decided to sally forth from that mescaline drenched, Kafkaesque community playhouse and do battle with the forces of rationality. His opening salvos in that psychedelic jihad were not completely appreciated by the teeming masses, so he went on TV and gave them a weekly dose of what they needed most. And gradually the once normal people began to see the light. In fact, they became hungry for more. The fire in their eyes burned stronger than an industrial arc welding torch and the lust in their hearts would have made Chasey Lain blush.Which brings us to Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me, which is actually a pre-causal, temporal iterative, sub-psychic feedback loop for the titular TV series in which Laura Palmer becomes a pan metaphorical representation of post adolescent suburban angst, ennui, and something beginning with h. Her journey thru the mystic sub-conscious underpinnings of middle class patriarchal ego subversion and moral entropy follow a syntactic paradigm similar to the Schrodinger's Cat paradox as interpreted by Tom Green channeling Timothy Leary. Stop me if you've heard this one before a Catholic priest, a giant mutated e coli bacterium and a lime tree sprouting testicles instead of limes walk into a bar; the bartender says, My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun. And the bacterium says, Existence is suffering. Multi-variant expression validates anti-metaphysical ideology. And the lime tree says, Why the heck can't I get a beer bong in this town? Rest assured, Mr. Buuel still has my hat check from 1963, and I'll get that walking cane back too, I swear it. And the Catholic priest says to the lime tree, So you're a Libra?Now that's what passes for entertainment in this country? I'm sorry but I must decry the cultural purification of our cinema in which demented, would-be surrealists try to inflate their own egos by gratuitous demonstrations of flashy nonsense and formal showing off that influence a whole generation of copy-cat wanna-bees who try to confuse non-losers with their grandstanding pecker slamming! Every one of them. Except for me, of course.  "},{"Title":"A poor showing by a great director","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I consider myself a huge David Lynch fan, and with that said I still cant like this film. It is totally unlike his better films like Mulholland Drive and Eraserhead. Its hard to quite put my finger on it, but his other movies just really work, Twin Peaks doesn't. If you watch this film it almost looks like the unfinished blueprint of Lynch's ideas for his better future films in which he really masters his craft. This film seems unfinished, and uneventful compared to his other movies. Twin Peaks just cannot stand on its own. Nonetheless Lynch is still the man, and basically only stupid people who don't understand his movies dislike all of them. "},{"Title":"Lynch has some great ideas here, but the film is a mess","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin peaks starts of on strong note with the two FBI agents investigating a bizarre slaying, Lynch effectively builds the suspense and conveys a sense of dread and menace. When the plot switch gears about a half hour in, Lynch builds on this feeling of menace thats lurks just below the surface of suburbia. It is in this section of the film that lynch is at his best, creating some truly unsettling scenes of terror and suspense, as well as some equally unnerving implications....Then Twin Peaks begins to implode on itself. My enthusiasm gradually turned into frustration and boredom. David Lynch has always been a somewhat self indulgent filmmaker, but this takes the cake. Every promising aspect of this film goes out the window and the film becomes a headache to watch, it turns into a showcase for half baked sub plots, obnoxious characters (it doesn't help that the unusually poor acting, especially by the lead actress..ugh..become much more noticeable once the film starts its tail dive)and incoherent and mostly uninteresting imagery. I'll give Twin peaks a 4 due to its strong first forty minutes/fifty minutes or so. I know this movie as well as the TV series are highly regarded in some circles, but i just don't see it. "},{"Title":"A shame...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Such a shame that Lynch couldn't make more out of this prequel. Mostly slaughtered by press and public and if you see the film you'll know why. However, there are a few scenes that show Lynch's talent. Still, a incoherent film. Why didn't Lynch tell the untold history of Agent Cooper? There was a lot of mystery about his past in the TV-series, yet Lynch chose to tell the story we actually already knew. Fire Walk with Me (1992) became the film that brought down Lynch. It took him a while before he could make Lost Highway (1997), which became his most daring work and (luckily) his artistic comeback.  "}{"Title":"I liked the series, but...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, I went into this movie (first time viewing with the DVD) very hopeful, and excited - because I've seen the first season on DVD and really liked it. I thought that it would be cool to see the events leading up to the pilot...And the first half of the movie was cool, I loved Chris Isaak and Keifer Sutherland - both did a great job of being quirky FBI agents.  And when Kyle MacLachlin comes into the picture, with his dreams and the David Bowie appearance - it all was very cool.Then we go back to Twin Peaks, and start seeing how sick and twisted Laura's life was, and some back story is revealed.  Still good.Then we get to what I can only describe as the sex scene in the Canadian cabin and the movie dove straight into a disused outhouse.  The movie stopped dead - beating me mercilessly with the sexual depravity of Laura, the drugs, the... everything.  And it kept going on, and on, and on. During which, a lot of bland exposition is spewed out of every character, and it's all subtitled (even though the dialogue is clear as day).Anyway, after that scene, I felt removed from the whole thing, and the remainder of the movie felt lifeless - I didn't care about it anymore.  I stopped the movie with about 20 minutes left - that's how disinterested I was.Many people really like this flick, but I'm sorry that I do not.  It has cut a piece of Twin Peaks curiosity out of me, not added to it, as it should have.  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What an incredibly and horribly slow movie. It just gets worse and worse as it goes. I had bad lighting in many shots and after. 45 min. I finally had to shut it off and it felt like I had been watching it much longer. I am sure you can find something better to do than watch this move. the reason I gave it a 3 and not a 1 was because I recognize many of the actors and actresses. But still the acting and dialog was bad. Some of them were once very good actors but worked for a very low wage and some of the young actors did go on to be very good actors. This movie was definitely not any of their best work. I would think twice about watching this movie if I were you. "},{"Title":"Both intriguingly strange and mind numbingly confusing","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is one of the weirdest, most confusing movies ever made. Maybe if viewed after the television series this film is based off of, this movie would be easier to understand, but without any prior viewing of the show, this movie makes very little sense. Though it makes no sense, at the same time, it is so weird that it might make you want a second or third viewing to try and analyze it.Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee) is a popular high school girl, and this movie is about her death. It's not a mystery to any fan of the show, or to anyone else, they state that she will die in the picture. Laura has an odd relationship with her father, Leland (Ray Wise). She has a man who comes in at night and rapes her. She goes to clubs to have sex with the patrons and walk around topless. She snorts coke. Her life and death are the main plot, and it is easy to understand. It's the side characters and sub-plots that make no sense.The most confusing scene features David Bowie in a strange cameo appearance. Kyle MacLachlan appears in this scene as Special Agent Dale Cooper. Cooper stands in front of a security camera and then walks into the security room to look at the camera monitor. He walks back out, and walks back in the room, only to find himself still in front of the TV, and Jeffries walks by. Jeffries claims that this is not Cooper, and then the screen goes into a dream, and then Jeffries disappears. This scene makes no sense at all, and probably requires the television show to make sense of it.The acting in this movie is very good. The musical score is nice. The direction is very stylish, with some interesting shots. The writing for the characters isn't bad, but this movie could make about 100 times more sense. This movie might not have been made for anyone who isn't a fan of the show, but nonetheless, as a stand alone picture, this is not an easy watch. It just doesn't have enough of an explanation behind it.Maybe to fans of Twin Peaks, this is everything you could want from a movie and more, but to someone who had never watched the show, this movie is both interesting and confusing. It's entertaining, but too out there for one to get.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 135 mins. R for language, sex, violence and nudity. "},{"Title":"This Lynch fails to satisfy.","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I will state from the outset that I was one of the original Twin Peaks fanatics. The quirky show, it's very talented cast, and the masterful creation by David Lynch and Mark Frost was excellent and I hated to see it come to an end. When this film was announced I could hardly wait. But sadly, Twin Peaks Fire Walk WIth Me is a cop-out. It is a chance to offer cheap thrills with a R rating for simulated sex and bear breasts, and the story does not live up to it's predecessor. And that is a damn shame. It starts out well enough. But from the disappearance of Special Agent Desmond on it loses out on some excellent possibilities. Kiefer Sutherland's character for instance, takes off to Portland with the body of Teresa Banks, and is never heard from again. His was a wasted role in the film. Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle Machlachlan) who I always enjoy watching shows up and the next thing we have jumped ahead a year to the week before Laura Palmer's death. This was most certainly not the Twin Peaks film I wanted to see. If you liked it, of course that is your business. But I would have loved to see more of the agent's backgrounds for one. Like the death of Windham Earle's wife, for which Dale Cooper was so guilt ridden. But then I supposed it takes all kinds, so go for it. I rate it a six. "},{"Title":"a fever dream that fans may or may not respond to; a flawed trip into the world of nightmares","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is quite the perplexing film as both a David Lynch and Twin Peaks fan, because it's got qualities that should make for one of the best works of the director and doesn't really hit the mark. The problem, in a way, is somewhat comparable to the problem of Dune. There, Lynch's lack of control was something that made it a tough journey to go through, even as there was much to see as pure Lynchian cinema. Yet here with Fire Walk With Me it's almost an overwhelming notion of control that has him going way into a column of intriguing danger where pretension becomes a recognizable factor. It also doesn't help that the end result would benefit from being instead one crammed-in crammed as two. The story of Chester Diamond (Chris Isaak) and his disappearance while working on a Twin Peaks-related case has the makings for a much more interesting spin-off, where the universe is still intact that Lynch and company have created but has a whole different trajectory with the characters. Meanwhile, there's the detailed back-story of Laura Palmer's final days, and it's here that Lynch starts to lose his balance.Because Lynch and company made Laura Palmer a much more captivating and deliriously melodramatic force with pure, surrealistic overtones in the *past* tense on the show, seeing it unfold in present-tense time, with the singularly warped Palmer/Bob/father-daughter dynamic going loses its power. It might not for some; the bits where one can see why Lynch and Engels went into this excursion in the tale of Palmer are reminiscent of the best that Twin Peaks on TV had to offer; some of these are the dreams, like the re-appearance of the dwarf with I am the arm as a crucial, hilarious scene. But at the same time it almost feels exploitive, as a fan, and for newcomers to TP (which would be better if you're not in seeing this, unless you're up for a lot of upfront scenes of weird and wild characterization and style) the revelations feel a little more shallow and sensationalized for content purposes. All your favorite cast members are back, and in Phantom Menance style not really always with as much attention or depth as one could want or feel necessary.But then, was a Twin Peaks prequel necessary to begin with? This question, which can be a nagging one watching the film at times, has to be put aside for the fact that a prequel now exists and it is what it is. The perception of Fire Walk With Me is tricky because Lynch, Engels and company are not really about getting to deeper truths about the nature of mystery, evil's ongoing pervasive quality, and the subconscious, but in flaunting style (i.e. the nightclub scene, a likely inspiration for the one in Babel) as a means of going further and further with the ever-lurid, more HBO-than-Primetime story of Laura's downward spiral. It goes without saying that the line between psychological upheaval and mythology is tested to a degree of fascination as part of the whole creation of the 'Bob' myth and the Black Lodge themselves. This being said, it's sort of odd and all the same seeing Lynch try to get through a work that is almost too big, too personal, too abstracted, and nearly too easy as too much in a scheme of excess, as he's one of the few American filmmakers today who can create some watchable cinema- occasionally powerful and frightening- as it ironically doesn't work. I'd rather watch Lynch mess something up than a far more deliberate attempt from a Hollywood director.Perhaps a late night viewing sometime may change my mind at some point in the future, as will more contemplation in general about what the darks side of Twin Peaks has to offer as opposed to the more light (if 'light' is the word to use) scenes and well-rounded cast of eccentrics. There's even a noteworthy turn by the film's leading lady, Sheryl Lee, and a wonderfully outrageous dream sequence involving Cooper and some random southern guy played by David Bowie. Nevertheless, FWWM is a slight, disappointing trip, and not up to par with the standard, however high, set by the show as a whole. "},{"Title":"Watch this stoned... (spoilers maybe)","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, this movie was somewhat of a treat for the film buffs like me.  I never really liked David Lynch, or Twin Peaks, until I saw this!  The movie is definetly odd, but compelling and visually stimulating.  The odd characters and 'small/odd U.S. town' feel was really captured in an intense and comical way.The scenes in the 'mind' or 'hell' or whatever that place was were just excellent... it is as if Laura Paulmer's killer may not really exist in the physical form, or on Earth at all.  Does a demon take the body of her father to commit these assaults on her?  Or is she just taking too many drugs?  I don't know, probably never will... I've watched this movie twice and still don't quite get it, but everytime I watch it I pick up new things and study it.I reccomend to smoke a joint before watching this, as you might just be able to take in the movie better.  It is probably tough for the average viewer to watch, and you'll be looking at the clock.  But just sit through this movie, have some weed, and just watch it.  Don't expect to understand it.  Just watch it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Where's my garmanbozia?","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If it's possible for a film to suffer from too much Lynch factor, this one's a textbook example. An overwrought mess, saved only by its beautiful cinematography and accurate portrayal of the way drug addiction makes some people behave.Worst of all, this film is downright boring in parts. I never expected to be bored watching a Lynch film, but this one did it to me. I did finally get it after seeing it for what I think was the second or third time since its release -- it's weird enough that it may take time to filter through the usual mental screens that serve to filter out this sort of nonsense. If you're new to Lynch, I suggest you 'de-virginize' with one of his other films, perhaps Blue Velvet.Not up to Lynch's usual standards, this one's an exercise in self-indulgence that could make even the most ostentatious filmmaker start blushing. For hard-core Lynch fans only. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the TV series Twin Peaks, because it was strange, yet charming and humorous. However, this made-for-video movie is dark, even more bizarre and just plain depressing. The beginning has some of the original strange humor, but when it moves forward to the main theme revolving around the life of Laura Palmer, it just goes loses it for me. The whole time I kept fighting the urge to just turn it off. Unlike the TV series, this movie didn't even try to be clean; on the contrary, it seemed like just an excuse for debauchery. If you want to see Laura Palmer snort coke and show her tits repeatedly, that's pretty much all this movie is good for. The one thing I liked was getting to find out who killed her at the end, since it brought closure to the mystery. "},{"Title":"The table is Formica, it's color is green.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The dwarf's utterance of The table is Formica, it's color is green  is the only, and I do mean ONLY thing in this film that made any sense.  Anyone who says otherwise is a new age movie reviewer wannabe.In fact, I now use that line in real life whenever I find myself dealing with someone (or something) who is making little or no sense.If Lynch wanted to achieve raw feelings from the audience, then he succeeded, because this film really makes a lot of people angry.  It makes NO sense. None.  It explains nothing. NOTHING.  It is inconsistent, fragmented, jumbled, confusing, pointless, totally lost in itself, and dull, dull, dull.  You will have wasted 3-4 hours of your life, time that you can never get back, if you watch this film.It would be better if you had someone knock you on the head and put you into a coma for 4 hours.  The visions you may or may not see during your time in la-la land will make more sense than this hideous waste of celluloid ever will.If you are in the mood to cheer on the death on someone who so richly deserves to die, solely for the fact that she is a stupid twit, then you will enjoy doing so for Laura Palmer.  She didn't die nearly soon enough to suit me.  I'm glad she died so horrible a death. No one deserved it more than Laura did.This film is a great way to p*** off your friends.  Tell them its great, and watch how red their faces are the next day! "},{"Title":"This movie should not never been made","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the prequel to David Lynch cult weird TV series. It follows the murder victim Laura Palmer last few days. The movie is weird, disturbing, and make no sense. The whole movie has pointless storyline of Laura Palmer last days. We see her as tormented, sexual abused teenager girl who is terrorizing by a large Indian man named Bob She's a secret drug user and a hooker at night; Laira seems crazy as well. The movie setting mix with the 50s and 90s clothes and hair. The only good part is at the beginning of the film with the two FBI Investigation (Chris Isaak and Kiefer Suterland) Ray Wise was believable as Laura's father (and later her killer). I think you should skip this movie because most of David Lynch movies are weird (expect The Elephant Man) and stupid. "}{"Title":"Weird does NOT equal good!","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is funny how woefully unpopular this TV show and movie were, and how the very few that actually watched it and liked it assume that means it was some vast conspiracy against great art. I just watched seasons 1 and 2 on DVD (not one to judge until I've actually watched the whole thing), and Lynch and Frost talked about how they worked on other things during season 2 (when it finally started getting semi-watchable), then they came back to end season 2 the right way, and set up season 3 (even though they didn't believe it was going to happen). And the last few episodes were the weirdest and most incoherent bits of artistic vomit that has ever been allowed on the small screen. Yuck! Then fans come on IMDb and whine about how the studio and media conspiracy forced everyone to not go to the movie and forced them not to watch the TV show because they refused to support such artistic genius. Of course, it could never have been because the show was actually bad, and that is why the show wasn't watched and the movie did pathetic box office. That said, if you want some creepy-weird sex scenes between Laura, a crew-member-made-actor, and Laura's dad - well, then this is your kind of movie! That said, the one plus I give Lynch is he has an eye for drop-dead-gorgeous young actresses. Madchen, Sherilyn, Lara, Heather, Sheryl, Peggy, Joan - did I mention Madchen? she is so gorgeous! "},{"Title":"What was he thinking?","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's really hard to figure out exactly what David Lynch thought he was doing with this pointless and grim prequel to the excellent cult television program.  The idea of doing a movie with the Twin Peaks characters was a great one, but a prequel following the last days of Laura Palmer?  What new could the movie reveal that wasn't already dealt with in detail in the show?  As it turns out nothing but some mild nudity.  Fans of the television show already know how Laura was killed, by whom, why and about the sordid activities she was involved in.  The movie doesn't offer anything new that sheds further light on her last days and non-fans will likely be completely lost since the movie makes no attempt at all to function as a stand-alone film.  The movie assumes that the viewer already knows about Bob, since no explanation is provided.  Likewise having the one-armed man as a character makes perfect sense unless you haven't seen the television show, in which case you're not going to have any idea who he is or what he's doing in the movie.  Other characters turn up for unnecessary cameos even though they have little to do with Laura Palmer's story including the Log Lady, Madchen Amick's waitress Shelly and her abusive boyfriend Leo and, in the most head scratching choice, a bloodied Heather Graham as her character Annie in a nightmare sequence, an odd choice since Annie didn't turn up until late in the second season, long after Laura was dead and the show had moved on to different plotlines.  It's hard to really come up with much positive to say about this depressing mess of a movie, but there is a certain pleasure in seeing the Twin Peaks characters again, even in a lousy movie like this.  Sheryl Lee shows herself to be a much better actress than I would have guessed based on her Twin Peaks appearances as Laura's cousin and her undistinguished film career to date.  Moira Kelly is also a big improvement over Laura Flynn Boyle as Donna, for whatever that's worth, and she even has a brief topless scene during an orgy.  But even die hard fans of the television show are likely to find Fire Walk With Me unsatisfying.  Hopefully David Lynch will someday do something else with these characters.  With the good Agent Cooper trapped in the lodge and a bad Agent Cooper running around loose, there has to be a good movie in there somewhere.  Maybe next time David Lynch will get it right.        "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Absolutely awful incoherent, meandering, and confusing. Puzzling symbolism and bizarre dream sequences (which are, of course, typical David Lynch elements) need to make SOME modicum of sense to be of any value, but the ones in this movie do not make any sense. Also, many writers deliberately refuse to tie everything up at the end of a film, preferring to provoke the viewer into speculation. But in this case, the viewer is left feeling merely frustrated at the end because of all the unresolved questions. The movie is visually striking and certainly boasts an extraordinary cast, but its incoherence overshadows these assets. Even fans of the TV show Twin Peaks with whom I watched this movie were very disappointed. "},{"Title":"More abstract nonsense from Lynch, not my cup of tea at all.","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me stats as FBI agents Chester Desmond (Chris Isaak) & Sam Stanley (Keifer Sutherland) arrive in the small town of Deer Meadows to investigate the murder of waitress Teresa Banks. While searching the trailer park where Teresa lived Agent Desmond mysteriously disappears without trace. One year later & both the murder of Teresa Banks & the disappearance of Agent Desmond are unsolved. In the town of Twin Peaks a high school teenager named Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee) seems like any other normal teen during the day but leads a life of sleaze & debauchery at night including prostitution in order to pay for her drug addiction but a tragic & horrifying fate awaits her...This French & American co-production was co-written, co-produced & directed by David Lynch this is in fact the third Lynch film I have seen recently & I have to say that his abstract & non-linear way of storytelling just doesn't appeal to me at all & I have a really hard time liking his films. Maybe I am not the best person to be writing a comment on Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me, as I said I don't like the director or his films, I have never seen any of the Twin Peak (1990 - 1991) TV series or even the Twin Peaks (1990) pilot episode so I was going into this blind. Having said that Twin Pekas Fire Walk with Me was meant to be a prequel to all the events of the TV series so in theory I shouldn't have needed to have watched the TV show but to be honest I'll be damned if I can work out half of what's going on in this. This is so abstract & strange that I am sure Twin peaks Fire Walk with Me will mean different things to different people, some like me will not get it at all & be throughly bored & frustrated by it while other's will undoubtedly buy into it & try & give every random occurrence some significance or try to examine every oddball moment & try to come up with some great symbolic meaning for them. To be honest I'm not into that, you can leave me out of it. I don't want to watch a two hour & fifteen minute film & then spend the next several days trying to work out what I just saw, life is too short. I won't try to pick apart Twin peaks Fire Walk with Me as it's narrative & imagery is so incoherent that it defies any rational examination or explanation of it.Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me looks nice enough for sure, having said that there are moments that leave you scratching your head. Child abuse is hinted at while prostitution, drug addiction & murder are all brought up. The first half an hour is actually quite good as it sets itself up as a murder mystery but once the film switches to Twin Peaks & Laura it becomes a bit of a bore as we wait for the inevitable. I suspect the murder of Laura Palmer is more interesting after it as dark secrets are uncovered in a bid to catch her killer rather than before it as we just see Laura swan around for a few days.With a supposed budget of about $10,000,000 Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me was a critical & financial disaster which stopped any further planned sequels & stopped Lynch from making another film for five years. The acting is pretty good, everyone puts in a solid shift for sure but I can't say how the character's here relate to their TV counterparts as I have never seen the TV show, like I said.Twin Peaks Fire Walk with Me is not the type of film that I like, to be fair I am not the right type of person to review it as a Twin Peaks or David Lynch fan might be better placed to understand it & offer some insight unlike me. However, as an ordinary bloke with simple tastes I can honestly say I didn't like this & at over two hours was a real chore to sit through for no great reward. "},{"Title":"Miserable!!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Actually, i have watched the TV series DVD before watching this movie. I was kind of hoping for a thriller/suspense film. Finally, i am totally disappointed with this movie because of its sordid story line and inept narration. Easily avoidable. "},{"Title":"Another very weird movie by David Lynch the king of WEIRD!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK I just finished watching Twin Peaks by David Lynch and I'm not even sure why I finished. I guess like the rest of his movies I watched just to see what sick twisted thing he would do next. This is yet another perverse and strange tale by David Lynch that goes nowhere. He has a strange way of making movies so twisted and deranged that they keep you watching out of sheer disbelief and disgust. I have to admit the guy is a great movie maker all he has to do now is make a great movie. Moholland Dr. and Blue Velvet and now Twin Peaks...Does this guy make anything decent or is it all just for shock value. Don't waste your time on these films! Trust me you will get to the end and wonder why you just wasted two hours watching it. "},{"Title":"Most incomprehensibly bizarre film ever made. Worse than 1984 Dune.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm familiar with David Lynch's style, but I don't consider him a real auteur. His interesting filmography resembles the body of work by a lifelong film student who took too much LSD and got away with messing with the viewers' mind like an elaborate mind-game hoax conducted by a prankster. That in itself isn't necessarily a bad thing. Quite the opposite; I enjoy weird films (David Fincher's Alien 3, Jeunet's City of Lost Children and Terry Gilliam's 12 Monkeys) as long as there's story & characterization with a good dose of comprehensibility, no matter how absurd the plot may seem on the surface.What's bad about David Lynch's film style is his uniquely weird vision borders on incomprehensible to the point of reprehensibility & frustrated rage inspired in the viewers who make the mistake of erring into Lynch territory not knowing what they're in for.I've seen the pointlessly repulsive Blue Velvet & idiotically confounding Dune (though the latter was not David's fault to a certain extent) among a handful of Lynch films yet unseen by me. The only film I mildly liked is The Elephant Man, despite its ridiculous speculations & inaccuracies like the title protagonist's wrong first name. I'm a great admirer of The Straight Story, probably the first and last non-weird film Lynch directed.I rented Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me out of curiosity for its cult status attained by wall-to-wall bizarre imagery that makes for a scary horror movie. Unfortunately, this is not the case. What I saw was a ludicrously incomprehensible mess that's even worse than Dune.David made this film for the sake of making a massively pretentious student film to push the viewers' buttons to see what provoke them in varied emotional responses. For me it's sheer boredom & frustrated rage trying to understand what is the point of the movie's plot amid the array of weird images & nonsensical dialogue and one-dimensional characters that jump in and out of the picture in frequent intervals.David was out of his mind throwing common sense & logic in reality out the window when he did this movie. That Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me doesn't make sense at all whatsoever speaks for itself that David was a whacked out hack auteur who thought he could outdo Ed Wood and John Waters by making a film as ridiculously inaccessible as possible, thereby limiting the audience reception in order to make it a cult film strictly for those who find merit in examining the film for being totally unorthodox in plot.I feel bad for the actors in the movie that turned out so terrible. The mystery of Laura Palmer, the basis of the acclaimed television series that preceded the film, is a fabricated fantasy conjured up by David Lynch and his writers only to have it solved in the film with the most ludicrously contrived plot device yet devised. The actress Sherlyn Lee - who played the victim-protagonist Laura Palmer - was used like a worn-out porn star in a B-movie exploitation filled with gloriously bad parody of 70's high school films with T&A thrown in to keep the pace moving when the movie's steam begin to simmer and wane.The ending -- no need to get into detail here -- is so unfathomably stupid it's pathetic. David ran out of ideas, so he throw in the ending designed to weird out the audience as maximally as possible for a desired effect. If he thought that might work, he's wrong. I don't get the ending because I didn't understand the film as soon as FBI agent characters exit the picture half an hour into the picture. I find the ending laughably bad in a nonsensical way like an atrociously bad student film with a gleefully dumb ending to end the torment once and for all. Bad-art film fan & fellow pretentious filmmaker colleague Andy Warhol would find this film a complete garbage that he might recoil in revulsion at if he had to sit through this lame & morbid mess of a film again if he were alive.Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me is one of the worst films I've ever seen in term of profound disdain for the audience who ask for clarity (not spelling out, but the plot that's at least comprehensible) in plot. I compliment the director for topping himself with a film as bad if not worse than Dune.Zero stars out of four "},{"Title":"Bleh and/or blah","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the series. I understand the Lynch style.  I get it. I get it. What I don't get is this film.  We can wax estatic over style and camera work, but ultimately, Lynch got carried away.  Perhaps you can love this as a moody piece of art, but as a film, it lacks the necessary clarity of a completed work.   "},{"Title":"Grotesquely pointless","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The fact that 25% of voters gave this film a 10 must make me pretty stupid. I didn't see the TV series, so maybe this didn't help.I am reminded of those spoofs where modern art critics are shown paintings made by infants, where they intellectuallise over the meaning.  This film, at least in isolation, has no meaning.  It left me with the same feeling I had after I saw Eraserhead - that I had wasted time watching gratuitous surrealism - the outpourings of a crazed artist turned into 2 hours of celluloid.  I wouldn't deny the technique and expertise that has gone into the production values of the film, but that just makes it more frustrating that it couldn't have been put to better use.In summary - don't bother. "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I couldn't believe how bad this movie was.  It was so pretentious and phony that it literally made me laugh out loud in a couple of spots.  A woman is thrown out of a boxcar, another one is stabbed to death by a maniacal man, an angel keeps appearing and disappearing, something about a motorcycle, everybody is supposed to be either crazy or on drugs, dialog that sounds like a bad parody of a bad Beatnik movie, the female protagonist's emotions doing 180s every minute or so until you can predict what she's gonna do or say in the next scene merely by predicting the opposite of what she did or said in the last scene.  A transparently loathsome piece of work. You're in this movie's target market if you're the sort of person who pretends to be amused by certain unamusing things in order not to seem out-of-it to other people who are pretending to amused by the same unamusing things so as not to seem out-of-it to you. "}{"Title":"I watched the entire movie just out of morbid curiosity","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  How did this movie suck? Let me count the ways. The plot made no sense. The subject matter was needlessly disturbing. Lynch couldn't make a coherent piece of film to save his life. I could go on and on, but this piece of crap isn't worth it. I just had to comment when I saw the laughingly high rating it has been given. "},{"Title":"Baffled","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stumbled across this movie on HBO.Never saw the series (though heard it was good), also never saw any of his other films.Movie was disturbing and I kept saying to myself that at some point it will come to a point and then I will be able to understand it.While watching it I always felt like I had missed something important and it felt like I had started halfway into the movie, thats how disjointed it was.I've understood some really far out time paradoxes as they were explained in a movie or TV show. Understood The Matrix perfectly the first time. But this one, not at all.I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone unless you liked the show or was a fan of whomever wrote or directed this. Maybe if you were into psychology and wanted to get a look into a very disturbed mind.I honestly wonder if everyone who gave this a good rating are fans of morbidly disturbed films.Maybe if I watched the series or had a inkling of what the film was about I might of had some appreciation for it. But I don't want to know anything about a film before I watch it, too many times the details give too much away. For example Sixth Sense, if you knew the ending it wasn't nearly as good.Anyways, my first review here. I actually had to come here and read other reviews trying to figure out what the heck I missed. Didn't help. Watching it again might give you an insight into someones psychosis, but sure doesn't make it a good movie. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I ever seen","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was by far the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life. I feel horrible knowing that I have now wasted 2 hours of my life watching this dreadful thing that they call a movie. There should be a label on the movie cover warning people that they may want to stab themselves after watching this film. I love movies, and I have seen a lot of them, including many that are simply not good, but this movie blows my mind. Just when I thought I had seen enough, the director proved me wrong. There is no clear plot, the acting is horrible, and the imagery is the quality that of a cheap porno. If i could rate this movie less than a '1' I would. "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the most boring, awful, pointless film I have ever seen.  Maybe it was the mood I was in at the time, but I don't think so. You wait and wait  and wait for something significant to happen, but it never does.  Blue Velvet, while weird, had some entertainment value.  This does not.  It actually made me angry to watch it.  Of course, I only had a few more hours to spend with my girlfriend before she moved to Colorado, and we were wasting them in this movie, so that might have affected my judgment. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever made?","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I would've given it a zero, except the lowest that can be given is a one. I actually created a profile to write a review of this film, because, previously, it had a six out of ten. I hope to rectify that, assuming that the original score was based off the only other person on this planet that had seen that movie having some sort of learning disability. That being said, I congratulate them on successfully using the internet, they are obviously making wonderful progress. Anyways, if this film has a point, it is lost on me. The story makes no sense to any sane person, and, as an insane person, I think the plot sucks. Its like having a rape fantasy, then realizing you wouldn't enjoy being raped; except far worse, and normally you don't pay to rent rape fantasies(unless no one hugged you as a child) and they don't waste an hour and a half of your life(unless you get very in depth in your daydreams) and make you lose respect for any actor that you see in it. That being said, no recognizable stars in this movie have big parts, so you can't blame them for being in it, because they probably only read enough of the script to do their part, and didn't realize that the script was written by a sixteen year old prostitute on acid. Assuming there was a script to begin with. Well, that being said, it is just one movie-goer's opinion, so, by all means, please watch this film and rate it yourself. Hopefully, those of us with at least 12 percent brain function left can eventually get that star count down to a more appropriate level. "}]