[{"Title":"Little moments make 'Singles' one of my favorite movies","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cameron Crowe is one of those directors that thrive on making the little moments in movies the most memorable ones you'll ever see in your life. In 'Almost Famous,' it was when everyone on the Stillwater tour bus was singing along to Tiny Dancer. In 'Say Anything...' it was when Lloyd was driving around and proclaimed how his heart was exchanged for Diane's pen. Crowe also creates many memorable little moments in 'Singles,' which may not be the most famous movie he's made but it's one of the best.Even though 'Singles' is about twenty-somethings in Seattle, everything rang true to me as I am now, a teenager. The film is honest and real in how couples become couples and how relationships can fall apart. 'Singles' isn't at all mean-spirited or depressing in its portrayal of relationships or the dating game, so it might turn some people off who want to see the extremely ugly confrontations (a la 'Closer'). But the moments in 'Singles' that make it worth watching are when Linda (Kyra Sedgewick) gets to know Steve (Campbell Scott) while going through his record collection in his apartment. Or when Janet (Bridget Fonda) sneezes and gets a bless you from someone she (and the audience) would least expect.Everything about 'Singles' is great. The cast, the music and the truth behind the movie will bring a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Not to be confused with other 'gen-x' films","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SINGLES is a charming, romantic movie and one of Cameron Crowe's best. An oft-heard criticism of this film is that it's not an authentic portrayal of the Gen-X culture of the early 90's, but I've yet to see that done well in any film.More importantly, the film never claims to be a Gen-X film.  It's set in Seattle during the height of Seattle Sound but the cast is made up of driven professionals and slackers alike.  It's more of a cross-section of 20-somethings, not a focus on Gen-X or Grunge.  The characters, settings and themes are all to a certain degree idealized, which is a staple of Crowe's style.  Where this film's charm really lies is in capturing the spirit of the early-90's and the anti-classist sentiment embraced by teens and young professionals in opposition to the status is everything 1980s.  It's nice to remember a time when being socially and environmentally conscious was actually fashionable for a time.  Sadly we all got sucked into the dot-com thing and realized we can be just as bad as our parents.    "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Singles (1992)","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love. Sex. Friendship. Companionship. These are the themes obviously explored in Cameron Crowe's early movie Singles, which revolve around the love lives of singles (naturally) living in a common apartment. We follow each of the protagonist Steve (Campbell Scott), Janet (Bridget Fonda), Cliff (Matt Dillon) and Linda (Kyra Sedgwick) through their ups and downs in dealing with the weird little emotion called Love.Well, not quite. As we know early in the film, each have problems and their own peculiar viewpoints on the dating scene. We see Linda meeting and breaking up with a Spanish student she was so into, after seeing through his lies and sweet talk. It hurts, and she doesn't want to be hurt again. Steve too have had a bad experience, and (I can identify with this) swears off relationships for the next few years, deciding instead to focus on career. As Fate would have had it, these two will meet at the unlikeliest places and get into a relationship.Cliff, an aspiring rocker, seemed to have taken his girlfriend Janet, for granted. And I think this is something that most people can identify with. When efforts go unappreciated, or when things go mundane, the question is, do you want to bail out? And when you do, what next? Would you give the ex another chance? If you do, how would you approach it? It's fun watching a movie that was made 13 years ago, and you wonder about how the initiating and sustaining of a relationship back then happened without technology which we are so used to these days. Back then, a mobile phone was a cordless one, and there is no such thing as an instant message, but an answering machine. Where Speed Dating was unheard of, but Video Dating was the rage (check out the funny Tim Burton cameo).You wonder too about the career of the leads. Campbell Scott was noticed by many after his pairing with Julia Roberts in the movie Dying Young, but after this, seemed to have vanished into obscurity. And so has Kyra Sedgwick. Only Matt Dillon and Bridget Fonda are still around, somewhere.Oh, the music. Peppered throughout the movie is the wonderful musical tracks that always seem to punctuate a particular moment succinctly. I like Tarantino and Crowe movies because music plays an integral part of the entire experience, and Singles too had excellent ballads blended with grunge rock, say, Pearl Jam (before they made it huge), which also made an appearance.It's a beautiful, quirky little movie with excellent identifiable dialogue, music, humour, and a younger cast of stars whom we know today, thrown into situations that everyone in love would have experienced. "},{"Title":"Apartment Complex Life","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having lived in Seattle during the years of my life most of the characters are in this movie, I was able to relate to this movie. Anyone who has lived in an apartment complex where people have dated and known a bit too much about each other can appreciate this film. The cameo appearances of members of pearl jam and xavier mcdaniel were a great touch. The viewer is left with what I could call a warm feeling much like watching the sun set on a day towards the end of summer. Contemplation of all the good and bad that may have occurred in the last few months..Maybe that's a bit too abstract, but if this movie gets you there then fine.And yes, the sun does shine sometimes in Seattle!  "},{"Title":"Smart dialogue, believable characters","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What I liked most about Singles was that many of the characters you could identify with.  Its not often in a film where you can look at characters and think - I know someone like that.  Its actually very accurate in the way it depicts the attitudes of twenty somethings who have been through a series of less than successful relationships.  There are some great, and very funny scenes in this film, and the actors all put in great performances. Setting it in Seattle- the home of the Grunge band was a fantastic idea as well.  "},{"Title":"Cute, funny and sincere...","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 11/14/2004 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Cameron Crowe) Cute, funny and sincere attempt to chronicle a singles life in the 90's in Seattle. What I liked about this movie is that all the single people know that they need someone, which is the constant struggle that goes on in their lives, but finding that someone isn't as easy as we think it would be. This movie does a good job of showing this. It is well-written, funny, played out well by the stars and has a nice soundtrack to fill in the voids.It's about people and it has a style like a chronicled life where the characters every once in a while talk to the camera as if their lives are being documented. Excellent effort by Crowe and his crew to bring this segment of society into view for all of us. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately one of Cameron Crowe's less recognized films..","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles follows the dating lives of a bunch of apartment-block residents; set in grunge era Seattle- but you already knew that. This is not a 'great' film but it exudes a genuine warmth and will surely give you those feel good fuzzies.What I liked most about the film was the way this eclectic mix of love stories came together so well. All the characters are extremely likeable (Campbell Scott's especially) and you get emotionally invested in them very soon.This is the kind of film you can just kick back with on a rainy Saturday afternoon- you don't need to exert much mental energy to follow the rambling plot; just prepare to watch representations of very real relationships that you probably will be able to relate to on some level.  "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles is a great film. I loved every minute of this film. Cameron Crowe has directed two films I consider essential viewing. Say Anything was the first and Singles is the second. The cast seemed like real people to me, and I loved all the performances. This film dealt with relationships in the 90's in a very realistic, funny and sometimes sad way. The soundtrack to this film is amazing. Great selection of tunes. This film has many moments you'll be quoting from for quite a long time. Great film. "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe's underrated film","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cameron Crowe delivers a charming little piece of romantic comedy with Singles. Set amidst the backdrop of early '90s Seattle, the film itself often takes a backseat to its excellent soundtrack including some of grunge rock's best. However, Crowe's signature charm highlighting the little things of personal relationships amid big cities and big music earns this one a place alongside gems like Say Anything and Almost Famous.The film's title speaks over a range of topics within the film. The core characters find themselves single, living in single apartments, or even cutting singles in bands. Yet single relationship status above all helps to form the meat of the film, carrying us through the parallel paths of friends bound together by their apartments and the music they enjoy. The wrestling match between commitment and escape, love and friendship underpins every moment of every conversation.Music lover Crowe's early days as a journalist for Rolling Stone magazine have rubbed off in many memorable ways over the span of his career. Often the sounds of his movies speak more potently than the actors, or augment their performance (we all remember John Cusack's Peter Gabriel moment in Say Anything). Peppered throughout Singles are fantastic songs chronicling the swell of Seattle grunge and alternative rock, including club performances by Alice in Chains and Soundgarden. Three members of Pearl Jam make delicious cameos as Matt Dillon's band mates, and Chris Cornell of Soundgarden even makes an appearance. Perhaps the best scene in the film occurs when Campbell Scott and Kyra Sedgwick sit silently over the pieces of a broken plate, both utterly entranced with May this Be Love by Jimi Hendrix.Admittedly the film has its flaws, owing mostly to the clunky nature of incorporating several different parallel plot lines into a film of this length. Some characters are squeezed in with marginal and ultimately forgettable results. However, Crowe's ability to forge the very fabric of what people love about each other and their lives keeps Singles afloat above other romantic comedies. Simply put, he nudges our own memory bank with a combination of music and storytelling that allows us to connect with his characters. "},{"Title":"A sweet romantic comedy","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has almost convinced me that I am way too closed minded about mainstream movies.I saw this mainly because of its 'grunge' soundtrack, composed by the brilliant Paul Westerberg.What I saw was not a 'grunge' subculture movie, but rather a conventional romantic comedy, probably quite similar to many Hugh Grant and Julia Roberts movies, but I loved it! Sometimes you need a bit of sugar in a movie, in the same way you need to escape, or have your mind expanded.I really enjoyed this movie, and I find it hard to believe that anyone can not find something to like about it. One of my favourites of all time! "}{"Title":"You rock my world.","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a 90's version of all those high school films in the 80's some of us are old enough to remember.We deliberately date the film and tap into the grunge era of Seattle. When done on purpose....it can be done very well. This was. We see the baggy shorts and layered flannel on the guys, the leggings and quirky hats on the girls, and the disheveled hair on both. But funnily enough, this flick was in production BEFORE that scene took off. As a result what seemed like cashing in was actually foresight.The relationships unfolding in the apartment complex were done realistically and the scenes involving the band will be enjoyed by anyone into that era's music. And Campbell Scott almost steals this film. His idea for the city was actually a good one.And yes that is 3 members of Pearl Jam as Matt Dillons backup band. And see if you can spot Chris Soundgarden Cornell coming out to watch Matt show off his new car speakers.So 90's. But very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Hilarious rockin romcom & the last of the great American growing-up comedies","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the 80s, three directors perfectly captured the comedy of young American growing pains. These directors are John Hughes (Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club, Ferris Buehler), Savage Steve Holland (Better Off Dead) and Cameron Crowe (Say Anything). All of these films are characterized by witty, tongue-in-cheek dialogue (satirical but not sarcastic) and surreal, music-video-like gags such as, I dunno, a pigburger patty grabbing a guitar and rocking out to Van Halen's Everybody Wants Some.When the 80s ended, apparently so did their unique and idiosyncratic brand of humour. John Hughes stopped directing in 91, and Savage Steve's last feature film was also in 91. Cameron Crowe evolved into a different style with his hugely successful 30-something comedy Jerry Maguire. Here, folks, in 1992 I believe we have the last (and possibly best) of the great 80s growing-up films. If you've seen the others I mentioned, don't consider your life complete until you see Singles.Even with Crowe's 1989 Say Anything, focusing on high school graduation, Crowe was the most mature of the bunch yet every bit as quirky and hilarious. Singles covers the next age, 23-to-27, establishing careers and facing grown up problems but still as wild and emotionally reckless as high school kids. I suppose some of us carry that same crazy recklessness late into life which is what makes this movie great for oddballs of all ages.The movie is perfectly cast with Cambell Scott in the lead (think John Cusack but a sharper dresser), Kyra Sedgwick as a slightly flakey control freak (maybe an early version of Tina Fey in 30 Rock), and a host of awesome supporting characters Bridget Fonda as the slightly neurotic groupie who refuses to admit that she's a groupie, Sheila Kelley (remember the hot paralegal in LA Law?) who plays a goofy, insecure maneater, Eric Stoltz (Caprica, Pulp Fiction, The Prophecy) in the oddest role he's ever played an obnoxious mime who won't shut up, and of course the show-stealer Matt Dillon as the not-so-bright artist/rockstar whose magnum opus is a song called Touch Me, I'm Dick.Speaking of rock music, cameo appearances, as well as performances, include... are you paying attention, folks...?Eddie Vedder, Jeff Ament and Stone Gossard from Pearl JamChris Cornell and the gang from SoundgardenThomas Doyle singer for TAD (You got the wrong number, lady, but I'll be right over)Pat Nizzio singer for The SmithereensEveryone from Alice in ChainsJeremy Piven (Ari Gold in Entourage) as the funniest checkout clerk you've ever seenBill Pullman as a nerdy breast implant surgeonPaul Giamatti in one of his first speaking roles ever (What?!!)Cameron Crowe's motherand none other than director TIM BURTON as Bryan the next Martin Scorcese (pronounced Score-seeez haha)And if that's not enough to make you want to rush out and rent this movie, don't forget the killer soundtrack with tunes by the aforementioned bands plus Jane's Addiction, Smashing Pumpkins, Paul Westerberg (The Replacements) and others I'm probably forgetting.The story itself is fantastic, not only hilarious but probably the most insightful peek into romance disorder since When Harry Met Sally. This comedy has it all. See it, see it again. Live it. And praise the gods of 80s comedy that we were given this final masterpiece of a bygone era. "},{"Title":"less than compelling leads","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a group of single neighbors in Seattle. Linda Powell (Kyra Sedgwick) is happy to be living by herself after college. Steve Dunne (Campbell Scott) wants to concentrate on work to avoid the complication of love. They find each other nevertheless but struggle to commit. Janet Livermore (Bridget Fonda) is a 23 year old waitress saving money for school. Cliff Poncier (Matt Dillon) is her aloof musician boyfriend. Their friend Debbie Hunt (Sheila Kelley) does video dating.Like other Cameron Crowe movies, the music is a big selling point and this taps into the emerging grunge scene in Seattle. However, the movie itself is a bit of a letdown. It tries to bring out the chaos of twentysomething love. It doesn't have great leads for the primary love story. It's strange that I always thought Bridget Fonda was the lead in the movie probably due to the poster. I remember her more than the primary leads Kyra Sedgwick and Campbell Scott. They don't have the superior A-list persona needed. It holds the movie back. The movie also is a step down from Crowe's other earlier works. "},{"Title":"All About Single People","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Singles stars Bridget Fonda, Campbell Scott, Kyra Sedgwick, and Matt Dillon.The movie centers on the lives of a group of young people who are in their 20's and they are living in Seattle,Washington.These people includes Janet,a coffee-bar waitress fawning over Cliff,an aspiring,yet slightly aloof rock musician of a fictional grunge/rock band Citizen Dick;Linda Powell and Steve Dunne, respectively - a couple wavering on whether to commit to each other, and Debbie Hunt, who is trying to find Mr. Right - a man who would make an ideal romantic partner - by making a video to express her desire. The events of the film are set against the backdrop of the early 1990's grunge movement in Seattle.The film also has a number of cameos, including actors Eric Stoltz, Tom Skerritt, Peter Horton, director Tim Burton and the film's author/director, Cameron Crowe. From the musical side of the fence, Singles features appearances by Sub Pop executive Bruce Pavitt, musicians Chris Cornell, Pat DiNizio, Tad, and Pearl Jam's Eddie Vedder, Jeff Ament, and Stone Gossard, who play Dillon's backing band, Citizen Dick.Singles is a funny and engaging film.No question that Cameron Crowe had a great screenplay and the direction of the movie was simply great.The soundtrack was also amazing.This is definitely one of the good films ever released in the 90's for it is very smart and witness real people relate to each other about real feelings and using real words. "},{"Title":"What took you so long?&#133;Singles","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Finally I have caught up with all of Cameron Crowe's films. Like his directorial debut, Say Anything, Singles brings us great music, a cast of unknowns we all know now, and a story with heart and laughs. Maybe it just goes to where I am in my life at the moment, but this movie really resonated with me. The fact that life relies so much on luck, whether good or bad, to shape our personal relationships, our career, and our loves is quite prevalent. Sometimes it takes an accident, an event that you were never looking for, to bring two people together, or rekindle something that was thought to be lost forever. If only I lived in Seattle right now and it was the early-90s, I wouldn't mind going through it all as much as in Buffalo. At least I could go to a club show and see acts like Pearl Jam, Alice in Chains, Soundgarden, and Citizen Dick. Now that was a music scene.Singles is about just that, a group of twenty-somethings going through that transition after college, beginning careers and looking for meaningful relationships. Most of the characters live in a small apartment complex and are very close friends, (I guess you can look past the fact that the entire five person building consists of that one age group). There is the rocker working four jobs and not able to see the perfect girl standing right in front of him (Matt Dillon); the girl who is working off her loans to go back to school and make something of her life (Bridget Fonda); the guy who has found success in work but not in life finally running into the girl of his dreams in the one place he never thought he'd find her (Campbell Scott); and that girl, tired of the games and heartbreak, trying to open herself up to him, someone she cares for, but is too afraid to risk losing everything again (Kyra Sedgwick). Each of these actors is fantastic and adds just the right amount of quirk and individuality to the film. We all know people like these and I know I started to superimpose myself with my friends into the story because it has or could happen to us. Sure it is a different decade and yes the film is dated in that way (garage openers as the new varsity letter jacket?) but at its core, this could be any year.I also really like the direction by Crowe. He is a writer and rock music fanatic by trade and attempts to infuse a lot of his own sensibilities to the work. There is a novice quality still at play and it just makes everything that much more believable and tenuous. Without the gloss and polish you feel as though it all is transpiring right before your eyes. Even his use of breaking the fourth wall, for no apparent reason whatsoever, worked for me. Splitting the film into vignettes is a nice touch too, but it is the narration straight to the camera that intrigues. I would love to say a show like Saved By the Bell owes much to this film, but sadly it predates it. So, maybe Crowe appropriated the gimmick himself, either way it works as a way of seeing inside the leads and flesh them out a bit more. The payoff of Scott yelling out the window for Dillon to be quiet as he was talking is great. He's talking to us as an aside fictionally, but I guess the guy needs his concentration. I even liked the spotting blatant material objects for each character, especially books. One is by Lester Bangs, (a future role infused in Crowe's Almost Famous); Sedgwick, of course, has Franny & Zooey (a superior novel in my opinion to Catcher in the Rye as she is looking for her Holden Caufield); and Fonda has Ayn Rand's The Fountainhead, as should every aspiring architect.And the cameos&#151;how can I not mention the plethora of bit parts, all priceless in their own way? We have the soundtrack's performers sprinkled throughout from Dillon's band Citizen Dick consisting of Pearl Jam's Vedder, Ament, and Gossard to Chris Cornell enjoying Fonda's car get the bass kicked out of it on the street corner. The great Bill Pullman as the lost plastic surgeon, overwhelmed by career success yet unable to have fun; Eric Stoltz as the philosophical mime that doesn't mind talking; and Jeremy Piven as the loud-mouth fan of Scott during his DJ-ing days (who else can mix Elvis Costello with Public Enemy?) are each a joy. The real knee-slapper, though, is mister Oscar-nominated actor Paul Giammati with his one lined, prolonged make-out session in the diner. I was on the floor laughing. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about singles' lives in the 90s","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so much more like TV sitcom friends than sex and the city, i mean, it makes you approach to people in their early 20s on a different level than just sex. Boy!!! would i like to have seen more of Campbell Scott & kyra Sedgwick. i mean, they have so much chemistry that you just wish you could be part of them. Scott began his career with very big promise (with this, longtime companion, the sheltering sky and dying young) but without you even noticing, he became a indie dude that chose the worst roles in the worst indie movies (at least, until secret lives of dentist) and there's a big talent wasted. Kyra Sedgwick's on a similar position (great beginning with born on 4th of July and something to talk about and then...just dissapearing into shi**y roles).Bridget Fonda achieves yet another great performance of her early career (along with single white female and Jackie brown) and shows she can be so sexy without being the classic boob-blonde girl. Cameron crowe, well, i would do a standing ovation if i ever get to meet him. he made a great movie, and practically, a gen-x classic. good for you. "},{"Title":"Great movie, needs recognition!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorite movies, and I'm still surprised it does not get more recognition.  The movie plot is great, the characters fit with the said location, and the soundtrack is the best I've ever heard in a soundtrack.  This movie is funny and serious at the same time and creates many unforgettable scenes (such as the bee scene with Eddie Vedder and the other members of Dick). "},{"Title":"My favorite movie by far...","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you havent seen this movie in the past 9 years it has been available, RENT IT! I dont know how many times that I have seen this excellent romantic comedy. Matt Dillon is one of my favorite actors, and he is hilarious in this movie o) Also, Pearl Jam having cameos as themselves is GREAT! I agree with steve on the soundtrack. It is possibly one of the best ever. If you like the Seattle sound, then this is the soundtrack for you! Alice in Chains, Soundgarden, (who both perform live in the movie) and of course Pearl Jam are all on it, among other greats! GO ENJOY THE MOVIE AND THE SNDTK! "},{"Title":"twenty - something fun, angst and indecision","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cameron Crowe has the unique ability to hit home almost every time he writes / directs a film (Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Say Anything, Jerry Maguire).  Singles is clearly one of his best.  In short, the film revolves around six twenty-somethings who live in Seattle, and search for the right relationship while trying to figure out who they actually are.  Crowe is always in touch with his audience, and is somehow able to capture what they have gone through during some period of their life. Campbell Scott really stands out in this one as Steve, an upwardly mobile employee of the Department of Transportation.  Steve is just like you and me (I'm willing to bet we all know somebody like him).  He's nice, relatively easy going, smart, hip, motivated and painfully in need of the right relationship.  Steve is the classic example of a the nice guy who doesn't finish last, but can't get what he wants.  Scott is brilliant in his portrayal of Steve and is somehow so honest when showing his true feelings.  Matt Dillon (another stand out) on the other hand is Cliff Poncier, a wanna be rock star (and a poor one at that) who has three jobs, including being a delivery boy for a florist.  Without digressing into the plot, let's just say that Dillon/Poncier is the classic example of a guy who doesn't realize what he has until its gone.  Dillon's comedic timing in this film is impeccable.  You often wait to see what this good natured clown is up to next (for those of you who have seen the film installing the stereo in Janet's car, the answering machine message, etc.).Singles is one of those films that you relate to all too well.  The cast maintains a very fine, cohesive balance filled with convincing performances by all.  The soundtrack is excellent (and is completely comprised of Seattle natives), and the film is unique in that it is both a good movie / good date movie.Overall, a fine effort by all involved.SSB - October 4, 1999 - NYC     "},{"Title":"A moment in time captured...","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles is one of those movies that really does exists as a moment in time. Cameron Crowe captures that feeling, right along the cultural awakenings of Generation-X. Crowe shows his usual flair for great dialogue, so you don't really care much about his plot. The ensemble cast works well off of each other, with particularly notable performances (and characters written for...) the women of the movie. It will be interesting to see how, over time, this movie holds up, and if anyone who wasn't of that age will look upon this movie.  "}{"Title":"All Single Women Should Watch This Movie","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! This is my favorite line that Bridget Fonda's character says she lists out all the things she used to want in a man, but she's gotten older and has narrowed it down to just one thing I just want someone to say Bless You when I sneeze. Ever since I have seen this movie back in 1992 and I sneeze I listen to see who says Bless You. Too bad most of them are already married. Also Bridget Fonda's character is very real and I liked that. This movie is well written and just an overall good romantic comedy. Nice soundtrack too from what I remember! I give it a 9 out of 10 and cant wait to rent this after a long time of not seeing it. "},{"Title":"fun early nineties movie","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came across this film on Cinemax (or HBO?) one boring afternoon. And what did you know, it was actually a fun film! The music rocks and the characters are hilarious. Well, some anyway. Debbie's Expect the Best video is a MUST see. And a SPECTACULAR Matt Dillon. Definitely a movie you must see )Cameron Crowe is a genius when it comes to incorporating music and people. How true. "},{"Title":"Melissa's review - 8/10","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for an action-packed movie, full of suspense and an intricate plot, this is not the right movie for you.  If you want murder, mystery, or drama, look again.  However, if you're looking for a light romantic comedy, try Singles.  Taking place in grunge-era Seattle, this fun movie is about a group of friends and their search for love.	Like most other Cameron Crowe directed movies, Singles fully develops its main characters.  I felt like I knew more about Janet (Bridget Fonda), Cliff (Matt Dillon), Steve (Campbell Scott), and Linda (Kyra Sedgwick) more than I know some of my own friends.  The characters truly came to life, and remained in my mind even after the film was over. 	 The film is put together in a unique way, which I also enjoyed.  The chapters that divided the film did not make it choppy; rather, I felt they helped unify the work.  There are times when the characters talk to the audience, which I also enjoyed in this movie.  It made them seem more realistic, more universal. 	The soundtrack was also great, including Smashing Pumpkins, Alice in Chains, and lighter songs by Paul Westerberg. The songs were perfect for the scenes, and added to the atmosphere at various parts.  	I had few qualms with the movie.  I thought that some characters, were not developed enough.  I felt that David, Steve's friend was meant to have a larger part.  Some parts of the movie were a bit sappy and predictable, but all in all I found it to be a great movie.    8/10  "},{"Title":"A wonderful and unusual movie","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very surprised how much I enjoyed this movie knowing that Crowe directed it, I hated his Jerry Maguire, but this movie was very different, it didnt resort to swearing and heavy sexual content like Jerry Maguire did.  Although the plot needs some work, this movie does a great job at showing how the dating scene works and I loved it for that.  Maybe I also liked it because of it was made in the early 90's, a time period that I really liked.  Im sure this movie bores the hell out of some people, but I know there are many who love it, and im one of them.  A great cast helps a lot as well, I liked seeing Bill Pullman in his role, he did a very good job.  Overall a great, unusual movie, far above most.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A well written, realistic take on dating in the 90s.","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After the success of Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Say Anything, this movie looks like the next logical step for Cameron Crowe. Exploring the world of dating for 20 somethings in the 90s, this flick works really well by not going down the trodden part of establishing a drama and a solution, but rather letting the narrative flow be determined by the character's lives in a way that doesn't seem forced. With a nice cast of lovable and ratable characters, this makes for a good one time watch, with a nice sprinkling of humour and period pieces. The struggle during making a romcom often is to avoid being cheesy and yet manage to induce a happy feeling in the viewer, which this movie achieves. "},{"Title":"A Great Grungy Romantic-Comedy.","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cameron Crowe is one of Hollywood's most talented directors who makes the nicest and most heartwarming flicks. This is one of them. Unfortunately, this is his most underrated. I guess one of the reasons why it is underrated is because this is set in Seattle during the Grunge explosion. When everybody had long hair, wore flannel, had ripped jeans, wore fanny-packs and listened to cassette walkmen. I love 90's rock and grunge, so I loved this movie. The Seattle scene makes three ordinary love stories extra cool and fun. Bridget Fonda tries pleasing her rockstar boyfriend, Matt Dillon; Kyra Sedgewick and Campbell Scott contemplate commitment; Sheila Kelley tries video dating to find her perfect man. As I said earlier, the grunge style and music is what sets this apart. Chris Cornell from Soundgarden appears as a mime and later performs with his band; Eddie Vedder, Jeff Ament and Stone Gossard appear as matt Dillon's band mates and Alice In Chains performs at a nightclub. If you don't like grunge, you will at least like the stories. If you like grunge, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"The most commercially successful project Paul Westerberg has ever been part of&#x85;","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" &#x85;as the Singles soundtrack he wrote two songs for went platinum, but I'm still guessing 24 out of 25 average music fans couldn't pick him out of a police lineup. However, since he's still collecting royalties off it, I'm guessing his relative lack of fame doesn't really upset him.I just watched this for the first time in almost 20 years, and was rewarded with a decent (if understated) viewing experience. This movie sat on a shelf for 18 months until Warner Brothers finally released it in Sept. of '92, and were rewarded with a modest hit. By that point, the Seattle music scene had exploded, with Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Soundgarden and Alice in Chains all huge national acts. In retrospect, the movie may have been a bigger hit if it would have focused primarily on all of the emerging bands instead of quirky twenty-somethings, but then it wouldn't have been called Singles, right.Once again, I'm not going to discuss the plot, as it's been hashed over several times here. Let's just say that if you want to see what the origins of grunge and its club scene looked like, this is a great place to start.P.S.-of all the great actor cameos everyone has talked about in this movie (Stoltz, Giamotti, Burton, Horton, Garber, Piven, Pullman, Skerritt, and even Cameron Crowe himself), the one that freaked me out the most was Christopher Masterson playing Steve at age 10. Being that he was probably in the 5th grade when he shot his scenes, I wonder if he can remember any of it today.P.S.S.-Bridget...COME BACK!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A pretty ordinary movie about relationships, with great memorable cameos of the Pearl Jam dudes, Chris Cornell and Tim Burton!","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always considered Cameron Crowe's SINGLES as something I really had to see. My one and only connection to it the grunge. As a huge grunge fan (especially of Pearl Jam) I've had since years ago a sort of pending meeting with Crowe's second feature. Today I finally sat down I watched it on DVD. I have to say, if you want something more related to music, something like, I'm pretty much guessing as I have seen only parts of it (the Tiny Dancer part for sure), Crowe's ALMOST FAMOUS, or something that really puts you in the grunge scene, you'll disappointed. To be fair, it made think in that music-related talk with Quentin Tarantino from the Collector's Edition of the PULP FICTION Soundtrack. And that is because Tarantino says this what I don't wanna do is, and I've see it happen in a lot of movies, where they just turn up the soundtrack to create a false energy, or in particularly to create a sense of period. They're not investing in the picture. OK, it's the sixties, we play a lot of sixties songs and that will create the period. To me that's cheap, like listening to the radio and watching a movie at the same time. They don't really go together. In this case, I wouldn't go as far as to call the use of some Pearl Jam songs, and the scenes of Alice In Chains and Soundgarden playing at some bar, cheap, but they definitely don't create something special, something that, like I said, really put us in early 90s Seattle. For instance, it's only people dancing in a club to a Pearl Jam song (always great to hear Pearl Jam though). And yes, maybe that's just early 90s Seattle, and yes I'm caring too much about the setting of the story but to be more fair, I wouldn't have seen a romantic comedy by Cameron Crowe if not for the grunge thing. I mean, something like Crowe's SAY ANYTHING&#x85; is not the kind of movie I'm always looking forward to check out. So, the level of disappointment that SINGLES gives to you may certainly vary. I mean, you can enter here not knowing anything about the grunge setting, or you can enter here seeking for a movie about early 90s Seattle musicians (maybe thanks to the image of Matt Dillon with the grunge look and his guitar). In my case, and like I said, it did disappointed me in the setting thing but in the end I really can't say this is something anybody should runaway from, that anybody should avoid at all costs. It's a pretty darn normal relationships movie, simply as that. It almost never feels false in that regard, which is certainly the best thing. My main point here is that pretty much this whole story doesn't go hand-to-hand with the period it is setting in. Sure, Matt Dillon's character Cliff has a grunge band (you just gotta like a whole lot this character! Now, a song like Touch Me, I'm Dick is about... what?; Cliff Well, I think Touch Me, I'm Dick, in essence speaks for itself. I think that, you know, that's basically what the song is, um... about... is about, you know... I think a lot of people might think it's actually about, you know, My name is Dick, and, you know, you can touch me, but, I think, you know, it can be seen either way) and the other main characters (played by Campbell Scott, Kyra Sedgwick, Bridget Fonda, Sheila Kelley and Jim True-Frost &#x96;nice to see Prez from The Wire&#x96;; the acting is fine) go out to bars to listen to Alice in Chains (there's a scene with main character Steve, and Sedgwick's character Linda, and his record collection, Hendrix, the Clash, you know), to dance to State of Love and Trust, but are they really Generation X characters? Well, the main couple in the movie, Steve and Linda, ain't. Like I said, it is an ordinary relationships movie, that is entertaining and that probably you can enjoy more than me. If I will remember SINGLES for something is definitely for its great cameos Eddie Vedder, Stone Gossard, Jeff Ament (is just fun with these guys! They play the band mates of Cliff's band. Eddie is the drummer of the band, by the way), Chris Cornell (totally great, hilarious! Sort of reminded me Jay and Silent Bob from CLERKS an other Kevin Smith movies I have yet to see) and Tim Burton (as a video maker who is only like the next Martin Scorsese!). So, memorable details in an entertaining if totally ordinary love story&#x85; that would be my summary of SINGLES. Oh, and the soundtrack is certainly great, but some of the background music during the film is not (think of the opening theme of Friends and you'll get the idea. When I thought this I didn't know that this movie became sort of the basis for Friends, if wikipedia doesn't lie Warner Bros Television tried immediately to turn Singles into a television series. When Crowe balked at the notion, the company proceeded with the idea, engaged a new writing and directing team, changing elements and the name to Friends). "},{"Title":"Nice Film","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SINGLES Great way to help you meet someone. SINGLES-Shop and feel at home. Just about anything you need, you can find it at videodatinglove.com Visit us today! Meet that special person. Establish a relationship. Fall in love and get married. There are many ways to meet people. In order for you to meet that right person, you have to know how to meet them. We will show you videos. A video of someone really tells you a lot about them. A millionaire becomes a millionaire because he knows how to become a millionaire. Let us help you find the right person for you. Don't think you can't find him or her. You can!!! Think positive!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated, Great Film but still has flaws.","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie combines the aspects of any typical romantic comedic but without less cheesy moments with cheesy music with realistic moments with realistic dialogue and kick ass music. The film excels in how it doesn't take itself seriously, possibly in an undertone of how dating should be, just trying to have fun without taking it too seriously. The movie isn't laugh out loud funny, but it cherishes its quality or quantity in this film. The number cameos in the film really add a different dimension and maybe even some credibility. The two main characters had great chemistry.The film lacks in certain aspects such as the character Janet can be somewhat schizophrenic. Furthermore, I believe the film ended a little too abruptly and didn't expand much on the normal social lives of the characters, besides Janet.I would highly recommend this film unless you're a poser or a wanna-be thug. "}{"Title":"A love letter to Seattle wrapped in a first rate romantic comedy.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" These are the same humorous stories of neurotic, wounded, gullible, vain, and humiliated people we see and hear fourteen(!) years after this movie came out, but this is an original that's still witty and fresh. Cameron Crowe's thoughtful exploration of single life has universal appeal.Having said that, this movie is also an unabashed love letter to Seattle as well as a portrait in miniature of one the city's heydays the height of grunge-rock scene.The previously overlooked Seattle suddenly outshone NYC, LA, and SF (if only for a few years) as the coolest city in America, thanks to the mass appeal of local bands like Nirvana, Alice in Chains (who have a performance in the film) and Pearl Jam (who are acting in this film).The city itself becomes a character in the film and even it's famously damp weather couldn't keep it from being seen, through Cameron's eyes, as a terribly romantic and lively place to live in.(Luckily for Seattle it's still seen as a sophisticated metropolis, long after grunge, Singles, Frasier, Starbucks, and the novelty surrounding them all faded away.)There's no need for future generations to do any retrospective films about early nineties Seattle; Singles is all we need. "},{"Title":"Debbie","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was twenty something all through the 90's and this was definitely a reflection of my life at the time. I am actually wondering if there is a clip from the scene in the movie when Debbie was watching her results from the online dating service her friends had signed her up for - The guy that stares into the camera and says I'm very very VERY lonely That is the funniest thing and I love that line!! Anyway.... The rest of the movie is great I love Pearl Jam - Matt Dillon was awesome but his hair was a nightmare - all my friends had long hair and that was NOT what it looked like. When Debbie and Pam fight - and Pam trades Debbie's date for like doing dishes or something... hilarious "},{"Title":"Excellent look at being single as an adult","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has an awesome soundtrack featuring the who's who of the 1990s grunge scene. It even has a cameo by the band Pearl Jam, or Mother Love Bone depending on your frame of reference. There is also a pivotal scene featuring John Coltrane's Lush Life album. Set in Seattle it tells the story of neighbors in an apartment building and their various lives as they seek love. Matt Dillon, Kyra Sedgwick and Campbell Scott give excellent performances. This movie is hilarious moments (SpaM) and touching romance (I was just nowhere near...) and speaks to professional idealism (the train) and dating (popcorn) and passion (I love how the world looks from a bicycle). This is one of a handful of movies that I have ever watched more than once (another being the Princess Bride). Do yourself a favor and check it out. "},{"Title":"Plot","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Singles is a simple but effective comedy that looks dated even now due to its frequent references to the then massive Seattle music scene. The plot,what little there is, involves a group of people living in an apartment block and the way in which their lives entwine in their desperate bids to find the ever elusive L word. Rife with cameo appearances including Pearl Jam, Alice In Chains, Chris Cornell and even Tim Burton. Alien's Tom Skerritt appears briefly also. Matt Dillon is good in a role that sees him play the token musician while Bridget Fonda plays his long suffering, self-delusional girlfriend. Well worth a watch, even if you weren't a fan of the Seatle music scene. "},{"Title":"Grunge Fest!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Singles last night and I definitely recommend it. Yes, it has that element of chick flick about it, but it's not schmaltzy or sickly in any way, plus you get to see and hear Seattle as it should be seen and heard. Eddie Vedder, Stone Gossard and Jeff Ament from PJ & Chris Cornell have cameo appearances and AIC & Soundgarden are actually seen playing live! Even if you're not a fan of the story, which is about a group of twenty-something's relationship issues, you *have* to watch it purely for the soundtrack (which I'm currently pirating from BitTorrent). Chris Cornell was the musical adviser, so you know it ain't gonna suck! So if grunge is your thing (it is definitely mine!) go get this film a for trip down memory lane that will leave you with a warm fuzzy feeling to help you through these long winter evenings for at least a few days&#133; "},{"Title":"my favorite Crowe movie","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles (1992) is the first Cameron Crowe movie I saw and it's still my favorite one.Great cast (Campbell Scott, Kyra Sedgwick, Bridget Fonda, Matt Dillon and many more), script, direction, photography/editing and excellent soundtrack (Smashing Pumpkins, Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam, Chris Cornell and more).Hilarious guest/cameo appearances by Eric Stoltz (Crowe's regular), Bill Pullman, Paul Giamatti, director Tim Burton, singer Chris Cornell, and Crowe himself.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Singles cause I found out Eddie Vedder was in it, (whom I happen to be in love with) and was thoroughly delighted. It's a sweet, romantic movie, and also a summary of the early 90's Seattle scene. I recommend any fan of grunge, or of romantic comedies, check it out. "},{"Title":"Above average, much maligned by some, enjoyed by lots","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles is a great little flick. Above average dialogue, acting, etc. It still lacks a little something that makes more recent Cameron Crowe films so great to watch.  I have to defend it though, the use of Seattle in the film is hardly done because it was the hip city at the moment, its more of a good coincidence, as Cameron Crowe lives/lived in Seattle and the idea of making a film about a single guy in Seattle had been brewing in his mind since the 80s. (i read an interview from when he was doing Say anything and mentions this idea) "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Cameron Crowe film `Singles' was amusing for a short time, but after a while it's redundancy left you searching for a point.  While it may have had some comic relief, it was not enough to keep me entertained. The best part of this film was the soundtrack. It was an upbeat mixture of grunge and rock. It featured such bands as `Pearl Jam', `Alice in Chains' and `R.E.M.' The music fit perfect for the time. Not only did I enjoy the music but also I respected the artists. It was kind of disrespect to the artists to place it with such a low quality film.This movie was about a group of 20-something who were connected one way or another, not just by mutual friends or acquaintances but also by the fact they were all single in Seattle. In this Emerald City search Steve Dunne (Campbell Scott) is a down to earth guy who wants to lessen the traffic load by making a `Supertrain'. Along the way he meets an anxious Linda Powell (Kyra Sedgewick) who is looking for love in all the wrong places. Together they battle unruly neighbors and pregnancy among some other small hurdles. Debbie Hunt (Sheila Kelly) and her off and on boyfriend Cliff Poncier (Matt Dillon) battle trust, monogamy and appreciation for each other.The transitions between scenes are interesting pictures, which in fact are foreshadowing. The filmography is exceptional and tasteful. The actors performed up to the bar which unfortunately wasn't set high at all. I think Campbell Scott and Kyra Sedgewick performed well considering and had good chemistry. Matt Dillon represented a typical early 90's guy living in Seattle. In a grunge cover band complete with cut off pants and tie-dye shirts. I thought his character was amusing and set perfectly in the time.  "},{"Title":"Nice'n'easy","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Crowe pre 'Jerry Maguire' gives us a charming look at the twisted lives and loves of Seattle's single scene. The traditional elements of a Cameron Crowe film are all here - complex yet amenable characters suffering from emotional insecurity and idealism, whose personal and professional lives take many twists and turns. Full of charm, humour and good performances, 'Singles' is an entertaining antecedent of Crowe's more mature films of recent times.  "}{"Title":"a movie that sneaks up on you","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I liked it a lot. I didn't think it would stand out as one of my favorites of all time. But since my first viewing of it, for some reason, I find myself quoting it all the time. I don't know what it is about this movie (gee, I guess it's the great dialogue) but I think I quote it more than any other movie. And I'm not talking about the big memorable lines either (Janet's 23 monologue is one) but other seemingly meaningless lines throughout the movie too (I say, if you're going to have the operation, HAVE the operation.) I have come to the conclusion that Cameron Crowe is a screenwriting god. In my pantheon, anyway. "},{"Title":"Fantastic script and excellent direction","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In all the best movies I've seen, ever, the one uniting thing that makes them worthwhile is that the actors are given good words to say.  Some say that actors or directors can carry films on their own, and that may make a good movie, but a great movie needs excellent writing as well as good acting and direction. Cameron Crowe is (in my opinion) one of the best film makers in American cinema.  He writes not poetry, but real words for real people.  In Singles, he's captured the life of post-college 20-somethings.  It doesn't matter where they are, just who they are.  He identifies the universal truths that people can understand and frames those truths, those issues, through the lens of his characters.  More from Crowe! "},{"Title":"True to heart","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a romantic, I loved this movie, I would recommend seeing it with some good friends or as a date rental. Some truly great scenes (Linda I want to know what you're thinking right now...) and great lines I just happened to be nowhere near your neighborhood.All in all, a great flick about the early nineties. "},{"Title":"Defines the music, relationships & styles of the early 90's.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really did enjoy this film, even though it's a bit before my generation, as I was 11 when this film came out. The music in it is amazing and  Eddie Vedder and Jeff Ament each have small parts in the movie, as members of Matt Dillon's band. Plus it has a couple of live performances by Alice In Chains and Soundgarden. There's a scene that reminds you a lot of how in and mainstream grunge music was in te early 90's, as Pearl Jam's State Of Love & Trust is being danced in a dance club as if really were dance music. I really can't wait for rock to make it's come back. Most of todays music really does suck. At times this film reminded me a lot of early Melrose Place. The apartment complex, the gossip and the fashion. All though these people weren't as bad or mean as the character on MP. Cameron Crowe does another great job, as it seems he aways has done. I rate it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cameron Crowe does it again!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another fine romantic comedy in that familiar Cameron Crowe style. A very underrated film that's also enhanced by an excellent soundtrack. Check it out! "},{"Title":"By far my favorite film!","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so underrated. I love it for its funny ironic references, taglines, and this movie has the best soundtrack ever.The movie is basically about 20-somethings relationships in early 90's Seattle, and an apartment building which is a host to many different characters.Cambell Scott (Spanish Prisoner), Matt Dillon (Drugstore Cowboy), and Kyra Sedgwick (Losing Chase), are just some of the actors rounding out the cast of this intelligent film by Camerone Crowe.  "},{"Title":"The City, the music, the movie!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is all about loving Seattle and its music-scene. Great soundtrack and great people involved in this movie (such as Alice in Chains and Soundgarden performing in the club and members of Pearl Jam as Citizen Dick). Mother Love Bone's Crown of Thorns supports the movie and its atmosphere in such a great way - amazing! And most of all it's a milestone and a big influence for all the romantic and funny generation X movies about relationship and love. I'm sure films such as Stiller's Reality Bites wouldn't exist without this one.      "},{"Title":"Great funny film...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so underrated. I love it for its funny ironic references, taglines, and this movie has the best soundtrack ever.The movie is basically about 20-somethings relationships in early 90's Seattle, and an apartment building which is a host to many different characters.Cambell Scott (Spanish Prisoner), Matt Dillon (Drugstore Cowboy), and Kyra Sedgwick (Losing Chase), are just some of the actors rounding out the cast of this intelligent film by Camerone Crowe. "},{"Title":"Fun for the whole family...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, the music in this movie is great.  I don't know of a better soundtrack.  Secondly, this movie is filled with an all star cast.  It's another shining flick from Cameron Crowe.  I think that this film is extremely funny and touching.  It focuses on several relationships in a comical way.  I saw this flick at the theater by myself one afternoon, and it was definitely worth my time. "},{"Title":"'Somewhere around 25, bizarre becomes immature'","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a fan of Cameron Crowe's films, I decided to give 'Singles' a shot. It clearly isn't among his best but it has its good moments. The humour is mostly dry but not all the jokes work. It needed more punchlines. Also, I thought there was too much focus on the Kyra Sedgwick- Campbell Scott romantic track, especially since Scott is a mediocre actor at best, while the other characters aren't given enough focus as a result of which they lack development. The film drags at some points and, having watched the DVD, I thought that the deleted scenes were interesting. Like with most of Crowe's films, the soundtrack is first rate. Kyra Sedgewick and Bridget Fonda are very good while Matt Dillon has a few shining moments. Sheila Kelley is hilarious while Jim True is wasted. His character seemed interesting and I wish the writers wrote more for it. I didn't mind the movie for a one time watch but Crowe has done better than this. "}{"Title":"Singularly wonderful, guaranteed to be a favorite of all who sit down to watch it","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Seattle, some twenty-somethings are struggling to find their ways in life. Steve, a traffic expert hoping to improve the gridlock around the city, is forthcoming about his past failed relationships and how complicated things have become in the new era. Nevertheless, he notices beautiful Linda (Kyra Sedgwick), an ecologist, at a concert and begs her to go out with him. She resists, at first, mostly because a charming cad has just played her like a violin. Meanwhile, erstwhile Janet (Bridget Fonda) works in a coffee shop, attends college, and is smitten with her neighbor, grunge-musician Cliff (Matt Dillon). Cliff loves the attention he gets from her but has a wandering eye and, in truth, is not a very good rock artist. Is it written in the stars that these four people will end their single days and find true love? This is a knockout film. The Cameron Crowe script is one of the funniest, sweetest, and most memorable ever written. All of the young actors play their parts very well and the Seattle setting and costumes are quite noteworthy, too. Anyone who has even struggled in the dating world, and wonders if they will ever find a great love, will relate to this film in a big way. But, heck, this film is not just for the young and unattached. Every person that takes a chance on this film will admire it, love it, and view it as often as possible. "},{"Title":"decent film, but great cast","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really only watched this for the cameos and great soundtrack. I like Cameron Crowe movies for the most part but found this one while creatively assembled (and assembled is the best word with the style he used) it just lacked the sharp writing from some of his other work. That being said Chris Cornell's cameo with the car stereo was worth the rental. Unlike most movies that feature musical acts, Singles stands out because the artists are characters in the film, the afore mentioned Cornell cameo as well as the members of Pearl Jam appearing as Citizen Dick, Matt Dillon's backing band prove to be more then adequate in there role. "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite some great moments and a very good cast, I ended up disappointed by this film.  There were some terrific scenes, my favorite being with Fonda and Pullman, but overall, the film seemed a little flat.  While there were some surprises along the way, the end result was still predictable and the characters were not especially interesting to me.  Plus, most of the comedic bits just weren't all that funny.  It was a perfectly watchable movie, and I certainly wasn't bored by it, but it wasn't all that entertaining, either. "},{"Title":"hip rom-com","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the film that brought cameron crowe into the minor leagues is a small, intimate film about the lives and loves of several single men and women. set in the hip, grunge backdrop of seattle, it's characters all live in an apartment complex. sometimes their stories intertwine, sometimes they step out of the arena to pursue others.  cameron crowe has a touch for good dialogue and personal moments but the film does leave a lot to be desired. there are too many scenes that lack importance, or lack the spark that ignites the others. so it becomes semi tedious at points when the plot should really be moving on. the actors are likeable enough, and realistic enough to keep our attentions throughout, but it's just not as funny as it wants to be.  the soundtrack is great, and adds to the brilliant recreation of the 90's grunge era.  an average film worth your time once but not for repeated viewings "},{"Title":"Not my Gen-X","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can I say candyass on IMDB?  I can safely call myself a Gen-Xer, not as a point of pride or shame, just as a matter of statistical fact.  I graduated from high school in 1990 and I remember exactly what I was doing when I heard that Kurt Cobain was dead.  This ain't Gen-X.  This is a sorry attempt to remake Fast Times at Ridgemont High for Generation X.  Note I didn't realize until after I wrote that sentence that Cameron Crowe was responsible for both movies.  That explains a lot.Singles gets all the details down (the long hair, the leather jacket, the coffee, the slacker waitress job, the communal living, the Seattle, the mountain bikes, the... recycling).  But the wholesome, well-scrubbed boys and girls in the cast bear no resemblance to anyone I ever knew in the early 90s.  With all due respect for Pearl Jam and Soundgarden (and a lot of respect is due) a thin veneer of their music can't save this movie.  If Gen-X meant anything at all, it surely meant that chicks had other things to do than get decked out in slick suits and go get breast enlargements like Bridget Fonda does (on a waitress's income?!) to make their greaseball rocker boyfriends happy.  I've got nothing against breast enhancement, but that's not what the early 90s were about.  This is the Hollywood-cheeseball version of the Gen-X story.  It is safe enough for your grandmother.  You want Gen-X?  Go watch My Own Private Idaho or any episode of the Simpsons or even The Blair Witch Project.  This ain't Gen-X.   "},{"Title":"A page from the Grunge Diaries...","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles was made during the height of the grunge years, the early 90's youth's attempt to be profound. Aside from sounding like neo-hippies, those years did produce some gnarley music and strange fashions.Set in the birthplace of Grunge, Seattle Washington, the film follows several twenty-somethings attempt to find love. Bridget Fonda is Janet, is a self-doubting young woman who is hopelessly trying to get the attention of the clueless multi-employed singer, Cliff (Matt Dillon). Debbie (Shelia Kelley) is so desperate for a relationship, she seeks to find that lasting relationship with a horrible video dating service.Unfortunately, some of the character's doubts about their relationships comes from trying too hard to go by some previously established, understood rules of dating. Such is the initial problem between Linda (Kyra Sedwick) and Steve (Campbell Scott). Notice his opening pick up line. And they are really the main characters in the story, trying to dodge any obstacles that might screw up the chances for this relationship because this could be The One. The entire dating plot becomes rather self-indulgent, though the more entertaining one is between Janet and Cliff, since Cliff is such an oblivious moron.And, what is an early 90s Seattle-based movie without some music? This movie is partly advertised for it's soundtrack, which features Pearl Jam (the gorgeous Eddie Vedder and bassist Jeff Ahmet of Pearl Jam appear in several scenes as accompanying musicians in Cliff's band, Citizen Dick). Soundgarden has a stage scene as does Alice in Chains. They picked the creme of the crop of Seattle Grunge (but where's Nirvana?) to add some flavor to this somewhat lackluster movie. I've never been much a fan of Cameron Crowe films, anyways, which I think are often overrated (see Vanilla Sky). If for nothing else, I'd highly recommend it for fans of the Grunge Days because this is really a page from the Grunge Diaries. "},{"Title":"Love in the '90s? Or something.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Singles plays out like a love letter to . . . pretty much everything early '90s grunge, Seattle, Gen Xers, coffee, twenty-somethings grappling with love and responsibility, grunge. It's a movie that feels like it's trying to capture the zeitgeist - but I wasn't there, what do I know? But there's a cloying sweetness to most of this that's a complete turnoff. Maybe it really does boil down to you had to be there, which would be why I can' relate to most of his (or these people). I did like hearing State of Love and Trust, if only for 30 seconds. And there's an array of amusing cameos throughout.But I'm not apart of this movie's audience.4/10 "},{"Title":"Amusing romcom with the backdrop of the early 90's grunge scene","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 1992, Singles is about two 20-something couples (Campbell Scott & Kyra Sedgwick and Bridget Fonda & Matt Dillon) and others (Sheila Kelley, Bill Pullman, etc.) at the advent of the grunge scene of Seattle. Dillon's character is the only one directly involved in the grunge scene, as the vocalist of the band Citizen Dick.Singles is a little reminiscent of 2001's Rock Star, but the latter's better IMHO simply because it focuses more on the music scene than romantic relationships &#x96; and metal, at that, which is definitely preferable in my book. The very title Singles tips off that it's a romcom focusing on dating. As such, if you favor dating movies you'll probably like Singles, even if you don't particularly like grunge. Speaking of which, the soundtrack includes cuts by grunge luminaries like Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, Mudhoney, Alice In Chains and Mother Love Bone. In fact, quite a few grunge stars have cameos, e.g. Chris Cornell, Layne Staley, Eddie Vedder and Kim Thayil.The film runs 99 minutes and was shot in Seattle.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"dry but good","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a guy, I drink beer, smoke cigs, I'm insensitive and i don't care that much about couples and stuff. But this movie was really good, I liked how it covered the whole troubles of finding love (I know how troublesome it can be), and so on. But the things i didn't like were how Hollywood wanted us to focus on Bridget Fonda and Matt Dillon; when most of the story was going on with Kyra Sedgwick and Campbell Scott. The soundtrack was great and thank god they didn't put Nirvana on it (I am from Seattle and I can't stand Nirvana, everywhere i go i see a die hard fan of Nirvana and i hear Smells like teen Spirit every 5 minutes on the radio), but most of the grunge they put on it didn't really fit in to the Scenario. The cameos were dope too. But the main reason why I liked this movie so much is the scenery. The view of Lake Union at the end (thats not really a spoiler) reminded me of the fact that Seattle is the most awesome city in the United States. But next time Mr Crowe should hire actors that are not from New York. "},{"Title":"Filme sputa Fonda","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  um film sputa Fonda... salver-SE a Fraze...Dita poor Bridget Fonda  H Una cert dignitary em es tar-SE solitaire... nun ca Mai's me Esq..... ..... And now I am just talking too much too satisfy this lovely machine who just admit ten pages of talk, and talk, and talk, and talk... yes, you know talk, and talk to please the wonderful machine who loves a lot of words like ten pages of talk, and talk, and talk, and talk... yes, you know talk, and talk to please the wonderful machine who loves a lot of. Or even words like love, and love, and love, and lot a love, love, and love, and love, and lot a love, love, and love, and love, and lot a love. "}{"Title":"Twenty","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Twenty. There are some lines in movies that just stick with you. They are usually brief, but memorable. If for no other reason, see Singles for the cameo of Tim Burton as a video director for Expect the Best, a strange Seattle dating agency. Now to review the other 85 minutes of the movie. Singles is a romantic dramady about twenty-somethings who live mainly in the same building and follows them through the course of their on/off relationships. There are good points and bad points to Singles. I don't know where Cameron Crowe got the idea to make it a music movie, but it worked. The songs flow beautifully into the film. Paul Westerberg's songs are awesome, but sound the same. There are some funny jokes, a few great cameos, and it really makes you think about your love life. There are some weak points, however. Bridget Fonda's character, Janet Livermore, becomes VERY annoying, VERY fast. For instance- she asks her boyfriend if her breasts are too small for him, out of the blue, for no reason at the moment. The garage-door opener thing is odd, and some dialogue is completly pointless and stupid. Don't do this! Don't make me remember this chili dog forever! Remember it. Make that a historic chili dog. Alrighty. I would recommend this movie for those who are single and have been so for quite some time. Warning this film can be painful to watch if you're getting over a breakup. And remember, if you choose to find that special someone through a dating agency, if the director of your video wants 20 bucks instead of 10, scream, run from the building, and never look back.  ;-)   "},{"Title":"Illustrates the scene decently enough.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an OK movie, liked it A lot when I first saw it actually, not the type of movie I'd see over and over-more like once every few years or so. It contained good music and the film picks up the feeling of being young, free and searching accurately enough.I wouldn't call this one of my all time favorites. I liked the depiction of single life and life at the clubs (pretty darn accurate in some places!) Mostly good acting (And I must say I LOVED Matt Dillon in this role-uh-chew!LOL). It's a fun movie to watch but a little depressing at times too and I wouldn't call it a classic or give it Breakfast Club status though like I said seeing it once in awhile(preferably in a big group to howl at some of the funnier jokes) is alright. It's to the movie's credit that it does some good comedy coupled with some serious stories while simultaneously picking up the atmosphere so very well.Singles made a strong impression on me when I first saw it but didn't really stay with me as much as some other similar movies. This is well made, however, and a good movie in general. Definitely not a movie to be watched alone though. My vote's 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"HOOKING UP IS HARD TO DO","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SINGLES (1992) ***1/2  Matt Dillon, Bridget Fonda, Campbell Scott, Kyra Sedgwick, Sheila Kelley, Jim True.  Delightful insightful, and often heart-warming look at twentysomethings falling in love in Seattle focusing on couples and courtships.  Dillon is wonderfully daffy as a third-rate frontman for a nowhere band and Fonda is a wonder as his neglected girlfriend trying to understand their flawed relationship.  Contemporary rock is highlighted with Pearl Jam, Alice in Chains, and Soundgarden on hand.  Paul Westerberg dishes up two songs, Waiting For Somebody and Dyslexic Heart, that balance the plot nicely.  Look for director/writer Cameron Crowe as a cynical rock journalist and fellow auteur Tim Burton as the Scorsese of video making for a dating service.  Bill Pullman gives another patented bland nice-guy interpretation as a plastic surgeon, Tom Skerritt as the mayor of Seattle and look for Jeremy Piven as a druggist, Eric Stoltz as an outspoken mime, Peter Horton as one of Kelley's video dating service hook-ups (as well as Victor Garber) and Paul Giamatti as an overzealous make-out artist.   My favorite scene Scott's booze-induced confession on Sedgwick's answering machine.   ***Video/DVD contains deleted footage (including Debi Mazar). "},{"Title":"Booring","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Cameron Crowe film `Singles' was amusing for a short time, but after a while it's redundancy left you searching for a point.  While it may have had some comic relief, it was not enough to keep me entertained. The best part of this film was the soundtrack. It was an upbeat mixture of grunge and rock. It featured such bands as `Pearl Jam', `Alice in Chains' and `R.E.M.' The music fit perfect for the time. Not only did I enjoy the music but also I respected the artists. It was kind of disrespect to the artists to place it with such a low quality film. This movie was about a group of 20-something who were connected one way or another, not just by mutual friends or acquaintances but also by the fact they were all single in Seattle. In this Emerald City search Steve Dunne (Campbell Scott) is a down to earth guy who wants to lessen the traffic load by making a `Supertrain'. Along the way he meets an anxious Linda Powell (Kyra Sedgewick) who is looking for love in all the wrong places. Together they battle unruly neighbors and pregnancy among some other small hurdles. Debbie Hunt (Sheila Kelly) and her off and on boyfriend Cliff Poncier (Matt Dillon) battle trust, monogamy and appreciation for each other.The transitions between scenes are interesting pictures, which in fact are foreshadowing. The filmography is exceptional and tasteful. The actors reached the expectations bar which unfortunately wasn't set high at all. I think Campbell Scott and Kyra Sedgewick performed well considering and had good chemistry. Matt Dillon represented a typical early 90's guy living in Seattle. In a grunge cover band complete with cut off pants and tie-dye shirts. I thought his character was amusing and set perfectly in the time  "},{"Title":"NOT ENOUGH COFFEE","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you take this film to represent the Seattle scene, then it's way too mainstream. If however you're looking for a romantic comedy, that's easier to relate too than something with Ryan or Hanks; then this could be your cup of coffee. Fonda and Dillon have always made interesting choices, and they do stand out in their secondary roles. "},{"Title":"Poignant, but sappy look at the Seattle singles scene","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What do woman want?  Are they looking for intimacy or the first guy to get them pregnant?  This film won't settle this question, but at least you will get some insight into what goes through their demented minds as they search for Mr. Right.The hard edged sound track on this one almost overwhelms the story and the sensitive portrayals of 20-something angst is almost lost.  But, after you get sick of the songs (and this takes a long time!), turn down  the volume and you will find some great acting and a touching plot. "},{"Title":"as okay as you get.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Singles is by Cameron Crowe. He's the guy who brought us Jerry McGuire and Say Anything. He's a geinous. So what went wrong here? It's not that Singles is a bad movie. When you reflect on it the story wasn't too Hollywoodish and had some meaning to it. The problem is that it's not all that enjoyable while you're watching it. There are specific scenes that are great as well as some terrific lines, but mostly it's routine. We've seen people talking about this subject matter before and this movie doesn't add very much that's new. At one point a guy gets a girl pregnant and they have to decide whether to keep the baby or not. Gee, I haven't seen that conversation before. In an age where originality and concept get you points, this movie is a failure. However, because of some fun scenes and humorous moments it it okay. A disappointment for Cameron Crowe, but okay for normal standars. "},{"Title":"This is a cool movie!","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like the fact that this movie is has interwoven stories with different people falling in love.  It is a very realistic view on singlehood. Quite honestly I did not like that stage of my life at all. Society imposes upon young lives a time for falling in love which somewhat coincides with the best years for procreation. As far I was concerned that clock would click forever and would still be single. That is why I like this movie so much. All the characters has their idiosyncrasies.  I like Cameron Crowe's (Jerry Maguire) fresh and spontaneous look on the topic. I like how Campbell Scott (The Spanish Prisoner) is always so natural in his parts sort of less is more. I like his style. Steve Dunne comes to Linda Powell Kyra Sedgwick (Something to Talks About) she has just about had it with the whole dating game and ignores him completely or perhaps she is just watching to see how hurt she is going to get this time. All I say is been there, done that.  The part played by Matt Dillon (Beautiful Girls) Cliff Poncier  is annoying because he is very eccentric. But I guess I just don't like loud music, and he ends up breaking the windows of his girl friend's car,  Bridget Fonda Janet Livermore (Doc Hollywood). I liked the role Bill Pullmann ( Sleepless in Seattle, Zero Effect) played  Doctor Jamison. He gives his patient advise in not having breast augmentation. Poor Bill Pullman always loosing his love interest in his roles because of someone related to Seattle.  Billy you should go to Chicago, at least in in While You Were Sleeping  at the end of the movie, you get the girl. Nice movie. We liked it a lot around my household.  The music is cool specially for those singles, you know! My favorite scenes The garage door. Up and down. .. The party where they promote the use of contraceptives and everybody is dressed as condoms.Favorite quotes Steve What happens if the super you meets the super her and rejects the super you. Bailey Is not a problem. It was just an act. I live my life like a French movie.  Janet Livermore Don't treat this as casual sex. Casual sex doesn't exist anymore. It is lethal and it is over.  Steve and Linda Powell both say I just happened to be nowhere near your neighborhood.  "},{"Title":"Singles","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some funny vignettes about the lives and loves in a Seattle apartment building, but altogether it runs around in too many directions. Dillon has a nice turn has a Pearl Jam-ish-like rocker.  "},{"Title":"Loved it and it had my favorite band-Pearl Jam in it...","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great, and so was the soundtrack. My favorite band plays a bit part as Matt Dillon's band. Performances are great, as well as the direction by Cameron Crowe. Recommended for couples as well as the singles. "}{"Title":"ehhh....fun if you have an evening to fold some laundry and do your nails","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Really Cameron Crowe wanted to do a typical rom-com, but he also wanted to ride on the coattails of the Seattle grunge movement. He combined both and the finished product was Singles. This isn't pulled off smoothly. I have been in an interesting mood lately, trying to view things that I remember getting bludgeoned over the head with through advertising until I finally gave in as a middle schooler/teenager. Singles is my latest project. The idea is to see if there was any real substance to these old films or if it's just cultural fluff and a sign of the times. Singles=cultural fluff.I won't deny that there is a special thrill in the first scene with Alice in Chains. And it is fun spotting Pearl Jam and Chris Cornell as youngsters. That thrill subsides pretty quickly when you find that you've entrapped yourself in a formulaic love story that tries to package itself as something modern.Opportunities for a serious edge were squandered. Bridget Fonda's character makes some interesting and independent choices, yet the script couldn't resist putting her back where she she started. A serious plot twist that developed between Campbell Scott and Kyra Sedgwick was quickly and conveniently done away with, after only a few moments of screen time. The movie spends a few moments here and there at local concerts with the likes of Alice in Chains and Soundgarden, and pans over the writhing mosh pits in an effort to remind this that this is the new 90's style of being young. Does not work with this story. As attractive as Kyra Sedgwick is (and a decent actress) I would not have chosen her for the lead female role. Her personality and appearance to not fit the style of the movie, and she looks woefully out of place at an Alice in Chains concert, like she wandered out of an elementary school library to see what was going on. Is it worth a watch? Yes it is. There are some genuinely funny moments that I had missed as a kid, involving cameos by Jeremy Piven and Eric Stolz. Bridget Fonda is just adorable and her style holds up pretty well after 2 decades. However, from what I hear, we have Singles to thank for the parade of youth watching over the next 10-15 years, from Reality Bites to Friends, bringing us more and more white post college young adults exchanging remarks and looking stylish. And let's not forget the coffee shop. The question that begs is... Were Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam, and Soundgarden truly looking for a break through the big screen? I won't deny that this really helped a-list all those guys. Nirvana backed out. Is Chris Cornell ashamed? hmmm... "},{"Title":"Bad script, bad humour, without the Sub-Pop cameos, this film would have nothing to offer.","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having lived in Seattle at he time this movie was filmed, and having loved Jerry Maguire, I was really looking forward to finally seeing Singles. But the movie was garbage. In representing the Seattle scene or 'underground,' the film's scene scout chose every Lonely Planet McTourist destination of Seattle. It would be like shooting a film involving the New York hip-hop movement of the eighties by shooting everything at Rockafeller Plaza and the Empire State building. To put it another way, nobody who listened to and appreciated grunge in '91 hung out at the films chosen 'recently-arrived to Seattle' Yuppie locations.In the area of story, at least Crowe found somebody with life experience to write, or assist in writing his next few screenplays. The entire story just screams out, I've been written by somebody whose life perspective was shaped exclusively by watching TV and lame movies. Really, the story is a movie-buffs daydream. There is nothing realistic about an entire apartment complex of single adults in cosmopolitan Seattle hanging out together. Only a freak would give more than a common 'hello' to their neighbour in closed Seattle urban life. The characters are very shallow, and the three intersecting love stories are dull and comically fake. If the story were about 18 year olds in a dorm, it would work. But people in their late 20's, with job titles reserved for people in their early forties, acting like immature 18 year olds, just doesn't work...... And the humour is as witty as a Friday night pre-teen sitcom, without the laughtrack.On the plus side, there was one funny moment in the entire film. But the three seconds of laughter is not worth your two hours (and I'm not going to give it away). However if you're a die hard fan of Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, Alice in Chains or the faces of Sub-Pop, and you get giggly like a little boy whenever you see your favourite band members on the screen, and you're not currently taking your prescription medication, then you just might enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Not Crowe's best work but still mildly amusing and entertaining","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two Seattle single couples and assorted friends and neighbors work at dealing with the foibles, insecurities, games and other issues of contemporary dating and relationship building in this hip but less than coherent flick. As much as the characters are likable and believable, so the film lacks clear purpose and a sense of direction. Far from apocalyptic but with a subtle charm, Singles wends its way through a mildly amusing and sometimes poignant 100 minute runtime.   "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie came out right at the time everybody was into Seattle and the whole grunge thing.  But, this movie has really nothing to do with the Seattle music scene.  Sure, there are some of the musicians (but, how many people actually knew the guy on the phone was Tad?) and thankfully they were there for a little comic relief.  It is a story of guy meets girl (at a bar), boy gets girl pregnant, girl is not pregnant any longer, boy and girl fight, boy loses job, becomes a recluse, boy and girl get back together. It is not a good look at the music stream as it is a very mainstream look. If you want a good look at the Seattle music scene, rent Hype. "},{"Title":"Why does everyone seem to think Cameron Crowe is a great filmmaker?","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, he gets one thing wrong about gen-x slackos in Seattle They don't have jobs designing the new Supertrain, or writing environmental policy. This is 1992. Even Ben Stiller got it righter They work at WeinerWorld.Did Crowe think this series of trite meet-cutes would fly if he stuffed them into those early-nineties raver horizontal-stripe shirts, some flannel and some paleolithic versions of the Dr. Seuss-like Busta Rhymes hat? Crowe is a total softball. He's like Marshall Herskovits with indie cred. It's a shame Lester Bangs got him on the path he's on. But Bridget Fonda's smile, which looks exactly like a little kid showing her mom that she really did brush her teeth, is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Not so special","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some good moments, some wisecracks, some truisms about life - all destroyed by a lousy rotten happy ending and a wrong message Living alone is, after all, a bad thing to do - because all the characters in the movie fail in surviving alone.After one and a half hour of telling us that being single is okay, we are struck by a totally opposite ending. Thanks, but no thanks. "},{"Title":"Maybe I missed something","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I missed something. Maybe I hate all of the thrash-grunge music on the soundtrack. Maybe I just wasn't in the pacific northwest in the early 90's. Maybe I'm tired of cute romantic comedies with a bunch of whiny 20something white people.If this movie were being made today, it would be just as formulaic, but would be different in a few key ways* The women would wear less clothing. It was almost shocking to see those early 90's fashions and realize how much things have changed. Not a single strappy tank top or midriff was to be seen. Instead, we had huge, lumpy sweaters. Also, I really miss vests and brimmed hats.* People think of the 80's as a time of big hair. 1992 was not immune. Hair would be smaller now.* Video dating would be internet dating now.* Cordless phones, phone booths, and answering machines as a plot device? Now everyone would have a cell phone and plot machinery would be based on coverage and roaming.* At least one of the couples would be gay, possibly with a bi-curious convoluted love triangle.* There would be at least two token blacks, latinos, or asians. (Probably one of them gay to more efficiently meet the diversity requirement)As such, the film is a near-perfect time capsule. Researchers from the present can see univeral themes (love and self-involvement) played out against a canvas thoroughly fixed in its time and place.  "},{"Title":"What love needs is a single mind in a multi-person enterprise...","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found Singles to be a pleasant enough watch, but nothing really special. It deals - albeit in a generally optimistic way - with people getting screwed over by relationships, and makes the point that the reason establishing a connection with someone is so hard is because, in love, everyone plays by their own rules... I feel as if I know this only too well from my personal life, and given the subject matter, I felt like I maybe should've identified a bit more. The focus on unifying threads together is never really strong though, and although the characters are likable, we never stay with them long enough to find if they'll ever straighten their problems out.It also leans rather too heavily on the music culture of the time, and the bleakness of grunge doesn't really mesh well with the larger sentiment that these are young people with their lives in front of them just trying to find their place in the world.The film does have its good points though. Matt Dillon is hilarious, and delivers (I think) one of the funniest comedic performances ever as a clueless band front-man trying to make it on the scene as he's weighed down by finding himself in a committed relationship... It's absolutely worth seeing the movie just for his turn alone, and it gave me a whole new esteem for him.The wider perspective for me though is that, in my opinion, Crowe peaked artistically with first Jerry Maguire and then Almost Famous; I wasn't at all impressed with Elisabethtown, and I get the sense that even his earlier work was just a fertile testing ground for his two more polished efforts later... "},{"Title":"pretty crappy movie here","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's see.  Movie from 1992 set in... oh, where should we set it? Seattle? That's the new hip city these days, isn't it?Just b**tardizes the issues that 20 somethings (now 30 somethings) faced. Superficial things like relationships and Mr. Right take front stage over a lukewarm, pathetic depiction of political activism and liberal ideology. These could've been any characters, anywhere.  They were plastic people with plastic problems.  The setting was mere Hollywood hype and bandwagon-ing. Gee, a few shots of Pearl Jam and Alice in Chains ought to do the trick. I guess Nirvana was out of town in the 3 days it took them to shoot this tripe.I also am growing way too tired of Crowe's overly conversational style of writing.  So many words come out of his characters mouths, and 50% of them are fluff.  It's like a dern episode of Friends.  Blah, blah, like soooo, blah, could we be any more, blah.  There are so many throw-away lines in this film they should've just hired extras to do the film and had them say the 5 lines that carry the plot. "},{"Title":"Boring Tripe","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Completely boring, derivative, and predictable plot. Characters are silly cardboard cut-out cliches and the comedy is paint by the numbers. Every joke, every twist can be predicted before it happens on screen. I see no evidence of originality and felt no real human emotions were touched upon in even the most superficial way. People note this film for its music, but it seems to me the inclusion of the Seattle Pearl Jamish music and scene is just a attempt at mainstream Hollywood trying to make a derivative and wholly uninteresting concept/characters seem cool and appeal to the pop culture mainstream of the time.FINAL RATING 3/10 Don't waste your time. Spend 2 hours staring at the wall instead.Noob Aalox "}{"Title":"A Gen-Grung set piece","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  White bread. That's the taste this movie left with me. Not even white bread toast. I suppose it was supposed to be an extended rock video with dialogue. And compared to Sliding Doors it's an actual achievement in understanding why middle class white kids always end up acting like, well, middle class white kids. They're spoiled into self absorbed oblviousness. It's a movie of sincere affection for the Grung Gen Xers it's about but that's about all. Just more self engrossed primping in front of a mirror. Every generation of 20 somethings spends time seeking an identity, I guess. But these folks seem to put on the identity MTV, et al. gave them. Disappointing. Sigh. No one questions anything. Breast implants? yeah, duh, ok...sure. Kids ? Ok, duh, yeah..sure. Date a guy with an IQ that would embarrass a fish stick? Sure, yeah duh...ok. Will somebody shake these people? Please ? For it seems no matter how much they bang into and over each other, cut each other off, so to speak, they're driving in a deep mist. Maybe the choice of rainy, misty Seattle as the setting was also symbolic, unintentionally, of course. Soggy white bread pieces floating around a puddle..in a mist.But it's a date movie, right ? I'm making too much of all this, right ? But considering the near divinity we American's proclaim for children; our neurotic luv with the culture of youthfulness and mindless conformity to anything youngish in fashion or fad I have to ask. Is this it ? Is this what the richest, most powerful nation in history can produce ? I guess so. So, what will I tell my children ? (snicker, smirk) These people make the people on The Springer Show look thoughtful and earnest in comparison. Maybe thats the final irony. Those who have been given and have everything possible become incapable of doing, being, thinking, feeling or becoming anything. They were given Seattle, all new, shiny and prosperous. They gave nothing to it so, in return they make it bland, ill fitting, noisy and tedious in its endless conformity, always turning in upon itself. A Mobius strip of stale, white bread. "},{"Title":"no good","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SINGLES is out of its element.  A romantic comedy that crashes and burns within the confines of Matt Dillon's wig.  His character is so awful and repugnant, I wish they had simply edited him out.  Crowe's love of music is obvious but so clearly misplaced, I felt like I wanted to burn every copy of Jimi Hendrix I ever owned.  One other thing Campell Scott's coffee slurping in the opening scene sets the tone for this piece of grunge induced garbage. "},{"Title":"no good","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SINGLES is out of its element.  A romantic comedy that crashes and burns within the confines of Matt Dillon's wig.  His character is so awful and repugnant, I wish they had simply edited him out.  Crowe's love of music is obvious but so clearly misplaced, I felt like I wanted to burn every copy of Jimi Hendrix I ever owned.  One other thing Campell Scott's coffee slurping in the opening scene sets the tone for this piece of grunge induced garbage. "}]