[{"Title":"An All-Time Favorite","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of those rare pieces of cinema where it all comes together. The style is consistent - campy. The acting is wonderful. The editing and rhythm are superb. The music engaging.It is about ballroom dancing. It is a love story. It is about the love and pathos of life.If you've not seen this movie and are in need of a smile, see this one. It is about a dance studio whose main dancer, a male, is in need of a partner for regional championships. He and his former partner have split, leaving an opening that is a challenge to fill. The do fill it, but not until the last moment, and when it comes together, it creates a finale that is among the best ever shot.  "},{"Title":"Bravo! A classic! Makes you feel great!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"49 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, yes, I agree with all of the wonderful comments below, but here are a few things nobody has mentioned1.  The EDITING is superb. All too often we focus on the actors, music, or cinematography.  This is natural, and in this film all of these are superb. But keep a close watch of the editing - wow, it is perfect and ties the whole film together flawlessly. There are so many cuts that make the perspective magical.(And no, I am not a film editor.)2.  Look at WHO is dancing together as couples, right at the end.  This, like so many other fine details, carries lots of significance.3.  When Scott and Fran are practising on the deck at her house, under the instruction of her family, her Spanish father dances with her and says Muy bien, muy bien, Fran. Very good!  Notice that he uses her Anglo name Fran rather than her Spanish name, and converts over to English. The look he gives her tells us that he is probably seeing his (deceased) wife, via his daughter whom he loves, and that he finally ACCEPTS her and her Anglo boyfriend. This is but one of many small scenes that have more depth than may be first apparent.My wife and I grabbed this video to 'fill in time' during a quiet weekend. We were astounded at how it captivated us since we had already seen it when it first came out.  Like other comments below, we have watched the end repeatedly, and it always 'revs us up' into the clouds.  Bravo! "},{"Title":"What A Way To DANCE!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a love story. It's a story about being yourself. It's story of following your dreams and not giving up. It's a story with DANCING!!A boy who loves to dance HIS WAY loses at the major dancing competition. Why or why can't he dance like the others. This is killing his mother. No one wants to be his partner now. He is TOO MUCH!He works as an instructor at his parents dance studio. His mom wants him to dance again, but the right way. His dad doesn't say much. He is too busy reliving his old dancing days when he was happier. There is a girl who dances at the studio who wants to be his partner. She is too plain and clumsy to be taken seriously. Will she ever get the chance?? Will the boy ever make the world see his way?? Will his mom ever chill out?? Will his Dad end up in the Nuthouse??? For the answers to these questions, please get this film.Seriously, you will love this film. Though it follows closely to the DIRTY DANCING story, it is much more than that. The characters are just so off the wall you will laugh your arse off. The love story is kind of sweet, but the DANCING is great!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funny, inspiring, offbeat, creative","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An outstanding movie in nearly every regard.  Filmed in Australia on a tight budget, this movie succeeds in the one area that counts most  it _entertains_ the viewer.A parody of underdog makes good movies, Strictly Ballroom is set in the competitive world of ballroom dancing.  The movie educates (about ballroom dancing), amuses (especially with the bumbling bad guys), and uplifts (with the take-home message about following your dreams).The show is stolen by Paul Mercurio, starring as the protagonist male dancer.  His acting and dancing are superb.A bit corny, a bit burlesque, but lots of fun!  What more could you want?  "},{"Title":"Best Dance movie ever, Greatest choreography and costumes; also a good Romance with its moments","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Waltz, Rumba, Samba, Tango, Cha Cha, Step Salsa... Never seen a movie with that much rich choreography before. That's Baz Luhrmann, who is an expert at swinging a visual feast; and Strictly Ballroom is his red curtain trio opening(together with Romeo+Juliet and Moulin Rouge!). With his own style of cinematography and overdrive speed of camera work, it's impossible to watch a 94 minutes film in exact 94 minutes. Otherwise you'd be falling into anxiety saying to yourself Ooops! Did i just miss a scene? I still rewind on many scenes each time I watch Strictly Ballroom and Moulin Rouge! Here are some unforgettable and timelessly cult scenes and moments I most like 1- Scott&Francesca dancing in front of the Coca Cola broad sheet at the roof 2- Scott&Francesca dancing with Doris Day's Perhaps,Perhaps, Perhaps(1954 version) behind the red curtain 3- Francesca and Scott's meeting scene and the way she introducing herself to Scott 4- Scott practicing his style of dance and watching himself by the mirror 5- Scott's father starting clapping in unison when Scott&Francesca turned back to the stage where they are banned 6- Francesca persuading Scott upon the choices they look forward to make beside the wire fences they walk through in the nightStrictly Ballroom is one of the best choices to watch and enjoy it with your beloved. It will keep you locked in a close embrace. It is also the best choice to start learning couples' dancing. But, if you're looking for some silver screen accomplishment, which I mostly do for every movie I watched, there is only the noteworthy achievement of costume design. Directing-editing-screenplay are collaboratively proper since it is Baz Luhrmann's own project. I only disliked the sound editing. "},{"Title":"A fun movie with a great message","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very stylized film, a lot of fun, a lot of great dancing. Some of the costumes and performances, within the scope of the plot, are almost painful, yet appropriate. And the upshot of the whole thing is a message we wish we could all live by, every day. I relate to the ugly duckling storyline, and also enjoy the attractive male star! There are characters you love to hate and those who step up when you didn't think they would. The flashbacks are very quirky/funny. I'm sure in Australia this ballroom dancing stuff is taken deadly seriously, so Luhrman probably took a hit for lampooning it the way he does. But the whole thing is a good time that ends up having unexpectedly warm, deep meaning, and not many movies these days can say that. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, emotional, quirky, uplifting movie!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw Strictly Ballroom I tuned in accidentally to the grand climax while flipping through my cable channels I was transfixed, and when the ten minutes was over I felt emotionally spent and stimulated at the same time, as if some door had been opened in my psyche.  I knew I had to find the movie and watch it in its entirety. Now, fifteen viewings, a VHS tape, audio tape, and music CD of SB later, I happened upon it again tonight (interspliced with Sister Act by Emile Ardolino...), and I again watched the grand climax, with a bit of lead-in, with my wife and young sons.  It was just as emotional and powerful as the first time, and I cried yet again. This is a very very special film.  Baz Luhrman takes risks that most directors would not dare to, and his movies work because he gets to the heart of the matter, gets to the truth.  In this case, the truth is To thine own self be true, a familiar message told in a fresh and wonderful way.  Bravo.  "},{"Title":"Dance!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was nothing like I expected at first.  It's got the frenetic sense of humour that most Australian films of the period exuded, for one thing.  And it's not a simple boy-meets-girl-and-they-dance story...that's the heart of it, but there's a lot of weirdness along the way.  Basically, it's in-fighting backstage at Come Dancing.  It begins Baz Luhrmann's ascent to greatness.  And it features a truly odd performance from Barry Otto as Scott's father. "},{"Title":"An extravagant, original piece of film.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Baz Lurhman's first film is a piece of film that is worthy of more that it is given. It is absolutely cheesy in every way shape and form, however you love it more because of this. The attention to detail in the direction is fantastic, each scene is done with glistening sense of bewilderment and beauty. The acting is very plausible and energetic, the dance is done with with verve and style. The music fits in well within the story. From the beginning it's all very heart warming, but the end scene gave me tingles up and down my arm. It's an enjoyable film, but at times you wonder whether your feeling bewildered, entertained or thrilled.What ever you feel for this film, you cannot put it down for the stylised direction, and the extravagant behaviour of the characters. See if you like Moulin Rouge, Dirty dancing or Romeo and Juliet.*original review written by me at 15, re-written at 22*Of all the reviews I wrote in my teens this has to be my favourite, namely because I still whole-heartedly love this film. I called it cheesy, but I'm retracting this its not cheesy, its flamboyant and its flamboyant in the best possible way. Strictly Ballroom will alienate some with how over-the-top the whole thing is, but there is no denying that this makes it all the more engaging. Like a fantasy film, it manages to take you to a new world. It takes you to a place only film and(to lesser extent)stage can take you. Strictly Ballroom gives you a window to look through, a world of dance and instead of tentatively peering through it, forces you right up against it, where a sea of multicoloured dresses and sequins lie. Strictly Ballroom is a all hands on deck movie that will either leave you wide-eyed and bewildered or alienated and scared. But whatever it ends up leaving you, I would highly recommend watching if you have not already seen it. And this is coming from me 7 years later, as an adult, a film-making student and someone who isn't usually a fan of this kind of film. "},{"Title":"Never has a movie been so completely engaging","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From beginning to end.  Wow.  This is the best Baz Luhrmann film, without a doubt.  I've seen it maybe half a dozen times.  The characters are hilarious, but even the most obvious parodies are real.  They're all so absorbed in their crazy, strange, fantastic world of dancing, you can't help but get absolutely involved in what transpires onscreen.  Fran's (Morice) 'transformation' is done very well, and she is possibly the only sane person in a world of over-the-top loons.  Scott (Mercurio) is astoundingly handsome and believably self-involved.  Go see it!   "}{"Title":"quirky, strange and funny","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel funny commenting on this movie so long after the fact but couldn't resist. I saw this movie originally in the theatre ages ago when it was first released. I can recall the experience so vividly because of the impact this movie made on me and my drastic change of opinion over the course of the movie. I had no inkling what the film was about because it was a friend's pick, and for the first 20 minutes I wondered what was going on and would have considered walking out if it weren't for my friends. Shortly it became VERY clear it was a satire and was poking fun at the whole ballroom dancing 'phenomenon'. The exaggerations were very funny, and in addition you had the ugly duckling theme and romance between an unlikely couple. ** SPOILER&#133;.. My favorite scene and one I consider to be one of the best examples of film chemistry is the sexy but subtle dance scene when Fran and Scott are dancing behind the curtain while the dance competitors do a parody out on the floor. ** I feel really sorry for the people that don't seem to get it- there were several reviewers who didn't seem to understand the fact that this is a satire. And don't think to compare it to Moulin Rouge. While they both are kinetic and bright and strange, you approach them in completely different ways- Moulin Rouge is spectacular and quirky in its way, but not funny in the way Strictly Ballroom is. Just watch this without any preconceived notions and you might come out of it humming and smiling like an idiot like I did. (And no, it's not a chick flick, the guys that were with us then and who have borrowed my copy since have enjoyed it just as much).10/10- One of my favorites "},{"Title":"Strictly Enchanting!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although recommended to me by a co-worker, I didn't see this (?) on a BIG screen in a theatre; I finally saw it on VHS. BUT, once seen, I unequivocally tell you -- it is my FAVORITE film of ALL TIME. It is enchanting. Nobody dies. Nobody swears (as I remember!). All the performances hit their marks, (and that's something!). There are scenes that take breath (I won't enumerate them, so as not to spoil them). As my sister said, after having viewed it (VHS) in my living room, This is a visually interesting film, isn't it? Yes!! I replied!. (But, it's so much more, too!).Don't be swayed by my affectation. See this film for yourself. You won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"Terrific provided one doesn't look too closely","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Part realistic, part fairy tale, this is spirited satirical romp through the world of Australian competitive Ballroom Dancing.  The performances are uniformly winning, especially Paul Mercurio (a natural in his first starring role), Bill Hunter (the King of Australian comedy films), and Pat Thomson (as a hysterical bulldozer of a stage mother).  Close scrutiny reveals two major flaws, however.  The character of Fran (Tara Morice) is much too ugly duckling at the beginning of the film; no one as intelligent and self-aware as she is could remain so clumsy and plain into adulthood.  I can buy the blossoming of self-esteem through love, but there's only so much love can do.  The other problem is larger  the revolutionary dancing Scott and Fran are doing is virtually indistinguishable from the staid, boring styles they are supposedly rebelling against.  It looks better because of how the director and editor presented it, but there is little if any qualitative difference.  That said, the film is well worth a look, with guaranteed laughs, excitement, and an interesting soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Starts off just weird, but then becomes a fearless fairy tale romance!","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strictly Ballroom (1992)A campy, glossy, colorful, surprising fairy tale, total romance, lots of dancing, and inventive through and through. No, director Baz Luhmann has not pulled off another Moulin Rouge, which is a whole other order of invention and beauty, but this is his first movie, and it's filled with idealism. And some people to root for and to hiss against--you know, heroes and villains.It could have been tightened up, no doubt--there are times when I was a little impatient even though they were dancing away. But mostly I was happy to watch and wait for the next step toward the big climax.The two young leads, interestingly, came from nowhere (the perfectly named Paul Mercurio and the understated Tara Morice both in their first films). They've gone on to largely television careers, and in part you appreciate how much Luhmann gets from them. The highly stylized approach helps avoid a need for real acting, per se, but Mercurio in particular really rises to the occasion. The whole affair is Australian, and it feels bright and original the way some of fellow Aussie Peter Weir's films do, or in another sense, Peter Jackson.If you can summon up any innocence and romance and go for what really clicks here, be swept up and love it. "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a chance!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not see Moulin Rouge. I didn't even know this film was directed by Baz Luhrmann until I came to IMDb.com. I can't even remember if I first saw this film on video or on cable, but never matter. This is a wonderful, wonderful movie. Australian, yes, but wonderfully compelling themes -- redemption, forgiveness, cinderella-esque and certainly the swan-becoming-a-princess -- but well acted, and oh my goodness, what dancing! Favorite part -- spoilers ahead -- when Paul Mercurio slides onto the floor in that bolero jacket. I get goose pimples just thinking about it. Rent it if you can, catch it on cable if you can, buy it if you can. You will not be sorry.  "},{"Title":"Simply Great","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot follows a predictable line and some characters are stereotyped to the verge of spoof - a notion not half helped by the hilarious Ausssie accents. However the acting, editing and humor overcome this and turn it into a really great-fun-to-watch movie - and not just for dance lovers. This is an underrated movie with great romantic scenes alternating with tense moments and topped with a good climax. A better, non-repetitive and more imaginative soundtrack would have made it into a classic. Paul Mercurio's acting and dancing glue the movie together. Antonio Vargas adds weight to the cast and shows everyone what real dance is. Armonia Benedito as Fran's grandma is a real gem. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Classic ballroom movie excitement focusing on a main character who attempts to bend the rules of dancesport","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here, the movie starts in the Waratah Championships, a setup for the big Pan-Pacific Ballroom Championships later on. Scott Hastings had already danced a great Viennese waltz with former partner Liz Holt, and then, as the scene shifts to samba, Scott Hastings starts out great with Liz, and then, in the middle of the samba version of Tequila in the background, Scott explodes and does his overkill-laden solo trick steps way beyond what Liz could follow. Les Kendall, Scott's dance coach, explains the reason why Scott wanted to free himself--in the start of the samba, Les said that he was boxed-in by Ken Rallings and Tina Sparkles, which caused Scott to release a freedom type of dancing anger. Liz tries to keep up with Scott's unacceptable solo dance showmanship but then, Australian Dance Council chairman, Barry Fife, penalizes that couple major points causing Ken and Tina to win the Waratah title. Liz then finally cuts off her dance partnership with Scott after the competition at the next scene in the Kendall Dance Studio.Then, a new beginning dance partner, Fran, accosts Scott at the studio and make a ruse to be new partners and practice their routine in light of the upcoming Pan-Pacific Dance Championships. Fran's flamenco dance ability is given away a bit when she demonstrates a short tap sequence. Learning from the dancesport debacle in Waratah, Scott is still stubborn and decides to strongly bend the dancesport rules with new steps for the Pan-Pacific championships to try to impress Barry Fife. Barry is not happy about it and decides that Scott's new steps will never, ever be in the books in competition as long as Fife remains in power in Australian dancesport.In the middle of the movie, Tina Sparkle decides to retire from her partnership from Ken Railings, doing their final honor dance at a pre- competition social ballroom dance party, while at the same time, Scott and Fran, do a theatrical dance in quasi-silhouette to Perhaps Perhaps Perhaps. This is where the disapproval of their partnership increases. Les Kendall now warns Scott that if you dance with Fran, you will never win the Pan-Pacific competition, but then suggests to Scott that if you partner up with Tina, you will have a 100 percent shot of winning the Pan-Pacific title.But then, Fran and Scott are caught by Fran's flamenco music family, forcing them to dance a paso doble, and then, eventually, Fran's father then teaches him the authentic Spanish paso doble. The solo focusing of the paso is the beginning of the recipe for almost total disaster on the start of the Pan-Pacific championships. In the appetizer paso doble heat in the competition floor, Fran does dance with an unknown lady, and then, as Scott arrives to face the forced partnering of Tina Sparkles with him for the Latin championship round, Scott decides at the last minute to dance with Fran in the second paso doble around with several professional Latin dance couples dancing. Barry Fife, already there, catches Fran and Scott in the action and orders the music powered down, and disqualifies both dancers for good. Fran and Scott, however, refuses to leave the floor and instead, with the help of Fran's family, dance a spectacular Spanish flamenco dance with strong paso feel, shocking the audience, and even Barry Fife himself. In the end, the audience comes out to the dance floor to get their chance to dance, and the guess is that even if disqualified--you can shock a crowd if you do a great unique dance, and that's what Fran and Scott did. They won their hearts, even if it is not a championship trophy! "},{"Title":"A film not to miss","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely brilliant; by the writer and the director and the actors. Shirley Hastings is one of the most important and true characters in any Art form. She is to be studied by students in psychology, psychiatry, and social work. As is her husband. Unfortunately the theme is all too common. The future is the youth. To stifle them is so wrong on so many levels. Narcissism abounds. It is epidemic and crippling to happiness and creativity. The hen-pecked husband is all too common in marriages. His realization of this is awaited by the audience throughout the movie...Does he ever break-away from the narcissistic dominating wife? How does one do this and keep a marriage together? How does a son break away from a mother? From a father? From both? "},{"Title":"Delightful dancing and romance Aussie movie","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An entertaining low-budget Australian dancing and romance movie by Baz Luhrman. It is the first movie of his trilogy The Red Curtain.Strictly Ballroom is, in few words, the story of a ugly dancing duckling who finds her break-the-rules swan dancer. It is the story of Scott, a brilliant ballroom dancer trained in a prestigious dancing school since his childhood, who is to become the next Pan-Pacific champion if he follows traditional ballroom style and moves. However, he has a spirit of his own, a dancing creativity that he's trying to channel and express in front of the public. In his way to become himself as a dancer, he pairs -not previous begging and hard work- with beginner dancer Fran, a shy Spanish girl from a family of flamenco dancers.The movie has a predictable unoriginal story and stereotypical characters, but the script is light and funny, engaging and fresh, and a little bit Kitch but in a charming way. The musical numbers are danced with talent and great heart, and they are very enjoyable. I especially liked the funny retro images telling the story of Scott's dancing parents through dance, which are truly creative, theatrical, and delightful.To me, this is Baz Luhrman's most Australian movie, despite not pretending to be so. Definitely more Australian than his movie Australia, but much less pretentious and with much more heart. The movie presents a mix of true Australian characters, Anglosaxons and immigrants (in this case Spaniards), passionate people about competition and sports, always giving their best to win anything - hard working dreamers. Moreover, the characters and the story have a very Australian sense of humor, and the characters speak with a marked Australian strong accent, especially clear in Cariades' character. In fact, the characters and atmosphere somewhat reminded me of those unforgettable ones in the Australian film The Castle.Overall, the performances are very good. Paul Mercurio and Tana Merice are convincing and good in their acting and dancing. Paul Mercurio is really great in his dancing. All the supporting actors are terrific and nail their characters Pat Thomson (who died before the movie was premiered) as Scott's mother Shirley, Barry Otto as Scott's father Doug, Gia Carides as Scott's first dancing partner Liz, Bill Hunter as the President of the Ballroom Australian Federation, and Peter Whitford as the owner and director of Les Kendall's Dance Academy. Antonio Vargas and Armonia Benedito are also very charming as Fran's father and grandma.An unpretentious light heart-warming entertaining movie, with lots of Spanish moments! "},{"Title":"Unique and Interesting","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So Strictly Ballroom. I don't know exactly what I was expecting of this movie, but it was definitely different from what I expected. But that is not to say that I did not enjoy it a ton. I thought it was overall a good and really fun movie. The music and dance throughout the movie, as pretty much a method of story telling, worked very well for the movie and keep the story meaningful and engaging. Some of the characters and lines were a bit outlandish, but all in all, it fit together remarkable well, and created an enjoyable experience.Even thought there was nothing overly remarkable about the story's main love interest plot between Fran and Scott, I felt that it still worked out well. The discussion of dance as a act of creating a perceived love as part of the act was interesting and something I have thought about before so I found it nice to be brought up in the movie (even if only for a few lines). I thought that most of then characters, though maybe a bit simple, really came together to create a pretty good story. My personal favorite character was Doug though (even before finding out about his secret). I thought his overall fairly eccentric character was a lot of fun and in ways very relatable.All in all, this was a fun movie. For anyone that is willing to give a bit of a different way to tell a story a chance I would recommend giving it a shot. "}{"Title":"This is a satire!  And a really fun movie.","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I sure enjoyed it despite the complete lack of explosions or car chases.Where I'm coming from I'm a 54 year old male who has danced for 15 years. My girlfriend has danced since she was 3. We don't compete because it would make our relaxing hobby a pressured nightmare (and, frankly, because I'm not very good). My daughter competed and did very well.Some reviewers apparently missed that this movie is a satire and it's supposed to be dumb and funny. Having sat through more competitions than I can count, I can state this movie hits the nail on the head. The parents, the kids, the beginners, the prima donnas...it's all true. Yes, it's really campy and schmaltzy, the plot has holes you could drive a truck through, the acting is sometimes marginal, but we both enjoyed it and laughed out loud.And what's the best part of this movie? The dancing. It is photographed and edited such that you can really see and enjoy the dancing without having constant cutaways to the judges or the audience (as in current American TV dance competitions. I don't know about you, but I watch dance shows for the dancing).There are no deep plot twists to be analyzed, no characters I need to understand better...but we definitely plan to watch this again because the dancing is really good.If you liked this, you will enjoy Best in Show. "},{"Title":"Dancing and Comedy Perfection!","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was great. I watched it in my freshman Spanish class and I just can't get enough! It's just SO FUNNY! I love the dancing scenes in this movie, especially the dad! He is hilarious. I hope to watch this with my family sometime in the near future, they love stuff like this just as much as me. I give this movie ten stars, multiplied by 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000! I watched it, always wanting more time to watch, because we only have 45 minute Spanish classes. This movie is a never ending laugh-fest, except for a few rather tense scenes, but even those are a little funny. I was reminded of Dirty Dancing, what with the whole jerk dancer means prospective rookie plot line. "},{"Title":"The perfect chick-flick","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Luhrmann's first movie may not be as famous as Moulin Rouge!, but his genius shines out in this just as clearly as it does in his other works. It may not have cost much to make, but Luhrmann does wonderful things with lighting and cinematography. The characters are tremendous fun, the craziness (while toned down compared to other of Luhrmann's stuff) is still palpable (the mockumentary opening! the Looney Tunes-esquire flashback!) and the soundtrack is full of gems. Paul Mercurio, doing all the really showy dancing, may sometimes read his lines a little off, but for a first-time actor does a better job than some prominent young actors today (*cough*OrlandoBloom*cough*). Tara Morice as the ugly-duckling dance partner is unconventionally pretty, and her eventual makeover is much less blatant than it could have been--it doesn't happen all at once, it's easy to buy her as the ugly duckling, and even at the end, she isn't Hollywood-perfect.Barry Otto is fun as Scott's downtrodden dad, and while this might seem at first glance to be another cookie-cutter youthful innovation trumps hidebound age parable, it well and truly transcends the genre. "},{"Title":"Strictly Superb!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this is an amazing film and the dancing ... fantastic! When you watch you just wish you could dance like that (and it's hard to believe that Tara Morice only had 6 weeks tuition for the film). This is the only dance movie that I would watch and it surprised me how much I liked it. It's a very clever piece - poking just enough fun at the ridiculousness of the whole scene that Scott and Fran are rebelling against without over-doing it. The blossoming of love between the two leads is beautiful and though a very important aspect of the film it doesn't overpower. It is a natural progression for the characters and makes their love realistic! Lovely film and a delight to watch! "},{"Title":"A great musical comedy","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great musical comedy that I found very enjoyable even though I usually dislike anything to do with dancing. The humour is typically down to earth Australian fare with some wonderful documentary styled inserts and it's carefree approach to escapist entertainment is very refreshing. The lack of Hollywood glamour is the essence of this film's charm, but it is also underpinned with excellent production values and performances given the scale of the production budget and a lack of any obvious 'stars'. You get a feel that both the cast and crew were on the same wavelength when they made this, something that demonstrates the mark of a talented director to bring the pieces of the jigsaw together. Baz Luhrmann has since progressed onto bigger Hollywood budgets and stars, but i do not believe he has yet topped this early effort in his career. The caricatures of coiffeured ballroom dancers and the lovingly crafted camp and 'awful' characters are a pleasure to watch. The obligatory love story is charming and predictable, but it doesn't matter, because it is not pretending to be something that it isn't. This film is guarranteed to get even the most ardent wallflowers feeling like they want to get up and dance the night away - foot tapping stuff! "},{"Title":"A Must See  Film","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has everything--great music and dancing, romance, satire--oh, sorry, it has no violence. Seriously, this is a delightful spoof which is drawn from the real life competitive world of ballroom dancing. We all wish fairy tales like this happened in real life; alas, they rarely do.I love the fact that they didn't take a gorgeous girl for the female lead and just show her without makeup and with a bad hairdo in the beginning in order to make her a wallflower or Plain Jane. This never fools anyone and it is what most Hollywood movies do like Princess Diaries for example. In this film the female lead really IS kind of a Plain Jane--she just learns to make the most of her assets.Paul Mercurio is wonderful in the male romantic lead, too bad he has not been in more films that I could see. The actors playing his parents are over the top, but convincing as people who carry sadness and frustration. They also have moments when they crack us up......I suppose this will appeal to women more than men, except gay men should love it. Straight men who don't give it a try are really missing out....it's funny and touching. "},{"Title":"Best movie!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen Strictly Ballroom billion times!That movie forced me to immigrate to Canada, change my and my son's life.This tremendous movie will teach you how to make your own steps!!! This romantic comedy stars Paul Mercurio as Scott Hastings, Tara Morice as Fran, Bill Hunter as Barry Fife, Pat Thompson as Shirley Hastings and Gia Carides as Liz Holt. I fell in love with it, the first time I saw it, in 1994. It's my feel good movie. It's funny, it's uplifting and shows the underdog coming out on top. I especially like the way the ugly duckling girl turns into a beautiful (swan?) and sexy dancer in the end. It has a lot of humor and wit and there's just enough romance to give it the right touch. If you like comedy, romance, dancing, and costumes, Strictly Ballroom is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"7/10 It's great if you don't take it seriously.","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun movie, but only if you don't take it seriously. Think about Best In Show and The Big Tease. Very corny, and lots of fun. The acting is comic and the characters are consistent. The casting is excellent with good talent for this sort of thing. The direction is fine, the music is appropriately up-beat.You might also enjoy Shall We Dance for more ballroom dancing; it's Japanese with English subtitles. Very funny too. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Blue no more","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. The other night, I was sort of down in the dumps and while there didn't seem to be much on TV, there was this little gem from Australia. My wife and I are not big fans of musicals, but what the heck, why not watch it. We did, and it cured my blues.A nice easy and wonderful movie to watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"This is strictly entertainment!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ingredients tongue-in-cheek story about ballroom dancing; carried by matching comic characters; infectious music & dancing using classic standards and current ones too; delightful choreography and appropriate cinematography equal a totally must see musical. And I'll admit to seeing it 9 times. "}{"Title":"Strictly EXCELLENT!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For everyone who loves dance and creativity, this movie is spectacular. Great performances and oh so yummy dance sequences make this movie one very well worth watching! I'd really never watched Aussie film before this movie, but because of it, I'm now a big Aussie film fan.  My eyes light up whenever I see this movie. The dance costumes are jaw-drop stunning and the story itself is really sweet.  I was so happy to find the video, and the soundtrack and now I'm going for the DVD. You've GOT to GET this MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"A vivir con miedo es como a vivir medias  A life lived in fear is a life half-lived","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a spanish dance that is a winner. It is called Peso Doble. It is a winner of a dance in the end of the movie that got me to want to buy it. With it is a spanish proverb A vivir con miedo es como a vivir medias meaning  A life lived in fear is a life half-lived and there Paul and Fran dance the new steps. If you dance you will love it too. "},{"Title":"Great extended metaphor on how to live life.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I was unsure of what my feelings were for this movie.  But as the father yelled to his son We lived in fear, it all made sense. Living life with fear is oxymoronic&#150; living with fear is not living at all.  This is only half of the meaning behind the movie. Life's just a dance!  You can follow the crowd, or you can dance to your own beat with your own steps.  Even worse than following the crowd, you could sit aside and watch as others dance. What did I get from this movie?  Don't worry about what's right or wrong, just get out there and dance!  Make the most of it all!  Some may think it's a little over&#150;the&#150;top to see the movie in this light, but who cares?  I'm just two-steppin' here. -)  "},{"Title":"Engaging","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though predictable, this little gem never ceases to entertain. It possesses a weird humor, even weirder characters, but is always fun and engaging, and at times, touching as well. The standouts in the film were the actors who portrayed the leads' parents. Watching Scott Hastings' dad make an attempt at reliving his glory days, with his version of dancing is almost worth the price of admission alone. This movie is hard not to like. "},{"Title":"A movie about Ballroom dancing..yeah right!.. but!!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I used to live with a land lady who loved Ballroom dancing and learnt to dislike it very quickly, so I didn't watch this film for years! The plot is not the most original, yet this is one of the most enjoyable films I have ever watched.. again and again! The cinematography reminds me of Ferris Bueller's Day Off as you can almost see it all being storyboarded out before shooting. Considering this was the writers / directors first major movie an accomplished Professional would have been proud of it. If you like movies where the under dog wins the day or just enjoy being thoroughly entertained by good acting, excellent music and want to have a laugh at Ballroom dancing costumes then I suggest taking a peek at this. So far, everybody that I have recommended watching this film (which includes my Parents who generally only enjoy black and white films) have bought a copy as they have loved it so much.Get hold of a copy and prepare to be surprised by a superb movie that just happens to about ballroom dancing! "},{"Title":"A Fine Film Frolic","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most humorous, poignant, entertaining movies I have seen. A real work of art.  The acting, plot, casting, realism, music, lighting, cinematography and directing are right up there with the best.  May this movie's tribe increase. "},{"Title":"Brilliant piece of work","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is brilliant, and was a huge stepping stone for many other Australian movies. If you want to encapulate the epitome of cinematic quality, watch for the first few shots right at the beginning of the film (the sillhouettes, the build up) and the shot of Scott Hastings sliding onto the dance floor on his knees. Baz Lurhmann is a brilliant film maker. And this film is a classic, so funny! "},{"Title":"Gotta dance...","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hands down, Strictly Ballroom contains the funniest flashback sequence I have ever seen.  Wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"This movie into my Top 5 like a rocket!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a lot of Preston Sturgess about it.  Couldn't detect a bad performance in it.  Great energy, acting and comic timing. The dancing was sexy enough for me and you can't really complain about the dancing as Astaire is Astaire etc. etc. And Tara Morice proves you don't have to look like a cover girl to be very sexy.  "},{"Title":"It's a romance comedy every dancer will love!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like comedy, romance, dancing, and costumes, Strictly Ballroom is the movie for you! "}{"Title":"Dirty Dancing - only with intelligence, humour and bucket loads of style","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the first time I saw this movie I simply fell in love with it. Initially I was sceptical towards a film about Ballroom Dancing, however from the opening scene it was clear that I was in for a treat. The film is an hilarious parady of the ballroom dancing culture while managing to sustain an endearing love story. However the real underlying theme of the movie is about realising one's dreams in the face of adversity and striving for originality against the tide of conformity; For as Fran would say A life lived in fear is a life half livedThe film also earmarked Baz Lurhman as a promising director, this being his first film. "},{"Title":"Perfect film, sets the bar, three movies in one","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First, a word to those reviewers who gave this film less than a 10. That word is Whaa? This is a perfect film, possibly the best film ever to leave Australia, a film that can literally be used as a template for other films (we can only hope) in years and decades to come.It is three films in one, actually.A ballroom dance film that effectively predates the ballroom craze in N.A. and the many TV series which followed.A feel good film. That actually makes you feel good.and .. wait for it .. a love story.And excellent in all three classes.There are no wasted frames, no wasted dialog, there is no part of this film that does not work as a cohesive whole to bring the viewer to the final climax.Entertainment at its best. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, it's completely predictable. Yes, it's clearly a feel-good triumph-in-the-end kind of story. But even if that's not your thing, you should see this movie because it's visually stunning.It's not as surreal as Luhrmann's Moulin Rouge, but I think that's what makes it even more impressive. I was lulled into a sense of reality about the sets while enjoying the outrageous characters that are reminiscent of an old time silent movie. But then I realized that the sets and scenes were amazingly beautiful, well designed and thought out. At one point, I thought that the frame could easily hang on my wall as a picture. I haven't been that impressed since Kurasawa's Ran.This is a brilliantly artistic film. Kudos to Martin Brown and Steve Mason for art and cinematography. Obviously, the costumes are beautiful, but it's even funny how the makeup team managed to capture the correct style for the dancers and, in at least one instance, the impression of bad 80's makeup that was just part of the character. I loved it. On top of that, it all works because the actors hold onto their characters honestly. "},{"Title":"Watch it for one of the Great Moments in Cinema","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Shaw was quite correct in pointing out that every profession is a conspiracy against the laity,and nowhere is this more marked than in the rather surreal world of ballroom dancing.Paradoxically it manages to be both camp and conservative.Men like preening peacocks and women like sugar plum fairies execute stylised movements to music their grandparents couldn't disapprove of and are judged on points of technique by other men like preening peacocks and women like sugar plum fairies.Originality of thought is not encouraged and excellence is recognised as refinement of established techniques rather than the creation and development of new ideas.There is no place for a hot young rebel.When one appears,it is not Strictly Ballroom,but it is the theme of Strictly Ballroom. This wonderful concoction of glitz,pomade,eyeshadow and dyed hair (and that's just the blokes)is the archetypal feelgood movie.Almost in passing it also contains one of the Great Moments of The Cinema,near the end where Scott Mercurio,freed at last from his obligation to his parents to keep to the orthodox forms of dancing,his gold matador's jacket glittering under the backlighting,slides on his knees across the Ballroom floor as the camera tracks alongside him,his face a study in barely controlled passion.This I guarantee will raise the hair on the back of your neck.He is a young man driven by his parents' ambition for him to win the Pan Pacific Ballroom Dancing Championship to compensate for their failure to do so 25 years previously.This obsession has turned him into a vain selfish and blinkered individual with little regard for the feelings of others.Philip Larkin - take a bow.Tanya Morice glows with inner beauty as the Hispanic girl who redeems the hero.She is the much - loved child of a close - knit family proud of their Southern European culture of music and dancing. They live in somewhat reduced circumstances literally on the wrong side of the railway tracks.Freight trains rumble past as she and Mercurio are taught the secrets of the paso doble by her father and grandmother. The plot and its resolution are cosy and familiar from as far back as The Jazz Singer,but Strictly Ballroom is a beautifully realised affectionate study of human vanity,frailty and folly.It is well - observed and very funny,breathless and optimistic.Only the truly cold - hearted will resist it. "},{"Title":"Cult Status Film  You will be memorizing the lines","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have memorized many of the lines of most of the actors/actresses in this movie. Strictly Ballroom is a Cult film.If you like the story of Cinderella, then you will like this movie. If you like a rye (English) sense of humor, then you must see this film. If you love dancing, you are at the right place. In the beginning, I really disliked this film, reason The colors are garish, and the make-up cannot be more ugly! And I was confused as to why this was. So, I spent the first viewing of this film in confusion. Where was the beauty? I am a photographer; I wanted to see harmony of colors. No color harmony here. But it had this great dancing; and a great ending. And I am a ballroom dancer. And I believe in romance. And so, I stayed and viewed it again. I just didn't get it all the first time. I asked why? (...and this is one of the lines in the movie!) This film highlights all that is bad about ballroom dancing. And the result? A funny, hilarious, riot of a romp. However, here are serious scenes, tender scenes, passionate scenes which cause us to reflect on our own lives and perhaps past loves. It makes fun of institutions and pompous behavior.There is no sex, violence, or bad words in this film. There is passion, kookiness, and beautiful dancing Viennese Waltz, Cha Cha, Samba, Paso Doble, Flamenco. Religious people will not be offended at any time; but one dancer has a skimpy dress on herself.This movie is for those who believe in romance in that old fashioned way. This movie is for those who don't kiss on the first date, or the second date. This movie is for those who love the value of outer beauty, but know that inner beauty is richly valuable. Conquer your fears. Be individual. The Individual vs. The Establishment. Believe in the value of the old country ways and passions and traditions. A life lived in fear is a life half-lived Because this movie is camp, a satire, set with extraordinarily garish and contrasting colors, it is easy to be distracted to the, well, ugly sets. You will immediately cringe at the look of the film in the first few minutes. Purple is mixed with coral red mixed with pink and orange and chartreuse. It will be hard to like this movie in the first 30 minutes or so. You will be recoiling from the colors of the set. But stay with it...this film is a pearl being formed in an oyster. Great ballroom dancing! And this movie has substance, especially if you believe in romance and caring and the usefulness of courage to accomplish your goals.Since 99% of all people are not ballroom dancers, you will immediately have problems trying to understand this sub-culture of ballroom dancers. Then you will wonder if all ballroom dancers are like this, and what does it all mean? How are ballroom competitions organized? You HAVE SOMETHING TO LEARN HERE. And this will DISTRACT YOUR ENJOYMENT for the first 1-2 viewings of this movie. Only until the end will you understand why you were lead on this journey through a fantastical world of BALLROOM CONFLICT. Then you will view it a second time; and more will be revealed to you as you decide the motivations of each actor. Why is the ballroom competition so important to each individual person you will ask yourself. Upon your 5th viewing, you will still be finding more details to be amazed at. And these details have much to do with the delivery of the lines of the actors. You will likely start memorizing these lines for your own enjoyment. Perhaps I could call this film the Rocky Horror Show of dance movies.You will be laughing more and more the more times you view this movie. It's outrageous! Outlandish! Over-the-top! And it's all spoken in an Australian accent which makes it all the more out-there or should I saw under-there? Be prepared for a cultural shock; you are about to enter a sub-society of people with really kooky behavior. And at the end, YOU WILL CRY! Notice who is dancing with whom at the end; this is also very important.I have seen Strictly Ballroom 42 times. This movie is one of my all time favorite movies no matter what the genre. And I could see this movie another 42 times.You just might become a new ballroom dancer after viewing it! "},{"Title":"Strictly Ballroom a sentimental review edited","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" edit I've decided to re-state my opinions on this film, because I feel when I first reviewed it I didn't really explain/explore my reasons for liking it (there's no saying I'll do it better this time around, but I'll try to). I really fell in love with this film when I first saw it, just as I'm sure others do when they really strike gold with a film. So for sentimental reasons, this one might forever be my top favourite. Something about the the dancing, vibrant colours, over-the-topness really excited me (and still does). Usually my two favourite ingredients in a film are romance and comedy (dancing is a bonus) and I feel this film has those in spades, but at the same time it has a message running through it that really speaks out to me--I often feel very drawn to films about being free-spirited and non-conforming. One of the elements of the film that really speaks to me (and did from my very first viewing) is the music--some of it recurs through the film (like the poignant theme associated with Doug) while others are isolated in one scene (like Doris Day's rendition of Perhaps, Perhaps, Perhaps which Scott and Fran dance to). The music brings out all kinds of emotions - pure elation, excitement, poignancy. There is then of course the dancing, which perhaps really anchors the film for me. The two dances between Scott and Fran are both wonderful. The Perhaps, Perhaps, Perhaps rumba is simple, beautiful and romantic, with Scott and Fran blissfully unaware of anything other than each other. Then their second dance at the Pan Pacifics is glorious and by the end of it, has the crowd rooting for them. The film's ending is nothing short of joyous, wrapping up well what is an entertaining and engaging hour and a half. ---original review---If upbeat movies with lots of rhythm suit you, then this will too!This movie is a Baz Luhrmann classic. I've watched it so many times it's hard to count. It has just the right amounts of hum our and romance as well as having a great storyline. I suggest you check it out and see it for yourself because you won't truly understand how great it was until you've watched it. You may not be a big fan of dancing, but this movie will inspire you. There is never a dull moment from start to finish. The acting is also impressive and showcases the talent of Australians. After watching all three Baz Luhrmann movies, I must say his movies are my favourite. Finally, if you don't like it I'd like to know why. Because I seriously can't see anything wrong with Strictly Ballroom. "},{"Title":"What a GREAT surprise!!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had no idea what to expect when this movie started......I was so surprised and entertained by one of the funniest, most brilliant screenplays I have ever seen............I laughed my head off and could not stop...I loved every second of this movie!!! This movie is a farce...and yet what makes it even funnier is that it is very close to the truth!! Those of us in the dance world take ourselves WAY too seriously.....it is very funny watching this on film, there is never a time when the characters are not completely believable, even though they are each SO OVER THE TOP!!.....and somehow, in the end, there is even a moral to the story.........I have never seen anything like this.BRILLIANT screenplay...Brilliant director......I am not surprised now that I found out this is the director of the ground breaking MOULIN ROUGE! "},{"Title":"Latin-Australian Dance Extravaganza","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well that might be saying a bit much. And the plot does follow a pretty worn path. But anyone with even an inkling of interest in Latin dancing will definitely want to check this one out. I'm not experienced enough a dancer to know whether the choreography is entirely correct, but let's just assume so, cos this movie is so much fun! The driving force underneath this deliberate glitzfest (Baz Luhrmann, c'mon!) besides the dancing is the wonderful chemistry between dancing champion Scott Hastings and his supposedly ugly-duckling partner, Fran (After the predictable makeover, I thought she was rather pretty). The best scenes I thought were the two of them learning the Paso Doble with her parents (that music!) and of course the big climactic dance sequence. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"An offbeat, heartwarming fairy tale","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strictly Ballroom was Baz Lurhmann's first film. Although perfection would not be reached until Moulin Rouge, SB is nevertheless a great launch pad for Baz's unconventional artistry.Of his three films(Romeo+Juliet and Moulin Rouge being the other two)SB is definitely the most campy, with its extreme close-ups, the bizarre costuming of the dancers(which actually isn't that far from the real thing-at least in the 70's-)and especially the John Waters- like flashback sequence. But SB also contains hints of Baz's talent for mixing music, imagery and emotion- I point out the scene where Scott and Fran slowly dance the rumba to Doris Day's Perhaps.It may not be everyone's cup of tea;none of Baz's films are. But I for one would watch Strictly Ballroom over any of those lame Hollywood romantic comedies any day. "},{"Title":"Was my vote for Best Picture of the Year","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had so many aspects to it.  It is basically a love story- a Cinderella love story.  It is, also, a story of greed and of dreams lost and of dreams gained.  It is a camp peak into the fascinating world of ballroom dancing. It is a wonderful demonstration that dance is more than just technique.   Dance has passion and you needn't be lithe and beautiful to create an exceptional dance experience (Zorba The Greek, also, taught us that.).There was a boy, self-absorbed, an insider, destine to be a champion. There was a girl from a different background- male dominated, poor, and foreign. .But when they came together- there was magic.  The movie is about magic, the magic of dance and the magic of love.  Strictly Ballroom is one of the best movies I have seen and seen and seen again.  I love it!  "}{"Title":"A life lived in..., well you know the rest.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Mild spoiler) I was lured into 'Strictly Ballroom' by an 'indie-phile' friend of mine, and I was certain it was going to be one long boring Ingmar Bergman film of crane shots, brimming with double meaning and intellectual purpose. But the film opens documentary-style, with ballroom queen Pat Thompson so distraught over son Paul Mercurio's improvisational dance steps she actually breaks down in sobs saying, I keep asking myself why? Where did I go wrong as a mother?!! I've never laughed so hard five minutes into a movie in my life. From that moment on the film is a marvelous, over-the-top tribute to the business of professional ballroom dancing (a form of entertainment I admit I was only aware of from the annual PBS specials hosted by Ron Montez and the late Juliet Prowse). But director Baz Luhrmann (whom I think went a bit too MTV for the film 'Moulin Rouge') gets the balance of comedy and Hollywood musical spoof just right here. The film goes from mock-docudrama to a charming, hotheaded-boy-meets-shy-awkward-girl story flawlessly, and even though there are cliches' throughout the film (awkward girl is ostracized by society for no apparent reason; all accomplished dancers seem to be sprayed with a layer of tanning lacquer and gunite), the film nips each one of them in the bud quickly, and you end up not minding the swan-like transformation of leading lady Tara Morice (you can see it coming in the rehearsal sequence when she first displays a leotard and skirt; the hair comes down, and the glasses come off). She is uniquely beautiful. The dancing is marvelous, especially the final flamenco which seems to be channeling both Jose Greco and Bob Fosse. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the greatest films I've ever seen. Citizen Kane may be influential, but its not much fun.Scott yearns to rebel against all of the restrictions imposed on him-by his mother, by his status as a Champion, and by the Dancing federation. But he's afraid to follow his dream- to dance his own steps, his own way. Through Fran, a beginner no-less, he learns that A life lived in fear is a life half lived. But can he break free of his duty to his parents?Truly brilliant. The characters are all so obsessed with maintaining their little world that they have become detached from reality completely. When Scott seeks to introduce a little freedom to the rigidly marshalled world, the other characters react like he just handed them dynamite. Little by little, Scott's small act of courage inspires even greater upheaval, letting Beginners dance with Champions, and the Audience with Competitors. And along the way, some of them might just redeem themselves.Sounds a bit like an English essay, doesn't it? Sorry...  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch...time after time","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was looking at a few of my fave films tonight. I decided to look up the comments on 'Strictly Ballroom'. I was very pleased to see that even though this was a film that involved dancing made by Baz Luhrmann, Americans love it! (Not being racist or anything, but the US didn't take too kindly to his latest) Then I realised, I've never commented on Strictly Ballroom, so I decided tonight would be the night!The film is about Scott, a young Australian ballroom dancer. One night at a dancing competition, he tries a few new moves out. His partner is furious, and so she leaves him, after she is informed that another, better dancer, Ken Railings, has lost his partner. She's broken both her legs.  (Make sure you see that part, it's hilarious.) Scott's parents, who own the local ballroom dancing school, decide to look for another partner for him, as the Pan Pacifics (massive dancing competition) are coming up, and Scott absolutely has to win! A young, quite unattractive amateur, Fran, walks in on Scott practising his moves in one of the rooms in the school and we can tell she instantly falls in love with this talented young man. He notices her after a while, and he decided he will train Fran, secretly, and she will be his dancing partner for the Pan Pacifics.       There are some hilarious moments in this Australian love story brilliantly directed by the one and only Baz Luhrmann. Scott's dad had me rolling around on the floor at times, even though at the beginning, he looks like a quiet,respectful man. SEE THIS FILM! Even if you hated all things Moulin Rouge, you will love this.       "},{"Title":"A life lived in fear is a life half lived","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film as a little eleven year old for a school excursion. I loved it, but only because of the dancing, the costumes, and the fact that, like all the other girls in my class, I was in love with Paul Mercurio.Nine years later, after seeing Moulin Rouge for the third time, I remembered how much I loved this film as a child, and so I went out a week ago and bought the video. I watched it eight times in six days.This is an amazing film. It evokes such incredible feelings in me, and I appreciate it on so many levels as a dance student, as a film student, and as a human being.When I was eleven I never realised how electrifying the chemistry is between Mercurio and Morice. The scene where they dance behind the curtain at the state championships gives me goosebumps; my tape is probably already wearing thin in that section! And the climactic ending is wonderful; verging on cliche, but that is what makes it so uplifting.The characters are perfectly fleshed out and believable in an unbelievable way, and the comedic angle is played to perfection. My mother watched it with me on one of my repeated viewings and said, Oh, I forgot how funny this film was!. I agreed wholeheartedly.Also, another highlight is the amazing editing. Different scenes and shots are bound to each other seamlessly, and even the occasional montage of speedier cuts are not too noticeable or too imposing, as they suit the action on screen so well.This is a magical film with a simple but beautiful message. I recommend it to anyone who appreciates fine film making and, as previously mentioned by others, a very sweet, old-fashioned romance which doesn't resort to putting the leads in bed together to make it intense and rewarding. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Involving and funny cinema at it's best.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is so refreshing in that at almost every stage, you know what will happen next, yet still care so much about it that you will stay and watch it happen. It takes every cliche going and uses them all to wrap you round it's finger. An absolute gem of a film with wonderfully over the top performances from all the supports yet understated work from the two leads. I only hope that after this and Romeo and Juliet, Luhrmann can keep his standard this high. "},{"Title":"A heart-grabbing comedy of love, competition, and life.","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie, I strongly recommend that you see it.  The plot as well as the cast are great, the choreography is absolutely fantastic, and Paul Mercurio and Tara Morice dominate the scenes as the couple dances their way to the final moment.  Paul Mercurio's charm and grace, not to mention his dancing skills, are delightful to watch.  He really should be recognized more by the audience after this movie.  Please, Mercurio, choose your movies more wisely!  Back to this movie....the supporting cast are as strong and funny as Mercurio and Morice!  They add such accents and light to the movie that you just can't help loving all of them. If you haven't seen this movie, you are missing a whole lot of fun!  "},{"Title":"Slightly silly, wholly serious","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People more familiar with this subculture than I am tell me that `Strictly Ballroom' is realistic and insightful.  Good lord.  I'm not sure I wanted to know that ...This is a great film I avoided for a while because I'm not too fond of self-conscious quirkiness - or rather, I know how easily it can fall on its face.  It doesn't here.  This is the best romantic comedy I have ever seen, with a touchingly weak hero and a heroine who Luhrmann isn't afraid to depict as ugly on her first appearance - so that we notice her growing more beautiful, and then even stunning, over time, in a way that makes us wonder what was wrong with our eyes to begin with.  (With - ahem - a touch of patriotism, I'd like to mention that this is an Australian specialty.  The only other comparable example is the title character of `Muriel's Wedding'.)If you fear that this might be just more tiresome, over-the-top, postmodern silliness with no heart - believe me, I can understand.  Trust me when I say it's nothing of the kind. "},{"Title":"Uplifting!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I'm not a fan of dancing, dance movies, anything affiliated with dancing. After watching Strictly Ballroom, my opinions didn't change, but I had this spontaneous urge to jump right off my lounge chair and do the tango! Now, don't get me wrong -- The plot was predictable, and had a modern day Cinderella feel to it, but it was done so well, you can barely tell and just wanted to watch it.A very good effort from Baz Luhrman, who should of used his money to make a sequel and not the modern day, bamboo-under-fingernails version of Romeo and Juliet with two trite, Hollywood stars. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like campy humor, this is the movie to see. One of the funniest movies I've seen this decade. Thumbs up to the Wardrobe Dept.!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, one of the all time best.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is truly a masterpiece, it seemed so real, I actually believed it!!  It was funny, serious, dark, and light at the right moments.  All the cast was wonderful, especially Pat Thomson and Tara Morice.  I wish that most of the cast would get together in another movie by Luhrmann, because they have great dynamics.  HIGHLY Recommended!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"The perfect feel-good movie","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An irresistible combination  the classic plot about a young idealist who rebels against the hidebound establishment, paired with a delirious parody of the deadly serious hobby of ballroom dancing (that nevertheless allows you to enjoy all the energy and romance of the sport).  The inspired mockumentary opening introduces us to our restless hero (Mercurio, an accomplished real-life dancer), who scandalizes everyone by daring to improvise in a samba competition.  Joining him on his quest to introduce new moves into the ballroom formula is an unlikely heroine, ugly duckling Morice, who follows classic film tradition by transforming into a swan after she convinces Mercurio to take her on as a partner.  Surprisingly, though, she has a few things to teach him about dancing--and about having the courage to follow your dreams.Everything about this film is expertly executed--the costumes, dialogue, choreography, and especially the casting.  Mercurio and Morice, excellent as they are, are almost upstaged at times by a marvelous supporting cast. Their journey culminates in a heady, thrilling paso doble that reaffirms the value of individualism in a jaded world, and reminds us what dancing is really all about.  Filled with laugh-out-loud humor, old-fashioned romance, a giddy flashback sequence, and stirring dance numbers, this movie is guaranteed to lift your spirits and make you feel like dancing. "},{"Title":"True Australian Classic","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strictly Ballroom, directed by Baz Lurhman, is a great feel-good movie. It combines the themes of being yourself, following your dreams and standing up for yourself. But mainly it's about GOOD OLE' DANCING. This romantic comedy stars Paul Mercurio as Scott Hastings, Tara Morice as Fran, Bill Hunter as Barry Fife, Pat Thompson as Shirley Hastings and Gia Carides as Liz Holt. Strictly Ballroom is about Scott Hastings, a champion ballroom dancer, who, much to the annoyance of his parents, partner and judges, believes in dancing his own steps. Fran is a beginner dancer and is a bit of an ugly duckling who really wants to dance with Scott. Together these two misfits set out to win the Pan Pacific Championships.Strictly Ballroom is a great movie. It was humorous, as well as dramatic. The love story was great but luckily, not too in-depth. The visuals are colourful and beautiful and the dancing is great to watch. Baz's directing style is incredible. He really knows how to catch an audience's eye with stunning costumes and dances. The other great thing is that even though the movie is only about 90 mins long, he still manages to captivate us with his directing and visuals. The acting was also quite good. Bill Hunter was great as the evil crooked judge Barry Fife.A true Australian classic. 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Sensational","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Baz Luhrmann marks the debut of his wonderful career with such a sensational and dramatic movie, which would instantly make you want to go out and dance all night. The rhythm and pace of movement in Strictly Ballroom is so reinvigorating and it really opens the viewer's eyes into this world of Ballroom Dancing and beyond. The star couple are really fantastic and breathtaking. Plus, The guy is so hot!!!! Wow.... awesome it was. You should all see it, especially if you loved Moulin Rouge and Romeo and Juliet. What has been most enjoyable is the Latin Dance part. The actor learns these folkloric Bohemian steps from the girl's family. But throughout the movie, he has to face a hard choice - choose between the very official guidelines and rules of Ballroom Dancing or should he just follow the beat in his heart -- you should see for yourself what he chooses in the end!!! "},{"Title":"Strictly Brilliant!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   From the first time I've watched this movie (I was about 11) to now, I have loved this movie. It's a great movie. If you're contemplating seeing this movie, contemplate no more! Especially if you're a Baz fan, you should definitely be seeing this movie. And FINALLY, the underdog WOMAN gets the good-looking GUY! Then there's the underlying Romeo and Juliet type story of the two houses conflict, which just adds to the ballroom dancing flare this movie offers.Fantastic movie. Recommended to anyone who likes a good romance story with a jazzy upgrade.My rating 11 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Truth, beauty, freedom, and love...","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost ten years before Moulin Rouge! Baz Luhrmann debuted with this exhilarating and hilarious p***take-cum-homage to the world of competitive ballroom dancing, replete with all the fake tans, false smiles, and more sequins than you can shake a stick (or rather, a tailfeather) at. This is a gorgeous, glorious film, shot through with Luhrmann's incredible visual flair, and grand cinematic technique. The scenes glide eloquently into one another at such a pace, and the camera swoops onto the dancefloor as a third partner that you wonder where the time went. It's not only a whimsical, off-kilter love story, but also very very funny, and although he is just as guilty of the crowd-pleasing moves as his characters, and the basic story has been told a million times before, you can't fail to be won over by the exuberance and theatricality which is now a trademark of this most unconventional of directors.There are the seeds of Moulin Rouge! sown throughout Strictly Ballroom, but the latter has more truth, beauty, freedom, and love...plus passion in abundance. "},{"Title":"Best Baz by far","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before Baz Luhrmann made a mockery of Romeo and Juliet and assaulted the collective senses with that hyperkinetic load of fetid dingo's kidneys known as Moulin Rouge, he created a timeless tale of romance, passion, and showcased the equally expressive and seductive power of dance in Strictly Ballroom. Every single frame of this film is quintessentially Australian from the warped and macabre sense of humour to the thick accents all of the characters use. Showing that you don't need the acid-trip stylistic smoke and mirrors of an MTV video to make a statement, Luhrmann relies here solely on the chemistry that exists between his two lead characters, Paul Mercurio and Tara Morice. The silhouetted tango scene between the two of them while Doris Day serenades them with Perhaps, Perhaps, Perhaps is the most elegant dance sequence since Fred Astaire proclaimed to Ginger Rogers that he was Never Gonna Dance again in Swingtime. Strictly Ballroom is a triumph of substance over style for a change and should be rewarded for it; not shunted aside like the ugly stepsister to Moulin Rouge's dog and pony show. "},{"Title":"Crowdpleasing Moves","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Dirty Dancing' meets `Best in Show' and is better than either. That's because this has a coherent soul. That soul is the edgy production design by Baz's partner (and now wife) Catherine Martin.She found the sweet spot which loves all the frippery but keeps distance from the foolishness at the same time. I imagine all the cartoon sound effects (since found in Romeo and Moulin) were her idea as well. This film is to production design as Scott's steps are to ballroom dancing enough within the parameters to not be outside what we accept as film reality. But at the same time, outside the convention enough to please us with the flash.The train scene was effective. Very impressive. The Coke sign as well. But the piece that I will remember is the story-within-the-story about the 1967 Championship. The style of that was carefully placed as far from the rest of the movie as the movie is from `real' life. Very clever. Very insightful. It registers our imagination.The photography of the dance did not dance itself, which is a real shame. Baz and crew learned a real lesson on this, and the `Moulin' camera does dance. "},{"Title":"Dance your own way","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in the world of competitive ballroom dancing, this debut feature from Baz Luhrmann follows the trials and tribulations of a younger dancer set on winning a major competition by using his own, unconventional dance moves. The film gets off to a very promising start with humorous character interviews inserted in and around the protagonist's first attempt to impress a panel of judges by dancing his own style at the last minute; the glittery ballroom costumes are also impressive right from the very first scene. As the film progresses though, any initial zany humour soon dissipates, and while kooky touches can still be found (comical extreme close-up shots), the story gradually settles into a rather conventional story of overcoming the odds. The young dancer also gets a new ballroom partner who is a bit too much of a classical underdog. She is a dowdy immigrant with less than perfect skin and thick glasses, but it is of course nothing that a makeover cannot fix as she soon becomes a good-looking star. To the film's credit though, it is never once boring even when the story sags. The choreography is often spectacular, the film rocks to an excellent sourced song soundtrack, and the supporting cast give it all they have got, especially Bill Hunter - best remembered as the title character's father in 'Muriel's Wedding'. Those deterred by Luhrmann's flashiness in his better known films may also be impressed with how restrained his directing hand here is, while at the same time there is enough razzle-dazzle to appease those who love that sort of thing. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't call it the best but it was OK!","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Look, i very much loved the dancing and the music involved, the storyline just looked really obvious like we all know there'll be a happy ever after in the end and everyone says sorry blah blah blah. It didn't really make me feel excited in a matter to be interested in the contents of the story.I think Tara Morice was quite a good dancer but i think she would rather suit better if she was the character Scotts sister than playing as his love interest. I just don't feel that they both would be a couple, maybe if the producer or director got someone else who would fit the role, then I would've given this movie a rating of 9 or a 10. I have to admit, the movie gave me a good vibe watching it at the same time. Definitely people who are interested in salsa dancing and haven't seen this, they would have to check it out! "},{"Title":"New New Wave","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Australian New Wave of the seventies and eighties, defined by films like Walkabout, Picnic at Hanging Rock, Breaker Morant, The Man from Snowy River and Gallipoli, even the Mad Max series, established a distinctive national school of film-making, characterised by an emphasis on Australia's past and her dramatic rural landscapes. Strictly Ballroom can be seen as part of a New New Wave concentrating more on a modern urban Australia.This was the first film to be directed by Baz Luhrmann and started life as a stage play written by Luhrmann himself some years earlier. The story is set (as the title might suggest) in the world of competitive ballroom dancing. Scott Hastings, a young dancer, has caused some controversy within the sport by adopting a style of dancing which is not strictly ballroom in that it uses steps and moves not approved by the rule-book. Hence the title. The film has bequeathed its initial adverb to the BBC's pro-celebrity ballroom dancing contest, Strictly Come Dancing, even though in that particular context it looks rather ungrammatical. Scott has upset not only the judges and the sport's governing authorities, but also his dancing partner Liz, who leaves him for a rival, and even his parents Doug and Shirley, themselves noted ballroom dancers in their youth. Undeterred, Scott finds a new partner, Fran, and with her begins preparing for a major championship. Given that competitive ballroom dancing is, after all, a sport with its own rules, Scott's stance struck me as rather futile, the equivalent of a rugby team entering a football tournament and then complaining that they were only allowed to field eleven players, not fifteen, and that they had to play with a round ball, not an oval one. Luhrmann, however, obviously invites us to side with Scott and to regard his disregard of the rules as an admirable stand on behalf of individuality against conformism.The film forms part of what has become known as Luhrmann's Red Curtain Trilogy, the other two parts being Moulin Rouge and Romeo + Juliet. Despite being designated as a trilogy the three films do not have any characters or plot elements in common, and their only shared theme is a vague connection to the world of the theatre or of entertainment in general. There are, however, some stylistic resemblances between Strictly Ballroom and Moulin Rouge, although fewer between these two films and Romeo + Juliet, a modern-dress Shakespeare updated to the California of the nineties.Strictly Ballroom relies heavily upon standard sporting drama clichs, notably the one about the plucky underdog who comes good. Although Scott is an experienced dancer, Fran is a mere beginner, with much less experience than Liz. She is also a social outsider, coming from a poor Spanish immigrant family and (in another clich) is plain, bespectacled and dowdy. Of course, as soon as Fran takes off her glasses and lets her hair down she proves to be strikingly attractive. She also proves to be a formidable dance with the aid of her father who teaches her and Scott the authentic Spanish Paso Doble. There is also a storyline about Scott wanting to win the competition which eluded his father all those years ago. The film seems to be building up to the traditional conclusion in which Scott and Fran win a triumphant victory at the championships, thus confounding the doubters and a corrupt official who has been trying to fix the contest in favour of their rivals, although Luhrmann has a surprise up his sleeve which rather subverts all the clichs he has hitherto been relying on.One thing which the film shares with Moulin Rouge is a stylised, non- naturalistic style of acting, although nobody here overacts to quite the same extent as, say, Jim Broadbent did in Moulin Rouge. As in the later film, the look of Strictly Ballroom is quite defiantly lurid with a palette dominated by vivid Day-Glo colours, especially reds but also pinks, yellows and lime greens, even if the camera-work is not so manic.Moulin Rouge was a film I loathed, and Strictly Ballroom shares some of its faults, particularly an unattractive visual look and campy, mannered acting with deliberately overwrought emotions. Although Scott and Fran are supposed to be the heroes of this drama, I found it difficult to identify with them precisely because of the exaggerated way in which they are portrayed. In one respect, however, this is the better of the two films. Moulin Rouge is a musical made by people who can't sing. At least Strictly Ballroom is a dance film made by people who can actually dance, and the dance sequences are very well staged. It is, however, something of an acquired taste, and one I find myself unable to share. I am not, in fact, a great lover of the Red Curtain Trilogy as a whole; I (rather unfashionably) prefer Luhrmann's more recent productions, Australia (in which he seems to be reaching back to the traditions of the New Wave) and his masterly adaptation of The Great Gatsby. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Baz And His Beginning","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A maverick dancer (Paul Mercurio) risks his career by performing an unusual routine and sets out to succeed with a new partner.Although not the international sensation that Moulin Rouge or Romeo and Juliet are, there is definitely the fingerprints of Baz Luhrmann all over this. The music, of course, is very much Baz. But more so the colors. He apparently had to go the extra mile to get the Coca-Cola sign into the film, and it makes sense why he wanted it so badly it is the very definition of what makes a Baz film those bright, bold primary colors.This will probably never be considered a classic, and it has probably become more obscure over the last decade rather than more well-known, despite Baz's success. But still. "},{"Title":"broad comedy, formulaic story","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Scott Hastings (Paul Mercurio) is tapped to be the next champion (at least by his mother) when the reigning champs Ken Railings and Tina Sparkle box in Scott and his partner Liz Holt (Gia Carides). Scott starts doing flamboyant crowd-pleasing steps to get out of the corner but it's not Strictly Ballroom. Australian Dance Federation President Barry Fife (Bill Hunter) is not pleased and Scott loses. Liz leaves Scott to join Ken Railings. Scott's mother Shirley is the ballroom dance instructor, and his meek father Doug does the maintenance at the studio. Frumpy beginner Fran (Tara Morice) loves Scott's new dance moves. While they try out new partners for Scott, he is practicing with Fran.Baz Luhrmann is doing a surreal spoof of a dance movie with some very broad almost slapstick comedy. There is some joy and fun laughing at the characters. The only problem is the formulaic story. It is clawing and almost uncomfortable in its unnerving following. As usual, the frumpy girl is wearing glasses. All she needs is to take them off and have a make-over. The lead guy is a bit too stiff and too serious. Overall, the broad strokes do have some fun and mostly leaves a smile on my face. The formula does get a little tiresome. "},{"Title":"This movie features something completely unheard of in cinema today","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is fun even if you don't really like dancing. It gets a bit ridiculous in the flashback but I suppose that adds to the fun. The one element that this movie has is a real transformation for the ugly duckling character. Lots of movies today use the ugly duckling device but Hollywood doesn't ever come up with a believable ugly person. They always take a woman who is already attractive and try to downplay her attractive parts rather than taking a woman who is believably ugly and making her beautiful. The lead in this movie did not end up being a knockout by any means but she was pleasant to look at by the end. But in the first half of the movie she is ugly. I was impressed with this movie on this quality alone because in a world of movie makers who won't take a chance on one of their leads being undesirable, Baz Luhrman actually did that here. And secondly if you like idea of the Crocodile Hunter dancing Ballroom then you should like this movie because the accents in this are so comically thick, that you expect at any point for the characters to Throw a shrimp on the bahbee. "},{"Title":"Love is in the air","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before Dancing with the Stars, there was Strictly Ballroom, a 1992 Australian film written and directed by Baz Luhrmann and starring Paul Mercurio, Tara Morice, Bill Hunter and the late Pat Thomson, who died before the film was released.There's not much of a story - it's about an innovative dancer, Scott Hastings (Mercurio) whose parents (Thomson and Barry Otto) run a dance studio. The beginning is done in documentary style as his mother, Janet Leigh on crack, relates, her voice trembling with emotion, that it's Scott's year to win the Pan Pacific Grand Prix dance competition. Unfortunately, during the regionals, he broke out and did non-sanctioned steps, and his partner deserted him. This is all treated with the seriousness of a brain operation, which makes the film even more hilarious. A nerdy girl named Fran approaches Scott in the studio and asks to partner with him. He gives her a chance, and then needs to make a decision - win the Pan Pacific or do his own thing on the dance floor. On the way to the competition, some family secrets are revealed, and he and Fran fall in love.Told with hilarity, poignancy, and beautiful dancing, this is one of the all-time great dance films with Mercurio's electrifying moves, hot body, and good looks raising it to a very high level. Luhrmann's fast-paced and creative direction makes the film fly by. Some of the photography is spectacular dancing in front of the neon Coca-Cola sign, Scott learning the paso doble from Fran's relatives as a train passes by, a kiss at twilight, and the color-mad, cartoon-like flashback scene near the end of the film. The dance sequences themselves are fabulous, with the outrageous costumes, wild hair and beautiful steps.All of the performances are good, but my favorite by far is Thomson as a former ballroom star who puts on her happy face though her heart is breaking, i.e., Scott doesn't have a partner, Scott won't dance the correct steps - her constant near hysterics and overly dramatic concern are fantastic.The undertone of the film concerns the slimy, toupeed head of the regulatory committee Barry Fife (Hunter) who wants ballroom dance to remain conservative and by the book. Given the interior battles in the ice dancing arena, it wouldn't surprise me if such a thing exists in ballroom as well. No selfish, crowd-pleasing steps! Just make it -strictly ballroom. If you've never seen this gem, go out and get it. "},{"Title":"Uniquely Refreshing","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This one caught me by surprise. Competitive ballroom dancing is one of those worlds that you have to become addicted to or you just laugh at all the peculiar things that are so important to them just because those strange things are important to them. The director of Strictly Ballroom apparently understood this and was able to capitalize on it. He took those funny peculiarities of ballroom dancing and perhaps exaggerated them to make truly humorous. But what makes this movie successful is that the director was able to make fun of competitive ballroom dancing while at the same time showing us the beauty and grace of ballroom dancing. Successfully making fun of something without while at the same time showing it respect is not something many directors can successfully do, yet Baz Luhrmann did it. I found myself laughing at the oddities of the people in this show while at the same time being carried away by the grace of the dancers. It was wonderfully refreshing. Paul Mercurio and Tara Morice underplayed their parts perfectly. Paul is the outsider who has earned the respect and fear of the others in the ballroom community. He isn't the overplayed dancing rebel you see in other movies such as Flashdance or Dirty Dancing. He comes off as so sincere,yet capable. Tara Morice was wonderful. She played to ugly duckling so well. She was so ugly at first I wondered how she could stand playing the part. Yet when her transformation is complete she is beautiful, but still so unglamorous compared to the Prima Donas that are the norm in competitive ballroom dancing. She appears not be wearing any makeup at all and it is this plain look that makes her stand out in beauty compared to all of the painted ladies (complete with spangles pasted on their faces). The screenplay was delightful. Tara comes off as so innocent, yet determined. Baz interwove much of the dancing with the dialog adding to the visual oddity. The music involves a little bit of everything, but always just enough and just the right kind for each scene. All of th e peripheral actors were just the right mix of sincerity and oddity to keep the texture of this film fun and beautiful at the same time. I found this show refreshing from the typical Hollywood fare and very charming--a charm that continues to stay with me. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Congrats to everyone involved with this film! The dancing is absolutely exceptional. The director successfully captures the world of ballroom dancing in a captivating way with quirky characters that truly make this movie irresistible. I loved that not one of these actors is famous and were hired based on their talent- particularly Fran's character was lovable and captivating. I loved the flashy costumes and the scenery. The cinematography was a little too out of control in the beginning, however it settled and ended up soaring. The storyline is a re- vamps the generic ugly duckling scenario and provides satisfying entertainment. The more I see it, the more I love it. "},{"Title":"Strictly Ballroom","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have no idea why I like this show so much. My wife says that it puts me into a romantic mood. I don't know what she is talking about. I normally enjoy comedies and a few adventure films. I think that the background music is fantastic. I first bought a CD that had many songs that Baz Luhrman used on his films. (The Sunscreen Song, etc.) I had no idea who he was. Then my daughter received as a gift a collection of Baz Luhrman films and Strictly Ballroom was one of them. I watch it about once every other year and enjoy it as much as the first time I saw it. It's refreshing to me to see an independently produced film, without the megastars and their baggage, attitudes, demands, etc. that is still good. I only realized today that the actress that played Mrs. Hastings died of cancer shortly after the film was finished. "},{"Title":"eye candy with some punch","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  STRICTLY BALLROOM is a satire and a love story.  It is also a light depiction of those rare moments when the authentic tosses aside kitsch, puts a personal mark on form, and grows again.  Scott Hastings and his dance partner Fran are a couple of dreamers who want to try structured improvisational dance in the middle of a Ballroom Dance competition. Opposing their effort are Dance Coaches Les and Shirley, the faded stars of a ballroom dance school, and a ballroom dance federation president.  In the corner of our protagonists is Fran's family, who are rooted in the gypsy flamenco dance traditions of southern Spain. The couple are opposed every step of the way by the heirarchy of the ballroom dance competition, which is intent upon making Scott their fair-haired boy. They are also quietly supported by Scott's father Doug, who some years before had his own dreams of dancing in a manner that wasn't strictly ballroom.  Anyway,it's the old formula, boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back, and there's a warm and fuzzy ending.  It's a funny, sweet, feel good movie, which is fine by me since we all have to come up for air sometime. It's also medicinal for anyone out there who has their own dance studio traumas- star systems and stage parents to recover from. Eye candy with some punch.   "},{"Title":"Ridiculous fun","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Australin director Baz Luhrmann's first film is a glorious, over-the-top fairy-tale, which makes great fun from the unlikely subject material of ballroom dancing, taking a few swipes at aspects of his national culture along the way. The film features one of the most remarkable physical transformations you'll ever see (as Tata Morice's character does go to the ball), and whizzes along with great panache throughout. It's easy to imagine that Luhrmann sees himself in the talented hero who refuses to obey the rules, although it's possible to suggest (in the light of his later films) that he actually resembles that character's father, who became so absorbed with his own trickery that he eventually lost the plot altogether. For the record, I actually like Luhrmann's later movies too; but you can't beat this one for sheer unpretentious fun. "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I rarely watch a movie more than once, but this one is an exception. I fell in love with it, the first time I saw it, in 1994. It's my feel good movie. It's funny, it's uplifting and shows the underdog coming out on top. I especially like the way the ugly duckling girl turns into a beautiful (swan?) and sexy dancer in the end. It has a lot of humor and wit and there's just enough romance to give it the right touch. I especially love the scene where you hear Cyndi Lauper's Time after Time while they're dancing on the roof, while dad is dancing haphazardly in the film room. There's a lot of drama (girls yelling and whining and crying), but that's part of the fun. Plus the sharp wit expressed by the least expected characters (like Ya Ya and the little kids) add humor to temper the drama. Every time I see it, it always makes me feel good. "}{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strictly Ballroom is a stunningly beautiful look at Ballroom dancing competitions in Australia. The story is interesting but most of all bizarre, but it usually makes sense and is perfect for such a visual wonder. It also has a great screenplay to go with it with amazing dialogue and characters, it also just puts the story together perfectly making every scene worth while so that it means something to the plot. The performances are equally good with great performances by unknown dancers who are acting most of them for the first time. The male lead is especially good but so is everyone else. The direction is the best category, Baz Lurhman is a great director and this is his best achievement to date. The visual effects are also pretty good but it's the art direction that is amazing, the art direction is some of the best ever put on film, it is flawless. One of the best films I have seen in a while, I loved it. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Strictly Ballroom (DVD 1992)","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With Strictly Ballroom, I've completed Baz Luhrmann's Red Curtain Trilogy, with the other two diverse films Romeo and Juliet, and Moulin Rouge, common only on the theme of love. Started out as a stage play, Strictly Ballroom tells a tale about (surprise!) ballroom dancing, with Luhrmann's signature touches on colours and zaniness.Ballroom dancing might not appeal to many, but this film is thoroughly enjoyable. It begins with the Waratah Championship, where we witness protagonist Scott Hastings losing the opportunity to win it, given his last minute impromptu decision to dance his own dance, totally neglecting the rules and form of ballroom dance.He loses his partner too, as she doesn't want someone to tangent off without letting her know, and of course, not wanting to stick to the norm. So left partnerless, Scott has to look for someone willing to partner him. In comes geeky Fran, a beginner who's looking for that big break into amateur ballroom dancing, and between the two, they form an unlikely alliance.Thrown in to the fray are both Scott's and Fran's family objections. With the Hastings, they are constantly looking for worthy dance partners to pair up with their son for the upcoming Pan Pacific Grand Prix. For Fran's, they shake their head at Scott's lack of rhythm. Coming from a Spanish dance background, they train the duo and put the rhythm back in their feet.The climax is one which is clichd, but yet wonderful and moving. I'd bet if it's watched in a movie theatre, it'll have you up on your feet, and clapping away too.This movie contains a whole array of colourful and offbeat characters that one associates with a Luhrmann film. There's also an element of mystery thrown in as well, which keeps the audience guessing. With a mainly Australian cast, the characters are what make this movie so rich. This movie has a lot of heart, watch it and you'll understand what I mean. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, hilarious and moving - how much more can you want?","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my all time favorites. The comedy, drama and romance elements are expertly balanced to create a unique blend, and the visually lush sets and costumes make the movie an unforgettable experience.The basic plot is the old story of love spiced with some growing up independence issues, but the character development, fantastic dance scenes, quirky humour, gaudy outfits and screwball characters give this movie its very own timeless atmosphere.Don't miss this gem from the creator of Romeo + Juliet and Moulin Rouge - you'll easily recognise his lush style, but this movie is very much its own. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film!!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was well done. Although it tends to be a little hokey, it has a good meaning to it. It's like an Australian Dirty Dancing. There are many metaphors and parallels in it. While it is a good entertainment movie, I would have to say that this movie was quite well done. This director is so incredibly awesome. I like his style and the techniques that he uses. This only adds to the wonderful movies that he has created. If you loved Moulin Rouge, you'll love this movie. The way that the director uses close-ups, camera angles, parallel editing, flashbacks, and many other techniques is truly inspiring. The actors all do a great job at their parts. The beginning of the movie is rather hard to get into because it is so unorthodox, but it picks up speed and about twenty minutes into it, you'll start to get into the style and rhythm that the story is portraying. "},{"Title":"BAZ IS BRILLIANT","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is amazing, especially considering its time of release.  I remember seeing this movie with my family when we had no idea what it was and long before any infamy for Baz.  It's brilliant.  Visually stunning and utterly creative.  His movies are always a kaleidoscope of brilliant color and intricate detail.  It's also hilarious- subtle commentary on a subculture riddled with oddity, but a plot still relatable enough for any watcher to be drawn in, touched- and walk away with a good feeling about love and life.  That being said it is not saccharine sweet and it is far from cliche due to its odd approach and use of caricature humor.  Not only worth seeing- worth buying. "},{"Title":"A Real Cheesy Movie You End Up Loving","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when it came out on video to rent and just looking at the box cover was intrigued.  Interestingly enough, at the time I thought it was a total flop and not worth watching again.  Well, nearly 11 years later (wow! can't believe how time flies!), I stumble upon it and check it out for the second time.  Actually, I'd forgotten about it including the story line, so it was like watching it for the first time. I LOVED it!  Don't ask how or why now after all this time, but I couldn't help myself.  I even fell in love with the cheesy music and especially Paul Mercurio!  Wow is he hot in this flick!  To me, and some may think me crazy, it's a cross between Dirty Dancing and Pee-Wee Herman.  Dirty Dancing for the dances and similarities of the young lovers to the characteristics of Jennifer Grey and Patrick Swayze then Pee-Wee Herman for that lame goofiness, as you'll find throughout the movie, you can't help but laugh out loud at.  It's a weird, funny, dumb, stereotypical, unusual, love-filled, toe-tapping, make-you-want-to-get-up-and-dance movie that surprisingly pulls you in for more.  Yeah, I think I'll go out and buy it this time. "},{"Title":"An average commonly told story....made beautiful by wonderful cinematography that makes this very enjoyable.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story might have been repeated about 1000 times today...but it is a typical and watchable romance.  What makes this film enjoyable is not the story or even the actors...but the visual effects.  This is a VERY beautiful film that was done extremely well.  The glitter and the feathers and how MUCH did coca cola pay to have that big huge glitter sign focused on for a few minutes?  =D   Overall I would watch this movie again.  I enjoy dance and enjoyed the dancing that took place and the costumes were absolutely amazing of course.  You dont really feel the love story going on...but the very slow transformation from the ugly duckling to the swan is done very well.  This is an early 90s version of She's All That only the swan doesnt become the swan overnight and it is interesting to see just how many phases she goes through.  Not to mention she is awfully hideous to start with.  Think Charlize Theron in Monster. "},{"Title":"STRICTLY ONE OF MY ALL TIME FAVORITES!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can not say enough about how wonderful this movie is. I have seen the movie so many times now and I don't think I will ever get tired of it. (So I did the only logical thing and just purchased the Special Edition DVD) I loved listening to the director's comments. - I learned so much more about this superbly wonderful film.I think some people may not want to watch this film because it has ballroom in the title. I know my brother thought it was some girly dance movie ... but this movie is so much more. It is a true comedy in the Australian style of such movies as Muriel's Wedding and Pracilla, Queen of the Desert ... but this movie truly stands out. It is funny and touching all at once. The 94min length of this movie just go by too quickly.I highly recommend this movie to EVERYONE. Give it a try, you probably won't be disappointed. - Wonderful acting, sets, costumes ... and dancing, of course. "},{"Title":"An amazing success!!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Credit where credit is due. Now-a-days, it is so hard to find a super'b film where you can really watch it and have your heart warmed by a really lovely story. When you watch Scott Hastings discover his passion for dancing, and more specifically, his own way of dancing, you really understand how important it is to be an individual and follow your dreams...All of the acting in this film is spot on, and the comedy of it all gives it that special edge, in particular, Pam Hastings, who, despite her pushy nature, has a love beyond life for her family.This one of the 3 Red Curtain films done by Baz Luhrmann, and is such a joy to watch. We all know that he is one of the best directors to breath, and this film is what i would like to call exhibit A.You can laugh so hard that you cry, and you can smile so hard it hurts. A film for whenever... "},{"Title":"Entertainment at it's best","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie!  It had comedy, drama, and camp!  It really moved.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Not your regular run of the mill hero and underdog story.  There were laughs and tears throughout.  Definitely one of the better films of the 90's.  Baz Lurhmann is a cutting edge director with fresh ideas that I hope we see more of in the years to come. "}{"Title":"Three Cheers","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was playing as a midnight movie and I had nothing better to do so I went to see it.  I usually don't like movies like this.  It is after all about dancing.  I had no idea that I would develop such and affection for this movie.  It's about a dance school where the dancers live, each and breath ballroom.  Once day a young trouble maker in the school decides to (gasp) dance his own steps.  This is not allowed in the society where everything is strictly ballroom.  He's one of the teachers and a young female student wants to be his dance partner because of his rebellious charisma out on the dance floor.  They fall in love.   (I hope I didn't give it away!)The film is silly but also serious and very carefully balances on that thin line.  It does find a perfect balance though.  On the one hand it is very serious in the way it presents the mysterious background of a former dance teacher and how these people live in fear by dancing only to rigorous pre planned steps.  On the other hand it's so silly to use dance to make a statement on the human condition.  But the silliness in which these people live their lives is what gives us affection for them.  We even love the villains in the movie.  The film hits the perfect note though and you will tell your friends about this little gem.Note  There are rumors that the screenplay is being adapted to a Broadway musical!  "},{"Title":"All time dance classic","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Australia has produced some magnificent new films over the years - MAD MAX, PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK, CROSSTALK, THE MONEY MOVERS, THE YEAR OF LIVING DANGEROUSLY. Added to this is the splendid dance movie STRICTLY BALLROOM, a sensation at Cannes in 1994 and one which proved a big hit when it was released in the UK.   I saw this at a private screening before it's opening with very little preconception and the effortlessness on show by all makes the effect even more spectacular.Paul Mercurio plays Scott Hastings, king of his local dance troupe and destined to become one of the all time greats, but has a weakness - 'his own steps'. Enter Tara Morice's Fran, the ugly duckling of the troupe, new to the game, living with her Latin grandparents. So begins the tale.....Colourful, energetic, funny, stunning dancing, great soundtrack - all the ingredients of a top dance movie. My choice as one of the all time greats after SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER, GREASE, FOOTLOOSE, SINGIN' IN THE RAIN and so on. "},{"Title":"An Enchanting Journey Through the Ballroom World","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me say first that I love this movie! I'll give you a brief summary since I've noticed one is missing. Scott Hastings is a champion ballroom dancer, but he is tired of dancing the same boring steps as everyone else. He wants to dance his own steps, but when he does so at a competition, he loses the trophy, his partner, and everyone in the ballroom world wonders what his problem is. Fran - just Fran - is a beginner who boldly and bravely tells Scott she wants to be his partner and dance his steps, his way at the Pan Pacific Grand Prix, a competition Scott has been working toward since he was six years old. Scott takes a chance on her, and as Scott's overbearing mother Shirley, teacher Les and ballroom friends speculate about his not having a partner, Scott and Fran work in secret. Fran, always referred to as an ugly duckling, begins to change her appearance as she works all this time with Scott, who at first tells her that the rumba is the dance of love, but it's pretend to try to ward off any amorous   feelings. Of course, the two do begin to have feelings toward one another. However, before the two can try out and become real partners, a mix up ensues and Scott has Tina Sparkle, a Pan Pacific champion, as a partner. I won't give this part, my favorite, away so I'll just say Scott and Fran are back as partners and are being taught the Paso Doble, a Spanish dance by Fran's Spanish father and grandmother. However, a secret from Scott's parents' past makes him once again dump Fran as his partner, but he finally realizes winning doesn't matter - it's dancing his steps with Fran that does.The dancing is great, my favorite scene being Scott and Fran's secret dance behind the curtains. It's very sweet, but not like most modern cinema where the audience is drowning in sap. And there's not the obligatory breakup scene between the two lovers. You know - the huge blowout, leading to an in-your-face over-the-top lovefest at the end. Scott and Fran never even come out and say, I love you, but the audience knows and we feel that warm glow as we fall in love too, with the film. Scott's kid sister Kylie is adorable, giving out clever and funny one-liners. Scott's mother is hilarious as are Liz, Scott's original partner, Wayne, Scott's friend and fellow competitor, drunk Ken Railings and all the rest of the ballroom folk, who are obsessed with their ballroom dancing world. The beginning is like a documentary of ballroom dancing and it too is very comical. The film seems to make fun of ballroom dancers but it's in a good-natured way. Parts of the film are ridiculous but that's why it's so fun! This is one of my top ten films and I recommend everyone to watch it! "},{"Title":"waa waa good","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i had to watch this for an english assignment, have to tell about the australian identity in the movie, but im not gonna bore u with that.this is a great film, i could go on foreva with that, but im gonna tell you about my fave scene- when they are doing the rumba to 'perhaps, perhaps, perhaps' by doris day backstage at the championaship, they really do dance the dance of love. there is no glitter or fancy costumes, the only effect is the silhoutte, its the part of the movie where they dance because they want to, and with no rules. its got so much feeling, and i love it how they splice it with the duo dancing out front all dressed up and on show. you can see who are the better dancers, even if they havent won a championship before.great movie, and i so recommend it, the dancing they do just makes you jealous, and its hilarious, the caricatures just add the fun. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but don't miss it","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To tell a story effectively, its author/playwright/scenarist cannot afford to mix character with caricature, and expect a positive result.  In literature, Dickens was often successful due his his special genius, but even his work suffered from this uncomfortable blend.  Baz Luhrmann is less fortunate.  His appealing young boy and girl are virtually the only genuine characters in what is basically a simple love story about believing in yourself and finding someone who believes in you - a story that has been played many times against against many backgrounds (including those as far removed from each other as sports and science).While all of the foregoing cannot quite be dismissed as quibbling (because, after all, there is a plot, and there are characterizations of those who inhabit this story), the flaws are distinctly secondary to the imaginative, skillful, unusually colorful dancing that makes the picture so appealing - and is so well integrated in the story.  Luhrmann is exceptionally creative in devising ways to film a dance sequence, even while maintaining sufficient control of his camera and editing (as was not the case, in my judgment, in Moulin Rouge).  The result is a highly-charged, pulsating panorama, stylishly developed from the simplest story material.    "},{"Title":"The more I watch it, the more I love it","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I was a bit disturbed by its strange bunch of characters, its strong colors, its foolish narration. But, somehow, it fascinated me, so I went on watching. And now I just think this movie is wonderfully strange, colored, foolish like only Baz can do! And what about the dancing scenes??? I can't stop watching again nd again that GREAT performance! If you love Baz, if you love dance, if you love to enjoy a couple of great hours, then WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Very Nice ^_^","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Baz Luhrmann is definitely one of my favorite directors.... Actually, the term artist might be a better word. His work is so astounding and unique, really like a painting come to life; he's fearless in his ideas and so willing to put all the things in his mind to the screen. Strictly Ballroom is a very charming little movie! Unlike Romeo + Juliet and especially Moulin Rouge (though I love them both), it needs nothing fancy but it's main focus the art and life of dance, and the love that can bloom from it. And he's very smart in choosing dancers that can actually act. I especially liked the ugly duckling technique--instead of whisking off her glasses and transforming her into a super model a la She's All That, Fran is still Fran--she's not beautiful, but has something about her that Scott sees through all his family and career drama. It's cute how they both act like children at times and...just the little, classy touches here and there, like Scott walking Fran home, and how everything resorts to dancing (Scott's apology to Fran for his insolence in the form of Doris Day's Perhaps Perhaps Perhaps). My favorite parts vary between the Time After Time dance sequence Fran actually sings herself, and the one where Fran, Scott, and her family flamenco dance, and Scott gets lost in the moment and almost kisses Fran before her grandmother interferes. ^_^9 out of 10 stars this is a beautiful little Baz movie; a romantic film with a flare that's enjoyable for everyone. "},{"Title":"fantastically entertaining","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, which I finally got around to seeing after receiving Baz' Red Curtain Trilogy as a gift, was thoroughly entertaining throughout the entirety of the film.  It provided laughs consistently and well placed, as well as inspiration.  The soundtrack is perfect, as is in all of the Red Curtain movies.  The main aspect of the movie that I enjoyed was the use of dance as the medium in all key scenes.  This aligns the film equally with a dance show as with a movie.  This originality along with so many others in the movie set this movie apart from most others I have ever seen.  By saying this I am in no way saying that this is one of the greatest movies of all time, but it is up there in originality.  All in all, one of the most entertaining and satisfying movies I have seen in awhile. "},{"Title":"Delightful and Entertaining","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an Australian film about the world of competitive ballroom dancing.  As in any other sport or group, there are characters and this film is loaded with them.  You see the stage mothers, the rotten win at any cost types, the girls who won't dance with a loser, etc.  The lead has a new way to dance and wants to show it, whether he wins or not.   This film is a great telling - very imaginative and very colorful and flashy.  There is also the ugly duckling/beautiful swan part of the film and a lesson in acceptance at face value.  I'm so glad I saw this film.  I've rented it and watched it many times.  "},{"Title":"i can't believe I love a movie called strictly ballroom","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    I have to admit, my wife had to drag me kicking and screaming to see this movie. Five minutes into the film I knew I was watching a film that would become one of my all time favorites.   The inventive direction, the wry sense of humor, fantastic acting. and the dancing sequences are as exciting as any sequence from an action film. And as romantic and sexy as any love scene ever filmed.   This is one of those rare films that gets better every time you see it. If you havent seen this film because ,like me, you were turned off by the title ,or thought you could never enjoy a movie about ballroom dancing, give it a chance, you'll be glad you did.    "}{"Title":"It will grow on you","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything has already been said in all the previous user comments.  As a dancer I thoroughly enjoyed Paul Mercurio's work.  This film works because of him.One thing does bother me with his performance.  I strongly believe that the backstage Rumba scene at the State Championships is one of the most EROTIC scenes in all of film.  The Rumba is truly the dance of love.  Watch their faces, their glances, his transfixed stare.  The first couple times I watched it I really got goosebumps!  Amazing.On the other hand, the two different times Scott kisses Fran are very cold and there seems to be no passion or chemistry between the two of them. After that Rumba scene you would expect fireworks when they finally kiss.I have become a huge fan of Baz Luhrman's work.  I think we must enjoy the same things in film-making.  Romeo and Juliet and Moulin Rouge are also on my list of favorites.  Can't wait until his next film.  "},{"Title":"If you love dancing with a little romance thrown in - this is the movie for you!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some great dancing, some over the top dramatics and a bit of romance to boot. All together an enjoyable movie. The actresses who played Scott's mother and first dance partner must have had a blast because they were so over the top dramatic. The two main characters were very believable and looked terrific together. I especially enjoyed the Grandmother! But I loved the dancing "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Ballroom in the title, I didn't see this movie for 10 years. Finally, I thought I'd give it a try a couple days ago and really liked it. I kept thinking hrm, kinda reminds me of Dirty Dancing, only better. Of the two, I prefer this one. After watching it, the first thing I did was find when it would be on again. You should watch it ) "},{"Title":"I Love this Movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ive seen it maybe 50 times.  It's simply a masterpiece.  A deep story beneath the beauty and the music.  For all their charm and beauty on the dance floor everyone except our hero's are classless mutts. That's the message!  At least that's what I always come away with.  Anthony. Los Angeles "},{"Title":"Love","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time today 5/24/02.  It had to be one of the most beautifly done romances that just kept me enthralled. Two thumbs up. I could really identify with Scot and Fran and found myself cheering them on. Didn't even feel stupid being alone in my house cheering for them and crying for them.  Way to Go!!! "},{"Title":"Aussie Awesome!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of my favs. I LOVE the australian movies. I've watched Strictly Ballroom and Muriel's wedding tons of times. They are wonderfully done movies. The ending is the best part. I highly recommend Muriel's wedding and strictly ballroom if you haven't seen them. Paul Mercurio (spelling?) is very hot in this movie. I remember seeing him in a tv movie about JOSEPH on tnt a couple years ago. He had lots of long curly hair, and damn was he bulked up and even hotter..LOL ok.. "},{"Title":"Every few years we need a good dance movie, and this is it!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really think this is one of my favorite movies of all time, and I'm a movie buff. Besides the romance and the satisfying reconciliation between father and son, the movie's basic message is just inspiring (A life lived in fear is a life half-lived!)  The dancing is wonderful and should really be seen on the big screen for best effect. The only trouble, as one reviewer wrote, is that Paul Mercurio only has one solo dance number. He is an excellent dancer, giving a smouldering, very sexy performance, and Tara Morice is terrific as the ugly duckling who is still willing to stand up for herself and her dreams.  The scene where she nervously suggests that she, a nobody at his parents' dance studio, should team up with the golden boy, is a great piece of acting.  When I first saw this movie, I found the comedy sections annoying, and felt that they interfered with the story and the romance, but they have grown on me over the years.  This is a great sendup of the ballroom-dancing world without denying the ultimate power of dance.  There are several ways you can tell that this is not a Hollywood movie in the beginning Fran(Morice) actually looks convincingly ordinary, and even has *acne*!  The only disappointing part is when she takes off her glasses halfway through the movie, in the old Hollywood tradition, and never puts them on again!  Why is it that movie characters never ever seem to wear glasses out of necessity, and couldn't possibly be considered attractive while wearing them? Fran's family's little convenience store right under the highway overpass and next to the railway tracks is convincingly shown.  Armonia Benedito is real and terrific as Fran's grandmother, and in a Hollywood movie you would never find a woman her age commenting appreciatively on the body of a man young enough to be her grandson! Pat Thompson and especially Barry Otto do a good job as Scott's (Mercurio's) parents.  (I heard that Thompson was sick with cancer during the filming of this movie and sadly died soon afterwards, but it certainly doesn't show in her appearance.)  The two kids who play Scott's sister and her partner also do a nice job.  Peter Whitford as Scott's dance coach plays a man who despite his ambitions is genuinely fond of his pupil. The only one who is not really believable is Antonio Vargas as Fran's immigrant father.  A dancer so good would be out there performing or teaching in his own right, despite language limitations, not barely making ends meet on the wrong side of town! In fact, one of the things I like best about this movie is that there is no completely unsympathetic character in the whole thing.  In the end, everyone pitches in to give Scott and Fran their big chance, even his ex-partner who can't for the life of her understand what he is trying to do.  In the last scene, everyone has a dancing partner, and even the arch-villain of the piece has somebody to pick him up and dust him off, in a satisfying but very un-Hollywood way. "},{"Title":"It's all about the dance.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rented this one on a lark, and boy what a treat it turned out to be.  Mr. Luhrman has a huge talent.  (reference to Moulin Rouge intended)  I've seen this story many times before, but never with such freshness and vitality. By the time this Aussie crowd pleaser ended, I was on my feet and out the door to the nearest dance hall.  Gee those Aussie's sure know how to have a good time. "},{"Title":"Baz Luhrmann is a genius!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the film was very entertaining and Paul Mercurio was very hot! Baz Luhrmann is a genius. This is one of my fave films. It's hard to believe that apart from Paul Mercurio, none of the cast are professional dancers. After watching it I convinced all my friends to see it too. "},{"Title":"What fun.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just picked this one up a week or so ago.  Now that Moulin Rouge has been established as one of my favorite films, I wanted to see what Mr. Luhrmann had done previously.  And oh, what fun this movie is.  It's all so deliciously gaudy and overdone you can't help but love it.  And it doesn't have the angst factor that bogged down William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet.  Instead, it's more of a cockeyed absurdity that gives Strictly Ballroom its charm. Plus, there's some really cool dancing in it, too.  Really cool.  These kids have moves, that's for sure.   "}{"Title":"dazzling precursor of things to come","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Baz Luhrman's Strictly Ballroom is an amazing film to watch, everything is moving all the time, colors are dazzling and the music is great.  not quite as hallucinogenic astonishing as Moulin Rouge or his treatment of Romeo and Juliet, but you can see where he is headed. Strictly Ballroom is an excellent beginning to a wondrous career. "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny, great dancing, wonderful romance!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is a great look at the dancing world!  Overblown prima donnas, teachers and judges try to cut the creative life out of the dashing dancing hero and his ugly duckling-turned-swan dance partner.  With the odds turned against them, they manage to upset the dancing world with one of the most fabulous dances on film.  Getting there is half the fun as you watch this ever changing, surprising film.  The ending simply can't be beat.  The soundtrack is worth the money as well.  Enjoy!!  "},{"Title":"one of my favourites!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  The music is just absolutely fantastic - whenever I watch the movie I can't help dancing around the lounge room, especially during the scenes where Fran's relatives teach Scott to dance.  Baz Luhrman's direction is typically brilliant ... those zoom-ins and captions which he also used in Romeo + Juliet work really well, and add to the mockery of the world of strictly ballroom.  The film is also very well cast - Paul Mercurio really showed his qualities with this movie.  Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"fantastic dancing, great movie, lots o' fun","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I very much enjoyed this movie.  The dancing was excellent, and the comedy was very funny.  The way the combined different elements of comedy with a non-sexual romance (thank you!) was excellent.  Finally, a good movie, with a good romance, and where the main characters don't just go and jump into bed together.  Excellent movie, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Energetic and hilarious","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would say that this film is one of the most entertaining I have ever seen. The script is hysterical, the choreography great and the performances are charming.The humor is wild and broad, like most Australian comedies, and the visual humor is especially good in this one.  I think that everyone who sees this movie will probably like it, unless they have something against being entertained.The love story is very real and touching; this movie sustains itself on comedy, but don't sell it short on emotion.  A couple of the scenes really pack a punch dramatically, especially ones involving the character of Fran. The visuals complement, with some truly beautiful scenes.Watch this movie. "},{"Title":"THE BEST DANCE FILM THERE IS","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best film i've seen as to regarding dance.Fran and Scott are not the best looking people but as the film goes on they blossom into a goodlooking pair. Frans dad is an excellent dancer and blows scotts ego through the floor when he shows him a true passo doble. True aussie humor at its best.The song time after time is one of my favorites and i could'nt believe that 'FRAN' had sung it. The dancing excellent,the acting fine.Today i found out that the woman who palys scotts mum is dead,that was a blow but she'll be remembered for her role in'STRICTLY BALLROOM.' If your a fan of dance then this is a MUST SEE FILM. "},{"Title":"Even Better on Second Viewing","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie first in a film festival, where it was one of the highlights. Recently, I rented it to show for a friend, and I liked it even better!I'm a fan of Cinderella stories. I love scenes like the one in *She's All That* where the heroine walks down the stairs after a makeover and you have that moment I call At that moment, she's the most beautiful girl(woman) in the world. They are rare. Another one is the scene in *Batman Forever* where Batman bursts through the skylight and Nicole Kidman as Dr. Chase Meridian looks up. For just a moment, the camera trains on her and for that moment, there is no more beautiful woman in the world. Watch for these moments I'm not kidding.The heroic dance scene at the end of this movie portrays the heroine, Tara Morice, in such a way. Watching her start off as an almost repugnant character and scene by scene become more attractive until, at the end, she's absolutely adorable testifies to the directorial skills of Baz Luhrman.(By the way, Luhrman also directed *Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet* in which Claire Danes has one of those Most Beautiful Woman in the World moments when she is on the balcony watching the celebrations in angel wings. No wonder Romeo fell in love!)Add to the mix a rich variety of colorful and absurd supporting characters, a mildly evil subplot, great music, and a pair of pre-teen kids who play the role of a Greek Chorus, and this movie is an almost unbeatable entertainment, rich in surface detail, full of good humor, and yet anything but shallow.Rent it...now! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie for the entire family. Great music, dancing and acting. I rented it after watching Joseph last month (I taped it 5 years ago off TNT) and looked for what other movies Paul Mercurio made.  I liked it so well, I played it for my 12, 11 and 8 yr old nieces when they spent the night. They all loved it and wanted to buy a copy.  I was fortunate enough to win an auction on-line for a new copy. Can't wait to get it, as it is not available for sale in US, my nieces can't wait either.  "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this wonderful and fantastic movie!!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting is wonderful, the dancing is wonderful, the cinematography is wonderful, the writing is wonderful, IT'S DESTINED TO BECOME A CLASSIC.  I have seen it and loved it so many times that it's characters have cecome my good friends.  My whole family cheers and cries when the two heroes embrace. You simply must see and adore the wonders of strictly ballroom.  Love is in the Air. "},{"Title":"can I bend your ear for a tick","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most enjoyable movies I have ever seen.In essence, it is a (much) better Dirty Dancing from Australia.Scott (Paul Mercurio) wants to compete in the Pan-Pacific Grand Prix Five Dance Latin American Championships using his own, non-traditional dance steps.  This causes a quite a stir in the local ballroom set (including his parents who run the local Arthur Miller type dace academy. Scott looses his dance partner Liz due to his non-conforming dance moves, and takes on the uncoordinated ugly duckling Fran (Tara Morice) as his new partner.Of course, Scott falls in love with Fran as they rehearse their steps to some of the best music put into a movie (especially cover of Love is in the air).  One of the few movies that made me laugh and cry (to this day, I start crying at the end of the movie for no apparent reason).  "}{"Title":"It's fun, even if you hate dancing","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie several years ago, and it seemed to go on for hours. But, the other night I watched it again with the right person and I discovered what a funny movie it is!  We've all seen this plot formula many times, so it's the characters that count, and the characters are GREAT.  Hair & costumes are...darned attention-getting.Overall, I guess it's the director who turned Strictly Ballroom into such an amusing film. "},{"Title":"A stunning satire, yet you still care about the characters!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Baz Luhrman has accomplished something of a minor miracle here.  Let's face it, we've all seen the underdogs-who-want-to-win-and-will-win-in-the-final-competition movies.  They're a dime a dozen, starting with Rocky and coming out every couple of years or so.We've all seen these movies.  But so has Luhrman.  And he KNOWS we've all seen it before, so he throws a brilliant touch of ironic, witty self-consciousness into the movie.Because honestly, what the characters want (to win an obscure dance competition) is pretty small stuff.  And their drive to win it is, well, kind of funny.  But -- and this is where Luhrman shows his skill as a director -- winning this competition, as small as it is, is *important* to the characters.  They want to win it, and by gosh, we want them to win it too.Scott and Fran are strange people, but darn it if we can't help but to like them and hope they win.  We truly care about them, and their plight, silly as it often is, can bring tears to our eyes and smiles to our faces.   It's this unique mix of parody and genuine involvement with the characters that makes this a *delightful* romantic comedy.I too had no interest in seeing dance movies.  I expected to want to fast forward over the dance sequences.  By the end, I was almost annoyed when they cut AWAY from the dance sequences.  That's how breathtaking they can be when you care about the people dancing.Very highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Charming, delightful, a great date flick","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fire up the VCR and pop in this great Mockumentary.  The casting is genius. And the acting is as real as any acting in any documentary I have seen. It was so well done, that I often lost the line between truth and fiction. "},{"Title":"A life lived in fear is a life half lived","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie. The story is pretty basic Don't follow the rules set by society, be happy your own way and do it before it's too late. But the setting, the world of ball room dancing is hilarious and the direction is out of this world. The only flaw is Fran's Spanish but otherwise it's a film that really makes you happy!  "},{"Title":"Pase Doble!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fabulous Fun.  Bogie and Bacall never had such a look between them!  Pase Doble!  Ratatatatatatat!!  "},{"Title":"Best Movie, here's why...","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Strictly Ballroom is my favorite movie.  I love the cinematography, the music, the costumes, the characters and character development. I love the Oceanic accents and the great quotes from the movie.  "},{"Title":"An Amazing Movie!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie for almost anyone! Of course, there is some adult language and some themes that may be too complicated for younger kids to understand, but at 13 I found it amazingly rewarding! "},{"Title":"Directing Nonpareil!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie gives a wonderful taste of Australian talent and a little bit of culture heavily masked by the odd world of Baz Luhrmann (Romeo + Juliet- 1996).  Mercurio and Morice are great together, not to mention the host of characters who all add tremendously to the picture.  A well written, well cast, and well directed movie in every sense.  Well worth owning.  "},{"Title":"Best Aussie Romp yet!","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very Baz Luhrmann! Because before William Shakespeare's Romeo & Juliet there was...Strictly  Ballroom. Just as fun, not as serious. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Commentary of Life","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my alltime favorite films.  The first time I watched it, I just thought it was the funniest thing I ever saw.  After seeing it several times now, I realize that it is not only hilarious, but it makes a strong criticism of all our institutions that we hold so dearly.  The ballroom contest could represent a political contest, our workplace, or just about anything else.  There will always be a strong conservative force trying to keep things the way they have always been, and there will always be new liberal ideas that are trying to be heard.  This film is about the struggle of these two forces. When this struggle is put on a dance room floor, it becomes hilarious, because we are laughing at the people who put so much importance on a few dance steps, as if there is nothing else in the world to be concerned with. But, aren't we also laughing at ourselves, for being concerned with the things that we believe is so important? "}{"Title":"Strictly Fabulous","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must have seen this film a dozen times.  The dance competition scene at the end always chokes me up a bit.  But this flick is a simple story of two young dancers who want to win the Austrailian ballroom dancing competition, but they want to dance their way and not the outdated, stuffy dances of their elders.Director Baz L. is in top notch form here and all the thespians do themselves proud.  Even though the film is an Aussie pic it still has a very European feel to it that gives it just that extra bit of elegance.  The only quibble I would have is the story is a little too straight forward and I thought some of choreography could have been a bit more acrobatic.  Check out Russ Tamblyn's dance moves and fan-friggin' amazing backflips in West Side Story and you'll see what I mean!Paul Mercurio is fantabulous as the hero, Scott Hastings and Tara Morice is equally fantabulous as Fran the ugly duckling turned beautiful swan.  Fantabulous ain't a word but what the hell.  I so loved this film I had to make up my own word to describe it!  Fantastic plus fabulous equals fantabulous!  Another magical scene is the one where Barry Otto as Scott's dad pleads with Scott to follow his dream because he and his mother didn't.  We lived out lives in fear! he screams to Scott.  Man.  It always gives me chills.  It's one of the most powerful moment of truth scenes in the history of film.  With the music building and the emotions of the characters swelling.  When Scott finally runs off the dance floor to dance in the competition with Fran and is not about to sell his dream out.  It...well...heh-heh, I guess I get choked up more than a six foot two tall man should while watching a movie like this...And don't even get me started on the final scene where everyone dances to Love Is In The Air!  And remember, it's all Strictly Ballroom. "},{"Title":"It should always be about the dance!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" All the hallmarks that seem to make Baz Luhrmann films so unbearable to watch (i.e. flashy costumes/sets, flashy camera work, over-the-top acting, young star-crossed lovers rebelling against their elders) are present here in his debut film. But oddly they seem right at home in the crowd-pleasing Aussie romp about ballroom dancing. Perhaps it is because here, Luhrmann does not resort to operatic tragedy that weighs down Romeo+Juliet and Moulin Rouge, and instead makes it all about the dance. This movie, with its small budget and cast of unknowns, is an all for fun outing. It would due Luhrmann good to abandon the over-the-top big budget tragic love stories and return to smaller films like this which end up being infinitely more intimate and pleasurable to experience. "},{"Title":"Strictly wonderful","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of movies with dancing featured so prominently. But this was thoroughly enjoyable. Quite possibly a good example of life on the ballroom circuit, competitiveness and backstabbing being only two of the good and bad qualities of the participants. I started watching this movie while I was doing something on my computer and it took about 15 minutes for me to stop what I was doing to watch the rest of the movie. A good movie with a feel-good ending. Give it a look and I don't think you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Gotta Luv the Lurhman","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw Strictly Ballroom for the first time and must say, I loved it. The Plot is a rather typical ugly duckling turns swan meets troubled and pressured teen wanting to find himself in this case his dance steps, and of course the ugly duckling and pressured teen must fall in love and so on and so forth. However, if you are a fan of dance, esp. Spanish (esp. esp. the flamenco) this is a great film for you to see. If you are interested in seeing film with interesting technical aspects, you'll love (or hate, but deff. feel strongly about) the lighting and scenery effects. And of course, If you are a died in the wool Baz fan, than you will luv luv luv it. On that same note, if you are unfamiliar with the quirkieness of Lurhman's directing, be sure to watch it with someone who is, they can reassure you if you hit a spot and go what is going on, I'm getting dizzy. ) "},{"Title":"Yes, this movie is the real deal.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrible title, Strictly Ballroom. Even though I had heard it was a very good film I avoided it for years. Today, I picked up a copy at our just re-opened public library and watched it tonight. What a treat! Baz Lurhman of recent Moulin Rouge fame wrote and directed it, in large part based on his own adventures in Australian ballroom dancing. And the film is an extension of the stage production of Strictly Ballroom which he also starred in.A better title might be NOT Strictly Ballroom. The young protagonist has all the moves but wants to break out of the regimented ballroom steps that the stuffy ballroom judges want to preserve. He finds a partner who is really a beginner, but her father and grandmother join forces to teach both of them to feel the dance in their hearts. The stuffy old judge pulls the plug on the music, but the audience and other dance partners at the competition begin rythmic clapping for them to dance.  Oh, and of course, they fall in love in the process.There are several interesting extras on the DVD, including a 30-minute feature on actual Australian ballroom dancers, their stories, and the results of a competition.  A very entertaining film for anyone who like dancing, and a good story. "},{"Title":"it kept my attention","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of this film and started watching it just after the intro credits ran by. I immediately thought this was a John Waters film. I thought this until a commercial came on and they mentioned the name of the director. I was surprised. The female lead character in this film is introduced. She has stained, crooked teeth. Her hair looks like the Bride of Frankenstein's... only worn in a ponytail. And on her face she's got the worst case of pimples I've ever seen in my life. She is clumsy too and is dressed essentially in one of Andre the Giant's old dirty T shirts. As the movie progresses she gradually becomes quite attractive and nimble on her feet. I don't understand that. Is she still ugly, but we are seeing her looks improve by viewing her through the eyes of her dance partner, who is falling in love with her? A love is blind sort of thing? Or does her growing self confidence miraculously transform her teeth, hair, complexion and wardrobe? Discounting those questions that I kept asking myself, I though this was a pleasant film. No violence to speak of. No foul language. No sex. Just a nice little film where dancers with lots of talent have the opportunity to showcase their craft. There's no heavy plot to follow and get you thinking. Purely for the entertainment value of the dancers. I certainly DO NOT think this was an amazingly wonderful, great, 10 star movie. I wonder if everybody else saw the same film as me. Honestly it was better than average, but not by a whole lot. "},{"Title":"I Don't DO Ballroom....","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With the recent upsurge in popularity in and broadcasting of all things Ballroom and dancing and stuff, it seems I'm the only one I know that can resist it - and quite easily, at that.All that forced preening, pirouetting and showing off leaves me cold. Baz Lurhmann's debut film, Strictly Ballroom, however, at least actually gets me looking at the screen and not my toes.Whilst not getting quite as enraptured by its sparkly magic as much as some folk - and many critics, it is the story and the very human one at that shines through. Everyone who has a single DNA in their bodies that gives them an ounce of heart and compassion will soon appreciate this modern fairytale.Some of the styles are rather alarming, both in hair and fashion but that now adds to the film's charm and keeps the metabolism slightly uneven. Strangely, to me, it looks a little older than the 20 years that it is.For the rest of the population who do enjoy Strictly and those other shows will undoubtedly lap this one up. Not only do you get the swirly moves but a beautiful story, too. "},{"Title":"Fresh and Original","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Highly acclaimed as the best Australian film for 1992 by critics and audiences alike, Strictly Ballroom is definitely a lot of fun.Baz Luhrmann's satire is filmed very much tongue-in-cheek, as it tells the tale of young 'Scott Hastings', a dancer who holds much promise, yet seems destined to throw it all away because he wants to dance his way. As a send-up of ballroom dancing, the film is quite funny, and Australian audiences will appreciate this brand of humour.The whole cast seem to enjoy themselves immensely, as I'm sure cinema goers will continue to do, in a film whose freshness and originality will take it far.Sunday, November 15, 1992 - Balwyn Cinema "},{"Title":"physical communication","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many Australian movies use the theme of communication issues (think Walkabout, Picnic at Hanging Rock, Crocodile Dundee). Some people might question whether or not Strictly Ballroom belongs in that group, but I would say that it does. You see, dancing is a form of physical communication, and so the characters here get to know each other that way.But even ignoring that, it's a pretty fascinating movie. Baz Luhrmann was certainly showing the sorts of things that he would later bring to Romeo + Juliet and Moulin Rouge!.Starring Paul Mercurio, Tara Morice, Bill Hunter, Barry Otto and Gia Carides. "},{"Title":"Strictly Brilliant","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fabulous style and creativity by a fledgling Baz Luhrman. If you watch this movie as a part of the Red Curtain Trilogy (Strictly Ballroom, William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, and Moulin Rouge) you can see the foundation, and progression, of Luhrman's signature surrealistic style. Yes, this movie is a bit cheesy (but I defy anybody to name any 1980's non-drama that wasn't) and if the story can't be original, at least the delivery is. Other major (if shallow) bonuses of the film include great dance scenes and choreography, one of the more realistic duckling to swan transformations I've seen, and a leading actor, Paul Mercurio, who is anything but hard on the eyes. "}{"Title":"Its on my top 10 list of favorite movies","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie gets better every time i see it. Its amazing. Dancing is so awesome, it has no words to describe it. I recommend this movie to anyone. Its pure fun with great dance performances, and of course one thing we cant live without *romance*. Go see it now, you will not regret. "},{"Title":"Yeah, it was OK","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was that supposed to be a romance? Was there even a girl in that film? I didn't notice because all I could see was one young man, one dance hall and more dancing than you can shake a stick at. The film was relatively short and 90% at least, was dancing. That is not to say the dance scenes were bad. They were very good and the direction was fresh and exciting but I would have enjoyed it more if it had more of an actual story instead of a snazzy ballroom dancing instruction video with some poor actress, told she was the love interest and only given about 5 lines. "},{"Title":"Energetic but formulaic","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fun but cliched story of ballroom dancer who goes his own way - he uses his own steps, and wants to dance with his ugly duckling partner, while the establishment (including his mom) who believe in tradition, try to stop him. Paul Mercurio and the cast are fun to watch, and there is a general sense of energy, but the story is formulaic. "},{"Title":"What a mixed bag!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this with great expectations--everyone had told me it was a must-see. For the first 50 minutes I had absolutely no idea what anyone could possibly see in this film. The characters were all one-dimensional, the plot made after-school specials look good, and the storyline was completely predictable. But then the Pasadoble scene came and I was glad I'd forced myself to keep watching. If only the rest of the film could have been that good. Not long after, the movie returned to schlock status and stayed there until the end. The final dance scene is worth seeing, but of course it is--it's the morality play coming to a conclusion. Good absolutely must prevail over evil, right? The real question is how so many viewers have allowed themselves to be manipulated into liking the good dance heals all wounds lesson. In fact, this film was so heavy-handed it's essentially Top Gun with dancing instead of fighter jets Outcast bad-boy wrestles with personal & social pressures but prevails in the end and gets the girl. We've been there before and know the story, which makes this film unnecessary. "},{"Title":"The dance championships again","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the first ten minutes, I just couldn't believe this movie was made in 1992 - it had an ambiance of the 80s with all the colors, style and sound.There is some love, some crazy characters, and a lots of dance. I loved Shall we dance, Dirty dancing, etc. and Strictly Ballroom fits in the line. However the story... at the beginning they don't want to dance, then they want to dance, they don't win the championships, but they fall in love. Maybe next time a dance movie could come up with some other theme than this basic setup of winning a dance competition?!If you dance ballroom, you might like it for the music and the theme, but altogether, it's only for a Saturday afternoon cheer you up. "},{"Title":"vibrant and colourful","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another colourful and vibrant film from the wonderful Baz Lurhmann. Although technically it is just yet another love story, it doesn't feel like it. The crazy and strange characters surrounding Scott and Fran make the couple stand out, particularly in their dancing. I thought the costumes were great, and the dancing was spectacular! At first this film will probably seem a little bizzare, but stick with it and you won't regret doing so.7/10 "},{"Title":"A parable in which ballroom dancing is used as a vehicle for exploring human nature.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  NOTE  This synopsis includes a very general reference to the plot (though it does not actually tell anything you don't find out in the first ten minutes of the film).  If you would rather not know anything about the plot in advance, please don't read it.A visually delicious story of what happens when a promising ballroom dancer threatens to break the rules.  Both fun and meaningful, this theatrical film (it was originally an on-stage production) shows off both the director's sense for the dramatic and his sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A grand entertainment.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moulin Rouge has officially been established as one of my favorite movies of all time, so that made me want to see Baz Luhrmann's initial directorial effort, Strictly Ballroom, which is essentially Moulin Rouge-lite.  Almost as colorful, but much more easygoing, to the point of a PG-rating.  Plus, it's not chock full o' the angst that bogged down William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet.  It's just plain fun.I especially love how everyone takes ballroom dancing so darn seriously in the movie.  When Scott pulls out his own moves at the beginning and they just flip out -- it's a good sign of things to come.And boy howdy is there some nifty dancing in it. "},{"Title":"A true Romance of the ballroom!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brilliant casting, smart and sometimes silly dialog. Paul Mecurio is a charmer and hunksome. The dance studio life is all too familiar. Sometimes in life you have to change the routine. 5,6,7,8,...  "},{"Title":"Intentional remake of Cutting edge or just another clich?","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1. I should start by admitting-- I HATE Baz Luhrman. If I had known he directed this film I would have avoided it like the plague. Moulin Rouge is the only film I have ever wanted to walk out of (couldn't cuz I was there for a friend's party). 2. Genre confusion. Someone recommended this to me after I said I liked the documentary Mad Hot Ballroom so I spent the first few minutes thinking it was a documentary, then after seeing what looked like the set of drag queens from Priscilla, Queen of Desert -- I thought maybe it was a satirical mokumentary like Best in Show. Eventually I figured out it was just your basic fictional love story + insiprational underdog, ugly-duckling story. Might've liked it better if I was prepared for what it was.3. I had already watched this movie on ICE It was called Cutting Edge and was released about 11 months earlier. Same beginner paired w/ pro. Same, introduction of shocking new steps. Similar tension of partners that turns to love. Same work towards winning the final trophy. etc. etc. Yes, Cutting Edge didn't have garish colors/costumes, what have you - but it had more a more serious edge and I felt actually explored the main characters instead of leaving them as 1 dimensional (rebel + ugly duckling).4. Just kind of disappointing The film had some interesting elements that could've been developed into a better movie (the dad, Fran's foreign background, the difference between the dad's selfish showing off new moves vs. the fact that Fran got to contribute a move and her dad suggested some. Which brings me to another point, there were very few moves they did that seemed at all different or shocking. Was the new moves the fact that they danced a Latin dance more authentically???But if you don't think Baz Luhrman is an embarrassment to film making, if you're looking for an unoriginal love story; underdog competing to win with generic one dimensional characters ... you might like it. "}{"Title":" If you kept it simple and danced from the heart-","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Paul Mercurio is nostalgic as Scott in this strait-laced romance farce. The remaining cast is perfect. The costumes are lovely. One of the good movies in the genre, Strictly Ballroom will inspire the viewer to follow their dreams. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Warning dance aficionados do not enter!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A most frustrating and over-rated piece of badly filmed dancing. The wonderful Antonio Vargas and his flamenco dancing is the highlight of this show, but the rest of the dance sequences are extremely frustrating. How can you show 2 people dancing without filming below their waists? Fred Astaire had the right idea when he insisted his dance sequences be filmed  in 1 take and always with full length shots to show what the dancers are doing. "},{"Title":"Those Damn Ballroom Dancing Rules","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a different kind of story mocking the ultra-seriousness of ballroom dancing, at least among people in Australia, where the film was made. The strict rules, perhaps, are mocked as much as the people involved. Once again, it's the clichd story of a rebel who is the good guy and the establishment who are the bad people. (Will filmmakers ever get themselves out of the 1960s?)Add some stupid humor, a very annoying lead woman (the mother of the star dancer), and a predictable storyline and you have another overrated critics' favorite.The good parts of the film are the colorful dancers and general cinematography. The dancing is excellent, too. "},{"Title":"Strictly Ballroom","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember watching this once, possibly even twice, but obviously I wasn't paying the fullest attention, so thank goodness I gave it what could have been the last chance, from director Baz Luhrmann (William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, Moulin Rouge). Basically, set in Australia, this tells the story of ballroom dancer Scott Hastings (Paul Mercurio) who when it comes going on the dance floor does not stick to specific steps, he makes his own steps, being over exuberant to stand out and win, but the judges deliberately ignore him. After losing to a rival couple at the Pan-Pacific Grand Prix Dancing Championship a year ago, he also has his dancing partner Liz Holt (Gia Carides) leave him for another dancer, and there are only weeks to go until the next dance off. While his highly competitive mother Shirley (Pat Thomson) and timid father Doug (Barry Otto) are trying to find him a professional partner, they are unaware he has already found shabby non-professional dancing enthusiast Fran (BAFTA nominated Tara Morice). Scott is initially filled with scepticism with Fran until she unleashes her Pasodoble moves to their routine, and she sees her Spanish gypsy family strut their stuff too, and as time goes by she becomes more attractive and confident as well. Scott and Fran spend a lot of time together rehearsing and getting closer, but conniving president of the Australian Dancing Federation, Barry Fife (Bill Hunter), tells him that his parents also lost the dance competition. Apparently this was because Doug invented his own dance steps as well, so Scott is persuaded to get partner Liz back to win for his father's sake, but actually the contest has been fixed so they will lose. Unhappy Fran is forced back to beginner's school, and Doug confronts his son to tell the truth about what happened to him in the past, he was tricked into letting Shirley dance with friend Les Kendall (Peter Whitford) with conventional moves, and they lost anyway. Scott realises he has been tricked too, finds Fran and convinces her to rejoin him for the contest, and they return to the floor to dance from the heart. Barry is furious and interrupts their performance to disqualify them, but they continue dancing anyway with the music resuming and the crowd being moved by their spirit. In the end we do not know whether Scott and Fran won the competition, but it is not important, as the performance ends and Shirley and Doug dance together too, the crowd join the floor as well, and Scott and Fran share their true love kiss. Also starring John Hannan as Ken Railings, Sonia Kruger as Tina Sparkle, Kris McQuade as Charm Leachman, Pip Mushin as Wayne Burns and Leonie Page as Vanessa Cronin. Mercurio is cool as the rebel dancer who doesn't stick to the rules, and Morice is good as the ugly duckling who turns into a great dancing swan, the rest of the cast of their parts well too, it starts like a mock documentary before becoming the nice love story, but of course it is the extravagantly colourful and sparkly costumes and smashing dance moves that steal the show, a must see romantic comedy drama. Also including a great soundtrack of songs, including John Paul Young's Love Is In The Air, Cyndi Lauper's Time After Time, Doris Day's Perhaps, Perhaps, Perhaps, John Paul Young's Standing In The Rain and The Champs Tequila. It won the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design, Best Original Film Score for David Hirschfelder and Best Production Design, and it was nominated for Best Film, Best Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Sound, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Very good! "},{"Title":"Exaggerated and engaging at the same time &#150; an effortlessly enjoyable piece of invention and style from Luhrmann","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having caused outrage at the local ballroom dancing contest with his own steps, Scott Hastings finds himself dumped by his partner and an outcast on the local scene. Even his own mother despairs at his movements and the embarrassment they caused. Determined to continue on his own path, Scott looks for a new partner but the only one that seems to get what he is trying to do and is happy to lose as a result is the partnerless ugly duckling Fran. Scott gives her a shot and gradually the two start to work well together despite her total lack of confidence. As they prepare for their first contest, the sight fo Scott and Fran together causes consternation on the scene.The opening moments sum up the film really well as Luhrmann takes the uninteresting world of smalltown ballroom dancing contests and paints a mix of romantic drama and spoof. Many of us have local passions in which we will never rise above the local newspapers and this film gently lampoons that type of activity by exaggerating it and its characters while also keeping it engaging and enjoyable. The plot follows a fairly obvious arch but it is the energy and sheer invention that runs through the film that makes it so much better than the plot summary would suggest. The colouring and the feel of the film compliments the slightly exaggerated sense of humour and, as many have said, Luhrmann does a great job of announcing himself on an international scale. It doesn't really have jokes, but the hypersense of delivery makes it feel engagingly fresh and comic.The cast more or less fit into this style of delivery rather than standing out in their own right but everyone is good in their own way. Mercurio isn't the most charismatic of leads and he is a bit bland but he more or less does the job as his character is one of the straighter of the piece. Morice is pretty good alongside him and, although neither is brilliant, they work well together and make for a sympathetic couple. The larger-than-life supporting characters are much better and provide much of the energy the film needs. Hunter, Thomson, Whitford and Otto are among those that turn in reliable performances in this regard.Overall then this is a wonderful debut from Luhrmann. It manages to mock and convince at the same time &#150; exaggerating to produce energy and humour while never letting the audience lose touch with the story or the characters. I'm sure it won't be to everyone's tastes but I found it an effortlessly enjoyable film that has an unique feel and energy to it that make it worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Uneven but stylish romance!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Strictly Ballroom two years before Luhrman's Romeo and Juliet debuted.  Now years later, I amazed at how much and little Baz's style has changed.  In so many ways both of these films act as a warm-up for Moulin Rouge!, but I think that S.B. is so much more.  The metaphor of the dance for life is an ancient concept, but the performative twist that the film adds deepened my appreciate of other works with the same idea in the center (e.g. Much Ado about Nothing).  This movie is worth watching for the dancing and costumes alone, but the provocative (although not entirely successful) post-modern camera work is what kept me hooked.  Luhrman's style is entirely his own, and I think that's why I continue to return to his films even when I they sometimes bother me and often fail.  Soooo, if you have not seen this film - rent it, watch it, and then watch Moulin Rouge!  You will appreciate both, and have been witness to one of the most visionary directors of the day. "},{"Title":"What a pile of crap","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I gave it a 2 - only because the relatively catchy soundtrack kept it from being any rated any lower.Maybe I just don't understand Baz Luhrman's approach, but I just don't get it. If I had to choose between this movie and Moulin Rouge, I think I would pray for a massive power outage and so that I can read a book by candlelight instead of watching either of these self-indulgent, over-acted, seriously over-hyped piles of crap! There is good costuming, but lordy knows that there is nothing resembling a plot. Other reviewers have compared it to Top Gun with music, I think it more like a Batman-serial - good versus evil, lone wolf against the establishment, cheesy villains, wooden dialog. Seen the plot a thousand times, and almost always done with more taste.Sorry - I just can't keep writing, words are starting to fail. Don't waste the $2.00 to rent this, go get Shall We Dance or Dirty Dancing and get it out of your system. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently watched the first film in the noted Red Curtain Trilogy by Australian filmmaker Baz Luhrmann, Strictly Ballroom. This 1993 indie classic preceded its more well known and more highly budgeted siblings, Romeo + Juliet, and Moulin Rouge. While I enjoyed the twists to modernize Shakespeare in the former and the non-stop roller-coaster of the latter- and I am notoriously averse to musicals, I believe that Strictly Ballroom is probably the best of the three films, followed by Moulin Rouge and Romeo + Juliet. They are all good films, mind you, and Luhrmann is one of the most innovative filmmakers around, but there is an emotional punch that this film packs that the two later films lack- as they are more style over substance, albeit wonderful style. This is not to argue that Strictly Ballroom is flawless- it's not, but it is a prime example of a film making use of a 'classic' formula, yet avoiding clich by virtue of its innovation and excellence of execution in all areas&#133;. Yet, the film is also a wonderfully filmed piece. There are two scenes that are just gorgeously composed. Early in the film Scott and Fran are practicing on the roof of the Les Kendall (Peter Whitford) dance studio, where his parents teach, under a Coca-Cola sign, as the sun sets. Alone, the composition is wonderful, but as a version of the Cyndi Lauper hit song Time After Time plays on it is a memorable shot. Then, there is the scene, set near Fran's parents' home at a railyard, that could have been right out of Dr. Zhivago- with a rich dark blue sky, a chain link fence, and just the two characters on a barren landscape. Just beautiful. It's no wonder Luhrmann's films are all visual marvels.In a sense this light-hearted comedy reminded me most of the later My Big, Fat Greek Wedding in how it approached odd situations and characters and humanized them by having them funneled through experiences that moviegoers have seen too many times before with people like themselves, and it's this very dissonance of the unexpected and the expected, as well as great acting and film-making, that allow films like those two to succeed, where lesser films and filmmakers fail. "},{"Title":"Not up to my expectations","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sitting here a little confused as to what I think about this movie.  I had intended on seeing it for several years, but hadn't. After seeing Moulin Rouge and absolutely loving it, my interested was further peaked.  I finally had the opportunity to watch it tonite and I'm almost wishing I hadn't, because now the mystique is gone for me.Baz is famous for his flashiness, his incredible use of color and spectacle to tell his stories.  This movie had plenty of that, which I appreciated greatly.  While I am normally drawn to more subtle dramas I always welcome a diversion from that genre, and this did not disappoint.  One can tell from this production that Baz is involved in the theater because it could (and may very well have) been a musical production on the stage.  I enjoyed the quick pace and some interesting camera angles - it was interesting to see the advent of his unconventional cinematography, something I admired in Moulin Rouge.**SPOILER ALERT**Throughout the film, however, I was conflicted as to whether this movie was done with tongue firmly in cheek, or if it was supposed to be some kind of fairy tale.  Regardless, I found myself rolling my eyes during a couple of parts, especially the ending.  I kept thinking, why would Fran go back? Why would the dance partner who had been dumped several times at that point help out at the end?  What was up with the slapsticky fight scenes at the end? Why would everyone in the audience just decide that they Gotta Dance!I know, I'm looking too much into this film. I should just look at the pretty colors, be awed at the dancing and forget about the plot holes. In that spirit, I'll just have to remember that the next time I have a conflict with a future boyfriend's father I just need to let him teach me how to dance and I'm his honorary daughter-in-law forever.Having just bashed the heck out of it, I do have to say that in the moments I wasn't looking over at the book I had laying next to me, wishing I was reading it at that point, I was trying to figure out what movies this reminded me of.  The characters called to mind a couple of movies  The weird, psychotic mom was something out of A Clockwork Orange, a few of the weird looking minor characters were reminiscent of the Soundgarden video Black Hole Sun, the creepy but cool dad had Crispin Glover written all over him and the rest of the teased and primped characters (women AND men, unfortunately) were straight out of a John Waters movie.  Which made me feel like watching Pink Flamingos again.One scene I would like to commend Baz for was the bizarre flashback/dancing scene between Scott's parents.  The ghoulish makeup, exaggerated gestures and weird blocking called to mind the scene in David Lynch's film Blue Velvet where Dean Stockwell sings his ditty into the lightbulb.  It was a very entertaining scene and pretty much saved me from turning the movie off.I can see how much Baz has grown since making this film, and the only reason why I'm not completely trashing it is because it was his first effort. One thing I have come to expect from a Baz Luhrmann film is that I'm going to be elated, wrapped up in the spectacle and then suddenly feel like I've been punched in the gut.  I guess he started that after this movie, because while I didn't quite feel punched in the gut (in a bad way, not in the aforementioned good way) I felt empty after seeing this film.  I would give it about 2 1/2 out of 5 stars, and that's only because of its quirkiness and because I'm biased toward succeeding films.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Holy lord!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a pure stinker.  I couldn't even force myself to finish it.  Every character was so irritatingly loud and obnoxious that it was distracting; why does everybody have to scream their lines? It was like hanging out in a child care center with a bunch of fussy kids.  It seemed a little rushed, and combined once again with the hard to understand, 150 decibel dialogue and the constant jumping around from character to character almost made me sea-sick.  Just b/c it's a foreign film doesn't automatically make it a good film.  It's a Stanley Steamer. "}{"Title":"Utter tripe","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wretched movie. Vaccuous, cliched characters. Yeah, we all agree it's no Godfather, but there is nothing worthwhile in this movie. Now before you ignore this review, know that I enjoy dancing and have taken dance classes for a year and a half. I enjoy good dancing. I enjoy comedies.Just because this is a comedy, doesn't mean it has to be devoid of all cleverness and originality. You want amusing overacting in a clever film? Watch George C. Scott in Dr. Strangelove. You want lighthearted, capricious entertainment? Watch the French film, Amelie. Airplane is great if you want sight gags. The Graduate, Groundhog Day, Rushmore, and Deconstructing Harry are fabulous comedies. Watch them instead. I suppose Strictly Ballroom is enjoyed by the same audience that likes Ally McBeal. Obvious, dumbed-down humor sight gags and appeals to baseness. This movie is as formulaic and replaceable as it gets. "},{"Title":"Oh my Lord, what a waste of time!WARNING!!!!SPOILERS!!!","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To watch this movie is a complete waste of time, it really is. The dancing, while OK, is not extraordinary. The storyline is as flat as it gets and the cast stinks. None of them can act, they are all obnoxious and loud and the whole movie is just one clich after the other. If you're into clich-d movies and mediocre dancing, you might like it. If you prefer a real story and awesome dancing, like I do, watch Dirty Dancing Havana Nights. THAT is entertainment!!! !!! WARNING!!!! SPOILERS!!!!I think the worst part was when he asked her to take of her glasses because it might help, followed closely by the ending, where the whole hall was 'urging them to dance.' If you want to watch this movie, be my guest, but it just wasn't my beer. And I know beer! I'm German!  "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely don't get it.do people really care about this kind of dancing / competition?does it still go on somewhere in the world?Maybe so, but it's not MY world, and it holds little fascination for me.The plot itself is as cliche'd as it could possibly be, so if you're not into dance  competitions, the only thing left to draw you in is the romantic angle.  THAT  aspect is pretty subdued, though I was definitely intrigued by the female lead.  If  not for her unique, natural charm, I couldn't have made it to the end of the movie.  i literally would have turned it off, or thrown a brick through the screen.Maybe this is just a chick-flick.If you're a guy, don't expect much. "}]