[{"Title":"The Truth About The Hollywood Dream Machine","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"91 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Come next year, when I am trying to devise a list of the best films of the 90's, Robert Altman's The Player will be near the top of my list. This film skillfully creates a central plot around Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins) (who hears about 125 movie pitches per day), a studio executive who is being threatened by a writer whose script or idea he likely brushed off. But what is even more brilliant about The Player is everything going on peripherally to the main plot; all the references to studio techniques of film-making, foreign film movements, homages and Old Hollywood vs. New Hollywood. The film is multi-layered, yet everything that we view falls neatly into the formula which Hollywood film-making survives by. What we see in the duration of The Player would potentially make a perfect pitch for a movie. This may sound confusing, but watch the entire film, and you will immediately know what I mean.The film begins with a stunning homage to Alfred Hitchcock's Rope, an approximately eight minute long take where the camera moves freely around a studio encountering many people in the midst of their everyday routines. For example, we come across a couple discussing how Hollywood film is now much like MTV cut, cut, cut. One of the characters even uses the example of Rope to illustrate his point. Rope is approximately a ninety minute film that appears to have been shot all in one take. Of course, it wasn't done in one take, as reels of film at that time were only ten minutes long. If one watches the film very closely, it can be determined where the cuts are made.In the duration of the same take, we encounter Griffin Mill conducting business in his office. People walk into his office pitching movie ideas. It is here that we begin to learn about populist Hollywood film-making. Ideas, not stories or scripts are pitched to executives in 25 words or less. Almost always, the ideas thrown out are based on previous films (e.g. someone always gets killed at the end of a political thriller) and even combinations of previous films (e.g. It's Pretty Woman meets Out of Africa). When we see the usual films that are released into theaters each week, it is not difficult to believe that this is the way in which they are conceived. The usual Hollywood formula entails sex, violence, familiarity and most important of all happy endings, a movie always has to have a happy ending.The Player is filled with loads of Hollywood stars, most of them playing themselves. Jeff Goldblum, Malcolm McDowell, John Cusack, Angelica Huston, and Burt Reynolds to name a few. Many of them are encountered at restaurants during lunch and at night time Hollywood gatherings, where the topic of conversation is always movies. Near the beginning of the film, Griffin suggests that he and his lunch guests talk about something else. We're all educated adults. Of course no one says anything. Their lives are so indoctrinated by Hollywood, they do not know what else to talk about.Right from the beginning Griffin receives numerous postcards threatening his life. He begins to suspect a certain writer and goes to his house one night to confront him. The man turns out not to be home, but there is an incredible scene where Griffin talks with the man's girlfriend on the phone while voyeuristically watching her through the window. This is an extraordinary symbolization of the voyeuristic essence that goes along with watching a film, or the notion of scopophilia to be precise. The idea behind the concept of scopophilia is that the cinema constructs the spectator as a subject; the beholder of the gaze, who has an intense desire to look. The cinema places viewers in a voyeuristic position in that the viewer watches the film unseen in a dark room. While Griffin is watching the girl as he speaks with her, it is night time and he remains unseen to her. This scenario metaphorically represents the theater and the film.In the duration of Griffin's conversation on the phone, he finds out that the man he is looking for is watching The Bicycle Thief in an art-house theater in Pasadena. This film in itself represents the first contrast to Hollywood that we see in The Player. Vittorio DeSica's The Bicycle Thief was part of a movement that lasted from 1942 to 1952 called &#145;Italian Neo-Realism, whose other main exponents were Rossellini and Visconti. Rossellini called neo-realism both a moral and an aesthetic cinema. Neo-realism, to a great extent owes much of its existence to film-makers' displeasure at the restrictions placed on freedom of expression. This film movement is quite different from the modern Hollywood formula of film-making. When Griffin first meets the man he suspects is sending the postcards, he suggests that perhaps they could do a remake of The Bicycle Thief. The man responds with yeah sure, you'd probably want to give it a happy ending.Also interesting in The Player is one of the studio executives suggestions to newspapers as a source for script ideas. This serves to contrast Old Hollywood versus New Hollywood. In the older days of studio film, Warner Brothers (one of the studio's of middle-class America) would produce films with ideas seemingly drawn from real life or from the headlines of major newspapers. This gives us the sense that often Hollywood is stuck for original ideas, so ideas from the past re-circulate themselves.I have touched on only a few of the many interesting references that run peripherally to the main plot of The Player. The great thing is that even if you do not catch all the film references that I have been discussing, it is still enjoyable. When I first saw the film, I was really young and did not know much about movies, but yet I enjoyed it thoroughly. Now, it is one of my favorites. I definitely recommend it to anyone who has a keen interest in film.**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"The best anti-Hollywood film ever made by Hollywood","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"54 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Griffin Mill is a young hotshot producer who everyone bows and scrapes to because he has the powers to get a movie made. However he starts getting bugged by a dissatisfied writer which leads to all kinds of  deadly intrigue.Just when I thought Altman had gone totally off-the-boil he suddenly jumps back with his most perfectly realised film. While hardly unapplauded on its release (and in short retrospect) this is a movie that will be regarded by future generations as a classic. It is so smart, sassy, funny and has a beginning, a middle and an end. The kind of tragicomedy that gets the best of both worlds.Robbins is perfect as the lead. He doesn't do much or emote much. As Robert De Niro once said most people don't show their emotions, they hide them. Occasionally we get behind the shield of human indifference, but only occasionally. We don't like him much - nor should we - but he is not so bad that we can't bare him. Indeed he is merely someone whose selfish world gets out of control. Whoopie Goldberg makes the most of her unlikely casting too.The appearance of stars in guest parts adds a bit of icing, but that is all. I loved Altman's directions to the stars who had to play walk-ons (who else could have got that?) remember, you are responsible for who you are on screen. You are playing yourselves!The sexy Scacchi plays the love interest with great skill. While just a muse she is a far better actress than most and this shows in her short screen time. Shame she hasn't more involvement in the main plot.Like breaking a car down in to its competent parts, taking The Player apart only leaves an ugly mess of oil and metal. Together it drives a tight little film that has insight, drama and comedy. I would hesitate to call this a masterpiece, but it is a mini-masterpiece that however farfetched never reaches the point of being totally unbelievable.The pay off at the end is one of the best belly-laughs any film buff could ever get. I doubt I will see a better film about modern day Hollywood in my lifetime. Like Pulp Fiction, a film that is as enjoyable the second time of viewing as the first. "},{"Title":"Joe Gillis calling...","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"44 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Players only love you when they're playing. --Stevie NicksGriffin Mill, whose name has a kind of ersatz Hollywood feel to it (cf., D. W. Griffith/Cecil B. De Mille), is not a player with hearts so much as a player with dreams. He is a young and powerful film exec who hears thousands of movie pitches a year, but can only buy twelve. So he must do a lot of dissembling, not to mention outright lying, along with saying We'll get back to you, etc. This is what he especially must say to writers. And sometimes they hold a grudge. In this case one of the rejected writers begins to stalk Griffin Mill and send him threatening postcards. And so the plot begins.Tim Robbins, in a creative tour de force, plays Griffin Mill with such a delightful, ironic charm that we cannot help but identify with him even as he violates several layers of human trust. The script by Michael Tolkin smoothly combines the best elements of a thriller with a kind of Terry Southern satirical intent that keeps us totally engrossed throughout. The direction by Robert Altman is full of inside Hollywood jokes and remembrances, including cameos by dozens of Hollywood stars, some of whom get to say nasty things about producers. The scenes are well-planned and then infused with witty asides. The tampon scene at police headquarters with Whoopi Goldberg is an hilarious case in point, while the sequence of scenes from Greta Scacchi's character's house to the manslaughter scene outside the Pasadena Rialto, is wonderfully conceived and nicely cut. Also memorable is the all black and white dress dinner scene in which Cher is the only person in red, a kind of mean or silly joke, depending on your perspective. During the same scene Mill gives a little speech in which he avers that movies are art, a statement that amounts to sardonic irony since, as a greedy producer, he cares nothing at all about art, but only about box office success. His words also form a kind of dramatic irony when one realizes that this movie itself really is a work of art. As Altman observes in a trailing clip, the movie becomes itself. The Machiavellian ending illustrates this with an almost miraculous dovetailing. This is the kind of script that turns most screen writers Kermit-green with envy.Incidentally, Joe Gillis, the Hollywood writer played by William Holden in Sunset Boulevard--personifying all unsuccessful screen writers--actually does call during the movie, but Mill doesn't recognize the name and has to be told he is being put on, further revealing the narrow confines of his character.In short, this is a wonderfully clever, diabolically cynical satire of Hollywood and the movie industry. This is one of those movies that, if you care anything at all about film, you must see. Period. It is especially delicious if you hate Hollywood. It is also one of the best movies ever made about Hollywood, to be ranked up there with A Star is Born (1937) (Janet Gaynor, Fredric March); Sunset Boulevard (1950); A Star is Born (1954) (Judy Garland, James Mason); and Postcards from the Edge (1990).I must add that in the annals of film, this has to go down as one of the best Hollywood movies not to win a single Academy Award, although it was nominated for three Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Editing. I suspect the Academy felt that the satire hit a little too close to home for comfort.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A movie for movie fans","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" During Robert Altman's The Player the criteria for a good Hollywood movie are established by the lead character Suspense, laughter, violence, hope, heart, nudity, sex, and happy endings, mainly happy endings. If you look close enough you'll find all of them in the film, as well as some in the film within this one. The Player is a scathing, smart, and funny attack on the Hollywood studio system and doubtless one that will be enjoyed more by those who have prior knowledge of the studio system, or are simply just movie fans. This film is packed with cameos, specific references to film history and only a truly dedicated movie fan could catch all of them.The film opens with an eight minute long continuous shot which follows the lives and discussions of several executives and other personnel at a movie studio. This shot establishes several important characters as well as the cynical tone of the film (we hear a pitch for The Graduate 2 set 25 years after the original among other ridiculous discussions). It also pays tribute to Orson Welles and Alfred Hitchcock, even mentioning Welles' Touch of Evil and its similar opening shot as well as Hitchcock's Rope. Soon we meet Griffin Mill, a studio executive whose job is basically to hear pitches and either approve them or turn them down. His job isn't to pick the good movies, it's to pick the moneymakers (later in the film a character talks about The Bicycle Thief, a product of Italian Neo-Realism and says that's an art film, it doesn't qualify. We're talking about movie movies). One of the writers Mill turned down starts to send him threatening postcards and he assumes this person is David Kahane (Vincent D'Onofrio), so he tracks him down and semi-accidentally kills him, leading to a rather typical police investigation into the matter. Mill begins a romance with Kahane's widow, further adding to the convoluted Hollywood thriller plot.In a wonderfully funny subplot Mill approves a pitch for a bleak, dark drama in which an innocent woman is sent to the gas chamber. The pitch is for the film not to include a happy ending and also 'no stars, only talent'. The subplot is developed alongside the main plot and used mainly for pure comic relief (nothing in The Player is serious drama, but the main plot is played straight and is mainly satiric in its ridiculousness, mostly avoiding big laughs in favor of more subtle humor). Over the course of the film the criteria for a good Hollywood film are all met. There's suspense (suspense in the Hollywood sense), laughter, violence, hope and heart (we manage to feel supportive of Griffin Mill even though he's mostly heartless and cruel), some nudity thrown in for good measure, and even an utterly idiotic sex scene which of course has nothing whatsoever to do with the plot. The brilliant double-ending is played for laughs and remains one of the best I've ever seen.The screenplay by Michael Tolkin (who also wrote the book) is pitch-perfect in its balance, it manages to be satiric without descending to farce and scathing while remaining good-natured. The acting is excellent all around, particularly from Tim Robbins, who is perfectly capable of a strong performance (see Clint Eastwood's Mystic River), but plays his role here like any bland lead in a Hollywood thriller. He doesn't even bother emoting for the majority of the film, which only makes the satire stronger.With The Player Robert Altman returns to form and makes a worthy addition to his impressive filmography (which includes films like Nashville, Gosford Park and MASH). The film is funny both in a traditional manner and also in a dark, satirical manner. By including all of the elements of typical Hollywood in his film Altman has crafted a crowd-pleaser as well as a tribute to film and film fans everywhere. One of precious few films that are truly perfect.5/5 "},{"Title":"Insidiously clever dark comedy","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman gets under my skin. His films are worthy of great respect, yet they are frequently as irritating as they are brilliant. The Player is, as much as Short Cuts, a quintessential Altman film. It is also one of the best roles Tim Robbins has ever enjoyed.This film is about Hollywood's dark underbelly. The Player eviscerates its subject by twisting justice, political gamesmanship and artistic integrity into new configurations. For non-film-buffs or non-professionals some of the humor may seem too subtle to notice. To film buffs and insiders, the humor is totally over the top.Robbins plays a young studio exec who is playing the game to win and seems, at least part of the time, to have a conscience. Everything is going along fine for him until he starts receiving threatening calls and letters from a writer whose screenplays he has rejected, and an arch-rival is promoted to a position just above his own. Paranoia and real danger seem in the periphery of every scene in his life, as the make-believe of his industry and the reality of his life begin to blend freely.Robbins makes a character who could easily have been totally unlikeable somehow sympathetic. Despite his amazing performance, liking the character makes you feel as if you should go stand in a shower and exfoliate for an hour or so. He is supported by excellent supporting work all around. Especially good are the two major women's roles - played by Greta Scachi and Bonnie Sherrow, and veteran camp character Dean Stockwell.The photography is liberally and amusingly lifted from several classic thrillers, mysteries and dramas, and comes off fresh and original - not at all like a DePalmaesque bit of visual plagiarism. And the pace is brisk.The Player is probably my favorite Altman film, and it is easily my favorite Tim Robbins film. It's entertaining, intelligent and, well, it has a bad attitude. See it some night when you're angry and you need a good dark laugh. "},{"Title":"Just re-visited this & still love it","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just went back and watched this again after many years and still find it one of the best movies ever made about movies. This movie within a movie has it all. Suspense, drama, comedy, great and numerous cameos, and some inside Hollywood jokes. One highlight is at the start where the actors are describing the best long opening tracking shots of all time while Robert Altman skillfully is showing you one at the same time! The Burt Reynolds cameo is very funny, sounds unscripted, and is one of many brilliant uses of this device. Favorite line waiter, this is a wine glass. I'd like my water in a water glass. The line comes from Tim Robbins, who is excellent as studio executive Griffin Mill. "},{"Title":"Classic referred to by journalists, reviewers...has entered the lexicon","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman performed a great service to us movie fans with this movie. We are able to see the brutish way the studios treat their writers....and don't find it difficult to believe that some writer would want to murder the producer.The many homages paid to other movies is great the execution scene from I want to Live is replayed, and Bruce Willis jumping in the midst of the cyanide fumes to rescue the damsel in distress makes the contrast with the Graham movie even more poignant (especially if you believe she was innocent). Watching the various emotions play across Tim Robbins face makes you understand what a great actor he is.The convoluted plot makes the movie more interesting, even as we see a Palm Springs lovers' rendezvous where some lovers swim in the nude in front of others dancing. You don't know what's true and what's not, even when the producer's ex-girlfriend is left sobbing on the steps. It seems too melodramatic for reality, but melodrama is what these people are all about!!!!! Altman's favorite trick of having everybody talk over each other is, while realistic, disconcerting. I still wish I could have heard what Burt Reynolds was saying, nothing complimentary, when Robbins walked up to him at the restaurant. Watching the writers become sycophants, prostituting their 'art' just to get the movie made rang QUITE true. He backs down on both 'no stars' and 'no Hollywood ending'. The only one with morals involved in the movie business gets fired, of course.One of the movies you need to have on your shelf. Now I've got to go back and watch for Robbins' many references to different brands of water, pointed out by the NYTimes just today. "},{"Title":"the reality of the making of the un-reality of Hollywood","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Once The Player's end credits rolled, I was shaken, but in the kind of way that you are when you hear a really sly, long joke by someone who knows what they're telling is not hysterical but still has a wicked knack that will stay with you or gnaw at your side. Robert Altman's the Player, one of his very best films (maybe his best) made since the 1970's, is as much about the detached, perfunctory nature of these characters as it is a story of a murdering writing executive. It's not a satire in the sense of Dr. Strangelove; there's nothing that's over the top for the audience. But it does get in some notes, practically without any pretense of going about it otherwise, about the sterility of modern Hollywood. As a film buff, while watching this movie I'm not even bowled over by the numerous cameo appearances by Hollywood's main stars and wonderful character actors. That's because Altman, while being un-obtrusive of what the actors are doing on screen, has his focus set very carefully, and it's in this precise kind of mode that it works best.It's not to say Altman's style doesn't have its own voice, and some of the shots in the film- self conscious no doubt- bring out the anti-Hollywood while Hollywood ideas. And working in the framework, not the dependence, of the story lets some interesting things of reality go on. When you see this 8-minute long take at the start of the film, it's getting the music of the film going right away, of the 'money-talks, BS-continues' attitude of a Hollywood studio, not just of the main character Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins). It may be 'just a movie', but it's also one with this constant feel of life going on, as Altman, through Tokin's screenplay, is a fly on the wall as it were. We see Mill, a writing executive, go through a rough patch with a certain writer (Vincent D'Onofrio) who hasn't heard back from him in a while. When a harsh accident occurs, Mill has to keep moving, not just with his job or his details of the night the two had, but with the writer's girlfriend (Greta Scacchi) who start an affair.Altman once said, quite famously, once casting is complete 80% of his work is done. The Player is one of those major examples in Altman's career, and despite the fact that most, if not all, of the supporting actors (who may or may not also be in their cameo roles) are sublime in their roles (Goldberg, Scacchi, Lyle Lovett, and especially Cynthia Stevnenson), it's a key Robbins turn. His career has often had roles where he can lay in a naturalness that other actors might not have gone for. He also fits the role of Griffin Mill much as he did for Andy Dufresne and Dave in Mystic River. Here he has a perfect quality in this character to, as Ebert pointed out, not be un-likable even as he is not a good person. I loved the little facial gestures, the seemingly controlled stares, and the small moments where his upper class facade starts to wear down beneath the bloodless business of making movie deals. His could be for some the only reason to see the film, and rightfully so, as I really don't think Altman would've been able to pull it off with another.It does almost add to what could be frustration for some by the end of the film to see what happens to him, but it actually is after thinking about it more even more satisfying an ending. A question the film ponders for this character is- if he can survive the reality when all he wants is a happy ending in the stories he hears? And through this simplicity some compositions and scenes are quite remarkable; that one single shot of a certain close-up of a sex scene not only plays brilliantly off of a script description earlier, but is one of the best scene-shots I've seen in recent movies. Very well done, if not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Movie fans, rejoice. Others, go watch Charlie's Angels.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"33 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What I mean by my tagline is that you will get the most out of this film if you've watched a lot of old classic and understand how the Hollywood system works. If you're more or less a casual film fan, who watches movies once in a while, you might not like this too much. As for me, I'm sort of in a transitional stage, so I enjoyed myself without understanding everything. Considering that this film comes from Robert Altman (look at his profile, click on some links for his movies if you don't know who he is. His movies are weird and usually have good casts), you can expect it to have some weird features. The story follows Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins), a Hollywood executive that has a million and a half mediocre ideas thrown at him every day. One day, he has a couple of drinks with a writer (Vincent D'Onofrio) and ends up killing him. The movie is basically plotless, and yet complicated. Griffin goes paranoid and thinks everyone is after him, including a pair of cops, played by Whoopi Goldberg and Lyle Lovett. The movie is splendid, right from the opening shot played as an homage to Hitchcock'S Rope. The opening shot is eight minutes long, without a single cut. It just pans all over the place as people talk. The performances by the main cast are pretty good, especially Robbins. But the part that's really worth seeing is the ton of celebrity cameos. Just about the whole world shows up here. Bruce Willis, Cher, Elliot Gould, Rod Steiger, Julia Roberts, Anjelica Huston, Lily Tomlin, Burt Reynolds, Mimi Rogers, Susan Sarandon, Nick Nolte,Marlee Matlin and Jeff Goldblum are just some of the cameos. The in-jokes are very funny if you can understand them, and the whole pace of the movie is good, if a little overlong. (It's not really that long,either.) If you think you know enough about movies and Hollywood, then take a crack at The Player. You won't be sorry. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Tinseltown Memoirs","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Screen writing is a craft, one of many in Hollywood that builds or supports the towering edifice upon which our glamorous stars ... sit. Without a screenplay, actors, directors, and others in Hollywood might otherwise grovel for beans and potatoes at the local soup kitchen.And so, director Altman gives us The Player, a film about a screen writing executive (well played by Tim Robbins) who listens to story ideas, and makes decisions about what you and I see, and don't see, at the local multiplex. For every idea that evolves into a film, billions and billions of other ideas wither and die, along with the careers of the writers who conceived those ideas. Inevitably, some of those writers get miffed, and that is the premise of The Player.It's actually a weak premise, because in reality the business of screen writing is fairly bland, and the conflict, which exists mostly in people's heads, is fairly tame. To rev up the drama, and to qualify the film as a thriller, the filmmakers here insert some contrived conflict, in the form of threatening postcards. If you watch this film for the thriller element only, you may be disappointed.This film works, not so much as a thriller, but rather as a classy, semi-inside peak into the back rooms of Hollywood decision making. There's lots of humor, some obvious, some subtle. And the film's plot is filled with satirical irony. In addition to Robbins' fine performance, Whoopi Goldberg is great as a tampon obsessed detective.The best approach to The Player is to absorb the Tinseltown setting, and watch the characters as they maneuver for selfish advantage. I really liked the inclusion of dozens of real-life Hollywood celebrities, just being themselves. You get to see them in their natural habitat. This element adds texture and authenticity, and thus helps to prop up the weak story.Although the contrived plot falters somewhat in the middle Act, it's the overall Tinseltown setting and real-life ambiance that make The Player an entertaining and insightful film. "}{"Title":"Insider's Jokes Don't Necessarily Connect With General Audience","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A ton of celebrity cameos was the main thing that made this movie fun to watch, but once was enough. I wouldn't watch it again because there simply aren't enough good guys to suit me. The film is entertaining but has too nasty a tone to it. The language was rougher than it needed to be, but that's no surprise when you have Tim Robbins and Whoopi Goldberg starring.The story gives a look at many of the shallow people who run Hollywood. That automatically earns high praise from national film critics. Despite their innate love of Hollywood and films they somehow always love it when a film trashes the business! Go figure.This black comedy mainly spoofs film executives. The filming is different in that you see one long scene with the camera on a crane taking turns following different people. Some of that is very clever, like the story, but I found a general smugness in this film that bordered on hypocrisy. The people who made this sometimes come off - through the film - like the folks they're criticizing.....if that makes sense. Robbins is good at coming across as smug....almost too good. It seems natural for him. (I can say the same about Chevy Chase and his roles.)Also, I find most films about Hollywood like this one too much an inside joke for us non-film folks to really enjoy. It's like they made this film for themselves. I'm not surprised this movie was a box-office dud, since I don't think they really cared what the average guy in the seats thought about it - only their film peers. "},{"Title":"Witty, Cynical & Brilliantly Written","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The highly impressive opening sequence of this movie launches its audience straight into a Hollywood environment in which people talk about pitches, tracking shots and editing styles as well as indulging in gossip. This is visually interesting because of its long tracking shot and the ways in which various groups of people move around each other. More significantly though, it provides an immediate taste of what the movie's about, as it depicts people whose preoccupations are entirely industry-based. Their focus is on making deals and pitches that are promoted on the basis of how similar they are to other movies that have previously been successful or how suitable certain roles in the script could be for already-established top stars. This is an insular business that pays lip-service to artistic aspirations but is, in reality, only concerned about commercial success.Director Robert Altman uses satire and humour extensively to highlight the superficiality and absurdity of certain aspects of Hollywood life but also by using a plot that features murder, romance and plenty of laughs, makes The Player extremely enjoyable. Predictably, a number of Altman trademarks such as a large cast, interesting use of zoom lenses and overlapping dialogue are all featured as well as a staggering number of well-known stars who appear in cameo roles.Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins) is a Hollywood studio executive who spends his days listening to screenwriters' pitches for new movies. He's well paid, smartly dressed and involved in a relationship with his talented assistant Bonnie (Cynthia Stevenson). Things start to become uncomfortable for him when he starts to receive postcards containing death threats and hears rumours that his job could be under threat because the studio have recently hired Larry Levy (Peter Gallagher), who's a younger, extremely ambitious executive with previous experience of the same kind of work at Fox.Mill presumes that the postcards must be the work of a screenwriter whose ideas he's rejected and after carrying out some checks of his records, comes to the conclusion that a man called David Kahane (Vincent D'Onofrio) is probably responsible. After locating Kahane in Pasadena, he tries to convince him that he's interested in one of his screenplays. Kahane is sceptical, unpleasant and argumentative and starts a fight with Mill which ends with Kahane lying dead in a car park. Mill tries to make it appear that Kahane had been the victim of a robbery and promptly makes his getaway.Disturbingly, after Kahane's death, the threatening postcards keep arriving, Mill becomes the prime suspect for his murder and Bonnie gets dumped after Mill starts an affair with Kahane's girlfriend June (Greta Scacchi). Mill then starts to recover from his problems when he seizes an opportunity to nullify the threat that Levy poses and also gets himself off-the-hook for the murder charge in the most unpredictable circumstances that pave the way for a conclusion that's outrageously funny.One of the many movies referenced in The Player is Bicycle Thieves (aka The Bicycle Thief) and just as Vittorio De Sica had used non-professionals as extras to enhance the authenticity of his 1948 Italian neorealist masterpiece, so Altman uses top-class professionals in his movie for exactly the same purpose.With its terrific cast, wonderful performances and brilliant script, The Player is a great movie that's inherently cynical but never heavy-handed and thanks to its marvellous humour, remains extremely entertaining throughout. "},{"Title":"A commercial comeback for Altman, but it's overloaded with stars...","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Robert Altman practically resurrected his quirky film-making career with this in-jokey, acerbic overview of show business, and the many celebrities who dot the cast prove that Altman's prestigious name and reputation made much of Hollywood want to jump on-board. Still, this murder mystery, with studio hotshot Tim Robbins involved in the death of a would-be screenwriter, is wayward and smug, and the star-cameos are like speedbumps in the course of the story. Robbins is carefully handled and efficient, but disappointingly one-note; Whoopi Goldberg is terribly out of place as an investigator on the case (she looks like yet another star-sighting until you realize she's in character). Brightly-made, fairly lively picture is fine as a time-filler, but it isn't engrossing as a crime flick should be. Altman is more interested in having a good time than in trying to top himself. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The Trick is the Confusion","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.All (fiction) films are about other films. Every actor we see on the screen has another life. Every film somewhere contains a story about itself -- often it takes a film archeologist, but sometimes it is registered in a readable, even unavoidable way.All of the masters and a good many ordinaries play with this notion in one way or another. Some even take it on as a literal challenge `Sunset Blvd.,' `Wayne's World,' `French Lieutenant's Woman,' `Apocalypse Now,' `Draughtsman's Contract,' `Bowfinger,' `8 1/2' quite a few. `The Player' has the advantage of excess which makes it seem unique. It is not, but because the method of making it is as much a part of the parody it is uniquely clever.Part of the parody is the one and only thing most people see. Dozens of actors play themselves amidst many other actors who play characters. Some of those characters are film types, some not. This shifting of worlds is a simple trick, but it works. Much more subtle (except at the beginning) is how Atlman uses the camera to sometimes be in the film's film world, then in his film world (the character's real world), then in our real world (the same as most of the actors). It starts with that first Wellesian shot which includes a comment on pretentiousness of such shots.The writer is watched by both use, but also by a writer who eventually gets his film produced. And of course at the end we discover that it is the film we have been watching. The player is the creator of the player at play. I love this stuff, but get offended when it is juvenile hands as is the case in say `8MM,' or even `Cut.' But Altman is different, he is smart and not at all afraid to take chances. This film marked a change in Tim Robbins. He would go on to produce his own version, `Cradle will Rock,' with many of the same tricks, including the narrative shift and the long tracking shot.Ted's rating -- 3 of 4 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of American cinema's best director Robert Altman shows the true colors of Hollywood in 'The Player'.","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anybody who has anything to do with the creation of a major blockbuster finds a prominent place in 'The Player'. The ubiquitous art versus commercial distinction has not been ignored by director Robert Altman as there are numerous references about this dichotomy in his film. 'The Player' has all the right elements to attract viewers who like cinema either as a form of entertainment or as a form of art. It is with utter amazement one learns that even people in the business of making films speak of films citing examples of great films such as 'Touch of evil' etc. It is no surprise that the entire film is soaked in the colors of cinema with numerous posters of famous films adorn the walls. One of this film's strength lies in its having a gripping story which leaves no room for any kind of dull moment. This effect is achieved through jumping across genres throughout the film namely thriller, comedy and suspense. Director Robert Altman firmly ensures that his film 'The Player' works at many levels. Firstly, it gives viewers a very clear idea of how Hollywood works. One gets to see Hollywood cinema's big fishes hobnobbing at parties with other important people whose job is to break or make the career of these big people. Everybody has just one thing on mind-how to make a successful film which would earn a lot of money ? This sentiment is prominently echoed until the end of the film. Probably, this is one of the best reasons to watch this successful film. "},{"Title":"The Player is the biggest con-artist of them all!","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player, explores Hollywood's crazy situation or better still, it's biggest dread and special guarded secret-it loves happy endings! A movie within a movie which could be referred as a black farcial thriller.A Studio Executive, Griffin Mill, finds his position in a fictional movie studio, we make movies in jeopardy when he is suspected by the police, he viciously murdered a known screenwriter, leaving him hence, in a pool of blood aka Humphrey Bogart detective parodies, who believes he was the man behind the many post cards with hate mail enscribed on the other side.The plot is not really taken seriously which is a standard of the work of Robert Altman. The strength and backbone is established in the many movie stars like Jack Lemmon and Rod Steiger who were willing to make cameos and how specific successful movies are targeted for sequels and re-visions. For example, Buck Henry, appearing as himself (the screenwriter of the Graduate) lobbies the studio, for a sequel for The Graduate as a proposal to make some much needed money.The editing shows in detail, the running of the fictional studio, who were out to alter and determined to make remakes of their famous movies and how murder is always on the cards.The Player may seem at times, stretched out too often, to hide the gaps, but it should be best viewed by people who have a good knowledge of old Hollywood films in the timescale of the 1940s to 1980s. "},{"Title":"Excellent Hollywood satire that succeeds in every way.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For anyone who loves movies, The Player is a treat. To start, the screenplay is first-rate.  The plot that holds the entire film together is superbly crafted; very few films leave you guessing right to the end as this one does.  The finer details also shine through, such as the sales pitch scenes, which are inarguably classic (i.e. The Graduate II).I loved the attention to detail in The Player.  One can find a new detail every time one watches the film.  For example, the opening sequence is a very long, continuous shot during which characters are discussing Hitchcock's Rope, which appears to be a movie filmed all in one continuous shot.  The sheer number of cameos in The Player makes it difficult to list all of them, so I won't even try.The Player is one film that sets out to skewer Hollywood and actually succeeds.  One only has to view the Bruce Willis/Julia Roberts sequence in order to understand this.  My hat goes off to Robert Altman for making another excellent film. "},{"Title":"Feels like a tongue-in-cheek Noir B movie sprinkled with A players","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On the whole The Player is pretty enjoyable if you can appreciate the avalanche of cameos and insider's jokes. Now, with all the Hollywood self-references this doesn't feel too real and actually the stars-as-themselves look cheap with boring lives from that perspective.With the counter-productive glamour context constantly out to chew up all the main plot, the movie itself feels like a Noir movie that never really knew how he should behave with so many big people around. The chemistry between the two main characters is cranky at best - and I won't even try to compare to classic poisonous noir couples. Then the plot doesn't really move forward, and when you get used to it and understand it's more about a big inside joke than about a plot, you find it really drags its feet.Could have been an acceptable joke at 90 minutes max. At over 2 hours it's an over-stretched joke, a movie guilty with self-indulgence and over confidence. "},{"Title":"For Viewers Who Like to Be Challenged","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player could be considered Altman's Big Lebowski in that it withholds much of its pleasure from the first viewing and then begins to grow on you after you have seen it a couple times. This is because it is basically a huge inside joke on mainstream Hollywood film-making, with too many obscure references for a Hollywood outsider to effectively process the first time around. Also like The Big Lebowski, the satire and sardonic wit is packaged around what appears to be a crime drama, with the straight drama itself engaging enough to entertain most viewers the first time around.Tim Robbins plays Griffin Mill, a high level studio executive whose job is listening to the countless pitches that come his way from aspiring writers wanting to get their screen play into production. The studio only produces a dozen features a year so Griffin mostly hands out rejections. He has made at least one major enemy during the process, an unknown writer who begins sending him threatening postcards. Griffin thinks he has a line on the identity of his enemy, an unpublished writer named David Kahane (Vincent D'Onofrio-Private Pyle in Full Metal Jacket) who lives in the valley with his artist girlfriend (Greta Scacchi). But their confrontation goes bad and Griffin accidentally kills him. Things get worse for Griffin; he becomes the main suspect for the murder, he gets a post-murder postcard revealing that he murdered the wrong guy, and he is in danger of being replaced by a newly hired hotshot Larry Levy (Peter Gallagher). The Player is most famous for an eight-minute tracking shot at the very beginning of the film, self-reflexively compared to Hitchcock's Rope and to Welles' Touch of Evil; and full of Altman's trademark overlapping dialogue. Also notable are the 50 or so actors who make cameo appearances throughout the feature; most just play themselves (it is after all set in Hollywood) and it is entertaining just trying to identify everyone. The DVD has a commentary by Altman and writer Michael Tolkin. Unfortunately Altman's film-making style does not lend itself to organized reflection so he mostly just rambles on about everything but the film; and Tolkin has major issues with the whole Hollywood scene so his commentary is just a continuous rant and whine about the system. It is important to remember that Altman is essentially a Hollywood black sheep who has been at war with Hollywood his whole career. The Hollywood establishment is uncomfortable with him because he won't make their standard pre-sold product and yet he manages to crank out enough commercial successes on his own terms to keep them off balance. The Player is kind of his revenge picture, he knew that its production would cause a wave of paranoia to sweep the industry and he made paranoia the defining characteristic of the film. He views Hollywood as a marketing machine that both drives and is driven by the lowest common denominator of audience demographics. During the opening tracking shot look for Griffin's meeting with Buck Henry, who pitches a sequel to The Graduate (Elaine and Benjamin have a daughter and he suggests The Postgraduate for the sequel's title). Henry improvised this pitch which is funnier with each viewing, and appropriately also had a cameo in The Graduate. These film allusions are everywhere as Hollywood's past seems to be passing judgment on its pathetic present. Watch for the bungled meeting at the hotel, the scene ends with the camera centered on a picture of Hitchcock on the hotel wall-a shot of about the same duration as a typical Hitchcock cameo (in his own films). For sheer comedy watch for Griffin's visit to police headquarters where the Pasadena detective (Whoopi Goldberg), interviews him in the busy squad room. Another detective (Lyle Lovett) is a movie buff who keeps chanting One of us! One of us! from Freaks. Griffin plots to derail the threat inside the studio by setting up Levy with a script pitched by self-styled auteur Tom Oakley (Richard E. Grant). It's a Susan Hayward vehicle with the heroine going to the gas chamber because it's reality, and that's what happens. Oakley wants real which means no stars and a non-Hollywood ending. Julia Roberts and Bruce Willis are mentioned as exactly the type of casting Oakley does not want; which foreshadows his pending commercial corruption and artistic compromise. This is a film that is meant to be watched closely (the beginning tracking shot is Altman's way of getting our attention and warning us that we will need to pay attention). Audience involvement is very important to him and he is counting on a motivated audience who brings considerable prior knowledge to the viewing. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Weak story ruins it","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When it's a smart and funny look at the dark side of Hollywood, it's at its best. The numerous celebrity cameos, the sharp humour, and the in-jokes to other movies are all great and make it worthwhile. Unfortunately, that's not the whole film. The thriller aspect is completely ludicrous and only drags the movie down; add into that a rather boring romance, and you've got a film with a serious personality disorder. It never decides what it wants to be, so it decides to be everything, and it just doesn't work. The main cast is solid, and there is some exceptional dialogue, but the overall story is very, very weak. Altman's trademark style is on display in the first scene, and then appears scattered throughout, but large portions of the film are rather blandly directed. In fact, if the entire movie was like the first scene, I would have liked it a whole lot more. "}{"Title":"A treat for film buffs","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Player is a pure delight for cinema buffs what with all the film references (especially 'The Graduate II') and guest cameos. The story structure of the actual plot becoming a proposed screenplay was also a pleasure to watch unfold. Tim Robbins and the rest of the cast do a wonderful job, under the sure direction of Altman, in bringing the sharply written characters to life. Strongly recommended, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Altman at His Lightest Is Still Brighter Than Standard Hollywood","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman is one of the rare American directors who have succeeded in keeping loyal to their own style and vision while also being able to carry on for quite a long time. Altman began directing in television in the 1950's, had his cinematic breakthroughs in the 1970's, and kept working hard until his death in 2006. He always kept a healthy distance to Hollywood, but it seems that he -- like so many others -- had a twofold relationship with the dream factory. The influence of classical Hollywood, which the director adored, is apparent in Altman's cinema, but at the same time he expresses great frustration and even loathe towards Hollywood. Both of these attitudes emerge powerfully in his witty, insightful, and lightweight satire of Hollywood, The Player (1992) which is filled with references to film history. The story focuses on a Hollywood studio executive, Griffin Mill (played by Tim Robbins) who starts to investigate an abandoned screenwriter sending death threats his way. After murdering the writer more or less unintentionally, Mill falls in love with the writer's girlfriend, but his new life is once again threatened by the police investigating the murder case. In the meantime, Mill's studio is producing a new film whose director wants something else than standard Hollywood entertainment, but the studio has different plans. The line between reality and unreality, fiction and non-fiction begins to blur as Mill's life starts bearing a resemblance to all those film-noir movies whose posters hang on the studio's walls. This is the core of the story to which Altman anchors all the multiple story elements that he enjoys developing. Inter-textual references, satirical jokes, and celebrity appearances might at times feel too much, though they all serve a purpose. The abundance of the film is fragmentary, but this episodic nature of the film does not need to be seen as a flaw, since Altman skillfully keeps it all together. To my mind, the beginning of the film nicely introduces Altman's stylistic program and summarizes this ability of his to keep many threads together. The film begins with a long tracking shot, recording the life inside a Hollywood studio from casual dialogue about movies to awkward pitching producers have to listen to, which seems like a direct reference to Orson Welles' Touch of Evil (1958) and its famous opening. Like this opening shot, the narrative of The Player is overall very self-aware; that is, the spectator is invited into taking the representation to account. One is often paying attention to the way things are structured rather than the things themselves. This might be at times alienating -- and intentionally so -- but Altman also strongly focalizes his narrative to the subjective point of view of his protagonist, enhancing the absurdity of the milieu and its surrounding events. All of these narrative elements serve Altman's purposes of criticizing Hollywood. His criticism, though stark and poignant, is hardly hostile, however. Overall, The Player is a veritably lightweight film in the sense that it doesn't have the emotional heaviness of 3 Women (1977) nor the structural complexity of Nashville (1975). The film does have its depth, but it is less striking -- for better and worse. All in all, The Player is a very enjoyable film, but it might be a slight letdown for people familiar with the director's earlier work. Nonetheless, a viewer who loves Altman's films will most likely cherish this one as well, perhaps in a fashion similar to Altman's relationship with Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Hollywood is not the place for faint of heart or for anyone with a sense of ethics","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player (1992) was directed by Robert Altman. Tim Robbins plays Griffin Mill, a studio executive who has the uncanny ability to walk through the quicksands of Hollywood studio politics and somehow stay on solid ground. At one point, he explains that over a thousand scripts are submitted to the studio, and he's the guy who has to decide which 12 films will be made that year. That means 12 people are happy with him, and all the rest are not. In fact, one writer whose script was rejected is sending him death threats.Greta Scacchi plays June Gudmundsdottir, the beautiful young woman Griffin meets while trying to find the writer of the death threats. Whoopi Goldberg plays Detective Avery. Goldberg's a fine actor, but she's burdened with a script that involves a scene about her tampons and her assistant's tampons that's degrading and not even funny.Altman made the film with about fifty of the Hollywood greats and near-greats playing cameos. It's a tour de force to round up that many actors to be on screen for just a minute or less. However, using that many cameo actors is a two-edged sword. As a viewer, you're spending all your time looking to see which face you recognize, when you're supposed to be paying attention to the plot.It doesn't help that Altman uses his characteristic technique of having several characters talking at once. Often, the important lines are not being spoken by actors who are filmed in focus. Someone walking behind the main actors may be saying the really important lines. (Of course, that assumes you can hear the actors. Altman likes his characters to mutter and mumble, and sometimes you just can't make out what's being said by anyone.)Because I have no idea of what really goes on in Hollywood--or anyway, what went on in 1992--I have no way of knowing how accurate Altman's portrayal is. Assuming it's accurate, my suggestion to all of us would be to keep our day jobs and don't go near Hollywood. In Hollywood, there are plenty of knives around, and there's a back waiting for every knife. Definitely not my kind of place.However, The Player is pretty much my kind of movie. It's certainly never boring, the acting is good, there's glamor everywhere, and Altman has opened a small window so that we can see how movies get made, or don't get made.We saw this film on DVD and it worked well on the small screen. If you're interested in what goes on in Hollywood--at least according to Altman--then this movie will work for you, as it did for me. Before you see the film, you might want to look at the IMDb cast list to see actors playing herself or himself. Then, you'll recognize the actors when they show up in their cameos, and save yourself the frustration of saying, I know her, but what's her name? "},{"Title":"The Hollywood Grist Mill by Robert Altman with Over 60 Cameos","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Robert Altman has Made a Few Great Movies, This is One of Them. This is His Element of Unabashedly Anti-Hollywood, a Place Where Altman Resides in Real Life. The Director was Royalty in the Seventies but Shunned in the Eighties When His Maverick Isms Were Considered Unmarketable.The Player is All About Marketing. Star Power, Happy Endings and Such. The Always Interesting Filmmaker Wallows in Tinseltown's Terror of Shallow but Powerful People Existing in a Bubble Where They Bathe in Mud. More Than 60 Familiar Faces Give Altman the Nod as He Nods Back with No Salary and No Scripted Lines (all ad-libbed). They are Wallpaper Adorning His Living Room of the Walking Deadened. There is a Murder Story Central to the Plot and it is Unsettling and Has a Post-Neo-Noir Feel.The Film Stars Tim Robbins and the Gangly Actor is in Virtually Every Scene, but Those Scenes are Frequently Backlit by Multiple Star-Faces and Past Referenced Glory and that Makes the Movie So Much Fun for Buffs. Others May Find it a Bit Indulgent and Overkill. But the Movie has Held Up and Even When Viewed Today, Despite the Dated Hollywood Faces, it Still Manages to be an Entertaining and Biting Satire. "},{"Title":"Watched it yet again, still moved--and angered--by the ending","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It hovers on the cusp of Altman being Altman--which is to say, being a tad indulgent--and Altman conduiting a really great storyline. So it appeals to the side of me that loves character, quirkiness, and color, and also the part of me that still expects good narrative from a movie.The ending, which I won't give away (don't worry), still makes me angry, as well as introspective. I first give way to a kind of victim mentality; externalizing the entrenched problem of big cinema's tendency to abuse the power of images to get the culpable off the hook. But then I realize that the solution is within each of us. All of us are culpable, and the real work of overcoming the systemic problem so beautifully encapsulated by the ending of The Player is work that each of us must do within our own hearts.What more can you expect from a movie? I could say many other things about The Player, but I'll cut it short. I love the acting, with special mention of D'Onofrio's genius work creating David Kahane; a character as passionate and petulant as his screen time is short. "},{"Title":"A quirky and self aware inside look at the film industry","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems self explanatory to say that over the years, many movies have been made detailing the inside workings of the film industry, and it stands to reason - after all, what better subject matter for Hollywood to portray through a film than the industry which makes the films itself? However, the far more common approach for such films is one which glorifies Hollywood, celebrating the business which brings magic into the minds and hearts of millions of people every day. Far less common are films like Robert Altman's The Player - films which dare to show the inner workings of the movie industry without the shiny, day glow exterior, and expose some of the darker and grittier aspects of the industry, while still maintaining a quietly satirical touch. Director Robert Altman cunningly paints his film with a very realistic, almost documentary feel, as if as well as following the plot the viewer is also watching a behind the scenes feature on Hollywood producers. But at the same time, the film itself proves to be essentially an immense inside joke in the sense that it pokes fun at certain conventions of Hollywood films, but at the same time works them into the plot itself, in a smarmy, mocking fashion. (note a gratuitous sex scene, a disturbingly happy ending, even an almost contrived feeling mystery element complete with occasional violent bits) The script, by Michael Tolkin, is quick, clever and unflinching, and is without a question what really makes the film most worth watching, as well as the simply brilliant editing and cinematography (filming a sex scene only showing extreme close-ups on the actors' faces was a particularly garish touch which suited the tone of the film exquisitely) which perfectly capture the film in a fresh and innovative fashion. Rather than launching a huge smear campaign against the monstrosities and immense luxuries of the movie industry (it would be interesting to see how such a movie, one which attempts to tear down the industry producing it, would be marketed...) Altman is content to nudge gently rather than shove angrily. The film is subtle in its criticisms of the Hollywood way of life, but still makes its points abundantly clear, without shoving its ideology into the audience's face. This show rather than tell narrative structure proves far more effective, as the audience is free to come to their own conclusions regarding the ethics of the movies, rather than having a viewpoint shoved down their throat in an abrasive fashion. Altman is also insightful enough to add a quietly comic touch to the film; while the film does serve as a commentary on the movie industry, it maintains an ever so subtle satirical touch, making it difficult to decide if the movie is meant to be more of a cynical expos or a black comedy. It seems most likely that the result is somewhere in between the two, and either way a refreshingly different take on storytelling - which is ironic, given the film pokes fun at the static creativity in Hollywood. Tim Robbins is a perfect piece of casting as Griffin Mill, the slimy, Machiavellian Hollywood producer. Robbins exudes a laid back, almost reptilian charm which perfectly compliments his character - although Mill is essentially a despicable character who commits unethical action after unethical action, always getting away with it, we can't help but still be taken in by him. Greta Scacchi is a bizarre but beguiling presence as the mysterious painter who drifts into Mill's life, and Peter Gallagher is a perfect fit for the part of a naive Hollywood super agent. Whoopi Goldberg is an unquestionably odd choice for the role of an eccentric detective, yet the role fits the quirky tone of the film well. Vincent D'Onofrio shines in his brief role as obsessive screenwriter David Kahane, and Sydney Pollack contributes a wonderful little role as Mill's lawyer. It is also impossible to refer to this film without mentioning the immense quantity of lovingly tongue in cheek celebrity cameos, (John Cusack, Jeff Goldblum, Malcolm McDowell, Burt Reynolds, Julia Roberts and Bruce Willis, whose appearance near the end of the film, a scathing stab at the stereotypical action film is arguably the film's most enjoyable moment) and it really shows Altman's directorial clout that so many stars were willing to come in and poke fun at their industry, almost unanimously for free. Their presence not only strengthens the believability of the plot itself, but also re-enforces that the points Altman is attempting to make in regards to his industry are not altogether unfounded, or such vast quantities of celebrities would not be so openly supporting his film. All things considered, The Player is a fresh take on the increasingly common topic of show business, but it's Altman's cinematic voice, and Tolkin's crackling script, underhanded but twinkling with quiet wit, which really makes the film worthwhile. Robbins perfectly convinces in his part, the greasy soul of the film, and his casting is enough to carry the occasional plot misfires which do arise from time to time. On retrospect, the entire gist of the film can be summed up in a single scene, where Griffin Mill goes to an independent art theater in search of writer David Kahane and ends up watching the end of The Bicycle Thief, an old Italian classic. Mill's response to the film, an attempt to win over the favour of scorned writer Kahane is by saying That was a good movie, I should do a remake of it. Easily worth seeing!-9/10 "},{"Title":"Dazzling Satirical Murder Thriller Set Among The Hollywood Hotshots","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Griffin Mill is a cold-hearted hotshot movie studio executive who is receiving postcard death threats. He assumes it's from a writer he turned down, confronts him, and a heated argument leads to the writer's death. Now Griffin's a murder suspect, and guess what - he picked the wrong guy ...The Player is a fantastic dark thriller which works extremely well, both as a character study of a unlikely killer, and as an expos on Hollywood's practices - story pitches, schmoozing rich investors, audience preview testing and the like. The great thing about Michael Tolkin's script (he plays one of the two goofy brothers trying to cut a deal) is whether or not you relate to Griffin. Do you think he's a scumbag who deserves to get caught, because that is what he is. Or do you find yourself worrying for him, as the tension racks up on all sides, despite the fact that he's a jerk and we know he's guilty. Robbins doesn't make him sympathetic but he does make him intelligent and cultured, so there's always a duality to the character. The sad legacy of this movie of course is that when it came out only an asshole would wear Raybans, drive a Range Rover and talk on a cell-phone all the time, whereas nowadays that's what everyone aspires to. Griffin not only winds up tops in the movie, but everybody wants to be like him. The rest of the cast are varied - Scacchi is boring and Goldberg is ludicrously over the top (playing the one character who's supposed to be realistic), but Stevenson, Ward and D'Onofrio are great. The movie's trump card of course is its astonishing extras cast of sixty-five actors playing themselves (which beats even the forty-three in Around The World In Eighty Days), ranging from huge stars (Julia Roberts, Bruce Willis) to old codgers (Jack Lemmon, Rod Steiger) to cult icons (Malcolm McDowell, Louise Fletcher), presumably all pals of the much-admired Altman. This serves to make it seem both real and fantasy at the time, which is a tone the movie nails spot-on and gels with the happy-but-awful ending it satirises so well. There's also a weird, brilliant score by the prolific Thomas Newman, all bells, percussion and double-bass. I was a bit amazed when Altman made this, since it's a world away from his usual insightful but interminably plodding multi-character dramas, and technically it's superb - it even has a stunning eight-minute opening shot which approaches the work of peerless craftsmen like Brian DePalma or Quentin Tarantino. This movie was funded independently by TV mogul Aaron Spelling, since obviously no major studio would touch it, and was intriguingly snubbed at the Oscars, despite doing good box-office and winning lots of other prestigious awards. I guess Hollywood didn't like what it had to say, which is reason enough to see it. "},{"Title":"Great Hollywood film","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great film about Hollywood. The casting was superb, but the script even more so. Really enjoyed the ending which came as no surprise.Really loved the nuances of the film - the pitching to the agents which is one of the best pitch examples teachers use.If you want to see the best movie about movies, well, see this film. This should be in everyone's video collection. The plot line was excellent and the acting was what grabbed my attention. At first I thought that Tim Robbins couldn't pull off his role, but he did with style. So far, every one of my friends who've seen it, enjoyed a lot. I gave this one ten stars.Scathing indictment on Hollywood and the 'industry' "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hollywood is about players. I have to come out and say that this movie was great. When I saw this movie, I knew very little about writers in Hollywood. With this lack of information, I don't know how far this movie was from his real life. From what I had heard, it looks like it is pretty close. I think it covered his life with great works. I don't have as much to say about the movie as I do about Tim Robbin's performance. Although I know it went along with the movie's theme practically, but I don't know if I like the very end. The performances were extremely good. It is hard becoming a complex character in Hollywod and mimicing the writers, directors, et,in which Altman's was way beyond that. He was an excellent director and took the nuances of Hollywood really well.The Player also shows the narcissism that exists in the industry and how it spills over into our society in the end. "},{"Title":"What just happened?","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" That was my reaction to this movie the first time I watched it. Had to watch it again... and again... and again. And even now, every time I watch it, I get something new.I just learned that Robert Altman passed away. He was so incredible. Even his bad stuff was good stuff. The industry hated him which made me love him more.I don't know that this is my favorite Altman film, but I do know that this one really sticks with me.Mr. Altman, you will be missed. Your Oscar was late in coming but it was no reflection of what your fans thought of your work. "}{"Title":"Is Hollywood really all about the champagne wishes and caviar dreams?","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After watching this movie in my high school film studies class it was instantly added to my Top 10 favorite movie list. It shows the biz for what it really is. I loved this movie because use it didn't sugar coat the story. It got down to nitty gritty that Hollywood is really like. Our movies starts out with a long tracking shot which introduces all of the characters that will later play a major role in this production. I particularly love the fact that within the first 2 seconds of the movie the director establishes the fact that we are watching a movie of a movie. This only adds to the drama. As the movie progresses the star of the show, Griffin Mills played by Tim Robbins, finds himself getting into an incredibly sticky situation. Your going to have to watch the movie to find out what exactly goes on, but I will tell you this. You do have to sit threw the entire thing to fully find out what happens. Just like in any good Hollywood film there are plenty of famous faces, glitz, glamour and of course NUMEROUS unexpected twists and turns. "},{"Title":"It's like a psychic, cynical, political thriller comedy, with a heart","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is difficult to not be instantly intrigued by a movie that opens with a convoluted 8-minute tracking shot while Fred Ward passes comments like Film these days.  Cut-cut-cut-cut-cut.  This is a winning satire on Hollywood. Tim Robbins turns in a great performance as a man who receives death threats and is pushed over the edge.  The film features an excellent cast and many enjoyable cameos.  The camera work is interesting in this film.  It seems like the entire movie is one scene that is just unfolding before the viewer's eyes.   10/10 "},{"Title":"It's like a psychic, cynical, political thriller comedy, with a heart","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is difficult to not be instantly intrigued by a movie that opens with a convoluted 8-minute tracking shot while Fred Ward passes comments like Film these days.  Cut-cut-cut-cut-cut.  This is a winning satire on Hollywood. Tim Robbins turns in a great performance as a man who receives death threats and is pushed over the edge.  The film features an excellent cast and many enjoyable cameos.  The camera work is interesting in this film.  It seems like the entire movie is one scene that is just unfolding before the viewer's eyes.   10/10 "},{"Title":"An Unpredictable Film","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When i first saw this film, i was blown away. The film was nothing like i had expected. From the poster and from reviews here on IMDB and the summary on the front page, i expected a real satire on Hollywood with a bunch of hilarious celebrity cameos and lots of in-jokes. I was pleasantly surprised when i first saw the film because it was so different. Hollywood is hardly a big part in the plot and most of the film is more like a dark comedy drama with hints of romance than the laugh-out-loud cameo machine I thought it would be. Another surprising thing was the fact that it was a very independant film, something i hadn't expected. Don't let any of this put you off, the film is simply amazing and should be seen by anyone interested in the Hollywood filmmaking life.Tim Robbins plays Griffin Mill, a studio exec whose job is to hear pitches from various writers (Ideas like The Graduate Part 2) and pick the best ones. Those ideas will eventually become Hollywood movies. Griffin's career already seems to be going badly when he starts getting angry and abusive letters from a writer who he rejected. Griffin is obviously scared so when he finally decides that it's been enough, he tries to find the writer who is sending him these messages.He comes across the name of David Kahane (Vincent D'Onofrio) and goes to his house to confront him. David isn't home but his girlfriend June (Gretta Scacchi) is and an amazing scene ensues where Griffin talks to her on a mobile phone while looking through the windows. June is oblivious to the fact that the person talking to her on the phone is only a few feet away looking through the window. Griffin later finds out that David is at a theater seeing a showing of The Bicycle Thief. Once the film is over, Griffin confronts David in an alley where a fight ensues. Eventually, Griffin accidently kills David. Scared and paranoid, Griffin runs from the scene after changing some stuff at the crime scene to make it look like a robbery. Perfect, it could never come back to him. But it does and then the messages start coming again. If that's not enough, Griffin is slowly falling in love with June, David's girlfriend.The rest of the film deals with Griffin's fight to keep his position at the studio and to try and not become a major suspect for the death of David. A subplot deals with a film pitched to Griffin by Tom Oakley (Richard E. Grant) that is real and not some Hollywood drivel. Throughout the course of the film, we have scenes dealing with the making of this film.I still find this film amazing. It is very smart but not too much for it's own good. The performances are all brilliant with Whoopi Goldberg stealing the show as a hard boiled, foul mouthed detective.s film is mostly known for the famous eight minute tracking shot at the beginning of the movie. It follows various people around the studio as they live their normal Hollywood big-shot lives. It is a beautiful, amazingly shot scene that should go down in the amazing moments of masterful cinema.The good thing about the many celebrity cameos that litter the film is that they never steal the show or drive the film away from the main plot. The cameos are amazing though. There are some that last less than a minute and there are some that last less than ten seconds (Susan Sarandon, for instance, has a very small cameo role near the end of the film) but they all shine in their roles.The writing by Michael Tolkien based on his own novel (Which i have not read but will very soon) is masterful and he writes each of the characters as if they were real people (Albeit real HOLLYWOOD people) and no character seemed far fetched or unrealistic. It definitely adds to the grittiness of the film and it's characters. The directing by Robert Altman only adds to Michael Tolkien's amazing writing. Altman knows how to direct a film no matter what it's like and this film is one of his films he should be remembered by (Next to MASH, Nashville and Short Cuts).All in all, this film deserves the cult status it has received even if it does take some repeat viewings to get used to.By the way, on the excellent audio commentary to the DVD, Michael Tolkien mentions that he made a pilot for a Player TV series. I'm guessing that the series never happened but does anyone have any info on the pilot? If you do, please send me a message through IMDB. "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to write much about this film, other people have said it all. But what I particularly liked, was that some of the racing cyclists you see when Tim Robbins and Burt Reynolds meet, have shorts of the PDM team, a former Dutch cycling team...Especially I liked Dean Stockwell and Richard E. Grant as producer and writer. Greta Scacchi was nice as the girl with the Icelandic surname, so was Whoopi Goldberg! "},{"Title":"What about...? *vague spoiler ahead*","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a Hollywood movie lover, watching Altman's 'The Player' definitely gave me a shock. The film ensures that the audience is not only fully aware that they are watching a film, but also that they will ironically acknowledge the qualities of the typical Hollywood movie. The blunt reality of life cannot be avoided - criminals are not always punished, and success goes to those who know how to play the game.After watching 'The Player', I am now never satisfied with a Hollywood film. When films so closely resemble a formula, the lack of complexity puts a haunting question mark on the industry's integrity - at least until a satire such as this is able to challenge us.  "},{"Title":"The art of the punch-line","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie turns from a nice movie to a good movie by the masterful use of the art of the punch-line, which I won't reveal to those who haven't seen the movie no matter how much you beg... -) Excellent acting, excellent cinematography. A little slow, but definitely worth your time. Don't stop watching before the titles start rolling. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Terrific satire underneath the guest stars (spoiler ahead)","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (Warning Plot spoiler ahead) Don't be distracted by the many guest stars helping realize this satiric portrayal of Hollywood. Instead, focus on the great movie that director Altman and writer Tolkin have cooked up here. Tim Robbins is terrific as a studio executive who accidentally kills someone, but gets away with it. The film takes a neat twist when he decides to pitch a movie based on the idea of getting away with murder. In a metafictional touch, Altman/Tolkin leave you wondering whether their film is the movie he ends up producing. Some dead-on satire of moviemaking. As you'd expect from Altman, there are quirky supporting turns from Whoopi Goldberg, Lyle Lovett, and Cynthia Stevenson; also, Greta Scacchi has never been sexier. It doesn't rank up there with Altman's Nashville, but I rate it 9.   "},{"Title":"Robert Altman at his brilliant best.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After spending the eighties more or less in the Hollywood wilderness, Robert Altman came back with a vengeance in 1992, courtesy of The Player, his best film since the mid 70's. What makes The Player such an outstanding movie is the fact that it's not one, but many movies. You can enjoy it as a satire on Hollywood, but also as a romantic comedy or as a thriller. The script by Michael Tolkin is crisp and witty and the performances of the actors are just perfect, which is only to be expected from an Altman film. Especially Tim Robbins shines, displaying charm en repulsion at the same time. Still, we can't help but love his character. But the real star of the movie is Robert Altman's direction. In less capable hands The Player might have turned out a dud, but Altman, with his years of experience working inside AND outside the Hollywood system, manages to poke fun at the right times without being disgruntled. And then there is of course that wonderful opening tracking shot, clocking in as a single take of 8 minutes plus. This opening sequence is already up there with the likes of Omar Shariff's mirage appearance in Lawrence of Arabia and Jimmy Stewart's sense of Vertigo in Hitchcock's film as one of the most audacious shots in movie making ever. All in all, The Player is probably the best film to come out of the nineties and it has left an indelible impression on me. "},{"Title":"Another Altman success!!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From the man who can make unbelievable films (go Short Cuts!) and horrid tripe (anyone seen Kansas City??) comes the interesting behind-the-scenes of film-making story of Tim Robbins the movie executive who does everything possible to screw his career, life and self over and yet somehow manages to end up on top. Let me begin by saying I *adore* films where the bad guy gets away. The anti-Hollywood ending is always fun, but the truly amusing films are the ones where antagonism or the anti-hero comes out the winner. This is no exception.Tim  Robbins sets out to confront the writer who he assumes is harassing and threatening him (Vincent D'Onofrio, once again playing a goon...though this time more of an artsy intellectual one. I don't think it's possible for that man to truly act any different character...always the same type -yawn-) Tim Robbins ends up raging and killing said writer. Not only does he kill the wrong guy, amusingly enough. Not only does he get away with it, no no no...not only does he GET THE NOW DEAD FALSE-HATE-MAILER's GIRLFRIEND!! (slowly dropping his own in the process...) But he ends up running the company!!!! And he allows his former g/f to get fired, has his former higher-up who he can't stand no sucking up to *him*, AND goes home (nice house!) in a better car, to his now pregnant wife (you guessed it same dead writer's girlfriend...) How much greater can an ending be??? Huh?? Huh??That said, the movie wasn't great. Oh, it was *good*...even *very good*, but not great. Amusing, probably a lot more so to those on the inside who got more of the caricatures and inside jokes... And I always love the cameos of celebrities playing themselves (which Robert Altman seems to get more and more of each film;) But some of the story dragged a bit too much (especially the police scenes, which went on and on and started to get annoying), and there was some major over-acting. I also really didn't like Greta Scacchi in her role...I don't know why but I found her unconvincing and bland. And I didn't like the fact that the movie sold out in the end (though I understand why...but the former film student in me grinds his teeth together over that;)Overall a good, solid film, Could have been better...could have been *much* worse! And Altman is indeed a master! I *loved* the Touch of Evil tribute at the beginning!! I'd definitely recommend it to watch at least once. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Altman, Hollywood, and the movies","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Player (based off the Michael Tolkien novel) is a stunning satire of Hollywood and the big studios.  It could be said that this movie sends Altman's opinion on the matter as well.  The film itself is a stunning example of intellectual filmmaking (including the opening sequence which is a reference to Orson Wells' Touch of Evil, not The Rope as someone previously mentioned).  This film contains, possibly, Tim Robbins best performance as a sleazy studio exec investigated for murder (and being threaten by, presumably, a writer that he's turned down).  It can be argued that Altman deserved to win best director for this film in 1992 as it is such a work of creativity.  Despite the slightly mean tone of the work it is definetly enjoyable and stands as one of Altman's 3 greatest works (Nashville and MASH being the other 2). "},{"Title":"Good L.A. Story companion","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Darker and less metaphysical than L.A. Story, but it would be a good night in front of the telly if you watch these movies back to back with a glass or two of wine between.  I'm not sure which one you should watch first, though, because The Player is weightier, but a bit of a downer.  (Swimming with Sharks is too over-the-top to be placed in this company.)Robbins sneers his way through, looking down on everyone, to the movie's great benefit.  I don't know if he's acting but he's perfect.  The other thing that always impresses me is the eerie, vaguely New Age soundtrack, which along with the rather idealized cinematography gives The Player a lingering surrealistic edge.I don't know if I would call The Player one of the ten best movies of the 1990s, but it is certainly one of the some small number best movies of the 90s. "},{"Title":"A Portrait of Greed and Power","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Player is not about the Kevin Costner good guy type who wins in the end. It is not about the Clint Eastwood anti-hero who beats up people but has a heart of gold. No, we see the self absorbed and self centered who will stab you in the back and not think twice. The Player does not try to wrap its cruelty with pretty speeches like Woody Allen's Crimes and Misdemeanors. You wonder why OJ did it? The Player will give you a good idea.The background of the story is the movie business. This provides cutting humor about how scripts are chosen as writers and actors deal with the money people, the executives. Everyone smiles at parties and at restaurants but in a corner whisper what they really feel and it usually isn't very kind. Meanwhile, the executives try to get each other fired by setting clever traps. With Michael Tolkin's script and Robert Altman's direction, a human jungle is created.The people in The Player are not monsters like in some slasher or serial killer movie. They are not part of the Mafia. They seem nice enough, just very wealthy. But they also can do monstrous things. Surrounded by lawyers and other hired help, who can stop them? Part of the brilliance of The Player is that it makes a horrible act seem natural. Money and power is all they want and if someone dies while getting in their way, too bad.It's a Wonderful Life covered some of this ground but softened it with angels and fluff. The Player turns that happy ending upside down. Maybe the truth is too hard to take. But once in a while a nice guys finish last story can make for an excellent film.   "},{"Title":"The Player plays the game","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent movie about the games that Hollywood plays.  The plot is about a movie executive that kills a screenwriter that was threatening him.  The movie twists and turns faster than a rollercoaster at Magic Mountain! Along the way, cameo appearances by some of the hottest stars of the early 90s take shape, like Julia Roberts, Susan Sarandon, Burt Reynolds and Cher. Tim Roberts performs his best role as the movie exec, and Greta Saachi is fabulous as his love interest, the ex girlfriend of the screenwriter.  See this one! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, its really worth seeing.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie because the one I wanted, was out. I thought it was a little above average when the credits started to roll. The video had an interview with Altman. The interview gave new insight to the movie and it bumped the movie from above average to fantastic. I think its worth a trip to the video store to get the tape and see it with the interview. (its even got some scenes which were cut) "},{"Title":"One of the best satires I've ever seen","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best thing about the humor in this movie is you don't have to live in Hollywood to get the jokes, and the jabs, and the sarcasm that is heaped on aplenty.  It also helps if you're into good films and can't stand it when everyone you know wants to go see the latest stupid, tired, action flick or romance.  This is definitely the movie for you. For people who don't get this movie, too bad for you, I guess. You're missing out.  "},{"Title":"Want to know about behind-the-scenes Hollywood? Look no further!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very funny film, a black comedy that also serves as a mystery and top-rate thriller. It is essentially a satire of Hollywood, and of the inept and insecure players that run it. There are cameos from dozens of real celebrities, such as Bruce Willis, John Cusack and Burt Reynolds. It is an essential movie for anyone with an interest in the industry, and although the plot flags in places, most people will enjoy the film.  "},{"Title":"Only in the Movies","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How many dream of being in The Movies? After seeing this excellent living description, any thoughts of this should be immediately disabused. Sleaze can be laundered, pressed and folded to look as squeaky clean as the Southern Baptists and Altman does it superbly. Must see Movie.Griffin Mill is able to do what OJ and Bill Clinton never could do. Get away with it. Altman's best. "},{"Title":"The best satire I've ever seen in a movie","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The scathing satire and rapier witted black comedy in this film is in the calibre of Catch 22. The expose on the dog-eat-dog movie world is of top quality, at the same time delivering a story which is perfect for exacting all the satirical connotations of the film.Tim Robbins plays a slimy executive producer, who starts receiving threatening postcards from a writer whom he did not call back in regards to a pitch. He gets increasingly worried about it, and eventually loses his cool and tries to hunt down the writer.The following series of events are all perfectly timed and impeccably delivered, each of the performances rock solid, especially Robbins' character, Griffin Mill. The film has many, many cameos (66 all up), so keep your eyes out for some big name stars that appear for a mere second.Altman is at his best here, as he is in Short Cuts. But some of his recent works, Pret-A-Porter, Kansas City and The Gingerbread Man have all been flops. It's good to see what he can do when he's in the zone.Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Robert Altman (Short Cuts)Written by Michael Tolkin (Deep Impact), based on his novelStarring Tim Robbins (The Shawshank Redemption), Greta Scacchi (Presumed Innocent), Fred Ward (Dangerous Beauty), Whoopi Goldberg (Sister Act), Peter Gallagher (To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday), Brion James (D.O.A.), Cynthia Stevenson (Forget Paris), Vincent D'Onofrio (Men In Black)As Reviewed by James Brundage From the master of independent cinema, Robert Altman, comes the blackest of satires, The Player.  Postmodern, intelligent, suspenseful, funny, brilliant.  All of these very useful adjectives apply to this film.  There is no way around it The Player is great.The Player, as I stated, is a black satire from the director of Short Cuts, M*A*S*H, and Nashville.  It follows Griffin Mills (Tim Robbins), a villain we love to hate, and, ironically, our main character.  Mills is getting postcards.  Each one is a threat on his life, and telling others, due to the fact that his position as a studio exec is threatened by up-and-coming producer Larry Levy (Peter Gallagher), is a threat on his career.At the beginning, Mills is charismatic, even likable.  But he's quickly shown for the snake that he is.  In the words of Tim Robbins, who deserved but was not even nominated for an academy award for his role, `he's manipulative, he's a son of a bitch.'  It's true, it's all true. The threatening postcards lead him to believe that a writer is sending them. A rejected writer.  However, in the cruel industry of movies which kills more ideas than W.W.II killed people, this does not narrow it down.  What does narrow it down is one of the more bizarre moments of the film.  He's in the hot tub with Bonnie, story editor and girlfriend (and, by, the way, the only moral character of the movie), when he asks her about his own life. However, unable to formulate it into his own life, he explains it through movies.  He gives her a pitch, asks her how long it will be before the writer-in-question becomes dangerous, and she narrows the selection of writers down by providing a five-month time period before danger arrives.Using this, he selects David Kahayne, hack-writer of the bubonic plague of Hollywood the unhappy ending.  David's what movie people call `unproduced', a writer who's a member of the WGA (Writer's Guild of America, which holds a fairly good monopoly on writers in Hollywood) but who hasn't sold a script. He calls his girlfriend June Gudmundsdottir (Gretta Scacchi, pronounced good man's daughter) and finds out where to find him.  The surprise there, of course, is that his nickname is, according to June is `the dead man'.Kahayne is in Pasadena, enjoying himself at the Rialota watching The Bicycle Thief.  Mills confronts him about the postcards, and, in a fit of rage, kills him in a parking lot. Of course, fitting with the Hollywood that it satires so well, he didn't kill the right person.  And now, Griffen Mills is being investigated by the police, is falling in love with June, is trying to secure his position as head of the studio, and, on top of it all, fearing for his life.The movie is artistically brilliant and interestingly postmodern.  In a very ironic way, the ending is the beginning a pitch by the mysterious psychotic writer of a movie called The Player, about the events you have just seen. It references itself naming the record for a tracking shot in an American motion picture (formerly held by Orson Wells' Touch of Evil) while breaking it.  Having a main character from D.O.A. being asked if he remembers the film.  Talking about eliminating the writers from the artistic process the day after Mills has murdered the writer.There normally isn't much I can say about a film.  In my life, there are maybe ten films I could go on and on about, and you have the luck to hopefully see this one.  It makes statements.  It predicts things.  It was ironic at the time it came out and is ironic now.For instance, Griffin Mills is quoted as saying `movies areart, now more than ever' while, at the very same time in the real world, movies were flocking back to the existence of the art film.  It is sheltered in a unique ambiguity June discovers the Mills killed her boyfriend and doesn't care.  The good are punished, the bad survive Bonnie is fired and left for proverbial dead while June and Mills live happily ever after.This is the film for movie buffs.  It makes you stop and think about what speeds in front of your face at 24 frames a second.  It states things about the industry in a uniquely detached manner, where people talk about all the dark things of the industry as if they were drinking cappuccinos.For instance, another quote by Griffin Mills, asshole producer but satiric god, addresses the elements needed in a modern studio film `Suspense, laughter, violence.  Hope, heart.  Nudity, sex.  Happy Endings.'It is brilliant.  It is one that you have to own.  It is the movie to watch.  "}{"Title":"Great Comeback for Altman","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Hollywood studio executive (Tim Robbins) is being sent death threats by a writer whose script he rejected - but which one? We start with the opening tracking shot, which is really an achievement. Not record-setting, but still pretty fantastic. Then for the next two hours, we get an amazing list of cameos. This does make it rather unusual when the actors were not playing themselves, however. Why is Julia Roberts herself but Tim Robbins is not? Does Tim Robbins exist in this world? Regardless, the film offers great roles for Vincent D'Onofrio and Lyle Lovett. Lovett is a natural quirky police officer, and D'Onofrio is a top-notch actor when in the right role. This may be one of his top three performances.The movie ushered in a new period of filmmaking for Altman, who continued on to the epic adaptation of Raymond Carver's short stories, Short Cuts (1993). Those two combined really gave Altman a solid third act, after his disappointing decade of the 1980s. "},{"Title":"A vivid picture of the movie system.","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman was at the end of his rope in 1991 when Michael Tolkin came to him with a screenplay based on his own novel that would eventually become the incredibly smart, edgy black comedy about the movie business, The Player. Seeing an opportunity to take a little revenge on the snob types that had ridiculed and hampered him for most of the 1980s, Altman took the project, which today must be recognized as a classic Altmanesque movie; one of his very best.The film opens with an 8 minute tracking shot, going over various writers, producers and executives as they go about the business of deciding which ideas are best to be produced into movies. Typical of Altman, we only get bits and pieces of conversations that seem to have started before and end after the camera captures them. We hear about a possible sequel to The Graduate as well as other hopefully unsuccessful projects, all mentioned strictly because there is a notion in someone's head that it might be successful in terms of money.Altman is very careful in his satire here, using these high-ranking individuals as the foundation for all that is wrong with the movies today, yet never makes it seem that he is pointing at one specific individual. There are numerous story lines going on here, also typical of Altman, and though sometimes they overflow with one another, the film mainly follows the actions of Griffin Mill, a producer with threats of losing his job and being killed by a writer he refused to listen to about his pitch. He then uses these personal troubles to fight back to the people trying to sweep him under the rug by using their own game against them.It is somewhat difficult to describe all that goes on in this film, which I will say again is very smart and wickedly pointed about the movie industry. Altman's fame in the 1970s helped him attract numerous stars for cameos in this film and that adds even more poignancy and realism to the story. Tim Robbins is excellent as Mill and we watch him with an an endless fascination, wondering what he will do next. Certainly one of Altman's best films, along with MASH, Nashville and 3 Women and one of the best movies about movies ever made. "},{"Title":"A Delicious Hollywood Satire Not to be Missed!","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You want to know what really bugs me? When movies like this never get near the amount of recognition that they rightfully deserve. Robert Altman's 'The Player' proves itself to be one of the most ingenious concepts to have ever come out of Hollywood. A delicious satire/social commentary on the film-making industry, 'The Player' provides clever, insightful and witty social remarks on the truly formulaic and distasteful business side of movie-making. Not only does it manage to dish out some cunning jabs at Hollywood and its various constituents, but it is also good-humored enough to not take itself too seriously by poking fun at its own ironies.The film's main focus revolves around Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins), a notorious Hollywood studio executive at the top of his game whose life suddenly comes to a grinding halt when he starts receiving threatening postcards from an anonymous, embittered writer whose script he rejected several months prior. In an attempt to uncover the identity of the mysterious writer, Mill ends up accidentally killing an innocent man in a heated altercation, thinking he was the anonymous writer. Once he discovers he made a devastating mistake, this sordid turn of events turns Mill's world upside-down and creates a whirlwind of lies, deceit and corruption that he desperately tries to not only keep up, but ultimately get away with in the end.Though 'The Player' may seem to be geared more towards avid film watchers (individuals who are more apt to understand and appreciate the in's and out's of the film-making industry, its practices, and the big names who run it), it can still be enjoyed by the occasional movie-goer as an edge-of-your-seat, cat and mouse thriller filled with the sort of traditional mystery and suspense that old, classic Hollywood was known for churning out in the Golden Age. "},{"Title":"So This Is What Altman Thinks of Hollywood","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Leave it to Robert Altman to announce his return to Hollywood with a scathing indictment of it.After a decade of working in virtual anonymity, Altman made a comeback with this dark comedy, scoring his third Academy Award nomination as director and his first since Nashville nearly 20 years earlier. It's instantly recognizable as an Altman film -- the opening of the movie is an 8-minute tracking shot following various conversations about either story ideas or movies in general, including one about famous tracking shots from famous movies.Tim Robbins plays a self-absorbed producer who begins to receive death threats from an unknown writer whose idea Robbins ignored. As he becomes increasingly paranoid, the movie becomes increasingly like a nightmare, and the world of Hollywood begins to become more and more removed from the world of everyone else. Altman vents his frustration and disdain for the asinine business of making movies, even while he suggests that the business is worth putting up with in order to do what he loves. Pretty much everyone who had ever been in an Altman film to that point in time (and many who hadn't) have roles in this movie, some -- Peter Gallagher, Sydney Pollack, Vincent D'Onofrio, Whoopi Goldberg (hilarious) -- playing fictional characters while others -- too many to name -- play themselves. Robbins anchors the film though, with a great performance completely lacking in vanity. Only Altman would choose to do a full frontal male nude scene with the actor caked in mud.The Player is not actually one of my favorite Altman films, but it did signal his return to his typical large-scale ensemble format, and it allowed him to make Short Cuts, which IS one of my favorites, the very next year.Grade A- "},{"Title":"So many years later, it's still fun","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't say that I like everything that Robert Altman made. He makes large rambling movies with so many actors in so many parts with so many subplots that you need paper and pencil to take notes during the movie. Watching 'M*A*S*H' bores me to tears. Same for 'Nashville.' However, I watched 'The Player' again recently and I was impressed by what a witty, entertaining film it is. Yes, it's got all those bells and whistles that make it worthy of analysis by film-school-students or armchair film critics (count me in) but it's just fun to watch.I gawk at movie stars like anybody else would. So when Griffin Mill, the main character, brings his main squeeze Bonnie to a party that's filled with business people from their industry, the movies, I'm right up there shouting, 'Look, Steve Allen and Jayne Meadows, there, standing in the hallway!' There are subplots that all weave together to a conclusion, but much more neatly than achieved in his previous films. There actually seems to be A plot here, not several plots duking it out to win your attention. I thought I actually spied a 'Turning Point' in the movie when Bonnie accuses Griffin of publicly cheating on her in front of, she says, 'hundreds of my closest friends' at an awards dinner. Griffin starts to own his evil impulses at that point. He even looks evil at that moment, settled back, dressed in black and looking fairly Satanic as only a blatantly cheating weasel boyfriend would.Whoopi Goldberg had a sympathetic role in this movie; she plays a woman detective in the Pasadena police department. I think it's the only time I've ever appreciated her charm. She can act but not charm. This time I was charmed.This movie gave me a great trivia question what movie had Bruce Willis the knight in shining armor and Julia Roberts the princess? Answer The Player. And in the Player, she doesn't rescue him back. "},{"Title":"Hollywood endings and non-Hollywood endings","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After many years of semi-obscurity, Robert Altman made a full-scale comeback with the blistering satire The Player, about Hollywood. Tim Robbins plays producer Griffin Mill, working in a studio. He gets pitched thousands of scripts every year, but has to choose twelve. Day in and day out, he hears ridiculous suggestions like The Graduate 2 - from, who else?, Buck Henry - and so he usually tells people that he'll get back to them. But one day, he tells this to the wrong person, and he starts getting threatening postcards from this unidentified individual. Finally, it all boils over.Aside from simply the main plot, this movie gives you the sense of several things. One gets the feeling of how weird the Hollywood world is, and how unpleasant it must be to have to be part of that world. Even when a director suggests a realistic movie without top stars, everyone immediately wants a happy ending and top stars. There are cameos from more movie stars and singers than I could count, and they're usually egomaniacs at best, total creeps at worst (I wonder if any of what the movie portrays mirrors what went into making the movie). But probably the most interesting aspect is how several times throughout the movie, they mention the movie's plot as an idea for a movie.Overall, this must be one of Robert Altman's coolest movies. It's got the feeling of his movies, what with everyone talking at once, and a no-holds-barred look at its topic. I definitely recommend it. Also starring Greta Scacchi, Fred Ward, Whoopi Goldberg, Vincent D'Onofrio, Peter Gallagher, Dina Merrill, and the numerous stars in cameos. "},{"Title":"Is the ending of the Player the Hollywood ending the audience want?","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie, albeit a bit slow, has kept me glued to the screen, wondering what would happen next. Many cameo appearance of the celebrities may be one of the reason. Tim Robbins looked refreshed and kept the story moving.Near the end of the movie was the screening of a new movie (movie in a movie) greenlighted by the studio executive Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins). In this new movie, the ending was changed from a non-Hollywood ending and no big actor to a happy ending with Bruce Willis at the last shot. The move was to guarantee customers' satisfaction and box office success.Back to the plausible ending of the movie the Player. Is the fate of Griffin Mill what the audience really want or what the studio executives think the audience want? It's not what I want, for sure. "},{"Title":"Interesting and entertaining","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film works on different levels. Its comment on Hollywood is truly funny and biting. But the story is gripping as just a drama about power and greed. The fact that we identify with the main character and dare I say - want him to get away with murder - shows how well this story was crafted. Yes you can love and hate someone at the same time. OK - it doesn't do it as well as the Godfather - but the Godfather doesn't make you laugh at the same time. The end of this film is hysterical. Since I grew up in Canoga Park I almost fell off my chair when the line came about how us Valley consumers will eat up the new ending to the film being made. If you haven't seen The Player and you like movies - go rent this one. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Robbins glides through Altman-ville!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman's best film of the 90's (slightly above Short Cuts) with a innocent gleam in his eye while defacing Hollywood Proper with a million cameos and a great cast.  Tim Robbins was never better (although he's usually better playing slightly feebed-out non-players), but he captures the shallow confidence that works in Tinseltown with timing, good neckties and temporary power that is as smooth as a pina colada in Malibu.  It's not even the best script he ever touched, but Mr. Altman knows how to get the best out of his people (EVER WONDER WHY ACTORS LOVED E. KAZAN?) without slashing/hindering whatever their persona needed to be THAT YEAR.  Most older directors (especially the best) get cynical, senile, and just plain useless if they aren't a part of modern-day lushness.  Not this dude!  I recently saw The Company (not one of his best), but you could see that he still isn't out of it yet. It's a wonderful story, so well-cast that you'll crack up (the only time Whoopi Goldberg has been serious (and funny) since The Color Purple), but it's hard drive down Route 66; Hitch a ride! "},{"Title":"A great Altman !","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film I re-saw on TV tonight with a great great pleasure. A little cynical but realistic on how the Hollywoodian system can work... The end is ironical and very bright ! Altman has the intelligence of not preaching against the system but showing it as it works. The best lesson ever !  "}{"Title":"Altman Skewers the Film Industry","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Player, Robert Altman's skewering of the movie industry, is yet another of his spot-on black comedies. One is reminded of Nashville where he turned his sights on the country music industry and politics. Now his victim is the industry in which he toils.  Altman provides a multi-layered view of the film industry from the point of view of the executives that run it, particularly those that have the responsibility for approving movie projects. If Altman is accurate, they are a cold, bloodless, bunch, capable of anything to get movie viewers into their seats.   Altman is aided by a great ensemble cast (isn't he always?) and delivers the goods. The Player is one of his best and is highly recommended for an enjoyable Saturday night rental. "},{"Title":"This Movie Has Taken Over My Life","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To me, The Player is not simply a movie anymore, but a parallel universe.Bob Altman(Director), Michael Tolkin(Writer), Tim Robbins (Lead), Thomas Newman (Score), Jean Lepine (DOP), and everybody else who contributed to the making of this picture managed to achieve the greatest thing any film can do pull the viewer into it's reality while infecting them with an obsessional preoccupation of all things presented within it.In plain English I think of this film at least once a day. Newman's score has become the soundtrack for my own life. Scenes in the film flash through my mind and skew my perception of reality. If I don't watch this film at least once a month, I start to think that somehow I'm missing something back in Player Land and I won't be allowed back in. Some people take drugs to redefine their reality, I watch The Player.That's what a great film can do dig it's way into your psyche and transform you. The Player transcends conventional film elements (plot, action, obstacle) and creates a whole new world. The story (Movie Exec kills Writer and gets away with it) is the river you're carried along just long enough to infect you, at which point, it's too late, you're hooked; you've become reborn as a character in the movie.And Player Land is perfect  the studio lifestyle, hotspring oasis hideaways, cool Malibu seascapes and the warm evening breezes on the St. James Club patio, idyllic, save for the menacing din of police sirens and news choppers in the background. Mill's a murderer, but who isn't in an allegorical sense?And then there's that music. Newman (recently nominated for an Oscar on American Beauty) absolutely pulled me into this film. It's a lyrical oasis that softens Mill's struggle to outrun the consequences of his terrible deed and still survive at the studio.And the cast. Tim Robbins' not even in this picture, because he no longer exists. He is Griffin Mill, V.P. of the Studio with No Name. The other actors, Sydney Pollack as the Mentor, Richard E. Grant (That's reality!) as the Director, Vincent D'Onofrio as the Writer, Peter Gallagher as the Rival, Fred Ward as the Guard, Gretta Schacchi as the Girl, Dean Stockwell as the Producer and Cynthia Stevenson as the Conscience all match him note for note. Everybody is who they play, no longer the people playing them.Lepine's camera is our Guide, putting us where we want to be in Player Land, drifting in and out of the scene with an invisible touch, pulling us in as silent characters, living our lives beside Griffin as he bobs and weaves, cheering him on at every crisis, chills of admiration running down our back as he rolls his Rolls home to his Brentwood estate, willing accomplices, revelling in his success. How guilty is a murderer who never gets caught, anyway? And given half the chance, we'd swap places with him in a second to get what he's got! Thankfully, it's only a movie, so we never have to admit that to ourselves.And then there's the Director, Bob Altman. Twelve years on a desert island known as Not Hollywood, Altman pushes and pulls his experience and talent in a direction that redefines what a film can be, orchestrating in perfect synchronicity the considerable talents of everybody who created this masterpiece. How did he do this? Digging for thirty years in the mine that is Hollywood, driven to make movies no matter what, no matter who, come hell or high water. Creating for a living hurts. Who better to tell us that in The Player than Robert Altman? This combination of man and project were a once in a lifetime meeting of destinies.And that's the one piece of reality that stays with me after watching The Player  that a great film is so rare because so rarely do the creators work so well together. You literally need the perfect Director, the perfect script, the perfect cast and the perfect score to make the perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Where the #*@% is your mother buried?","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's been quite a while since this swell picture came out and I'm hoping the next group of youths going to become tomorrow's writers and/or directors are paying closer attention to The Player than crappy reality television for their inspiration. Who needs a group of filmmakers that are famous for being overpaid and blas about their work. Making movies should be the most fun occupation anyone could have and hearing rich people complain about their petty grievances isn't on the agenda for the typical ticket buyer.The Player kicks some ass and unfortunately, it's the same ass many of those appearing in it have to bow down before in their line of work. There are great, intelligent executives who want to help the process of talent making their best efforts count for something at the end of the day. But they are outnumbered by those who like perks and having a job, so risk taking isn't seen as a good move by those toiling in a giant corporation controlled machine. Too many projects are green lit because the allure of huge profits outweighs artistic merit.Tim Robbins plays a man who's bright enough to be the good kind of exec, but his basic shallowness is too impressed by big offices and flashy premieres to take any actual step in the direction of film art, highfalutin speeches of his aside. And Peter Gallagher is another slick hustler picking any meat left on the bones of cinema's early 1990s carcass, heading on down to the celebrity packed AA meeting to weasel himself into any deal he can.Vincent D'Onofrio is the wound up screenwriter under no delusions whatsoever as to why Tim comes to a theatre to find him. This man who composes the sort of literate scripts Tim and Peter want to turn into beach party flicks has zero patience for any BS and it ends up being his downfall.Robert Altman gets his best work environment ever, as Michael Tolkin adapts his book into a crackerjack script with plenty of exploring room for the legendary improvising director's cast. It's tempting to want a sequel, but sometimes one must stop while they are ahead! The Player is a film for those of you who want smart, funny choices that don't make you feel like two irreplaceable hours of life have been taken away. "},{"Title":"A Good Film -- but a Great Satire","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player, like a number of other Altman films, is a story set in a larger framework that is the real subject of the film. In this case, the larger framework is the movie industry itself and with a number of famous movie stars appearing briefly as themselves, Altman gives Hollywood an hysterical going over. The plot in the foreground -- starring Tim Robbins, Greta Scacchi, Whoopie Goldberg, Lyle Lovett and others -- isn't especially engrossing; it is a somewhat routine story of murder and the pursuit of the murderer. The hilarity of the film takes place off to the side so to speak -- snatches of overheard conversations, plus the plotting and execution of a film that is intended initially to be a starless vehicle ending in the execution of an innocent woman and eventually becomes a movie starring Julia Roberts as the innocent woman and Bruce Willis as the district attorney who smashes the window of the execution chamber to rescue her after the gas pellets have already been dropped. It is Altman laughing at Hollywood and Hollywood laughing as itself. The plot in the foreground is merely okay. The satire is brilliant. "},{"Title":"The Player","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player is based upon the novel of the same name by Michael Tolkin who also wrote the film's screenplay. The film is about a movie executive named Griffin Mill who has people come and tell him their ideas for movies and he is the one who decides if they get made or not. Recently, Griffin has been getting a lot of postcards with threats and curse words on them which starts to make him very nervous. He figures that this must be from a writer whose script he had rejected in the past, so he meets up with the man he thinks is doing it and ends up killing him. Griffin then falls in love with the dead man's girlfriend named June Gudmundsdottir, and is soon being followed and questioned by detectives and the police, his job is on the line and he is still getting those nasty postcards. Winner of The BAFTA Film Award for Best Direction (Robert Altman) and Best Adapted Screenplay at The BAFTA Awards; The Bodil Award for Best Non European Film at The Bodil Awards; The Best Actor Award for Tim Robbins (who plays Griffin Mill) and the Best Director Award at The Cannes Film Festival; The Edgar Award for Best Motion Picture at The Edgar Allan Poe Awards; The Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture Comedy Or Musical and Best Performance By An Actor In A Motion Picture Comedy Or Musical at The Golden Globe Awards; The Independent Spirit Award for Best Feature at The Independent Spirit Awards; The Silver Ribbon Award for Best Director at The Italian National Syndicate Of Film Journalists; The KCFCC Award for Best Film at The Kansas City Film Critics Circle Awards; The ALFS Award for Director Of The Year and Screenwriter Of The Year at The London Critics Circle Film Awards; The NYFCC Award for Best Cinematographer, Best Director and Best Film at The New York Film Critics Circle Awards; The SEFCA Award for Best Director at The Southeastern Film Critics Association Awards and The WGA Award for Best Screenplay Based On Material Previously Produced Or Published at The Writers Guild Of America. The Player has good direction, a good adapted screenplay, a great performance by Tim Robbins, good original music and good cinematography. This was a very intriguing and entertaining film. One of the reasons I saw the film was because the premise of the movie sounded really interesting to me and it payed off during the film. It kept me interested throughout the entire film and always had me entertained and even curious and guessing during the movie of what would happen next. The film also has some witty and sharp dialog and is a very sharp, well written and put together film. The film also works as a comedy and has some great Hollywood in jokes that any fan of movies should appreciate and like. For an intriguing and compelling film that is sharp, witty, well put together and well acted than I definitely recommend The Player to fans of black comedies and also to movie fans everywhere. "},{"Title":"Adaptation.","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some Spoilers.The Player opens with a long, tracking shot outside of a Hollywood studio. We see a man walk by (Fred Ward) who complains about how directors use too many cuts in films nowadays, and that they should use long, tracking shots, instead. The irony? The beginning of our movie is using a long, tracking shot.We wind around buildings filled with hoards of famous stars and directors and writers. Griffin Mills (Tim Robbins) is a studio executive - he hears film pitches, or outlines for film stories. We see Buck Henry (writer of The Graduate) throwing a pitch to him for The Graduate Part II.It is 1992, and every time a pitch is thrown, we hear a film exec respond to the pitch thrower by saying, It should star Julia Roberts and Bruce Willis. One British man throwing a pitch to Griffin insists that his film shall have no big stars, especially not Julia Roberts or Bruce Willis. He says that he wants no action, no car chases, no sex, no happy ending. And when the hilarious, surprise movie-within-a-movie ending of The Player starts to unfold. . .well, let's just say that things do not always turn out the way people want them to.And this is what makes The Player tick. It's a scathing satire, one that the sharpest of film buffs will love for its in-jokes and cameos (over 60!), and the most naive of filmgoers will love for its ironic, good-guys-lose, bad-guys-win story. Griffin Mills (Robbins) has a nice life - a nice car, a nice girl, a nice job, and he's filthy rich. But lately his standing as a film executive has been threatened by the new guy (Peter Gallagher), who is showing lots of potential in the field. One day he gets a postcard with threats on the back. Thinking that the postcard came from a writer he pushed away months ago (Vincent D'Onofrio), he confronts him. One thing leads to another and he ends up killing the writer - unintentionally, we are led to assume, though there are some doubts.But being the ironic movie this is, Griffin has, of course, killed the wrong writer. And so he continues getting postcards and threats - someone even puts a poisonous snake in his car. Griffin becomes more and more paranoid as the days go on, and almost falls to the pressure of police questioning, led by Whoopi Goldberg.In-jokes flow freely. Some big movie buffs might pick up on such references as to Levinson, or The Bicycle Thief (1942), or movie posters hanging on the walls in the background (M, Casablanca, etc.). But it will take numerous viewings before you realize that they are more than just there to please film buffs - they are there for irony. Film buffs might be the only ones who pick up on the irony of them, too.This is a movie made for movie lovers, for the movie insiders and for those who like a good laugh. It's a spoof on tinseltown and all its crazy little rituals of getting a film made. This could be called an anti-heroic movie - and I'm sure it has been called that. It's not for those who like poetic justice in their films. Good guys burn and bad guys win. At first I didn't like this, but then I realized that it isn't trying to be anti-heroic - it's being ironic. And let's face it Irony is funny.The Player reminds me very much of Adaptation (2002), the story of a writer played by Nicolas Cage who doesn't want to Hollywoodize his script about orchids. I just don't want to turn it into a Hollywood thing, he says. He says something to the effect of, No violence, no drugs, no sex, no people overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end. The irony is that, in the end, everything he didn't want to happen in his script happens. There's some of that irony in The Player, plus a little bit more. If you liked Adaptation, then you've got to see The Player. 5/5. "},{"Title":"I'm no insider, I liked it","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unlike many of the comments here that seem to think only folks in the industry like this movie, let me say that i enjoyed it very much. To suggest otherwise would be akin to saying only pro athletes enjoyed the insider-look at Any Given Sunday. Or politicians w/ poli movies, etc..i guess i just like murder movies, seeing a character squirm and thinking, No, you idiot! to myself..funny, too. "},{"Title":"** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What has the potential to be a brilliant satire of Hollywood ends up falling into heavy handedness to the point that it almost becomes silly.  The film is overwhelmed with cameo after cameo, most of them unnecessary.  The actually story, about a studio executive (in an excellent performance by Robbins), who gets death threats from a crazed screenwriter, is very interesting, but eventually falls apart as the many cameos begin to take center stage.  By the end, the story begins to lag, and when it is all resolved it feels like the movie never really cared about the story in the first place.  I admire Altman's directing talent - although his arrogance shows through in most of his movies - and it is especially obvious in the 9 minute tracking shot in the beginning of the movie, probably the best of its kind ever filmed. "},{"Title":"over rated by other viewers","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you work in the film industry then maybe the movie is amazing but for other viewers like me, I think the movie was ordinary.Lot of loose ends which did not make sense to me. How does Tim Robbins figure out (wrongly) the writer of those threatening postcards? Why does he get his ex girlfriend fired? Why did he change his original plan about the Bruce Willis/Julia Roberts movie where he was trying to get the other executive fired but in the end got his own ex girlfriend fired?The good parts were the satire of Hollywood business and the shallowness. I give a 6/10. "},{"Title":"a lot of hype","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll make it short...Sorry, everyone, but this is one of the most overrated movies I've ever seen. All those insider Hollywood jokes, real-life movie star cameos, double entendres, etc, are supposed to make up for the shaky plot and overblown acting, but don't. Robert Altman made some pretty good movies - but this is not one of them. "}{"Title":"Hollywood inside out","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most filmmakers would be reluctant to mock their own trade for fear of biting the hand that feeds them, so it needed an acknowledged outsider like Robert Altman to make one of the better Hollywood satires. Altman and writer Michael Tolkin take aim at the film industry with a battery of inside jokes and clever gestures, including the perhaps too clever novelty casting of several dozen movie stars portraying themselves in cameo (playing spot-the-celebrity can be a distraction, especially with scene stealers like Whoopi Goldberg and Dean Stockwell in fictional roles). Tolkin's story, adapted from his own novel about a paranoid studio executive driven to desperation by death threats from an anonymous screenwriter, is every hack's fantasy revenge against a system favoring glamour over talent. Altman in turn transforms what could have been a cynical grudge match into a tongue-in-cheek salute to the vanity, pretensions, and shallow charms of commercial movie-making, in which the actual films are only accessories to the real action of making deals. "},{"Title":"Easy Targets","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film is supposed to be scathing, but the pleasure it affords is like what you get from watching the Oscars celebrity spotting and in-jokes. - J RosenbaumRobert Altman directs The Player. The plot? Griffin Mill is a Hollywood producer who spends his days reading and green-lighting screenplays. Unfortunately this means rejecting a lot of writers. One writer doesn't take too kindly to his script being dismissed. In response he begins sending Griffin several pieces of nasty and threatening mail.Griffin thinks he knows who the culprit is David Kahane, a writer whom he blew off a couple months ago. Griffin meets up with David outside a bar. The two men get into an argument, after which Griffin accidentally kills Kahane. The rest of the film is a murder mystery (in the vein of old noirs, primarily Double Indemnity) in which we watch as Griffin Mill tries to keep his cool during the obligatory police investigation.Michael Tolkin, the writer of The Player, sees himself as a bit of a satirist. Judging from The Player and The Rapture, he likes to pick really low-brow targets; religion and Hollywood, the two dream factories. Here Tolkin wraps The Player up in a nice neo-noir suit. One can imagine Billy Wilder turning this material into a lean and mean noir. That hypothetical film would have real energy and real bite, managing to say everything Altman's film does, without all the smug, self-congratulatory satire. But Altman's film comes across as the Hollywood equivalent of a Christmas party joke. Altman winks at the audience, rolling out one Hollywood cameo after the next, as he paints a rather clichd view of the movie industry.Altman portrays Hollywood producers as immoral killers who prostitute and prey off writers. He portrays the movie making process as a commercial exercise devoid of artistry. He portrays Hollywood scripts (and romance) as gimmicky and upbeat. He paints actors as self centred and obnoxious...but is any of this news to us? It's not that the film is wrong, or even poorly made - indeed it's quite excellent - it's just that we expect more from a master like Altman.There are some nice, subversive touches, of course. One subtle one Altman gives Griffin Mill a flat chested woman (the obligatory sex scene is designed to showcase her chest) whom he dumps in favour for a sultry artist. They get their happily ever after ending, as the police lay off Griffin's back and shut the case. But elsewhere the film embraces all the points it rallies against. Yes the bad guy gets the girl, but he's not that bad anyway, and the murder was all an accident. Yes, the film within a film ends with a false sell out scene, but so does Altman's film. Here's a topic which deserves a fist in the gut, instead Altman has every shallow executives patted on the back for churning out profits. And of course every Hollywood actor, who eagerly lined up to appear as cameo, gets to play both martyr to and collaborator with the system, thereby both patting themselves on the back and pretending to be self-critical. There's a glib, toothless quality to the film, which is perhaps why, after a decade long drought, it garnered Altman awards and praise. Hollywood likes that which is non-threatening. Is it any surprise that the many people who generally hate Altman like this film?7.9/10 - By Altman's lofty standards, this is an easy satire. And by utilising everything it despises, The Player lowers itself to the very things it tries to critique. Bizarrely, the film works really well as an off-beat neo-noir. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"The Emperor Has No Clothes","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Boy, what a piece of drek. Pointless, meaningless, directionless, expressionless, worthless... Only narcissistic Hollywood people might find this flick amusing. Characters come in and out of the sequences while adding little or no depth. The audience sees, but discovers nothing. If one likes a movie that splices together nice shots, short acting exercises, smarmy dialogue, bad jokes, silly conventions, and vacuous glimpses into the lifestyle of show business types... then one might like this flick. The Player builds story, context, insight, and human grandeur about as much as the average adult video. Perhaps the director wanted to make a movie where the audience fills in the many, many blanks they find, but somehow I doubt that. In the end, The Player is contemptuous and sarcastic of moviegoers. Skip this flick about Hollywood types and rent SOB instead. "},{"Title":"Lets play","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I came across this movie one night on t.v. I was glued to the screen for the rest of the movie. Then I watched the movie in it's entirety, three weeks later. Anyone who's in the film industry will identify with this, where a couple of actors plays themselves funnily enough, one being Burt Reynolds, who confronts someone who insulted him behind his back. I so relate with a lot of things in the movie, where this is pretty close to what goes on in this biz, where an interesting spin of story is what has you engrossed here. Cool and calm Robbins is a big Hollywood exec who's the butt of a failed scriptwriter's revenge, where Robbins passed on his script. God knows how many scripts he would of passed on, in this reality, where many of them meet their demise, going into a back burner. This party really wants to put the knife in Robbins, sending him death threats, and planting snakes in his four wheel drive. Pretty sure of the culprit (Vincent O'nofrio) Robbins confronts him, and I must say this was interesting to see how a exec like Robbins, tries to reason out the problems, he's having with this chafed and supposed/stalker party. But really, here I mean, like telling the rejected nutter why his script didn't cut it. Moments later, an act of manslaughter ensues, where Robbins, now must cover his tracks. He falls in love with the girlfriend (the always great Greta Schacci) of the victim, and of course is questioned by authorities as having been seen with the deceased. Like other Altman films, The Player comes off pretty cool, and is one of his most engrossing films, with again a stellar cast of actors who deliver, notably Robbins, but I particularly liked Richard E Grant, as someone trying to pitch a movie idea to Robbins. On the other side of the token, we can't forget Scacchi as well. You tend to forget the movie's a thriller, you're more into the story, but it could be over weighed by the fact it's more a story than a thriller, with an end you don't expect as far as Robbins is concerned where someone as you might say, again returns, having Robbins by the balls. 123 minutes breezes by in this very involving film, as one must stay to the end to see how Robbin's fate unfolds. "},{"Title":"An Irresistible Hollywood Satire","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie executives in The Player talk about happy endings with millions of dollars in their eyes. They discuss audiences as if they're puppy dogs hungry for Iams rather than Purina. They look at actors and directors not as assets but as money machines. No star actor attached? No acclaimed director at the helm? Throw the project in Poverty Row, or, better yet, the trash heap. If money isn't being made, who cares?Robert Altman's anthrax lined letter to Hollywood is something that captures the imagination from the minute it starts. It is not a slow burn, nor is it something you have to get to truly appreciate. If you've ever watched a movie in your life (which I bet you have), then I suggest you watch The Player immediately. You may laugh, you may sigh, and you may humble grumble your way off the couch when it's over, but I guarantee you will never have a Friday movie night ever again that won't be devastated by the truths The Player spits out at a rapid pace. We forget that behind the Oscars, the Cinetopias, and the blockbusters that befall our cities that the movie-making world is a maniacal and very calculated business. As various stars sit down for chats with David Letterman on some random weekday night, they describe their filmmaking experiences in a way that sounds like music to our ears. But in the midst of all that, we forget that the very movie they're promoting would have never been made had there not been a writer that pitched the idea for the film to a green starved movie executive. Sunset Boulevard was a cautionary tale against the Hollywood machine; even if you're the biggest star in the universe, don't be surprised if you're chewed up and spit out within a few years, Day for Night showed the process of making a film, and how just a few difficult actors can make a huge difference in, well &#x85; everything. But The Player covers the business aspect of it all. In more ways than one, the life of a head honcho is so chaotic and plain interesting that, in comparison, the turmoiled love life of a tabloid star sounds a little bit humdrum.Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins) wears decked-out suits, drives a fancy car, speaks without any hesitation, and isn't afraid to hurt anyone's fragile feelings. Though only in his 30s, he is the hot-shot vice president of a movie studio, pitched nearly 125 ideas a day. The actors whisper about him with daggers in their eyes (Burt Reynolds makes sure to quietly let his friend know that Mill is an asshole only a few seconds after they shake hands). However, Mill's tight and perennially scheduled life is slowly collapsing right under his feet, whether he likes to admit it or not. He is receiving death threats from a scorned writer, a ruthless and highly successful exec from 20th Century Fox (Peter Gallagher) is close to completely stealing his job, and he longs to break up with his girlfriend and colleague (Cynthia Stevenson) who is much too intelligent to be let off the hook without a fight. And as if Mill's life couldn't get anymore complicated, he, in a blind rage, unwittingly murders a screenwriter (Vincent D'Onofrio) who he believed was the blackmailer that has been threatening his every move. And he begins dating his victim's girlfriend (Greta Scacchi) afterward. Whoops and whoops.The Player is a skewering comedy, an unconventional romance, an ensemble film, and nearly a thriller; yet it never loses its footing. Altman got nearly 60 big names to make cameos &#x97; while it sounds excessive on paper, it only makes the satirical elements more red hot. All of our favorite actors (Julia Roberts, Jeff Goldblum, Lily Tomlin, Bruce Willis, Susan Sarandon, and more) seem to make an appearance at least once, and we can only kick ourselves. Are the people that we adore with such endurance really a part of this Hollywood machine?The film hurts like a sharp piece of glass, but I loved it with my entirety. Altman is such a brilliant director that you become equally entranced and appreciative within every shot. The dialogue pricks your skin with its sharpness, and the characters are so fully formed that we can see their humanity amidst all the tough talk they speak. I probably should have hated Robbins' character, yet I respected him in a twisted sort of way. He can get away with so much, but that's only because he's smart enough to take control of even the most turbulent of situations.But look at the way Altman sets scenes. Characters talk over each other just as you or me. There is no needless sex, violence, or other assorted gratuities needed to make some extra cash. The Player is everything the executives in the film say a movie should and shouldn't be. There is sex and violence, but neither are needless. The happy ending comes as they would want it to, but it's drenched in humility, not heart-warming tinsel. The ironies come and go, but the genius of The Player doesn't. Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"A Very Different Film","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player opens with one of the most interesting shots I've ever seen in a film. It's so interesting that I'm actually talking about it. Rather than what one usually sees, which is clips that occur well within 30 seconds or less of each other, The Player goes out of its way to present one of the most long-winded and continuous shots, with a slowly panning camera around a film studio. As the camera makes its round, we are treated to the sight of at least forty extras going about their usual business. Ideas are being pitched, employees are being reprimanded, producers lay back and seem unmoved by anything and it goes on and on for almost a full ten minutes. Ten minutes of continuous shot. Needless to say, it already makes itself highly stylized in its opening scene and also represents the turmoil of a film producer. Which is what the film is about.So, during this opening shot, we actually do see our main character, a tough and shrewd producer. He's not like many of the main characters I've seen before. He's an executive; part of the faceless mass of a company. He's a producer, notorious for playing it safe and only publishing films he knows the public will buy tickets for. Action films, with happy endings and Bruce Willis as the lead. He's living the good life of an executive. He's on schedule, the boss' favorite, dating his secretary and enjoying his wealth. Essentially, he's exactly the sort of person we tend to blame all our economic issues on; the 1% if you will.However, all is not well in his life, as he's been receiving postcards, with threats written all over them, by a mysterious film maker he seemingly rejected. This isn't entirely surprising. As an executive who runs through about 1000 pitches a year, he can't afford to say yes to all of them, so he has a hard time making friends with writers. But this particular sender seems to want to kill the producer, so he's rightfully scared when he receives a stack of about fifty at once, all of them carrying inscriptions of how much the writer hates him. The film folds on from there, and there are a few very interesting plot twists and turns, as well as some rather crowbar plot moves that seem to be there solely for symbolism or because the script writer thought it would look cool on camera.The Player is a different film. It's not as kind as most other films are to its protagonist, nor is it even full of very much action, though it does have a bit of romance. The film is oddly unconventional while conforming to many clichs. It seems to do so with a certain sense of irony, but it doesn't always work in the film's favor, as these moments can seem out of place and awkwardly handled. That and the romance in the film isn't really what I wanted to see in any way, though part of my suspects that's what it's supposed to be like. There's also something about the entire plot's premise that seems a little heavy handed. But there are some really fantastic moments, which make it all worthwhile. If you haven't seen the film, I'd recommend at least giving it a fling. I can't guarantee this is the kind of movie you'll want to watch again and again, but it's worth viewing. "},{"Title":"THE PLAYER pitches just fine...","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie is not a thriller, but shows the story of an executive in a production company. It highlights the dark side of Hollywood (in a satirical way). The camera-work inspired from popular Hollywood classics was cool. There were a number of references from older Hollywood movies (like Citizen Kane, Touch of Evil, Gone with the wind and not to forget the vital comic reference to Sunset Blvd.). I particularly loved the long opening scene in which the actors are described. It was a delight to see a whole load of 50+ Hollywood stars appearing as themselves. The movie, made primarily for movie critics, is a direct attack on typical Hollywood studios. The story suffers with loose ends but the director cleverly fills the pitfalls with some comical elements and stars. Still the Player easily qualifies for a View and I'd give it 6/10 + 1 more for Tim Robbins and the movie ending. "},{"Title":"Mystery with the Altman style","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins) is a studio executive who is receiving death-threatening postcards. He confronts writer David Kahane whom he thinks is sending the postcards. Only things get out of control.This is Robert Altman's sharp biting satirical look at self obsessed Hollywood. Everybody is pitching, everybody is fast talking, and everybody is scheming. This has the Altman style of overlapping conversations. The other interesting thing to watch for is the massive cast of Hollywood stars in cameos. This works as a mystery and satire. There is the minor problem that Tim Robbins is not a likable character. I find no way to root for this man. But it's a good movie none the less. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Hollywood Film","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For lovers of Hollywood, this is the ultimate Hollywood film. It has it all. But to really enjoy it you almost have to be a Hollywood insider, or at least someone who knows Hollywood so well you will catch the subtle Hollywood meaning as it permeates the story from beginning to end. Tim Robbins was never better but Fred Ward and Whoopi Goldberg practically steal the film from Robbins, a hard thing to do when Robbins is so perfectly cast. Fred Ward, a character actor for decades, suddenly appears as a ravishing hunk in every shot, his rugged good looks diminishing the dialogue in every scene he's in. Whoopi Goldberg, a riot no matter what she does, tears the house down as a Pasadena Police Department detective hot on Tim Robbins' trail. The scenes at the police department will have you on the floor laughing your head off. There is so much going on in this film that two or three viewings at least are necessary to catch it all, but it is pure, undiluted Altman from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Good&#x85;","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another subtle dark comic film from Robert Altman which will irritate you sometimes with its overlapping dialogs and keeps you on the edge of the seat with its extremely strong content. The script has a script and a script and again a script. The engaging portions in Altman's movies are the dialog and a very sweet comedy which will strike the intelligent areas of your brain. You have to analyze and understand. THE PLAYER is about a Hollywood studio executive who reads scripts by people and tells whether it can be converted into a film or not. Some writers get angry and he accidentally is involved in a lot of problems.With this film Altman also gives the audience a small understanding of the movie business. While there are some movies which are made entirely on filmmaking like Day for Night, which do have a charming content as the audience is brought closer to something which they love. The Player has a nice blend of this charming plot of movie business and an amazing script. While seeing the movie I was constantly thinking of Inception which employed a layer of dreams and here too I observed a hell lot of layers of stories. Since the Protagonist himself is involved in reading and recommending film scripts, we are constantly given some new stories all the time and then there is the story on what the film has been made and then there is a story on which the life of the protagonist seems to work. The character of Griffin mill is one which you might have experienced earlier also. When he justifies his work, you are with him and for the rest of the time you have a mixed feeling for him. Tim Robbins as griffin miller performs fairly OK here but I am sort of full of his same type of acting in most of the movies. Greta Scacchi as 'June' has done a very good job. She has brought to the screen a character that is like &#x96; 'What the hell' for most of the times. You kind of consider her as a girl who is focused on her career and considers everything else secondary. The backbone of the film still is the brilliant screenplay. The opening shot is extremely commendable for its length and pays tribute to a lot of films.This piece from Altman is definitely engaging and funny. You would not like to miss this one.MESSAGE 'Life is amazing.'VERDICT 'A recommended watch.' "}{"Title":"About Hollywood's Moral Bankruptcy","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player is a 1992 satirical film directed by Robert Altman from a screenplay by Michael Tolkin based on his own novel of the same title.It is the story of Hollywood studio executive Griffin Mill,played by Tim Robbins,who murders an aspiring screenwriter he believed was sending him death threats.Greta Scacchi,Fred Ward,Whoopi Goldberg,Peter Gallagher, Brion James,Cynthia Stevenson and Vincent D'Onofrio play supporting roles.Around sixty Hollywood celebrities agreed to play themselves in the film. The film has many film references and Hollywood insider jokes. It is a critique of a movie business that treats artists poorly and sacrifices quality for commercial success.Griffin Mill is a Hollywood producer with a studio executive girlfriend Bonnie Sherow. Mill's job is to hear story pitches from screenwriters and decide which films have the potential to get made and which films get rejected. His job is suddenly in danger, though, when up-and-comer Larry Levi begins work at the studio. Rumors swirl that Griffin may be replaced soon by Levi. Griffin has also been receiving threatening postcards, presumably from a disgruntled writer whose pitch he rejected.Griffin delves through records and surmises that the disgruntled writer is David Kahane, who had previously pitched a script to him. Griffin calls Kahane's home and is told by a woman, June, that Kahane is at a movie theater. Griffin goes to the theater in Pasadena and offers Kahane a scriptwriting deal, hoping this will stop the threats. However, Kahane gets intoxicated and rebuffs Griffin's offer. He denies that he sent Griffin any postcards. Kahane pushes Griffin in the parking lot and the two men scuffle. In a rage, Griffin accidentally kills Kahane. Thinking fast, Griffin makes the death look like a robbery gone wrong.The next day at work, he receives another postcard, confirming that his stalking writer is still at large. Griffin attends Kahane's funeral and connects with Kahane's girlfriend, June. Studio chief of security Walter Stuckel confronts Griffin about the murder and says that Pasadena Police know Griffin was the last one to see Kahane alive. Pasadena detectives Susan Avery and DeLongpre suspect that Griffin is guilty of murder. They question him and DeLongpre starts to keep an eye on Griffin. The stalking writer leaves a rattlesnake in Griffin's car, causing a near-death experience that makes Griffin realize how he has sudden and deep feelings for June. With his girlfriend Bonnie out of town, Griffin takes June to a Hollywood awards banquet and their relationship grows.Meanwhile, with Levi ever encroaching on his job, Griffin sees an opportunity to save his position. He hears a pitch idea from two writers about a film called Habeas Corpus and instantly recognizes huge problems with the downbeat story. However, he manages to convince Levi that the pitch is golden and the movie will be a guaranteed Oscar contender. Griffin plans to let Levi shepherd the film through production and have it flop miserably. Then Griffin will step in at the last moment and suggest some basic changes to salvage the film's box office potential, letting him reclaim his position at the studio. The Pasadena detectives call Griffin in for a lineup after a witness to Kahane's death comes forward. Griffin catches a big break when the witness identifies the wrong man, Detective DeLongpre, who was placed in the lineup with the other suspects.One year later, studio power players are watching the end of Habeas Corpus with its tacked-on upbeat ending. Griffin's plan to save the movie worked like a charm and he is now a studio executive. While driving home, he gets a pitch over the phone from a man who reveals himself as the postcard writer. The man pitches an idea about a studio executive who kills a writer and gets away with murder. Griffin recognizes the pitch as blackmail and immediately agrees to give the writer a deal. The writer's title for the film is The Player. It ends by showing that June is now Griffin's wife and pregnant with his child.A movie about today's Hollywood which both hilarious and heartless in about equal measure, and often at the same time.A wicked satirical fable about corporate backstabbing and an actual murder in the movie business, The Player benefits from director Robert Altman's long and bitter experience working within, and without, the Hollywood studio system.Also,it was a funny attack on the moral bankruptcy of Hollywood which was embraced by many of the same people it was intended to savage, and restored the director to commercial and critical favor. "},{"Title":"Good movie, plays out nicely.","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this one when I was about 15. I was interested in it because the sampling to explain movie listings in either my local newspaper or TV Guide for many years was The Player. After my brother came in to the front room with the VHS copy that he rented and insisted that I watch it, of course I did. He liked it. I see why.The Player is a nice commentary on the brutality of Hollywood. In particular, how the quality and the integrity of a piece is compromised for profit. As Tim Robbins' character Griffin Mill clearly states, a movie has to have certain elements to it in order to be successful in Hollywood. Such elements are sex/nudity, violence, and the like. Furthermore, it has to play out and end in a manner deemed acceptable to widespread audiences.As an executive, Mill's job is to listen to writers pitch their screenplays, and to green-light the ones he think will turn a profit. Of course, he turns down many, many more screenplays than he green-lights. This draws the ire of some mentally unstable writers, one of which begins sending him death threats and making attempts on his life. As Mill gets caught up with a screenwriter who he believes is threatening him, he must now balance his career while trying to clear his name.What I liked about this movie (and you will like too) is that while it maintains the aforementioned tropes needed to make a film successful, it in fact violates one or two of them. These play a big part in two subplots within the movie. You may see the end coming, you may not. But I assure that you will think it ended quite admirably.I recommend it if you can find it for rent in a brick and mortar store or online. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Your Hollywood Is Dead!","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching The Player after reading the Michael Tolkin novel was an edifying experience. Sometimes the book is better, less often the movie is. This time it's a strange kind of tie.Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins) is a Hollywood executive who has the hard job of saying no to a lot of people who want to see their scripts become movies. Unfortunately, some of these people play rough. One apparently sends him a number of threatening messages, reminding Mill of a meeting that never happened. Griffin thinks he knows who it is. And as it turns out, Griffin can play rough, too.Robert Altman was a quirky director, but this one time he plays it straight. Yes, you get a lot of overlapping dialogue, but there's one central story and not a lot of time spent on tangents. There's a big cast, alright, including over 60 cameos by recognizable movie talents. But this time the big cast is kept securely on the sidelines as Griffin must unravel the mystery of his secret antagonist, without becoming unraveled himself.The Player the novel is a gripping, largely humorless study of a functional psychopath at play in the fields of Mammon. Here Tolkin the scripter gives us a relatively sympathetic protagonist. We are almost with him after the big climactic confrontation that sets the plot in motion, enough to root for him when he comes to the attention of the police. It doesn't quite work as well as it could, because Robbins seems a mite too decent for the turn his character takes, but he's a good actor in a good role and presents a worthy center for what becomes less mystery than satire.I like the satire, too, a lot. The opening eight minutes and 21 seconds are done in a single take, which provides some needed exposition but also some solid laughs. Buck Henry, co-writer of The Graduate, pitches a strange sequel where Ben and Elaine live with a stroke-impaired Mrs. Robinson.Is this going to be funny? Griffin asks.Yes, it'll be funny and dark and weird and funny with a stroke, Buck answers. Maybe it's not a stroke, maybe it's a malady of some sort.As the book develops, we move farther from Hollywood and more deeply into the twisted psyche of Griffin. Here, Robbins plays the character as more of a survivor, and one senses Altman, for all his vitriol at the Dream Factory, is on his side.It's one of Altman's best looking films, with a strong Big '80s vibe even though the film was released in 1992. Though a noir film, it's largely shot in sunlight, like Altman's earlier noir film, The Long Goodbye. This is a less slack film than that one, but in some ways less enjoyable, too. The strong focus pushes elements to the center that don't always work, like Griffin's romance with a strange Icelandic artist whom Greta Scacchi plays with cool detachment, or the police investigation which relies too much on the non-actor Lyle Lovett.Whoopi Goldberg is solid fun as the lead cop, however, and you get some great supporting work from Fred Ward as the head of studio security, Dean Stockwell as a hustling producer, and Richard E. Grant as an overly intense director (Montana will end you! he warns Andie MacDowell, playing herself, because it did the same to Michael Cimino.)My favorite performer is Peter Gallagher, as a slick up-and-comer named Levy out for Griffin's job. Altman sets him up well as the commerce guy versus Griffin's belief in some artistic integrity. The irony is that Levy's a nicer guy, and a team player, but we cheer on the bad guy because he's better company. There are no nice guys, however, and the only person with integrity is seen literally knocked down for a cheap laugh. Altman wasn't a nice guy, either.The cameos are fun to spot (I just noticed Martin Mull for the first time, sitting at the table next to Angelica Huston) but a bit scattershot in terms of the larger story, which suffers a bit from lack of focus.What works best about the movie, I think, is the unique ending Tolkin gives it, which honors the conventions of a Hollywood ending while sending it up mercilessly. It's here Altman really lays on the acid, and gives his film bite. It goes down smooth, however, a warning wrapped around a Valentine to Hollywood's powers of playing with our heads. "},{"Title":"Good Altman Film","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I give this movie a 7 out of 10. Robert Altman did I great job putting this film together. The first scene is pretty impressive being over eight minutes long with no cuts. The film was somewhat funny and ironic with the actors playing themselves. The storyline is a little surprising at parts and a didn't expect Whoopi to be the detective. This film does a good job showing the inside of the movie production process. Altman made a great movie with lots of parodies and plays on Hollywood. This is one of my favorite movies about movies, and by far my favorite Robert Altman film. "},{"Title":"The Player","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are not many films from Hollywood that focus on Hollywood itself, Sunset Boulevard is considered one of the greatest for showing the darker side of the movie making business, and this one also featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die is recommended as well, from BAFTA winning, and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Robert Altman (MASH, Nashville, Godford Park). Basically hot shot Hollywood studio executive Griffin Mill (Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Tim Robbins) is in charge of hearing a movie pitch (sometimes he asks for twenty five words or less) from a scriptwriter and decides whether their idea has the potential to be made, be successful and make money, but he rejects thousands. Lately his job is danger of being taken over by new arrival story executive Larry Levy (Peter Gallagher), and he has recently been receiving threatening blood letter postcards from supposedly a rejected scriptwriter. With the anonymous writer giving a date to when he was rejected Mill back tracks through past rejected scripts to the exact date, and he finds an address which he decides to visit in person and call the telephone number also, to see for himself who picks up, and it appears to be June Gudmundsdottir (Greta Scacchi). It is after this however that he finds and concludes that it is David Kahane (Vincent D'Onofrio) stalking him, when he tracks him down watching his favourite film, The Bicycle Thief, and they go for a drink together where he pretends like he recognises him from their previous encounter. Eventually their discussion outside in the bar parking lot turns into an argument and aggressive fight, but Mill manages to drown Kahane in a slope puddle, and to cover his tracks he makes it look like a robbery gone wrong. The threatening postcards do not seem to be over however when he receives another new one, and he attends the funeral of Kahane where he meets June in person, and studio chief of security Walter Stuckel (Fred Ward) warns him that in the murder he is known to be the last person to see him alive. Soon enough police Detective Avery (Whoopi Goldberg) and partner Detective DeLongpre (Lyle Lovett) show up to question him as they think he is guilty of the murder, and after this he gets a postcard suggesting he and the writer meet. While waiting for the mystery writer he is cornered by two screenwriters, one being Tom Oakley (Richard E. Grant), pitching their movie Habeas Corpus, a film with no big stars and a depressing rather than happy ending, and then leaving he gets a fax from the anonymous person saying to lift his coat up, and he just survives a near attack from a rattlesnake. He finds his feelings for June, and after persuades his already girlfriend Bonnie Sherow (Cynthia Stevenson) to go away they go to an awards ceremony together, and after those two writers who pitched Habeas Corpus are invited back. Mill convinces Levy it is a good idea and a worthy Oscar contender, of course he actually wants the film to be made and flop, and when it starts going downhill he will jump in and make big changes to make a difference to box office and reclaim his place in the studio. After an encounter with Bonnie at the airport with June he also manages to avoid DeLongpre by pretending to have left his passport behind, so they change their plans and go to an isolated desert spa and build their relationship more. Then Mill gets a call from his attorney that studio head Joel Levison (Brion James) has been fired, and the police require him for a lineup as there was an eyewitness at the murder who can identify the man that did it. A year after the female witness chose DeLongpre in the lineup the film Habeas Corpus has been made with big stars and a slightly more upbeat ending, the writers don't fully approve, Mill has become the new studio head and plans to save the film, June is now pregnant and his wife, Bonnie is ignored and fired, and he finally gets a call from the postcard writer himself who pitches a film, about a studio executive who kills a writer and gets away with it, but he realises this is blackmail, and Mill makes a deal to make this film, The Player. Also starring Dean Stockwell as Andy Civella, Sydney Pollack as Dick Mellon, Jeremy Piven as Steve Reeves and Gina Gershon as Whitney Gersh. With cameos, to spot and with speaking parts, from Day-O (The Banana Boat Song) sing Harry Belafonte, Five Easy Pieces' Karen Black, Point Break's Gary Busey, Cher, James Coburn, John Cusack, Midnight Express's Brad Davis, Columbo's Peter Falk, One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest's Louise Fletcher, City of Angels' Dennis Franz, Dumb and Dumber's Teri Garr, The Right Stuff's Scott Glenn, Jeff Goldblum, Elliott Gould, Cabaret's Joel Grey, Jumanji's David Alan Grier, Anjelica Huston, MASH's Sally Kellerman, Jack Lemmon, Andie MacDowell, Malcolm McDowell, Nick Nolte, Burt Reynolds, Julia Roberts, Mimi Rogers, Diamonds Are Forever's Jill St. John, Susan Sarandon, Rod Steiger, Patrick Swayze, I Heart Huckabees' Lily Tomlin, Austin Powers' Robert Wagner and Bruce Willis. Robbins gives a good sly performance, and it is great fun to spot the various big stars popping up, hanging around in scenes and getting close to the main character, this doesn't distract the story too much as it is quite engaging with the murder prospect, and also the things going on concerning the Hollywood system seem very convincing, it is a most watchable satire. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published, it won the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Editing and Best Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical, and it was nominated for Best Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"We're All Players","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Famously opening with possibly the longest continuous single crane shot (eight minutes) with the pre-credits rolling, shot outside a major studio and its parking lot and known as the ultimate anti-Hollywood 'Hollywood' movie, this is Altman directing with a grip of iron. Almost over-directed for my taste, the camera swoops, rises and peeks at more A-listers than you'd get in two dozen blockbusters.Not having seen it in four years but with many many other films under my belt, I was keen to re-hear both the subtle and unsubtle jokes and jibes about the Studio 'scene'. All our A-listers make them, suffer them or just hang about thinking them up. One of the best has to be (executive travelling in his Merc convertible, on car-phone; it's the end 80's, start of 90's, all flash cars) talking to his associate, Tim Robbins (lead actor in this) I'm on my way to my AA meeting. Oh...I didn't know you had a drinking problem Ah, well. I haven't. I don't. It's just that's where all the deals are made these days. Not bars.So, not a comedy, as such, but entertaining stuff and the ending is as predictably anti-predictable that one can predict. It's aged well and Short Cuts aside, which meanders over its three hours, this is modern, witty, well made and concise. Yes; an Altman film that doesn't have the cast speaking whenever they feel fit and a script that they have to follow, even at two hours it's got a manageable story that twists, turns and bristles with actors you've seen in almost similar roles. For movie buffs, the often, occasional credibility-busting film references and how they're strung together is almost hypnotic.Hollywood loved it, as it's in it and stars in it. But they don't love themselves, at least not it this. And that makes it enjoyable. As it can't be taken as seriously as it mockingly thinks it is/isn't and thus a little shallow, I give it the same as the amount in minutes the intro is. Plus a half point. "},{"Title":"Life can be a movie","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The veteran Robert Altman gives us a movie made with his usual firm hand in what concerns cast direction, cut, dialogues and the story itself. No flaws are found except perhaps the dialogue in the very end between the studio executive and a screenplay writer which reveals the real meaning of the whole story and makes movies and real life seem similar but looks like a bit artificial or affected. This is the story of a studio executive who half involuntarily and almost accidentally kills a screenplay writer whom he thinks is threatening him for not having accepted a screenplay he was offering to be bought by the executive's studio. Since he is not discovered discreet blackmail and disguised threatens ensue, from someone whose identity he ignores. The story is well told and the opportunity is seized to show the intrigues and dirty games that take place behind the scenes in the motion pictures business. It's deepened by a love relation that meanwhile springs between the studio executive and the dead screenplay writer's girlfriend after they meet at the latter's funeral. This underplot love story is authentic and very human and confers the movie a sentimental feature which tempers its apparent coldness. There is also the psychological drama lived by the studio executive after the murdering which he can conceal in his reactions but we surmise in the scenes with his new girlfriend mainly when he goes to see her after discovering a snake in his car which was put there by the blackmailer. The most important lesson to draw from this movie is that life can be a movie after all and that fiction and reality can be confounded sometimes. "},{"Title":"Interesting interaction between characters","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a top executive in a Hollywood studio being threatened by a series of postcards. He kills his suspect accidentally, and his life is never the same again.The Player is somewhat engaging and thrilling, but that is not the main selling point of the film. I find the interaction between the characters more interesting. The movie executives are portrayed to be egocentric and two faced. They never have time for anyone. The passionless interaction between Griffin and Bonnie is the most memorable.I am also impressed by the number of cameos in the film. It is almost like watching a who's who! On my Hong Kong version VCD of the film, it lists the stars as Bruce Willis, Julia Roberts, Whoopi Goldberg and Tim Robbins. It turns out that Julia Roberts' role is a cameo lasting for two minutes, while Bruce Willis' role is a minute shorter than that. I know it is not the fault of the American studio, but I was disappointed by the deliberate misleading information on the cover. "},{"Title":"Who wasn't in this?","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow! Are you a Tim Robbins fan? He was the lead. Do you like Greta Scacchi? She was there, too. How about Fred Ward? Count him in. I really like Vincent D'Onofrio. Sorry about that, Vince. Wacky for Whoopi? No problem, she was a hoot. Hey, there's Lyle Lovett. Where's Julia Roberts? Oh, she's there too. Bruce Willis was there to save the day as usual. And there's Andie MacDowell. I loved her in Four Weddings and a Funeral. I could go on and on, but you get the idea. This was more the Acadamy Awards than a movie. It had everyone. I didn't even scratch the surface. Did I mention that Gina Gershon was there, too? I loved her in that movie with Jennifer Tilly. Hot! And, Dean Stockwell - funny.It had everything you want in a movie also romance, sex, nudity, murder, suspense, and, of course, an ending that Hollywood would be proud of.I can't believe I never saw this picture before. I turned it on just to see Bruce Willis, and I was captivated. I've never been a Robert Altman fan, but this was superb! Sorry if I left one of your favorites out, but I'd be here all day. "},{"Title":"The Player","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie, The Player, is all about the way Hollywood is run. It makes fun of how the movie making process is taken place. Shows how people will do anything to get a movie made or to get into a top chair position. Then there are people just trying to get back at the producers if they didn't accept a movie. The character Griffin didn't know who was sending him all those threats by post cards. He killed the wrong guy and just like in Hollywood, he got away with it and the girl. Just goes to show how it's really done in Hollywood. It was pretty exciting how Griffen almost got caught for the crime. At that point you think he's done with, but then the witness picks the wrong person. Other than all that, the movie was pretty good. It's fun seeing something get made fun of. Then it finishes off with the name of the movie, The Player. "}{"Title":"This is how the game is played","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Griffin Mill, whose got one of those Hollywood names to begin with is a young and very powerful film executive who has to choose 12 of thousands of film pitches he hears every year. So saying a lot of we'll get back to you's could get someone very mad at you. Tim Robbins plays Griffin Mill with a charm that has multiple personalities, he deceives and loves all in one. There is a lot of art involved in The Player and it shows us what the characters are feeling throughout the movie. What is it that Griffin is hiding, did he do it, and is his life going to become a very excellent movie to go and see in the theaters, who knows and it is all because of those writers that he said We'll get back to you to. This film hits very close to home in perspective that there is for everyone been something that you have tried to hide whether it be big or small it is being a player. "},{"Title":"a movie about a movie","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie a lot. I thought its ironic twist of being a movie about the movie industry added a nice element. This allowed for the writers to say a lot about how the movie industry was being run during the 90s. I especially liked how the English writer had his idea for this great movie that was going to end sadly. Because life is sad and people dying is a real occurrence. And also how stubborn he was to allow well-known actors to be in it. But by the end of the movie greed overcame him too. This resulted in the ending being changed to something happier and the two leads were replaced with two a list actors. "},{"Title":"Thoughts on the movie The Player","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The player was a pretty well scripted movie. I liked the idea that director Robert Altman included actors to play themselves. The storyline is what kept me in my seat watching the movie. It is full of twist and turns and a look into the real life of movie producers and actors. It showed how writers can give a pitch and have it either turned down at the spot or produced and directed into a Oscar winning movie. Robert Altman does a good job of showing the viewer the ups and downs to show business. From the fast cars, fancy clothes and only the best when it comes to dining out. To being rejected and even receiving deadly postcards.This was a good movie that keeps the viewer at the edge of your seat, but you have to see the movie to see the great ending. "},{"Title":"Good Storyline","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player featured many actors and actresses that i haven't really ever seen before in movies. Besides the popular actors that popped up every now and then. The thing that really kept me watching the movie was the storyline. The suspense really builds up throughout the film. The postcards are a great example. I've never heard of this movie before watching it in my Film Study class. I thought it was really creative when Altman used the popular actors in show business to act as themselves. I also found it interesting that Bruce Willis played his little minor part for free. Altman does a really great job at showing the ups and downs of show business. The nice cars and money are examples of the ups of show business and then the threatening postcards and non stop phone calls for pitches and also unbalanced relationships with people are the downs.This is definitely a movie i would probably watch in the future when kickin back. I haven't seen many movies that have really given you a walk through a persons life thats involved with show business. An average person thinks Hollywood and movies are all fun and all about being rich and partying. After seeing The Player, you get the feeling that its not always fun and games, it can get really serious. Especially if you upset a hard working writer.I give this one a 7! "},{"Title":"One of the Best films I have ever seen","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film on video and now have it on both VHS and DVD. This is an excellent film on character study. It also exposes the ugly underside of Hollywood. Tim Robbins does an excellent job in the role of Griffin Mills. A studio executive who may or may not be losing his job and who is receiving death treats. He has a girlfriend who is also an executive at the studio. He falls in love with someone who is so outside and does not care about fame, Hollywood, etc. It is well acted . Follows much of Robert Altman films . Overlapping dialogue, etc. A real gem. It is in the vain of Nashville . I liked the suspense of not knowing or finding out who was sending the post cards. Whoppi Goldberg is excellent as the investigator from Pasidena  "},{"Title":"Right on target","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great. For anyone out there that has ever worked in the film industry or wants to work in it, watch this movie. this is exactly what it is like in hollywood, especially around the people that are making big budget films or just your basic hollywood ending movie. The story was very interesting and the ending was great, but what Altman does brilliant here is capture what Hollywood execs are. Also, Altmans directing style is flawless in this movie and it is his best film since Mccabe and Mrs. Miller or MASH. 10/10 "},{"Title":"It'd take an Oscar Ward for best director !","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw it for 4 times until now. It was a capable story of Hollywood.   People can see a lot of renowned actors that director added. It can strong up this big movie. Director Robert Alman showed us a realistic condition in Hollywood.        It was one of my best movies ever ! He used Tim Robbins that it's a great choice !!! Bruce Willis & Juila Roberts were in it. They're my favorite actors ! Robert Alman created a great idea on this movie !!! The movie satires power , money & greedy of the filmakers in Hollywood. The people in Hollywood grab power & money. I think Robert Alman hate this bad condition so he made this movie for noticing. Watches the player carefully, if not you may not understand everything ! It'd be one of the best movies in 1992 !!! Thank you very much Robert Alman & Tim Robbins. You guys gave me a great time ! I will recommend to everyone who is a fan of Robert Alman !  "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why is it that Robert Altman's films are always so critically well received - yet so punished at the box office. This may be the best look at the real Hollywood ever. You would think that many of those doting over this site were fans of movies. Yet they can't manage to rank this film any higher than it is? Give this film a shot. It ranges from hilarious to stomach churning. Tim Robbins is worth his weight in gold in this film.  "},{"Title":"Don't you just love it when the bad guy wins?","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An absolutely true tell-all about how Hollywood really is. The seamy side is laid bare in all it's sluttish, vulgar glory the big money deals, the prostitution for a big hit, the little guy being squeezed out, the butt kissing, it's all here. Good show; tense and funny all at once. Just don't take it too seriously, ok? Oh yeah, get ready for a whole gang of cameos.  "},{"Title":"Blah-di-Blah-Blah-Blah","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is so rare that I would slam a movie so hard. That is for one reason. I am an avid IMDB user ratings viewer, and choose movies accordingly. I was looking forward to watching this movie, with its reasonably high rating, and siskel and ebert (is that how you spell it?)giving it two thumbs up.This movie is a SOLID 5. There are no half points in my land, and even if there were - it would be a solid 5. While the story line was original, the movie was boring. It wasn't predictable and yet, it wasn't entertaining. It could have been much, much better.I tell no lies, this movie, is exactly that, a blah-di-blah-blah waste of two hours. if you want a good mystery movie, check out Chinatown - it was a great movie, and is far superior to The Player "}{"Title":"a hollywood-movie about hollywood without being hypocritical","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie now for more then 20 times and it is always getting better. Watching this movie is like watching a hundred of other movies. It has got so much inside jokes that I am sure I have to see this movie for another 20 times to get them all.It's the first Altman-movie I ever saw. And after watching it, I wanted to see all his other movies. Now, he is my favourite director.When you want to watch this movie, just do it. But if you want to watch this movie and have something more; first watch 'BARTON FINK', 'HALLOWEEN 1' (If you wanna know why, read the trivia), 'BICYCLE THIEFS', 'FREAKS',... and manny others.And if you never saw a Tim Robbins-film but you really want to, watch THE PLAYER cause this is in my opinion still his best performance. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Player is almost perfect! It features excellent character development of the leads and really shows what an actual Hollywood studio may be like. In fact, this film made me quit dreaming of becoming an actor or involved with Hollywood at all! Tim Robbins performance is fantastic and he holds this movie together.I have always been a fan of Altman's free flowing direction and this movie continues the tradition. However, as with Nashville and Short Cuts, the brief nudity scenes were not needed and serve no purpose, as most nude scenes do. This movie still works on broadcast TV and I suggest catching that version! I give this film a B+. "},{"Title":"Altman at his finest.","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman makes the movies he wants to make. This satire of Hollywood seems almost like a documentary, instead of the satire it's intended to be. A very interesting film, it never really loses its momentum. I do think the film is a little overlong, but still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"This Movie Took Over My Life Twenty Years Ago.","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even though it was released some twenty years ago this week, to me, The Player was never just a movie, but more like a parallel universe I've often wanted to escape back to, a hot, dusty place when people still dressed in suits, and movie execs still made movies as opposed to franchises and marketing campaigns. I moved to L.A. in 1993, and remember Hollywood being very much like the film a small town, a bit run down, cliquish, but still open to outsiders and willing to hear pitches from unknowns like myself. L.A. was in the grips of recession back then, so everyone was still looking for the next big thing. The Player captures that era perfectly. Compared to now and a corporate Hollywood controlled by faceless multinationals, I often wish I could go back to Player Land and begin again.I call it Player Land, because Bob Altman (Director), Michael Tolkin (Writer), Tim Robbins (Lead), Thomas Newman (Score), Jean Lepine (DOP), and everybody else who contributed to the making of this picture managed to achieve the greatest thing any film can do pull the viewer into it's reality while infecting them with an obsessional preoccupation of all things presented within it.In plain English I think of this film at least once a day. Newman's score has become the soundtrack for my own life. Scenes in the film flash through my mind and skew my perception of reality. If I don't watch this film at least once a month, I start to think that somehow I'm missing something back in Player Land and I won't be allowed back in. Some people take drugs to redefine their reality, I watch The Player.That's what a great film can do dig it's way into your psyche and transform you. The Player transcends conventional film elements (plot, action, obstacle) and creates a whole new world. The story (Movie Exec kills Writer and gets away with it) is the river you're carried along just long enough to infect you, at which point, it's too late, you're hooked; you've become reborn as a character in the movie.And Player Land is perfect  the studio lifestyle, hot spring oasis hideaways, cool Malibu seascapes and the warm evening breezes on the Sunset Towers patio, idyllic, save for the menacing din of police sirens and news choppers in the background. Mill's a murderer, but who isn't in an allegorical sense? And then there's that music. Newman absolutely pulled me into this film. It's a lyrical oasis that softens Mill's struggle to outrun the consequences of his terrible deed and still survive at the studio.And the cast. Tim Robbins' not even in this picture, because he no longer exists. He is Griffin Mill, V.P. of the Studio with No Name. The other actors, Sydney Pollack as the Mentor, Richard E. Grant (That's reality!) as the Director, Vincent D'Onofrio as the Writer, Peter Gallagher as the Rival, Fred Ward as the Guard, Gretta Schacchi as the Girl, Dean Stockwell as the Producer and Cynthia Stevenson as the Conscience all match him note for note. Everybody is who they play, no longer the people playing them.Lepine's camera is our visual guide, putting us where we want to be in Player Land, drifting in and out of the scene with an invisible touch, pulling us in as silent characters, living our lives beside Griffin as he bobs and weaves, cheering him on at every crisis, chills of admiration running down our back as he rolls his Rolls home to his Brentwood estate, willing accomplices, revelling in his success. How guilty is a murderer who never gets caught, anyway? And given half the chance, we'd swap places with him in a second to get what he's got! Thankfully, it's only a movie, so we never have to admit that to ourselves.And then there's the Director, Bob Altman. Twelve years on a desert island known as Not Hollywood, Altman pushes and pulls his experience and talent in a direction that redefines what a film can be, orchestrating in perfect synchronicity the considerable talents of everybody who created this masterpiece. How did he do this? Digging for thirty years in the mine that is Hollywood, driven to make movies no matter what, no matter who, come hell or high water. Creating for a living hurts. Who better to tell us that in The Player than Robert Altman? This combination of man and project were a once in a lifetime meeting of destinies.And that's the one piece of reality that stays with me after watching The Player that a great film is so rare because so rarely do the creators work so well together. You literally need the perfect Director, the perfect script, the perfect cast and the perfect score to make the perfect movie. "},{"Title":"The Player all too revisited&#x85;","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The late Robert Altman still took chances by adding a fresh element to each of his films before his death a few years ago. And what I mean by that is that he did not employ the same staff each time (which so many old directors seem to do these days) because he was comfortable with them. Even though I am not a true fan to his body of work (though I did sit through Short Cuts and M*A*S*H), I was very impressed of the man's mindset when interviewed and choices that he made back then.Nineteen years after its release and now I review it and back in 1992, I thought it was probably the most interesting films of that year. At the time in the early 1990s, movies were filmed and lit with a TV Movie-of-the-Week look and motif, rendering them all indistinguishable and mediocre. Perhaps it was star-power that garnered successes with so many of these films (like what was even mentioned in one of the screen writing pitches within the film, no stars), so then I mostly dismissed them with the exception of a few worth watching. If it wasn't for CGI, movies would STILL be like what they were then. However, this film doesn't take my breath away to this day every time I watch it, but it's well-done although not really that memorable.So the plot is as follows Tim Robbins is a snake of a successful studio executive named Griffin Mill, who is quickly singled out by an embittered writer who was supposedly brushed off by him months earlier and now doling out death-threats from the man. So in an effort to sever it, Mill seeks out the writer and locates him and then accidentally kills him in a rage, thinking that that is the end to this. Only it isn't, and he's still receiving threats (which get more and more dangerous). And when accompanying the late writer's grieving girlfriend (played by Gretta Scacci) afterwards, Mill finds himself the suspect of the murder to this writer. Though I won't give away anything else, it is definitely worth watching if you're in touch or familiar with the Hollywood system, and how movies seem to get made these days. There are a handful of cameos of actors who simply play themselves in this (in the end renders them dated, antiquated and obsolete- I say this because so many of them are dead now). Still, there is a sense of verite' in it all with the addition of these cameos and perhaps that is one of the charms to such a low-budget film of the times.If you're into Zack Snyder or Judd Apatow, then skip this- it would be an insulting bore otherwise, check this out. "},{"Title":"the player","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The player is a movie that lets us, the viewer get a closer look at what life in the showbuisness is all about. We learn that everything is not what it seems to be. You see how people use there powers to take advantage of one another and set old scores.The thing that i enjoyed about the movie was the fact that the director used real actors to play themselves in small roles. Through out the movie we hear writers giving horrible pitches about anything hoping to get a movie produced. You the viewer sit back and laugh as we hear how dumb some of these pitces sound. Realizing that no matter how funny some of these may seem we have all seem some type of movie in our time that was the same.This was a great movie and i recommend it to anyone who is up for a good well scripted movie full of mystery and suspense. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An executive at a movie studio (Tim Robbins) accidentally kills a writer who he thinks is harassing him.  He tries to cover it up.  Also his job at the studio is in jeopardy as he's competing with a younger, aggressive man (Peter Gallagher).  This was Altman's first Hollywood film after a 12 year absence (Popeye effectively stopped his career). At first I hated this movie.  Very cold, VERY cynical with not one likable character in it.  Slowly, though, it won me over.  Basically, it's a satire of Hollywood and movie making...but a very vicious one.  The script is great (there are countless great lines) and Altman does his usual great directing job...I love the opening 10-15 minutes which is done without any cutaways--just one long shot.  It's just too cruel at times.The acting is (with one exception) fine.  Gallagher is dead on perfect as the young hot-shot (he was in his 30s when he did this but he looks in his 20s).  Robbins, however, is a disappointment.  He has a blank, depressed look on his face during most of the movie and sleepwalks through his role.  In a way that's a good thing.  If he had been real good and convincing in the role this would have been unwatchable.  Also Whoppi Goldberg is hysterical as a police officer investigating the case--watch for the scene with her and a tampon!  Also a huge amount of Hollywood actors appear playing themselves.  It's a lot of fun in certain scenes playing who's in this one?So it's good, but Altman has done better...like MASH and Nashville. However, this isn't as bad as his worst film (Popeye).  So,  I ultimately liked it, but the first half was a trial to sit through.  I give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Movies!  Now More Than Ever!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant.  The only word to describe Robert Altman's masterpiece.  It is quite possibly the best film ever made about Hollywood. Griffin Mill is one of the great movie antiheroes.  This film is one of those rare cases where the film was actually better than the book.  And it's the film that made me a Tim Robbins fan.  Up until I saw this I just thought he was the most overrated actor in Hollywood.  Not I see what all the hoopla was about, ya dig? "},{"Title":"A black comedy, well-acted, spoofs the Hollywood executive scene.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I finally got around to seeing this fun movie on DVD yesterday. This is the Altman movie that starts with the one very long take with one camera on a crane, and follows various characters. The extras include bios on the actors and deleted scenes. But the most interesting is the feature commentary by director Robert Altman. I give the movie 8 of 10.This film goes about its business of spoofing the Hollywood scene, especially the powerful executives who say yes or no to new scripts or movie ideas. In the end, we see that we've just seen the movie which is the movie idea being pitched. A novel, circuitous theme that works.Good fun, see it if you haven't yet. "},{"Title":"Lacked a finish, and a little focus","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player is a clever satire of Hollywood studio life and politics. Tim Robbins plays Griffin Mill, a studio exec responsible for signing writers. We soon find Mr.Mill has problems. He is 'on the way out', being harassed by a writer he had previously neglected and soon becomes a murder suspect.Robert Altman's film is often very funny in its satirical mode, and can be unnerving in its serious mode. However it would have been a lot more enjoyable as a satire alone, simply because the main plot takes away from the comic potential.And after all the hard work, The Player really did need an ending.Saturday, August 15, 1992 - Hoyts Forest Hill Chase "}{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player is a fine film and is very well made but in the end is missing something that I have trouble pin pointing, it is flawlessly written and the plot is one of the best in history, the performances are generally wonderful Tim Robbins in particular, and the film is well directed. Why do I have trouble liking most of it? That may be a mystery to me but lets try and figure it out. The Plot We meet a slimy movie producer named Griffin Mill. He is apparently being stalked by a writer he turned script away. Mill gets paranoid and jumpy but than finds the man who is doing it. He accidentally kills the man. The police think of him as the top possibility, he is falling in love with the writers girlfriend and the letters continue, but slightly differently. The performances Tim Robbins is flawless as Griffin Mill and all of the the performances are very good, I loved all the cameos. The DirectionThe direction is very good, but not flawless and could have been done better. In all a very good film but not one to see more than once, than again I will watch it again to see if it gets better on a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Good-natured Hollywood satire","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman's THE PLAYER is a comic murder mystery set within the confines of Hollywood itself. The main character, played with skill by Tim Robbins, is a slimy studio executive who spends his days either greenlighting or turning down various scripts proposed to him by writers. When he starts to receive threatening postcards from somebody he's turned down, he takes matters into his own hands...with drastic consequences.The main emphasis of THE PLAYER is on its self-referencing, some four years before SCREAM came out and became the popular post-modern film satire. THE PLAYER's achievements are more subtle, and the humour is more character focused, but anyone with any interest in Hollywood and its history whatsoever will be in their element here. There's a realistic, chaotic feel to the storyline, where characters go off the rails but are nonetheless constrained by a tightly-ruled empire.It's hard to mention THE PLAYER without mentioning the endless star cameos. They're plentiful and constant, and you could watch the film on mute just for the faces Angelica Huston, Cher, Peter Falk, Susan Sarandon, the list is endless. Somebody asked me the other day which film has the most cameos in it and I think this would have to be the one. The ending, with a special pair of celebrity cameos, is absolutely hilarious and a real high point of the movie for me. "},{"Title":"Save The Red Light","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are too many reviews on this movie posted here to read them all but those I have read share a sycophantic reverence to Rope, a film that was shot in ten-minute takes because at the time it was shot a movie camera could only hold ten minutes of raw stock. It was unusual, sure, but often during those ten-minute takes the camera would be static and even when it did move it did so within the confines of one room in the main. In that respect it is meaningless to compare the opening eight minutes of The Player to the complete running time of Rope. Far better, and indeed more logical, to compare it to the opening of Orson Welles' Touch of Evil in which a fluid camera follows, in one take, a car making its way through the border between the US and Mexico, lining up to go through customs, etc, and finally exploding. Perhaps one reason no one brought up Touch of Evil was because The Player, a film made by a journeyman director, would come off worse against a film directed by a genius. Having said that this is a tasty satire on Hollywood, a town and an industry that is by definition beyond satire. The more movies you've seen the more you'll appreciate the referential aspects and the more you know about how films get made and deals are done the more you'll appreciate the 'inside' jokes. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's best.","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's comedy meets thriller, it's drama meets satire, with Julia Roberts and Bruce Willis and a happy ending! Robert Altman's The Player, coming from the writing of Michael Tolkin, is a biting satire of Hollywood executives and the movie-making industry that is quick, sharp and wildly energetic. Tim Robbins plays Griffin Mill, a studio executive who is plagued by threatening postcards from a scorned writer all while he tries to traverse the daily life of a man in his job, listening to pitches and rubbing elbows with the Hollywood elite.In classic Altman fashion, Griffin's tale feels epic in scope and is an expert blend of sharp comedy and emotional drama. Robbins goes through an emotional gauntlet as Mill and it's impressive to watch him transform from the stoic and detached man we meet at the beginning to the disheveled wreck he eventually becomes. This is the classic character who thinks he's on top of the world and has to have some dark things happen in order to knock him back down, eventually going to places I wasn't expecting at all.The Player plays out like a great old epic, but the thing that makes it shine brightest is it's intelligence. Every so often we get these films that try to show us the life of making movies, give us the behind the scenes comedy of it all, and 95% of the time they fall flat on their faces. Here though everything feels so energetic, with pop culture references galore and cameos enough to make any film fan delight at seeing all the familiar faces pop up. I swear it seemed like every five minutes I was sitting up and shouting the name of yet another one of my favorite actors who showed up in the background.All of the cameos are great, but the front-and-center cast is quite solid themselves, particularly Robbins who I don't think has ever been better. Altman's The Player is a brilliant satire, an absorbing thriller, an energetic comedy and a compelling drama all rolled into one and culminating in a wonderfully cynical ending. It has certainly earned it's place among the top tier of this master's career. "},{"Title":"One of us, one of us, one of us","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is hands down the best Robert Altman film I've seen. Brilliant dark satire of the Hollywood movie industry and oh so much more. The best film about Hollywood I've ever seen also. Full of so many in-jokes that I probably didn't even get all of them. One could also say this movie was, in a very understated way, a satire of America as a whole and as an elitist might say, how the American movie going public (and many critics,too) actually accept much of the garbage that comes out of Hollywood as truly great works of art (e.g. Knocked Up and other pieces of crap). Just as the ending of this film shows, the really great films generally don't do that well at the box office, and the typically clichd happy ending, blah,blah,blah, films are blockbusters. Of course in reality there are exceptions, but not often enough. Anyway, I would recommend this film to anyone who loves dark satire and also cares about movies that should be of higher artistic quality. And not selling out ALL the time for the sake of a few bucks (and before you call me an elitist or snob, I do in fact understand that the movie industry is a business and has to make money like any other). I first saw this film when it came out and liked it. I recently saw it on DVD and LOVED it. I saw so much more in it. It may not be for everybody, especially if you love mainstream Hollywood material, or if you hate Altman films to begin with. But like I said before, rent it and see it with an open mind initially. It makes my list of not just the 10 best films of the nineties, but the top 5 best. "},{"Title":"Very satisfying","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really like Tim Robbins.  I really like this film.I especially like the references to old films.  Most notably to M.I'm not gonna go on and on, I do recommend seeing this film.  Before you see it, I recommend seeing Sunset Blvd and M. "},{"Title":"The Layers","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The cleverness of humiliating it's own world. The Player come with the basic thoughts of how good movies should be made. The story itself is plainly straight, with much sparkles around without even intentionally hide it's own meanings.What struck us in the middle, is that the story spins sharply and make it's different path and make sudden changes few times, trying to seduce us with our own thoughts of how this film should go.That's when we ourselves are trying to make the movie based on our own thoughts and intentions. This multi dimensional story layered around and give many perspectives in movie making. And we ourselves witnessing this deceiving life wrapped in luxury and wealth and labeled 'movie celebrities'.All along we seen these actors and actresses sometimes in their glory and power, sometimes in their despair and stupidity. Indeed a true inspiring movie.Good refreshment at night after long hours of work. Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Strangely Uninteresting","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I sat down to watch this with great anticipation. I love satire, especially satire of pompous and self-satisfied celebrities. I also love artfully created plots directed by clever and intelligent directors.So what really happened in this movie? A studio exec accidentally kills a writer whose script he rejected and who he thinks was stalking/threatening him. He falls for the dead writer's girlfriend and there's a bit of tension about whether the detectives after him will be able to find enough proof to arrest him.They don't and he lives happily ever after with his new girlfriend.The stalker doesn't turn out to be any of the characters in the movie - it's just some guy.None of the dozens of cameos is interesting or funny. They're just cameos. The satirical content just seems to be that Hollywood executives are shallow and ruthless. News flash. Oh, and writers determined not to sell out actually will when push comes to shove. What a revelation.I honestly can't see where the critical and popular acclaim for this movie comes from. What scathing satire was there? What plot twists? What sly insights into the industry. In short, where was the entertainment or information? "},{"Title":"Let's Make a Movie!","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman was a hard man to get hold of. While shooting this movie, an actor asked what the dialog was supposed to be about -- what should he say? Altman's reply I can't tell you what to say. His first big film, M*A*S*H, struck me as slapdash, designed to be funny, and anachronistic, a statement about the absurdity of the Vietnam war set during the Korean war. The football team smokes dope. The doctors take advantage of their station to play golf and insult their superiors. It didn't increase my distaste for our Southeastern Asia adventure, but it left me, as an ex-enlisted man, with a greater resentment of the perks given to officers. After M*A*S*H, his films, always quirky, varied from the barely coherent to the socially nihilistic. Some of them were impossible to sit through. I'd much rather have had a couple of beers with Altman and shoot the breeze than to watch another of his episodic and disjointed productions.Given a good narrative line, though, Altman's bricollage hangs together. TV's The Caine Mutiny Court Martial was an instance, and so is The Player. It's suspenseful, funny, ironic, and touching. The plot is about as complicated as a game of tic-tac-toe. Tim Robbins, a Hollywood producer, begins to get threatening postcards from a nameless writer whom he once apparently crossed. He accidentally kills the writer he thinks responsible. However, the post cards continue coming. Gulp. Robbins is called in for questioning by the police (Whoopi Goldberg et al) and has to stand in a line up. But no one can identify him as the killer. He winds up marrying the victim's girl friend and living in a rose-covered cottage. Then he gets a call from the real post card sender who is peddling his script about the murder. For an unstated sum, the screenwriter agrees to give the story a happy ending. There isn't space enough to cover all the felicities. It's a savage attack on Hollywood and just about everyone in it, although the multitude of guest stars are treated in a friendly enough fashion. It's the kind of script William Goldman might have written if they'd take his handcuffs off. Example Peter Gallagher is a rival producer and bids Robbins good-bye because he's off to his Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. Robbins (sympathetically) Gee, Larry, I didn't know you had a drinking problem. Gallagher Well, actually, I don't, but that's where all the deals are being made.The improvisatory techniques work this time around, adding color and unexpected dimension to a story that keep us interested throughout. Whoopi Goldberg, as the Pasadena detective in charge of the case, is questioning Robbins in her office and keeps interrupting herself to ask her staff questions like, Where are my tampons? Not these -- I take jumbo, not regular slim. And while Robbins is slowly going nuts with anxiety on the other side of the desk she is twirling a tampon round and round with her fingertip. When Robbins finally erupts with rubescent indignation she begins to cackle and soon every cop and every secretary in the room is laughing in an unbuttoned way while Robbins' eyes dart crazily from side to side. What a surreal scene.The photography is, to use an adjective that's almost unavoidable in this context, stupendous. And the score by Thomas Newman is both original and effective, aptly extraterrestrial. Even the happy ending theme has an underlying sinister quality.There is only one major character in the film who has any principle. Cynthia Stevenson. At the end, she is fired by her boss, ignored by everyone else, and loses a heel and falls down while hurrying off the lot.This was released more than fifteen years ago, as unbelievable as it seems, and it's a little frightening to run down the cast and crew list and see the number of players who have been shuffled off this mortal coil. Where's the next generation? "},{"Title":"Take irons out of fire, put movie in...","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This won't be a long review.It should have been made as holiday gifts among the industry, and not released to the general public.  Take away the deep-inside insider jokes, and this is no better than any one of the weekly cop procedurals on TV.A lot of good talent is wasted - Goldberg, Stockwell...but none so wasted as Vincent D'Onofrio.  (The reviewer who said he only plays one kind of part should see Salt on Our Skin or Spanish Judges or the absolutely over the top wonderful Good Luck.)Rent the movie if you must, but don't encourage anyone in the biz by actually spending good money to buy it. "}{"Title":"If You're Not in the Biz You Won't Get It","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw The Player was on opening night at the Malibu theater with an audience of who's who.  They howled, they screamed, they got it. Having been in show business all my life, I got it too. The second time I saw it was in a civilian audience, and the laughs were missing. People scratched their collective heads.I once met an iron worker who walked on the girders of 50 story buildings. His comment was if you've never done it, you'll never know what it's like.  The same is true of The Player.  If you've never written, produced, acted, or directed (or been part of the below-the-line crew) you won't understand 90% of the movie.  Is that a good thing? No. The first job of a movie is to communicate with an audience, to be accessible.  This movie is not accessible unless you are a part of Hollywood.  To an insider it's so accessible that many hated it.  Altman got it right.  This is the way it is in the toughest business in the world.  Why?  Because for every job there are 50,000 people who want it.  If Griffin Mill seems like a real jerk, well that's the price one pays for realizing a dream. 10/10 for insiders, 1/10 for the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"Another typically bad Altman movie","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented The Player on the recommendation of a friend.  This friend stated that The Player was one of the best films of 1992. And so, with that in mind, I sat down and watched the film. And if The Player was one of the best films of 1992, then 1992 must have been a horrible year for movies. This movie has received a lot of praise that it truly does not deserve. The first problem with the movie is the director, Robert Altman. Now, I generally don't like Altman's work, but this one is really bad. Altman decided that in a movie like this, all subtlety must be ironed out early. And so, when he wants to point out something which isn't really important to the plot, but fits thematically into the movie, such as a movie poster of 'M' for example, he'll have a character stand in front of that object, then the character would move away, and he'd hold on the object. It's the cinematic equivalent of driving a spike into your head with a sledgehammer. Another problem is the main character. He's a jerk. A huge jerk. I mean, come on, he's a studio exec. But the problem here is that he's such a jerk, and stupid to boot, that I had no sympathy for him. He deserved to be caught for what he did, and the sooner the better. I had no interest in seeing him evade the law or get off the hook. You know you have a problem when the audience is rooting for the main character to be incarcerated. The acting was good, not oscar worthy. Tim Robbins certainly wasn't as good as he was in The Shawshank Redemption, for instance. And the other actors couldn't even compare to Robbins' performance in this movie. Oh yes, and how can I forget the music? The score was technically perfect, and nice to listen to, but, once again, Altman has to make sure that no subtlety whatsoever escapes into the film. Whenever something bad is going to happen, the music suddenly becomes ominous and dark. Altman could have had someone come out with a sign saying And now for...something bad! and it would have been no less obvious. The plot was also somewhat obvious from the beginning. I saw this movie with that friend who recommended the film and his brother. Out of the three of us, only the friend who had seen it before didn't seem to know what was going to happen next. His brother and I were saying what was going to happen not just right before it happened, but a long time before it happened. It was sad. The only redeeming point of this film is a subplot involving a really good film idea being turned into a really bad film as it went through the studio system. And the resulting bad film looked more interesting than The Player itself. I'll never know how Altman came to be known as a great director, but it certainly wasn't on the shoulders of The Player. "},{"Title":"This movie was so bad it killed the video machine","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What was the point of this painful movie?  It was neither comedy or suspense - it was cameos of famous people telling weak in jokes.  Obviously a film for insiders or people who like to think of themselves as insiders.  A film to ask for your money back! "},{"Title":"Not sure.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was trying to figure out whether this movie was trying to be funny or suspenseful.  Since it couldn't make up its mind, it did a mediocure job of being both.I think this would have been more entertaining had it focused on the suspense, and had a more exciting ending. "},{"Title":"A clever but shallow satire that manages to hold interest after a brutal death scene...","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not a Robert Altman fan but THE PLAYER ranks among the best of his crop of overpraised films. At least the performances are first rate without all the overlapping dialog that one had to endure in GOSFORD PARK, but the satire is laid on pretty thick even after the brutal accidental murder scene.TIM ROBBINS plays a Hollywood producer who is unable to shake off the persistence of an aspiring writer without resorting to killing him in a moment of desperation and anger. He gets control of himself thereafter and is able to play innocent, especially after a line-up of suspects including him fails to produce a witness who could identify him as being near the scene of the crime.The biggest in-joke of all is Altman's decision to have a marathon lineup of stars on the sidelines, popping up at every other moment when least suspected, and often with no more than a few seconds of screen time. The film within a film (a sub-plot bearing resemblance to the real film plot) is cleverly used to provide a neat finish to the tale. And in doing so, it utilizes (very briefly) the services of stars like SUSAN SARANDON, PETER FALK, JULIA ROBERTS and BRUCE WILLIS.GRETA SCACCHI, PETER GALLAGHER and DEAN STOCKWELL do well in the most prominent supporting roles but it's TIM ROBBINS who owns the spotlight throughout and he's excellent as the conflicted man who commits a crime and gets away with it in a Hollywood film colony that has no conscience.WHOOPI GOLDBERG's role as Detective Susan Avery is unforgivably coarse and totally unbelievable as a woman whose professional conduct borders on burlesque. Equally ineffective is LYLE LOVETT as a fellow detective amused by her shenanigans.There are plenty of faults, but the film manages to hold the interest with its unique blend of suspense, humor, satire and tragedy. It's a clever piece of work but heavily dependent on the audience getting all the inside jokes about Hollywood and its celebrated denizens. "},{"Title":"overrated old style classic","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If it was 1990's the first time I saw this movie, I would say it was a nice movie, which has to be edited again, and better be directed by someone else. I did not see much Altman's movies. So I would not like to criticize him. But it is obvious that this movie, and the way of directed of it are all old fashioned. So it becomes hard to see it after 2000's.Firstly, it is unnecessarily long. Story is good, but not enough to nail you. Maybe you may watch it, at a Sunday breakfast with family. Movie has a different way of tension and storytelling, which bored me a lot. No action, no fun stuff, bad scripts with dull spirit and add artificial acting on it. I think it would be really hard to see it for everyone who is living in this century. 6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Grounded in the machinations of Hollywood","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Among the comments I have read, it seems that people have strong opinions about this movie. They either love it or hate it. I thought that it was pretty good. It is a film with a separate plot, but grounded in the machinations of Hollywood. It seems to me that most of the cynicism expressed here has only gotten worse in the decades since. A film seems to need to be a sequel, a remake, or based on a comic book to get made these days. Anyway this movie's main character is played fairly well by the unlikeable, and vaguely creepy Tim Robbins. Nice job by Greta Scacchi, and also by Cynthia Stevenson, who I recall as playing a goody-goody character in a sitcom around that time, so her part was a nice departure. Again, it is a pretty good, albeit not great film. "},{"Title":"Fred Ward was often better!","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fred Ward (Tremors, Remo Williams, Short Cuts, Road Trip, Escape from Alcatraz,...) was better than in this. Tim Robbins had the best acting in this motion picture. You must see him in Southern Comfort or Tremors. But his acting here is half worse. The Story is good. The Ending is fascinating. I have seen the movie on VHS. When you are Tim Robbins, Peter Gallagher, Whoopi Goldberg, Julia Roberts, Bruce Willis or Brion James fan, then watch this movie 2 Times. And when you are Fred Ward fan, you must watch UFOria. The Movie is okay, but no masterpiece.Rating 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Disconcertingly broad satire awkwardly wed to intriguing ideas","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A satire on the Hollywood system that begins with a tautological assertion&#151;capital is the foremost concern in the production of Hollywood movies, often to the detriment of plausible story lines and galvanizing characters&#151;and ends as a self-reflexive fait accompli to its central working thesis unable to produce art that reflects reality, Hollywood is a dream factory that inevitably corrupts every pure thing it touches. Altman, essentially, constructed a bad movie in order to satirize and cripple the methods in which bad movies are currently made, as delineated by Tim Robbins in the key scene of the movie We look for certain elements in a script that we can use to effectively promote the movie Suspense, laughter, violence, hope, heart, nudity, sex, happy endings. The late revelation that a story pitch made by Robbins' blackmailer actually synopsizes Altman's film, gives the film-within-the-film an immediate postmodern detachment that forces us to reassemble the pieces of the plot in a new framework. Where Altman's film ends and this new, ungainly Hollywood-ized version begins its arc is anyone's guess, but to me the first signs of something askew occur during Robbins' and Sacchi's border excursion, which in its breadth contain the aforementioned rules (using Jamie Kennedy's term in Scream) for modern movies and a gratuitously breathy sex scene, and in its aftermath, a deus-ex-machina that extracts our hero from an open-and-shut police lineup.The Happy Ending&#151;which significantly has Robbins' character echoing Bruce Willis' closing line from the test screening of Habeas Corpus attended by a rival studio exec. (Peter Gallagher), adding yet another layer of reflexivity&#151;is a nightmare inversion of filmic expectation, the swelling score a mocking refrain, that underlines the peculiar air of unreality that pervades even the most authentic of Altman's carefully depth-staged ensemble pieces, wisely trafficked by real movie stars playing themselves in surreal, assuming cameos. It's an odd time for self-interrogation by Altman, as reeled-in as his audience must have been by the broad satire and snide swipes at double-talking suits, but it's creditable that he undermines himself to make a meta-cinematic point about the place for truth/reality in film amidst all the multi-directional flattery, allowing his film's cognitive possibilities to sprout from a very disconcerting place, entreating us to consider that perhaps his broadside deluxe isn't as gleefully one-sided as it often appears. Of course, whether or not this self-generated gamesmanship is enough to offset its supplementary downside is a matter of opinion&#151;I say it's not enough. "},{"Title":"Playing at home","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman's films all have much in common the use of long tracking shots; a large ensemble cast; a slightly disinterested view of the travails of the frequently horrible characters; the absence of slickness; a taste for black comedy; and a frequent disregard for the conventions of narrative structure. What's surprising is how variable they are in quality sometimes he hits the mark (for example, in his recent success 'Gosford Park'); sometimes he fails.  'Pret a Porter', for example, was widely and rightly ridiculed; but many of Altman's efforts leave me cold, semi-random assemblages of nasty people doing nothing particularly much.'The Player', however, is definitely a success.  For once, Altman has something resembling a plot; secondly, he also has something to say, a veteran movie maker turning the spotlight on his own industry.  'The Player' is great fun, but it's also shallow. Even dark films need someone you can like in them, if only to outrage one at the badness of the others; no-one here is nice, but as it's only others equally horrid who end up getting hurt, it's hard to really care.  And for a satire, the bite is limited.  The film turns it's vivid sense of irony frequently on itself, especially in the numerous celebrity cameos, which are highly amusing, but which add a strangely celebratory air to the work a studio executive who hears the ring of truth in it is, I suspect, more likely to sleep soundly and smugly than cut his wrists in shame.  Well worth watching, but a little more heart, to quote from the script, would not have gone amiss. "}{"Title":"Tedious and self-indulgent","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player is a film with a lot of technical effort and work on display, but the story is so weak, tiresome and meaningless that this film will disappoint anyone willing to look past the fluff. The opening shot of the film is the most entertaining part of the entire feature a single long tracking shot featuring a variety of laughable Hollywood types going about their business. The film falls apart, however, when it expects us to actually care about these characters.The Player is about an executive who is blackmailed by a mysterious rejected writer. This is a premise loaded with possibilities, but the protagonist bumbles through the weak plot as if determined to be as boring as possible. We aren't supposed to like him, but we don't actively dislike him either; we don't care at all what happens to him, and since the film's message is made clear within its first shot, there is no point to wasting 2 entire hours on this overrated film. The message is that Hollywood people are phony and hypocritical--hardly an inspired concept. And yet the film reiterates this tired, cheap idea over and over as if its audience is too stupid to grasp it the first time. This leads to a clichd clever ending that might impress preteens but only serves to repeat the film's meager message for the umpteenth time.I was hoping this film would move me or make me think, but The Player seems mostly comprised of filler. Even the romance subplot feels contrived and empty; the film presents Greta Scacchi's character as if she will have some depth and purpose, but she is a stereotypical vessel who, like most of the characters, ultimately acts as little more than a cheap plot device.The film has many allusions to classic cinema, such as the motif of an abrupt zoom in on old film posters. This, however, is NEVER clever, subtle, or unexpected because the film hits you over the head with these allusions and overuses them relentlessly, as if Altman couldn't stop saying See what I did there?? It's that thing some of you recognize!There is cute window dressing throughout the picture, but most frequently this film uses an unconventional or awkward shot just for the sake of being unusual. Many people have mindlessly praised this as brilliant and avant-garde, but there is no inspired meaning to the odd yet frankly drab cinematography. It does not make you think, it does not make you uncomfortable, it does not impart a message. "},{"Title":"Solid","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film opens with a famed 9+ minute opening single crane shot that swoops in & out of assorted conversations between assorted people on the lot. A duo even mentions Orson Welles' famed single crane opening shot of Touch Of Evil. After several sweeps in & out we focus on studio exec Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins) who has just received the latest in a series of postcard threats from some hack writer whose film idea he never got back to the writer on. He also feels threatened by a younger hotshot the studio head just hired as a possible replacement for himself- Larry Levy (Peter Gallagher). Like Adaptation's fictive Charlie Kaufman GM is a man at a crux & crisis point in his life. He has a sweet, sincere girlfriend, Bonnie Sherow (Cynthia Stevenson), & seems resigned to his possible ouster from his job. But, the threats unnerve him & begin to change him in to a darker person than the usual Hollywood asshole type that both he & LL represent. Many cameo guest stars comment on both GN's & LL's two-facedness in business. But GM's personal life is what is the center of the film. "},{"Title":"fun to see in '92 but not in 2004","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having lived one time in Hollywood   I was amused by some of the in jokes when I first saw this movie when it was first shown.I had forgotten much but after seeing and enjoying Altmann's Nashville I looked for other films of hisRead some of the rave reviews here  and  rented this period piece One has to be a big fan of Altman I suppose to appreciate stuff like this film.Way too long , repetitive , cute , and boring in many places. Mildly entertaining but  it failed my test which is that I would not see this movie again.Give it 7 of 10 in 1992 and 5/10  12 years later. Many better films to see than this one. "},{"Title":"Genius envy","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Shortly after the release of The Player Film Comment magazine published an interview with director Robert Altman. There had been much praise for his long opening tracking shot. Naturally, this invited comparison to the grand-daddy of such shots, the opening of Welles's Touch of Evil. In the interview, Altman was quoted as saying about the Welles shot that it was the most grotesquely self-indulgent thing I've ever seen. I could understand Altman lashing out at the film school brats who are making all the money, but to make such a derisive comment about a fellow maverick (the ultimate maverick) reveals a major inferiority complex. Altman seems to believe that he is not regarded with sufficient reverence. With that kind of attitude, he doesn't deserve to be. "},{"Title":"I guess, only watch if you are in the business????","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie so slow and boring.  I'm sure I didn't get a lot of the satire, I guess because I'm not in the business...  But still, the final twist we find out at the end is not worth watching the whole movie to find out.  I consider myself half decently intelligent and I just did not get this movie which leaves me to conclude after seeing the rave reviews on this movie that you have to be in the business to get it.   "},{"Title":"Ya really had to have been there at the time to geddit","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film feels like the Hollywood equivalent of a Xmas party joke. Y'know, the type when someone comes out in a Santa Claus suit and gives comic awards to The Biggest Boozer, The Boss' Pet, The One Who Needs an Alarm Clock the Most, etc. I can just imagine this going the rounds of the studio offices and people chuckling and going; That's Mr X to a T! and Oh, I definitely work with that type of guy!; and I saw that just yesterday. It's almost the definitive inside joke; and that's the problem - it's WAY parochial.There's a saying among pro screenwriters that a good script has local application and universal relevance. While the local application of this film is undeniable; I have yet to be convinced what the universal relevance is. Quite frankly, I have never heard anyone who isn't professionally or personally connected to the film industry ever say they liked this. I think films like S.O.B. or THE LAST ACTION HERO work a lot better than this because they're written more from a viewer's perspective. I certainly think Blake Edwards can set up a comic gag a lot better than Robert Altman can. I don't seem to be in tune with Altman's sense of comic timing. (In fact, I'm not sure he even has one).However, if Hollywood thinks stories like this are viable; there's one about the office worker who put an Imperial boilerplate in an Olympic machine and had the whole staff chuckling for a week. I'm almost sure that would make a hot feature film. Or the one about the physics lab assistant who said neutron when he meant neutrino (just picture all the scientists rolling on the floor at that one!); almost a sure-fire box office smash! Or the story of the IRS worker who put an F5 header onto a G3 form and had a whole sub-section of a department in turmoil for at least an hour. Pretty much guaranteed to have someone swimming in awards! Or the time at our family picnic when cousin Albert went and... (Fade to Black) "},{"Title":"62 cameos is 59 too many in a good film, 50 too many in this film","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Read at your own risk there's a mild spoiler buried in my comments somewhere.  Not that it matters.Films about Hollywood are stinkers, everyone knows that.  But people who should know better think that this one must be an exception.  It's made by a director who is, no doubt, talented - his skilled handling of actors and camera is everywhere apparent - but the film is empty rubbish; there's no getting around it.Look at the few Hollywood films about Hollywood that AREN'T empt rubbish and one can immediately sense the difference.  Sunset Boulevard, Singin' in the Rain, Barton Fink and Ed Wood ... although, by rights, they OUGHT to be standard examples of Hollywood navel-gazing, somehow they spring to life.  (Singin' in the Rain was one of the very best films of the 1950s; Barton Fink, of the 1990s.)  What have they got that The Player doesn't?Interesting things to say about their subject matter, for one thing ... but actually, the main difference from which all others stem is that The Player has something they don't self-reference.  Singin' in the Rain, Ed Wood and Barton Fink keep themselves free of this intoxicating (for artists, not for audiences) drug partly by setting the action 24, 36 and c.55 years in the past, respectively; Wilder doesn't do this with Sunset Boulevard, yet he adroitly manages to avoid all the nasty traps into which Altman doesn't so much fall as joyfully leap.  Altman is keen to remind us - as often and as tediously as possible - that we are WATCHING A MOVIE that was produced under THESE VERY CONDITIONS.  (In fact, one of the films that gets greenlighted in the course of the story turns out to be The Player itself!  I don't actually object to this kind of twist, and sometimes I enjoy it, but I'd realised that it was neither interesting nor novel before I turned ten.)  No doubt Altman feels this frees him of the responsibility of making the characters worthy of our attention, or of telling us anything about the production of films that might illuminate our understanding of them, or the people that make them, or anything else.One of the ways Altman keeps nudging us in the ribs is with cameos ... hundreds and hundreds of cameos.  Well, not quite that many, but still more than enough to get him a place in The Guinness Book of Records, which was doubtless his intention.  There are in fact 62 actors and actresses who play themselves, as well as 35 who don't, and if you can keep the two classes mentally separate without watching the film a dozen or so times first, perhaps Altman will be kind enough to give you a prize.  And who COULD watch this film a dozen times?  It was kind of fun the first time, I'll admit, but never again.Still, I'm more than willing to sit down and try some other Altman films.  So far as I know, they're about other topics - war in Korea, the fashion industry, country music, life in Los Angeles, etc. - which might allow the craft on display here to be turned to good account. "},{"Title":"Bull...","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's incredible how Robert Altman's talent greatly diminished from MASH to this movie (not to mention one of the greatest raspberries of all times, the 1994's Pret-a-Porter). Despite the good performances of Tim Robbins and... (ok, that's it), The Player leads nowhere. It's boring, full of private jokes that sure will give great laughs to the Hollywood execs but makes zilch sense to the average spectator (me included), and there is absolutely NO story development, nor character's. It is extremely tedious; it creeeeps on the screen like a leech, and you have to watch the same jokes about the film industry, and art vs. blockbusters, and Julia Roberts jokes, and blah blah blah, and so and so.  "},{"Title":"Can Cannes can canned food as if it were fresh morning dew","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A parody of Hollywood, once more, Gosh. Nothing new will ever be done on that subject. It is a rattlesnake nest and nothing else. Only the details may change but the wider and the finer pictures are always the same. This particular film what's more is showing that everyone hates everyone and that everything is crooked and that all the every's you may think of are all berserk and warped. So what! What's the point? Is there a point? A no star film that ends up with stars. A bad ending that becomes good , they say happy, I know. An author who sells his skin for a million dollars. An exec that sells his soul for ten times more. Each million of those ten millions are extracted from the bones of one body turned into corpse. Morbid, morbid, morbid ! You kill someone and then within a week you make his girlfriend pregnant to compensate for the death and then you drop your own girlfriend because she is becoming too much of an inside job whereas the new one is outlandish and in a completely different job. A witness in a line-up who goes for the cop in the line-up who is one foot shorter than the murderer &#150; and we know who he is &#150; and meager and dark-skinned, in one word just the absolute opposite of the murderer she has in front of her own eyes and with a cop who is definitely leading her. What a witness. She saw nothing. Such a film can only get a prize in Cannes, France, because that's the kind of melodramatic satire the French can swallow and yet pretend it is fresh milk. And what's more it takes the audience for retarded baboons. Who is still afraid of the big bad Hollywood rattlesnake? Who is indeed? A big yawning deception.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Stop With The Cliches!","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Altman, who should know better because he's part of this world, apparently thinks he's making a serious and truthful critique against Hollywood, yet all he achieves is furthering the lives of common stereotypes.SPOILERS AHEADGriffin Mill, a producer who receives over 50000 story pitches a year but can only turn 12 into movies otherwise his studios goes bankrupt, is being stalked by an angry screenwriter he might have neglected. Through a web of confusion, he mistakenly kills the wrong screenwriter he thought was stalking him, and all hell brakes loose.Between that and the end, Altman seems only interested in trying to convince us every producer in Hollywood is a money-loving ignorant person. First of all, there's nothing morally wrong in loving money and making only movies for the sake of money, yet sometimes some people seem to forget all the great movies we worship today as deep and meaningful works of art were all just money vehicles 60 years ago - I talk about The Wizard Of Oz, The Maltese Falcon, the beloved Casablanca... we can even go as further back in time as Shakespeare's time and find the same pattern the same genius of literature today was a businessman writing his plays for the 'ignorant' masses 500 years ago for money... and there's nothing wrong with that! Art isn't 'made' like you make a car, art is 'born' spontaneously by dozens of circumstances, that's what has turned Casablanca into a modern work of art, but anyone who has watched the documentary on the DVD knows this brilliant movie wasn't even a studio priority, just another movie in 50 movies the studio many annually... ... so, Altman, just cut the criticism and make instead a tribute to the people who've made it possible for the best movies in the world to exist in the past 60 years.Another stereotype is that all producers in this movie are ignorant guys - that wouldn't be bad if they were 'ignorant' in the sense Michael Lerner plays an ignorant producer in Barton Fink a simple immigrant who climbed the ladder to success, built a studio and loves movies 'with heart' like any normal person.But no, the producers in The Player are just dumb! In particular, I love the scene towards the end when they're watching a bogus movie being produced within The Player called 'Habeas Corpus' and it's like the most unoriginal thriller you could think of, with Bruce Willis and Julia Robert in cliched roles, with a cliched scene where Willis rushes out to the gas chamber to save the poor innocent Roberts from a crime she didn't commit, a cliched ending that's even too much for Hollywood's standards, and dreadful one-liners like 'you're late' 'traffic was hell,' and all the producers in the room are like 'it's Oscar time' - come on! No real producer would ever believe a movie like this could be material for a Best Picture nomination - honestly, when has a studio wasted money on movie campaigns like XXX, Die Hard, The Rock, Face/Off for the Oscars? Never, because they know better than that!The cliches go on and on, but they're not effective because they're not grounded on reality, they're exaggerations you can't take seriously, and as a critique, it fails. "}{"Title":"My pick for Robert Altman's worst film","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, maybe I can't say that. There are plenty I haven't seen, and, well, Popeye at least has to be worse. The Player is one of the bitterest, most heavy-handed satires ever made. The sad part is that the focus of Altman's attack is not even close to being completely culpable for the crap it churns out. The cinema is an industry. It has to make money or it will go out of business. The crumminess of most movies only exists because the American public is made up of swine they want to root in troughs and walk through feces. And it is so expensive to make movies nowadays, that, if a movie doesn't make money, it could destroy many people. Of course, with Hollywood's willingness to bow to the lowest common denominator, it works as a downward spiral. It's getting harder and harder to insult America's intelligence nowadays. Pearl Harbor is #1 at the box office, and plenty of people attest to its greatness. Heck, Shrek, a pile of crap, is being touted, even by critics, as a great piece of filmmaking. What's worse, the media works as a catalyst to it all, angling all reports of success around the money which is made.For an intellectual like Altman to be mad at Hollywood is pointless. Be mad at America. Instead of making The Player, about people just doing their job, why not make a Nashville-style ensemble piece about the idiocy of the common man. They're not going to see it anyway. "},{"Title":"A Hollywood Film Noir","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Player (1992) **** (out of 4) Robert Altman's big comeback picture is about a sleazy Hollywood producer (Tim Robbins) who finds himself receiving death threats from an unknown writer that he slided in the past. The producer thinks he's found the right person and accidentally kills him and soon realizes that now he's got the police to worry about as well as the real stalker. THE PLAYER isn't a film I enjoyed the first time I watched it because I thought the numerous cameos from the various Hollywood stars was a distraction but on repeat viewings I've come to really enjoy the film. I think it is rather clever in the way it uses the cameos and I really loved Altman's decision to have classic movie posters hanging up to show what's currently going on in this picture. There are a great number of film noir and crime pictures that have their posters shown here and I thought this was a nice little touch. Overall I think the film's greatest strength is its story of the producer being stalked by someone he treated badly in the past. Once the murder of the innocent guy takes place the film really goes on a wild ride because not only do you wonder who the real stalker is but you also like the producer enough to where you don't want to see him get in trouble. This is very much a touch that Alfred Hitchcock would use in several films and wouldn't you know that Altman has a picture of the great director on display. Robbins does an exceptional job with the lead role and he really nails the various emotions that the character goes through. I thought Fred Ward, a very underrated actor, was excellent in his part and we also get a nice bit by Whoopi Goldberg, Peter Gallagher and Greta Scacchi. There are numerous cameos in the film, which at first were off putting but on repeat viewings it's really neat to see how Altman used them to bring outsiders into this Hollywood world. THE PLAYER isn't a masterpiece and it's not one of the greatest films ever made but I think it's an easy to accept film that has some great performances and a nice little story with many bones for film buffs. "},{"Title":"Clever and entertaining but a little too cleverly smug for my liking","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Griffin Mill is a Hollywood producer who feels under threat from a rival who has just been brought in from another studio.  He is also being blackmailed by one of countless writers who's pitch he ignored.  When a case of mistaken identity leaves another writer dead by Mill's own hands, he is immediately suspected by the police who go after him while he tries to cover himself against both them and internal studio politics.It's been a while since I first saw this film and it is registered in my mind as having a great reputation &#150; to the point that I'll watch it again because I'm going off it's reputation, not my own memory of it.  The fact that it failed to make an impression on me that lasted more than a few years was a worrying sign but not enough to put me off it.  The plot can be viewed on several levels and works on most of them. I had a problem with it because it too often fell into being too knowing.  I know other reviews have claimed that this is it's strength &#150; that it acknowledges what it is, but I felt it made it a little too cold and smug the odd time.That said it is still enjoyable, the characters serve as satire just as much as the really obvious digs do, and they pretty much are all amusing and clever.  The cast are OK, Robbins is as smarmy as he needs to be and does it pretty well.  The support cast do well and feature a raft of stars either in roles or playing themselves.  Goldberg stood out for me as her character was the most eccentric and off the wall.Overall this is a good film but I'm afraid I can't lavish praise on it in the way that some other reviews (both professional and amateur) have done.  I found it a little too snooty for my liking &#150; it knows it is a clever film and has an air of smugness that comes out occasionally.  Still worth a watch though &#150; this was just a barrier to me. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie Robert Altman has directed","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I personally think MASH and Nashville are two of the best movies of all time.  And although I enjoyed Gosford Park it was merely a guilty pleasure. The Player however is a rip off from start to finish (especially the non-ending - you know one of those and one year later . . . endings that tells you that the writer got fired.) One of my personal ways of determining whether I like a movie is how many times I look at my watch during it.  The movie was 15 minutes old and I had already looked at my watch five times. .. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman wasted two hours of my life I can never get back!!!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Treat this film like the vile poison it is and stay away.  How it made it into the top 250 films of all time is beyond me.  This is a large stinking load of pretentious crap.  From the miserable cinematography, to the poor acting, this movie was painful to watch.  The music was suicide inducing. The close ups on the tortured faces (reminded me of the audience watching this film) and the over use of the zoom feature on the camera. An over all amateur production on every level.  Robert Altman wasted two hours of my life I can never get back!!! "},{"Title":"Devoid","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am fully aware that this is a film much beloved by 'movie critics' and the like, yet it leaves me perplexed. I do not require a film to have 'a message' but some entertainment value would be nice... This film just leaves me cold, it is devoid of *anything* worthy of comment. I have just watched it for the third time, hoping against hope that *something* will suddenly make me nod my head in appreciation.. but alas no. It is plain dreadful. "},{"Title":"This is absolutely THE WORST movie ever made!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this on a cable channel the other day. It's one of those movies that are so bad you have to keep watching just to see how bad it'll get. It's a bunch of Hollywood clicks tootin' their own horns - look at me, look at me be funny, look what I do, look what I wear, look where I lunch, be interested, be excited. Oh the arrogance & haughtiness. Ever wonder why the evil rusty truck on Duel was chasing Dennis Weaver so incessantly? Because the driver thought he was chasing Robert Altman. He was trying to stop him from making The Player. And if you do indeed like this one be sure to check out The Lonely Lady w/ Pia Zadora - another movie about the business. "}]