[{"Title":"Montana only LOOKS!! Serene","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"88 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A stunning realization occurs when some sort of phenomenon takes place!! Be it, firecrackers going off, witnessing a robbery, a hurricane nonchalantly devastating everything in it's path, or, for that matter, any other spectacular occurrence !! In the case of the Maclean Family, however, reveille was something which was no more complex than their day to day lives..Montana in the early twentieth century was an environment which was rough and tumble...The Maclean family was comprised of four people, the father, a minister, who was ideologically driven to raise his family properly. His wife was God fearing, and dutiful. The two boys were, well...BOYS!!.. What else can you say?...Brad Pitt starred in this film before he was really THE!! Brad Pitt, and his acting performance in this film was, to say the least, remarkable!!!.. His brother, Norman, was the cerebral type, he was touched by emotions that were genuine, and motivated by a set of values that Missoula, Montana concurred with!! Paul (Brad Pitt) was a misfit from the offset, and lived on the edge...You would think that Montana in the 1920's had no such thing, yet somehow, gambling, drinking, and violent confrontations, were as much a part of Paul, as was his fly fishing rod!! Fly fishing!! Did I say that? Parenthetically, this was the core of this movie's theme!! The recreation of fly fishing served as the cohesive bond which homogenized the kindred spirits of the Maclean brothers, and to a lesser degree, the father!! I would describe the acting in this film as incredibly believable, and the cinematography went beyond sensational.. Put it this way, anyone who sees this film will want to live in Montana.. Breathtaking filmography of bluer than blue mountains and streams captured the youth and effervescence that the Maclean brothers had for life...Seldom in a film do you witness whereby feelings immediately invoke a dogged tenacity to accomplish whatever it may be that someone wishes to accomplish..The Maclean brothers lived life to the fullest, and for better or worse, the father knew that this was going to be the only way the two of them could become men!!...Robert Redford directs this film, and tells the story of the Maclean's through the perspective of the older brother, Norman...Norman gets offered a position at the University of Chicago at age 26, and marries the woman he will always be in love with...What this film also points out, is that the younger brother, Paul, has attained an accomplishment of his own by being the epitome of a remarkable fly fisherman!! The seedier side of life prevails in the younger brother's existence, and exerts an insidious form of consternation for the Maclean family!! As most human shortcomings go, the Maclean family made light of turbulent waters, (literally) and thus, established unity as a family, by putting necessary blinders on!!!The end of the movie River Runs Through It presents an epigram of life through the eyes of the older brother.. For Norman Maclean, stoicism is a prerequisite to perseverance in his emeritus years!! Such a fate is largely due to the fact that reflecting on his life is tantamount to yearning for people who have passed away! The fond memories of his brother, his wife, his mother, and his father, must now be viewed philosophically!! For Norman, his life has been relegated to stubborn facts that have determined his dubious outlook, and precarious resolve! Something as simple as the statement This was your life, and that is how you lived it is a somber recollection of the joy, the sorrow, the regrets, and the love, he gave, as well as was the recipient of!! Best put in the last sermon he heard his father give, his father said We can completely love someone without completely understanding them.. Whether you agree with what has happened in your life or not, it happened nonetheless! Norman Maclean must come to grips with the fact that his life has been fragmented by misunderstandings! Norman Maclean has become a decrepit octogenarian who is polarized by virtual conclusions to his life!! The murky waters of Montana's picturesque rivers serve as a vicious and desultory finalization to his years on earth!! Without question, the very prolific statement of what seems complicated is really very simple purveys a very acrimonious message in this movie...More simply put...The people and places which were important in Norman's life, are now only a bittersweet memory....merely a painfully intellectual rumination of events which are aggravated by the haunted waters of Montana's beautiful streams and rivers...To which, for the entire Maclean family, all things merge into one and a river runs through it "},{"Title":"This movie is very dear to my own Heart! Movies cannot get better than this!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"66 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have read the short story by Norman Maclean, and the movie did justice to Norman Maclean's  writing. My husband tends to reread it occasionally, and I myself have read it over and scenes of the movie keeps coming to mind.  We have  videos of many of Redford &#145;s movies  and we have watched A River runs through it many times.  Redford is part of the famdamily as he is always around.   We never get tired of Redford's perception of Norman Maclean writings, and the beauty of Montana. The script reminds me very much of my own upbringing as my father had the same calling as Mr. Maclean's father. According to A River Runs Through It, Methodists are Baptists who can read,  a line which by the way is not in the short story,  but I think that is a funny line!  My husband and I are well-read Baptists!I have heard a movie critic state that the pace of this movie is too slow. I disagree.  As one search for inner peace, this is the type of movie that will make you contemplate the beauty of nature in three/four rhythm of the metronome. The photography is outstanding! The acting is great.  I love the scene where Norman and Paul as boys talked and wondered whether one could be a fly fisher or a boxer! Then as adult Paul played by Brad Pitt (Se7ven)  is the  perfect guy who needs help with his alcoholism but will not accept it. The same applies to Neal Burns, who uses worms as bait, he also needed help but would not accept the fact that he needed help. The scene where Paul refuses to eat oatmeal and the entire family has to wait an eternity to say grace! Finally after hours, they all kneel around the table to say Grace! and they all leave. But the oatmeal stayed on the plate! That scene where the two love birds and their tattoos on their posteriors!  That is funny! The sunburn! The drive back home where Jessie Burns (Emily Lloyd) decides to go via the train line! Beautiful dialogue when Norman proposes to Jessie because he wants her to come to Chicago with him!Redford himself does a superb job as a narrator. I could not stop myself from comparing Brad to the young Redford (Barefoot in the Park). The nominated Director, Producer, Actor, is a visionary who deserves to be praised for his advancement not only in the cinema in the US but around the world. I am glad to live in nineteen hundred because I have seen the beginning of the black and white television, the movies and all the technology and special effects,  to be able to watch videos at home and to live in the same century as Redford because I have had the chance to see his works. Redford needs no special effects to show us the beauty of Montana in this masterpiece. The river to me means that line that separates life from death, memories and realities.  Redford shows the hands of the Creator so magnificently and a river runs through it.  "},{"Title":"A Nearly Perfect Film","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"59 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I saw previews for this film, I thought Its a movie about fishing, why would I want to see that?  This is as much of a fishing movie as Hoosiers is about basketball, or Field of Dreams is about baseball.The story is elegant, the narrative beautiful, the characters deftly drawn. The relationship between the father and two sons is really interesting, and I love the interplay between them.  There is great sadness, and also great humour.  While nostalgic, I don't think the film ever becomes maudlin, and by the time the film draws to its inevitable close, I feel the same sense of loss and regret every time.This movie does what films are supposed to do - touch one's heart and mind.The closing lines, taken from a short story by McLean, are as haunting as they are beautifulBut when I am alone in the half light of the canyon all existence seems to fade to a being with my soul and memories. And the sounds of the Big Black Foot River and a four count rhythm and the hope that a fish will rise. Eventually, all things merge into one, and a river runs through it. The river was cut by the world's great flood and runs over rocks from the basement of time. On some of the rocks are timeless raindrops. Under the rocks are the words, and some of the words are theirs. I am haunted by waters. "},{"Title":"Pay attention to the themes that never go away","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"61 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Have you seen The Graduate? It was hailed as the movie of its generation. But A River Runs Through It is the story about all generations. Long before Dustin Hoffman's character got all wrapped up in the traps of modern suburbia, Norman Maclean and his brother Paul were facing the same crushing pressures of growing up as they tried to find their place in the world. But how could a place like post WW1 Montana be a showcase for the American family, at a time when the Wild West still was not completely gone? Just what has Maclean tapped into that strikes so deeply at who we all are and what we have to go through to find ourselves? As the movie opens, Norman is an old man, flyfishing beside a rushing river, trying to understand the course his own life has taken. The movie is literally a journey up through his own stream of consciousness, against time's current and back to when he was a boy. He and his younger brother Paul were the sons of a Presbyterian minister and devoted mother. The parents fit snugly into their roles. Mom takes care of house and home. Dad does the work of the Lord. The boys ponder what they will be when they grow up. Norm has it narrowed down to a boxer or a minister like his dad. Given the choice, little Paul would be the boxer, since he's told his first choice of pro flyfisherman doesn't even exist. The boys grow up and get into trouble with their pranks, fight to see who is tougher and do the things brothers do, all the while attending church and taking part in all other spiritual matters like flyfishing. They are at similar points in their lives before college. But when Norm returns from his six years at Dartmouth, things are very different. Paul is at the top of his game. Master flyfisherman. Grad of a nearby college and newspaper reporter who knows every cop on the beat and every judge on the bench. Norman is stunningly well educated for his day but has little idea what to do with his life, even as his father grills him about what he intends to do. You're left feeling that at least to Pops, God will call you to your life's work. But you have to stay open and ready to receive it -- all your life. Father has always taken his boys to reflect by the side of the river and contemplate God's eternal words. Listen, their father urges. It's both Zen and Quakerly. Pretty radical for a stoic clergyman. But with all the beauty and contemplation, and even though the Macleans are truly a God-fearing, scripture-heeding household, how is it that Rev. Maclean's family is unraveling? Paul is true perfection as he fishes the river, but he's feeling the pull of gambling and boozing, while his family doesn't know how to keep him from winding up where he seems to be headed. Mom, Dad and Brother all seem to have the same quiet desperation of not knowing what they should be doing and why they can't seem to help. Pauly just waves it all off with a grin and his irresistible charm. But the junior brother is losing his grip. Norman starts getting his life on track, finding love and career, but Paul continues to slide. The family that loves him watches helplessly. Mother, Father, Brother flounder in their own ways trying to help, but none very effectively. How can a family that loves each other so much be so ill-equipped to handle this? How can someone be so artful and full of grace when out in God's nature, yet be somehow unfit or unwilling to fit into the constructs of society that God's peoples have made for themselves? These are all questions Norman will ponder his entire life. The eternal words beneath the smooth stones of the river forever haunt him, yet keep their secrets. The movie is beautiful to watch. This is certainly God's country, and filming it won an Oscar. Director Robert Redford plays with the story from the book and teases the narration a bit to follow the emotional pattern he's presenting, and it works well. But do go back and read the book, too. You'll see Norman made connections with his old man even deeper than the movie can suggest -- and you'll see the places where the storyteller's very words gurgle and sing right off the page with an exuberance of a river running through it, leading into the unknown. "},{"Title":"Picturesque and Literary An Ode to the American Wilderness","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"49 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen all the films directed by Robert Redford and appreciated his love of the American people and the land. In A River Runs Through It, Redford displays the lyric romanticism and visual splendor of the high Rocky Mountains of Montana as if he were a 19th century landscape painter of the ilk of Thomas Moran or Albert Bierstadt. This film makes love to the visual and the word with text by author Norman Maclean, and stunning camera work by Phillippe Rousselot (Serpent's Kiss, Reigne Margot).Redford's cast is perfect. Tom Skerritt is the Rev. MacLean, a man whose methods of education include fly fishing as well as the Bible, Brenda Blythen, the mother, and his sons, Craig Schaffer and Brad Pitt create a family whose interactions reflect the same problems all encounter with growing teenage sons, and later, complex young men. Both Schaffer and Pitt are totally believable as the brothers whose love of fly fishing and each other will tie them together forever. It is the relationships between men, father and sons, brothers, and their women to the outside world that grounds A River Runs Through It to a vein of storytelling that is missing in so many of Hollywood films produced in recent years.What makes these relationships special however, is the attention Redford gives to the language as spoken in dialogue. This is a literate script, beautiful to hear and unforgettable when coupled with the stunning Montana rivers and mountains. The words and setting are equal to performances by a cast that rises to their material. While the idea of fly fishing may seem an odd device to center a story, it is not so implausible in Redford's directorial hands. Given the material, Redford's elegant ode to a simpler time and life is worth revisiting again and again. "},{"Title":"The 'It' of the title can be replaced by so many things. A place, a community or life itself.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the things about the film that warmed my heart strings was that dry fly fishing was a major part of the scene. I have occasionally carried out my times of dry fly fishing, having tied my own flies, and being accompanied by my brother and my father we spend a day on one river or another seeking to tempt the ever elusive Brown Trout to rise and take the fly that has been offered to them.When we had occasions like this any differences between us disappeared and any of the pressures of the world melted away to be replaced by the glory of being absorbed in the activity and the surroundings of the place we were in.This was one of the amazing things that was portrayed to me in the film as the minister and his two sons, Norman and Pauly carried out the ritual. For there is something ritualistic about fly fishing as there is something ritualistic about so many pastimes. You can't just start casting your fishing line and hope for the best. You have to attune yourself to the place you are in, you have to scan the surface of the water considering how it is flowing and where the best point might be to place your fly and, depending on your skill level, you might even get your fly to land there long enough for a fish to take note of it and strike. The 'Art of Fly-fishing' was directed and represented so well that they themselves can be classified as artists.The title for the film could not be more aptly chosen, for the river did in fact run through the life of father and two sons. This film however spreads itself broader than the family and community in Montana, by the the Blackfoot river, where the film is played out. It has the capacity to draw you in, to enthrall you, to capture you, as the history of the family, community and period is unfolded. The Story told is not just a family history, but a history of Life. What may be classified as a 'River of Life'  "},{"Title":"An eye opening inspiration","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"40 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The combination of reading the Novella and viewing this film has inspired my wife and I to new levels. Recently I was pondering a statement made by the artist Thomas Kinkade in one of his inspirational books; He states You and I were not designed to breathe the fetid air of five o'clock traffic. Nor do I think God had banal television programs, media hype, worthless purchases, and soul pollution in mind when he created the universe... I hadn't seen A river runs through it in a couple of years, but after pondering Kinkade's statement something drew me to watch the film with a spiritual eye. I watched it and saw a whole new world to the film and it inspired me to read the book (a must read). I have always been frustrated in Southern California but somehow got caught up in its materialistic society. The film really puts into perspective of how we should really experience God's creations. A combination of Macleans story and my desire to move back to the Northwest has driven me to move to Montana. I want my future kids to be able to rome the landscape, go fly-fishing with me, ride horses into nothing but open land and serene lakes set in the mountainside. A place where you seldom worry about crime. I look around SoCal and all I see is shopping malls, rude snarling people in their Mercedez Bens, miles of vehicles on congested freeways, gangs, racial turmoil on the verge of violent eruption, and everyone skeptical of each others intentions.Anyway the movie is very inspiring with brilliant acting and a deep story about the fragile connections of loved ones. There is a lot of deep thinking in this film. The scenery is worth seeing alone and actually helps relieve tension. You should finish this film relaxed yet full of insights to your own life. It takes a compassionate, intelligent, and spiritual person to really grasp the meaning. If you don't understand the art of cinema and how a director achieves his goals through dialogue, tone, light, colour, scenery, camera angles/movement, etc. Then this film is probably not for the crowd that thinks The Fast and the Furious is the greatest film. Granted it was entertaining but shallow.The bottom line This film helps to realize that life is not about how much money you have or what things you posses. Rather it is about your relationships with family and friends and the experiences you share together. QUALITY NOT QAUNTITY "},{"Title":"A marvelous film!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Upon seeing this film once again it appeared infinitely superior to me this time than the previous times I have viewed it.  The acting is stunningly wonderful.  The characters are very clearly drawn.  Brad Pitt is simply superb as the errant son who rebels.  The other actors and actresses are equally fine in every respect.  Robert Redford creates a wonderful period piece from the days of speakeasies of the 1920s.  The scenery is incredibly beautiful of the mountains and streams of western Montana.  All in all, this is one of the finest films made in the 1990s.You must see this movie! "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a little town in Montana two brothers grow up. One of them is Norman (Craig Sheffer), the other is Paul (Brad Pitt). Their father is Reverend Maclean and they grow up with his lessons that has to do with religion, and the lessons of fly-fishing. In this movie fly-fishing represents life, a little.The story is good and keeps your attention although there are some moments you need a little action. Probably the movie has this moments because it is not really about the events that happen, but about the message. Some things do happen though. Norman goes to Dartmouth to study. After six years he returns and gets involved with a nice girl named Jessie (Emily Lloyd) and he is invited to teach in Chicago. Paul has become a reporter and is known as the fishing reporter. He is famous and it seems he has a nice life, but he drinks a little too much and gambles too much.The movie is very well directed, it has a nice score and all of the actors are good. The most beautiful thing in this movie is the cinematography. The mountains, the woods and the river all look very beautiful. If the movie was only made for these things it was good enough to watch. Fortunately there is more. "},{"Title":"a very poignant film","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" as a habit i always like to read through the 'hated it' reviews of any given movie. especially one that i'd want to comment on. and it's not so much a point-counterpoint sorta deal; i just like to see what people say on the flipside.however, i do want to address one thing. many people that hated it called it, to paraphrase, 'beautiful, but shallow,' some even going so far as to say that norm's desire yet inability to help his brother was a mundane plot, at best.i'd like to disagree.as a brother of a sibling who has a similar dysfunction, i can relate. daily, you see them abuse themselves, knowing only that their current path will inevitably lead them to self-destruction. and it's not about the specifics of what they did when; how or why paul decided to take up gambling and associating with questionable folks; it's really more how they are wired. on one hand, they are veritable geniuses, and on the other, painfully self-destructive (it's a lot like people like howard hughes &#151; the same forces which drive them are the same forces which tear them apart) and all the while you see this, you know this, and what's worse, you realize you can't do a damn thing about it.for norman maclean, a river runs through it was probably a way to find an answer to why the tragedy had to occur, and who was to blame. in the end, no one is, and often, there is no why. but it takes a great deal of personal anguish to truly come to this realization. sometimes it takes a lifetime. and sometimes it never comes at all. "}{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie I was with my dad. He encouraged me to watch this movie because it was one of his favorites. After watching the movie it instantly became one of mine. A River Runs Through It is about two brothers who each take a different path in life. Norman Maclean (Craig Sheffer) is the older of the two brothers and sets out on the path of education. Paul Maclean (Brad Pitt) is the rebellious younger brother who travels on a path full of obstacles. The story follows these characters as the each walk their own path. There is no downside to this film. You will be entertained the whole way through. The acting, directing, and script are all perfect. The two things that are exceptional are the cinematography and the score. Both bring you into the world Robert Redford creates. This is an all around great film that is destined to be a classic. It sure is in my book. If you haven't seen it definitely watch it as soon as you can, because it will stay with you forever. "},{"Title":"Poignant and inspirational","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A River Runs Through It is the story of a Scottish Presbyterian family, the Macleans, living in Montana in the first half of the 20th century. Their father is a Presbyterian minister, and the two sons, Paul and Norman, take very different paths in life. Norman, dubbed the preacher by his buddies, is a serious, steady, man- he marries and becomes an English professor. Paul, on the other hand, feels the need to rebel against his stern Presbyterian upbringing. He's a risk taker, and he likes to have a good time. As the story unfolds, he dives deeper into drinking and gambling.One of the main themes in the movie is fly fishing, which is brought up again and again. As Norman says in narration, In my family, there is no clear division between religion and fly fishing. The boys learn the skill from their father, and it remains one of the things that binds the men together throughout their lives. Paul makes it an art form, fishing with so much grace that his brother is awed. Many metaphors for life are shown through their family fishing trips.Just as Norman's life is taking shape- he gets a job offer from the University of Chicago and proposes to his girlfriend- Paul finally spirals out of control, which was admittedly a long time coming. Despite Paul's tumultuous life and violent end, his father and brother hold a deep and abiding love for him. At the end of the movie, the Rev. Maclean gives one of his final sermons, and his message brings back memories of Paul, who is never far from the family's thoughts. We can love completely, without complete understanding. That simple realization sums up Paul's relationship with his family perfectly.This movie affected me very deeply. Maybe it's because I too am a Scottish Presbyterian, maybe because I also lost a loved one to drinking, or maybe just because it is such a powerful story, and it is told so beautifully. Tom Skerritt, Craig Sheffer, and Brad Pitt all deliver wonderful performances in a movie that will continue to touch you long after the credits run. I know this story will forever be with me.Eventually, all things merge into one, and a river runs through it...I am haunted by waters. "},{"Title":"Fly fisherman boozes it up and chases broads","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent film dealing with the life of an old man as he looks back over the years. Starting around 1910, he reminisces about his boy and young adulthood; his family, friends, romances, etc. Very nostalgic piece with a bittersweet finale....all things in life come together as one, and a river runs through it. And that river haunts me. Worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Stunningly beautiful","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen. The Footage is extraordinary, mesmerizing at times. It also received an Oscar for best photography, and deservedly so. I have many movies in my film collection and several more I've seen besides them, and not many of them are more beautifully or even equally as beautifully shot as this one.It's unique and an overall great movie. The cast is terrific and do a great job in portraying their characters. We follow their destinies with devotion, and get very emotionally attached to them. Along the way, we also learn things about ourselves and our lives. I think much of this film for what it represent, and how it present it. I warmly recommend it "},{"Title":"The Role of Jess's Brother","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In answer to the person who made the comment about how the film drags on and who believed there was no purpose to the role of Jess's brother here is my responseThe role of Jess's brother is to provide a form of dramatic irony in the story. Craig Sheffer/Norman could have foreseen the troubles associated with living life to the full by looking at how Jess's brother turned out. There are various instances where Brad Pitt and his lives run in parallel, for example, when Jess's brother takes Craig Sheffer to a disjointed bar and subsequently he finds Brad Pitt there a few days later. The dramatic irony was there so Craig Sheffer's character would have a bigger emotional turmoil at his brothers death, knowing he could have done more to prevent it and subsequently creates a more compelling mood in the film. "},{"Title":"A True American Movie","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In watching how the two brothers interact and feed off of each other through the whole movie makes me personally happy to live in the rural area much like they did in the movie. I have watched this movie countless times and have the book right beside my Bible. After watching the movie I agree that this is one of the few movies that does a book justice. I strongly recommend anyone that has the chance to go to Montana to fish or be outdoors to do so. It is amazing. I can not think of anyone else that could play the role better than Brad Pitt. Do yourself justice and watch one of the better movies in the modern movie era. STRONGLY Recommend And as a guide for fishing trips in both Montana and Wyoming, do not try to learn how to fly fish from the scenes of the movie because although it looks great on the film you have no idea how much practice and skill fishing like that actually takes. Thank you for listening Watch this movie please if you would like a long sad movie. "},{"Title":"It's Up To Us MacLean Boys","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the memoirs of Norman MacLean, American literary scholar, A River Runs Through It is a memoir of him growing up in early 20th Century Montana as the son of a preacher, along with his younger brother. Craig Sheffer plays the young MacLean and his brother Paul is played by Brad Pitt. The parents are played by Tom Skerritt and Brenda Blethyn.With some introductory material showing the characters as children and how their personalities developed, most of the film is concentrated on young Norman MacLean's first summer back in Missoula, Montana with the family after six years at the University Of Chicago. While Sheffer has been studying for his degrees, Pitt has taken a job as a reporter on a local paper. Pitt had a reckless streak as a youngster and its become more pronounced as a young man. He's taken with some reckless habits, this was in fact the Roaring Twenties and Pitt is quite the child of that era. The only thing that father and both sons have in common is the love that Skerritt instilled in his sons for dry fly fishing. It's in those scenes that the family comes together.Robert Redford got a real family feeling for the players portraying the MacLean family. Redford who grew up in the west also has a real feel for the environment. No accident that A River Runs Through It won an Oscar for Best Cinematography. It was also nominated for Best Musical Scoring and Best Adapted Screenplay from another medium.A River Runs Through It was a big career boost for Brad Pitt. For a guy who admittedly has some outstanding looks which no doubt first got people's attention, Brad Pitt has shown an astonishing range of character development on the screen. Paul MacLean is as different from Heinrich Harrer, from Joe Black and a whole lot of others. In his 20 or so years of stardom, go down the list of roles and they range the gamut of the human experience.And if you're not a particular Brad Pitt fan, you'll enjoy A River Runs Through It for the great nature cinematography that is the heart of this film. "},{"Title":"some good things, but no plot","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After 20 years, it's high time to write a quick review of this movie. The photography alone saves this movie from being a complete disaster. Simply put, I honestly cannot find a plot. I think of Mark Twain in Huck Finn where he tells us not to find a plot or we should be shot--however Twain put it. This movie must be what Twain had in mind! In fact, as we left the theatre, a small kid summed it up perfectly That was a stupid, stupid movie.However, if you like fly fishing, if you're a Robert Redford or Brad Pitt fan you may think differently. And watch it on the big screen--the photography is spectacular! Just don't look for a plot or for anything significant to happen. "},{"Title":"Wasted talent, wasted cinematography, wasted time","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film meanders about and never tells a decent story. The acting is pretty good, and overall it's very well-filmed, but I kept waiting for things to become defined... A nemesis, a conflict, a challenge, a hardship. Anything! Nothing emerged and the titles rolled. Brad Pitt, who is arguably one of the world's finest actors, isn't even given the chance to pull this out. His character is really never shown in the grasp of his addictions and struggling with them, etc... It just never happens.Another problem I had is the director (Robert Redford) injecting himself into the film as the narrator... Supposedly as the voice of one of the main characters, who actually has his OWN voice, which is obviously a different voice than the narrator, which is supposed to be him, but it's obviously Redford. Confused yet? Me too. Redford never struck me as arrogant until this movie... Narrating was a bad choice.And the fishing = religion, river = life, world = God theme was a real eyeroller. The old man's narrative in the end was trying to bring across something of deep meaning, but it was simply nonsensical and brought no meaning to an already meaningless film.But hey, if you like looking at really nice woodwork and fly fishing, have at it. You might enjoy this. "},{"Title":"This movie is about life, choices and love","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was introduced to this title by a friend who knew I really would enjoy this movie. He is an expert fisherman. I wasn't sure I would like the movie not being a fisherman myself, but I found it was about so much more. This movie touches the heart and speaks volumes about life. It speaks about choices and the people we love. Though we love the dearly we cannot live their lives or change the direction of their lives. We can love them for who they are and what roles they may play in our lives. I enjoyed this movie and have watched it repeatedly for it reminds me of my parents and the hopes they had for all of us. The things they taught us and the stories we continued to tell when we get together. They are not with us anymore, but their memories and legacy lives on in us. "}{"Title":"Beautiful. Original great shots of Montana","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. Beautiful shots of the wilderness, well acted and Robert Redford really showed the elegance and essence of fly fishing. Not a big Brad Pitt fan but was totally rooting for him. Tom Skerritt as the stern minister really suits him well. Overall a great story and picturesque of how American cinema should be. 8 out of 10 It also won a Oscar for cinematography. I also thought Montana in the 1920's was a good depiction and great part of the story telling. Two performances really stick out well Skerritt's and Pitt's. The heavy smoking and drinking was a bit obsessive but other than that this is a well directed movie. By far one of Redford's best. Would suggest this movie to anyone looking for great scenes and a lot of energy coming from Brad Pitt's roll as Paul Maclean. GREAT MOVIE. Blueprint for good movie making. "},{"Title":"Most underrated film I have ever seen","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is absolutely beautiful. From the serene shots of the majestic and jaw dropping mountains, rivers and forests of Montana to the wondrous score that is executed perfectly from Mark Isham, this is an amazing movie filled with lovely dialogue, perfect acting ( Brad Pitt and Craig Sheffer most importantly) and wonderful poetry.River runs through it is a film I most definitely recommend. It will make you smile and feel many more different types of emotions. Sit down and watch a tale of two brothers who share a special bond of fly- fishing on the big Blackfoot river where  all things merge into one and a river runs through it One scene that stood out for me was like  witnessing perfection. I am haunted by waters. "},{"Title":"Good-Looking but Uninteresting","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This autobiographical drama looks at a family in rural Montana in early 20th century. The cinematography crisply captures the beautiful Montana scenery. There are fine performances from Skerritt as a minister and Sheffer and Pitt as his sons, determined to forge their own identities. While the relationships among the three men are well developed, there is little here that is interesting. There is really no plot to speak of, and the deliberate pace makes it drag. Furthermore, fly-fishing scenes do not amount to a riveting movie experience. There is too much narration (provided by Redford, as the Sheffer character reflecting back late in life) and it is a bit pompous. "},{"Title":"A Soul Touching Masterpiece","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First off let me say that this is the second most beautifully and artistically carved movie that I just watched in a long time. The first one was The Legend of the Fall with the same actor Brad Pitt and which had the same exceptionally beautiful scenery with wonderful acting, But this one is simply a masterpiece. Everything concerned with this film is carefully and artistically performed, Acting is simply brilliant especially Brad Pitt at his best, The Montana scenery is refreshing and just a pure joy to watch and the tale just touches your heart reviving the memories of the joyous times that you spend together with your loved ones. It takes you on a journey through the drama of life from childhood to old age and the obstacles that you pass during this phase. It made me realize that life isn't about acquiring and consuming more and more but instead what really matters is how much love you are surrounded by and how much wonderful times you spend together with your loved ones. 10/10 A must watch and recommended movie for everyone! "},{"Title":"Robert Redford's Visual Storytelling","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I won't go far to say that Robert Redford is God, that would be not very professional on my behalf, but let's just say, the man can do it all in the film industry, act, direct, produce, write you name it. Here let's just say that in A River Runs Through It, Redford shows us different side to his artistic traits the visual storyteller. Here he's telling the story not through words, but through creating images that will keep you entertained, draw to tears and most of all to please his audience and for that I say hats off to you, Mr. Redford. You are a true Hollywood icon!The centrepiece of the story centres on the sport of fishing. The Mclean brothers Norman (Craig Sheffer of One Tree Hill fame) and Paul (Brad Pitt) frequently go fishing in the rich settings of 1920's Montana. Smart and resourceful are the two brothers, thanks mainly from the house-schooling from their father, whose the town preacher (Tom Skerritt). Through the years, they've learnt a lot about the sport of fishing and the teachings of the Bible. Norman and Paul don't strike you as brothers just tolerating each other, but they have a strong bond between them almost as if they are best friends. As they got older, the brothers decide to embark on separate journeys. Norman leaves his humble Montana home to enrol in college and becomes an English professor and eventually returns home and has a love interest in a girl named Jessie Burns (Emily Lloyd). Paul doesn't have it as easy as Norman. Paul suffers from the fate of hard times as he takes up gambling which eventually becomes a full-blown addiction. This addiction becomes so bad that he's like caught in a web that's in a tight lock making it impossible to escape and before you know it leads to his downward spiral. A lot of praise came out at the time about how this movie will be remembered by movie fans for many years to come. Unfortunately, that was not the case. Redford's most memorable directed films will probably be a tie between Quiz Show or The Legend of Bagger Vance which were both very wonderful movies. The acting overall is brilliant from Sheffer, Pitt and Skerritt that were both believable and very heart-warming. If you like to take a break from the action thrillers into something more calm and more serene, then this movie should please you greatly. "},{"Title":"Fall From Grace","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A River Runs Through It, like the Norman Maclean memoir on which it is based, is an elegy in which a man's fly fishing technique stands in for his soul. Although nominally set in rural Montana in the early 20th century, in fact the film goes back much further. The opening and closing passages of the memoir, quoted in voice-over in the film, make clear that director Robert Redford, like Maclean, is dealing with Adam's fall from grace, the quite different ways in which two sons of a stern Presbyterian preacher seek redemption -- one by cleaving to the teachings and expectations of his father, the other by rejecting convention and striking out on his own -- and the impossibility of knowing whether their different fates were predestined or might somehow have been avoided. This is not the usual stuff of cinema, which normally depends on standard plot devices to push the action forward -- if truth be told, Maclean's poetic and sometimes funny narrative probably succeeds better on its own terms -- but Redford makes a few small changes, takes lots of chances, and comes very close to duplicating Maclean's substance and tone. The acting is first-rate, the cinematography won awards, and the music should have. The only flaw, in my view, is that the ending of the film comes as a surprise, and thus lacks the tragic inevitability of the memoir, but don't let that stop you from seeing it. Nine stars. "},{"Title":"Very Deep Heart  Searching Film","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Enjoyed this film produced by Robert Redford which deals with a Presbyterian Minister who has two sons, one is reserved and the other is a hell raiser. This film takes place in Montana and the beauty of their rivers and wonderful land and its beautiful mountains. Tom Skeritt, (Rev. MacLean) plays the role of a very loving parent of Norman MacLean, (Craig Sheffer) who is basically a very straight arrow and also his brother Paul MacLean, (Brad Pitt) who is a newspaper reporter and has a very wild way living especially with drinking and plenty of women. There is a sweet romance between Norman MacLean and Jessie Burns, (Emily Lloyd) who fall in love with each other and these two people try to guide Paul MacLean into a better way of living but he just cannot seem to settle down. Great film about what life is really about in many families. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Gone Fishing","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Craig Sheffer (as Norman) and Brad Pitt (as Paul) are Montana sons-of-a-preacher man Tom Skerritt (as Reverend Maclean). You will immediately notice the breathtaking Montana scenery - photography by Philippe Rousselot, direction by Robert Redford, with an obviously adept cast and crew. The kids playing the younger Macleans were quite an asset; I did recognize Joseph Gordon-Levitt in an impressive debut (though not his first). As I was watching, I thought well, it looks all nice, but what's happening? I was unsure about the film's focus. The film is often slow and confusing, even if you are familiar with the Norman MacLean story; and, this is a somewhat alternate version/vision of the original written work.And, I realized what I was watching. It happened twenty minutes (or so) after the kids grew up - this is the story of Norman Maclean's remembrances&#133; the touching stones of his life. They may not be the things you'd believe an old man remembers; but, by the end of the film, you know. You'll understand the focus on his brother, with that magical quality that just slipped away&#133; Perhaps, there was no perfection there; but, you'll know why Norman sees it. You'll know why that memory of the perfect fly fisherman is there.Just a few other thoughts At the risk of over-analyzing, I felt the characters of Norman, Paul, their father, and Redford merging into ONE character at the end of the film; I wonder if Redford intended it that way? His direction, narration, and lead performances seemed blend together&#133; Directing, Preaching, Fishing, the River - it all runs together; and, we're all water. The end of the film is very powerful. ********* A River Runs Through It (1992) Robert Redford ~ Brad Pitt, Craig Sheffer, Tom Skerritt, Brenda Blethyn "},{"Title":"a movie worthy to watch","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before watching the movie, I got a general brief. I thought It is a movie about fishing and family relationship. Is it worthy us to watch? With the movie going on, I tried to focus my mind on it, but I almost failed in the first half part because of its boring. Little by little, I went deep into it, although it is hard to be appreciated immediately. I had kept thinking and studying on it for a long time, now I have found something, something about Paul . The story took place in a little town. Two brothers, Norman and Paul, grow up with their father's lessons that had to do with religion, and the lessons of fly-fishing. In this movie fly-fishing represents life. The older brother, Norman, followed the prescribed order of his father's lessons. He went to college. After six years he returned and fell in love with a nice girl named Jessie, finally he was invited to teach in Chicago. On the contrary, the younger brother, Paul, a stubborn boy, had become a reporter and was known as the fishing reporter. It seemed he almost had his own nice life, but his drinking and gambling destroyed himself. Paul dead in the jail just before Norman left the town. The story implies people's life style by the fly-fishing. People can choose a prescribed order life or an unconventional way. Compared with Norman's successful life, it seemed that Paul had a loser's life by choosing a special life style, and his unique fly-fishing method is the refection. From another point of view, Paul got a chance to try his life style, although his way was hard at that time. It is the spirit of individuation, the spirit can not be smashed.Yes, it is a good movie, and worthy to watch. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Embarrassingly, I just watched this movie for the first time, 13 years after its release. It's a story that any father or brother can relate to... one brother is a bit 'wild,' the other brother is the typical older child. Craig Sheffer is a little too unemotional as the oldest brother, but Pitt is amazing, and Skerritt is perfectly cast as the father. The fishing scenes that were filmed in Montana are absolutely breathtaking... I had no idea that fly fishing could be so attractive. The movie closely follows the book, with only a few modifications to make it more appropriate for a movie format. Unlike most book to movie stories, this one measures up. It's a perfect movie for anyone who wants a quiet night with a powerful and somewhat emotional movie. "}{"Title":"This is a poetry","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This touches so many aspects of relationship between men, man and nature ... It just grows and defines the moments of clarity as the movie moves on ... Its realistic simplicity along with wide Montana Canvas paints the life and its equations and in-equations with majestic simplicity and the definition of art emerges ... Its probably more than a movie ... its a poetry ... Robert Redford's direction was like his movies ... different from mainstream but to the point and spectacular. He delivers messages through this ... while telling a simple story in a gracious manner ... Its a movie to feel and love ... Its a movie of passion and life ... its a movie of truth and simplicity ... "},{"Title":"Mark Isham or Elmer Bernstein","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this gem of a film. However, I am confused as to who wrote the music. Elmer Bernstein died yesterday, and in several places, he is listed as the composer of the score. I have a DVD which lists him as the composer. Elsewhere, (including in IMDb) Mark Isham is listed as the composer. It's a beautiful soundtrack, both of these men are outstanding film composers, but I'd like to know which one wrote the score, or did they collaborate on it? FYI, Mark Isham's score for The Beast is also a rarely heard gem for a rarely mentioned great film. Anyone who could help me clear this one up is welcome to contact me directly at pmark007@mmax.com. I'm not sure why, but I am told I have to add more lines to my comment. Okay, I enjoyed the film in part because it managed to integrate elements of the short story form into cinema. The ambiance of the film was remarkable, but it's a challenge to make ambiance entertaining. I like Redford as a filmmaker because his films always seem to be a struggle between his heart and the discipline and craftsmanship which is necessary to make the film work. Hence I give him a lot of slack.  "},{"Title":"A finely done piece free of gratuitous violence.","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If your taste leans towards special effects, violent scenes, and fast paced stories requiring little thought to watch; then this is NOT a movie for you. But, if you enjoy a wonderfully developed story line perhaps this would be a good use of time.  Robert Redford's (The Natural) efforts  are known for complex character development and complete story lines, and this is no exception.  Montana serves as the backdrop as the story is one of a family's interaction as brothers grow up over years and the different paths and personalities each develop despite identical background and upbringing.  I have heard it referred to as a guy version of a Chick flick for it deals with the thoughts and emotions of men as they grow up.  The small town setting of the movie serves to simplify the situation and make it easier to focus on the story.  The Brad Pitt character is shown to be really rather frail and vulnerable despite the outgoing strong appearance, and his death is a comment on real life and expectations in itself. "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In The Legend of Bagger Vance, Redford showed the purity and tranquility of purpose to be found in golf. Here he does it with fly fishing. And just as he captured the period so well in that film, so, too, does he here; not only the look (notably the beautiful Montana landscape) and sound but the cultural (especially religious) folkways as well. The stars, Pitt, Skerritt, and Sheffer, are all perfectly cast and they are backed by a strong supporting cast. This movie is an excellent expos of a rural American's journey through his formative years. Recommended, 7/10. "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie, I don't think we would agree on much","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is about as good a movie as I have ever seen.  I cannot say that any other movie is substantially better.  I probably wouldn't rank it as my favorite, but there is no way it would fall outside my top twenty, and it could easily be in my top ten.  The writing is memorable and wonderful. The whole movie rings incredibly true, and was obviously done with great care and pride.  I ain't gay, but not many men have ever been better looking than Pitt here, and that is exactly how he is supposed to be.  He is perfect for the role.  As Paul, he has a James Dean-like quality of being really too beautiful for all this foolishness down here.  Norman's declaration of love to Jesse, with the incredible scenery, Not Montana.  I'm not sure I wanna leave you, Jess,  is amazing.  The whole movie is.  Give us another one to rank with this and Ordinary People, Redford. "},{"Title":"Family Values At The Core Of This Film","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It never ceases to amaze me the connection I feel to this film every time I watch it.  If anyone hasn't had a chance to view this movie, they should do so for it takes us back to a slice of americana that is sometimes forgotten. The beautiful cinematography and Robert Redford's wonderful narration of the text by Norman Maclean pursuaded me to purchase the book.  In today's culture we want instant gratification through action, action, and more action. This movie transports one to a simpler time and place and reminds us that unconditional love is the core of family relationships. Perhaps that is this movie's greatest lesson.   "},{"Title":"Jerks the Tears Right Outta My Eyes!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Any movie that is not afraid to use the wondrous, soul-touching prose found in the book that inspired it, is going to be a true winner. In this movie, that is exactly the case. This is a movie that must be seen many times to be truly enjoyed. It is filled with such beauty of words and views that tears flow easily and one's soul is beautifully enriched. It is fabulously filmed and the narration by Redford himself is astounding. He really knows how to take his time and makes one believe that HE is Norman. The acting is superb by all involved, especially Pitt, Skerrit and Lloyd.The movie is a perfect length, and one cannot soon forget the Montana of Norman's youth. The camera truly makes love to the scenery and after the movie we are confident that we have had a truly wonderful cinematic  experience. 8 1/2 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"More Than a Lesson About Straying Family Members","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is like a poem in which rhythm and tone and imagery create an art that conveys so much more that what is actually said.  More than being about loving completely without complete understanding, and much, much more than about fly fishing, it is ultimately, like most great movies, about the joy we find in life from the beauty of the world around us and the people we love. "},{"Title":"A great American film","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading some of the comments, I can't believe some viewers do not see the inherent truth and beauty of this masterpiece.  This is not a Hollywood blockbuster.  It is the antithesis of that.  It is a quiet, thoughtful, moving, and beautiful film that looks at the complicated love among and between family members.  Particularly for men, we relate through our activities.  The Maclean brothers and their father relate through fly fishing.  The fact that we don't see Paul's brains beaten out of him is powerful because we know that he is going to meet an untimely death and there is nothing we--or Norman, or his father, or anyone else--can do about it, no matter how much we care.  It is hard to beat the genius of author Norman Maclean combined with Robert Redford's sensitivity and flare for each scene looking as perfect as a photograph.  This film is a '10'. "},{"Title":"Gets Better Every Time","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this when I was living in London, and wound up seeing it at the theater seven times, which shocked me.  something about what Redford did and I thought Craig Sheffer was underrated for his acting.  His quiet strength was phenomenal to me.  I don't understand why he didn't continue on to the path of greatness like Brad Pitt.  This is someone who deserves better roles. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece I am haunted by waters","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a film buff and I must say that out of all the movies I have seen over the years, A River Runs Through It is #1 on my list of great films. It ranks as my all time favorite.I recently bought the DVD and was amazed that, despite having seen this film for the umpteenth time, I am still incredibly moved, often to tears.The final narrative, to me, is the ultimate motion picture experience and delivers the promise of what certain movies can do if they set their sights high enough...and that is elevate the viewer and give them an experience that transcends beyond the mere act of watching, but gives lessons in life that one will remember and use for years to come.More than anything, A River Runs Through It is about family and how the choices we individually make may take us down different paths, but can never dilute our bonds and love. Watching it, I am constantly reminded of the paths my own brother and I have made and how differently our lives have turned out.But back to the film. It is understated, and yet blissfully exquisite in expressing its passion for life.I actually learned flyfishing after seeing this for the first time a decade ago. In this movie flyfishing is a spiritual experience and represents a total communion with nature. It is during flyfishing that, despite the paths the characters have chosen, they can toss everything else aside and be bound to each other for all time. There are many movies I love, but this is the only one that causes me to get chills over and over again. This movie is sheer perfection. I continue to be haunted by waters.    "},{"Title":"Brings out the true nature of Montana","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being a native Montanan, I know the feeling one gets in living here.  This movie brings to light what being a true Montanan is all about.  It's not just a place to live or a chunk of real estate, It's in your blood and Normal Maclean is able to share that feeling in a way most of us can not describe in words. "},{"Title":"Robert Redford has crafted a film that is nothing short of anAmerican masterpiece.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me state this from the start A River Runs through it doesn't have a great plot, it doesn't have excellent acting, but Redford has the rare talent to take these aspects and overcome them with spellbinding cinematography and superb direction, which continues to convince me that he may be one of the greatest directors/actors of all time. Based on the novel by Norman Maclean, A River Runs Through It propels us through a generation of life in a place that's mere scenery makes your jaw drop. It is not a perfect world, but it is one that has more principles and ideals than the one most of us live in. It is a world where the concept of entertainment does not rely on television or radio, but on fly-fishing. And it is one you will want to experience over and over by watching A River Runs Through It again and again. Although the film spans two hours, with not an action scene in sight (unless you consider the brief brawl between the Maclean brothers in the kitchen an action scene), Redford manages once again to keep the audience interested, relying more on choreography and character development to make the movie good. Another thing I appreciated about this movie is the fact that the Maclean brothers have a set of dynamics that has never previously been displayed; they do not envy each other's lives (they might, but it is never really developed), they do not hate each other, they simply followed two different paths and experienced the world in two different ways. The adapted script (which was nominated for an Academy Award) was mostly free of cliches, and some of the dialogue is really well-written. In a world of horror and slasher films that feel they have to gratuitously display gore and guts to make them entertaining, A River Runs Through It is a heartfelt breath of fresh air, and a great film for everyone.Overall rating 9/10  "},{"Title":"Redford's best movie as director","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, the movie is different from the book, and yes, many events are captured through reaction to them rather than action, yet these are hardly flaws. The film and the book have distinct qualities to them; and it would be impossible to fit the book into one movie.  The almost detached view of the course of events in the movie is ideal for  insight into how the characters respond.  Brilliantly shot, terrific score, beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Historical accuracy is one of the things that makes this such a good drama.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (spoilers) A River Runs Through It is an excellent story of the lives of one family, from the time the two sons were young boys to the time when one of them is an old man, and everyone else has died. Brad Pitt delivers yet another great performance as the younger and wilder son Paul, and the unappealing looking Craig Sheffer stars as Paul's older brother Norman, from whose point of view the entire film is told.The early 20th century is beautifully and accurately presented, and there is even a reference to former President Calvin Coolidge. When Paul grows up, he becomes a reporter, and gets an interview with the President as he is fly fishing in Montana, the state where the film takes place. Not only is this historically accurate as far as the time period, but we also all remember Calvin Coolidge as the president who seemed to be more interested in fishing than working in the White House. Maybe he had the same opinion that George W. Bush has, that `presidenting is hard.' At any rate, it was never a secret that Coolidge wanted to be the `least president possible.'A River Runs Through It is a very thorough and meaningful drama that presents a long period of time in a thoughtful and clear way. The film as a whole is structured in a way that is very similar to the way that Saving Private Ryan is structured, by being told from the point of view of one of the characters when he is a very old man. The theme of the whole film can be summarized in one of Norman's lines near the end of the film &#150; `Life is not a work of art.' The film suggests that even though life is not perfect, even in the most beautiful surroundings, you can, and should, find something that makes you happy and do that as much as possible. For the Maclean family, that activity was fishing, and Norman continues that activity until he is an old man. It's true that the end of the film may have gotten a little too philosophical and ended up sounding a little bit like gibberish (such as the closing line, `I am haunted by waters.'), but the film as a whole is both entertaining and heartwarming. Everyone involved delivered excellent performances that were appropriate for the subject matter, and the character development was intelligent and thorough. This is one of those rare films that, even though it doesn't have the happiest ending, it just makes you feel good.  "},{"Title":"One of the best film I've ever seen.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly one of the best movies I've ever seen. Robert Redford understands to get in touch with the real story. The beautiful pictures in this film are just one of the perfect issues. Let yourself enjoying this film. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but not for IQ's less than 100","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very well developed characters, great casting, meaningful story and messages, and an underlying theme, coupled with great photography, scenery and acting.  "},{"Title":"A heart-breakingly beautiful work of art","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Caution  Spoiler A wonderful adaption of a brilliant novel.  Only Robert Redford could have done Norman MacLean's novel the just treatment it received here.  I have my own copy of this movie, and no matter how many times I have viewed it, the tears, goosebumps, shivers, et al.  never fail to appear.  Brad Pitt's portrayal of the doomed younger brother of the author is absolutely beautiful.  'Paul' is, like 'Norman' relates, a work of art.  Wonderful performances by Tom Skerrit, Emily Lloyd, Craig Scheffer, and  Brenda Blythn.  The cinematic beauty of the Montana wilderness is spectacularly filmed.  Do not miss.   "},{"Title":"Chills bumps rise on my arms just remembering the closing narration.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My scalp tingles thinking of the final scene of this sublime work of art. Robert Redford is a genius.  Redford knows what nature knows; that life is in every rock and stream, in every wide blue piece of sky and spread of lush green trees. The story is unsurpassed as perfect Americana, capturing all the longing and melancholy we all feel when remembering the joys of our lives. Wordsworth's words in the scene between Norman and his Dad are the movie's anthem. I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!  I  AM SO THANKFUL FOR WRITERS!!  I AM SO THANKFUL FOR THE ART OF ROBERT REDFORD!! Words cannot express how the totality of this film moves me.  It is a treasure. A deep thank you to those of you who created it for us. "},{"Title":"A story well told","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't remember where exactly I heard it first, but some time during my years of working on a B.A. in English one of my teachers said that one of the most beautiful things there is is a story well told.  This movie, and book, clearly demonstrate that.  The scenery, the music, the acting and the narration all work together to create a powerfully moving force.  It is well worth watching more than once. "}{"Title":"Redford proves a pretty face can hide an intelligent mind.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow....he and Eastwood...fought throughout their careers to prove that they had talent.  This movie is like the creme' de le creme' in dealing with brothers/fathers/mothers and the lives we live....wonderful...i had to buy it...kept renting it so many times it became silly. "},{"Title":"A great experience","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although it's been a while since I saw A river runs through it I can honestly say that it touched me deeply and it proved once again that Robert Redford is a great director with an excellent ability to sketch human characters and present to the public even the more subtle nuances of human relationships (like in the excellent Ordinary People). His preoccupation with nature (see The Horse Whisperer), and the relation people should share together bring us such moving, sensible and perceptive films that must be thoroughly appreciated and carefully analysed to bring out their true meanings which of course constiture their greatness. Thus, I fully recommend A river runs through it to anyone with an open mind and anyone who's sick and tired of watching Hollywood blockbusters with not even an ounce of truth or heart. "},{"Title":"It's more than just fly fishing","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was first made aware of this movie just before its release in 1992. I had read in a magazine that Robert Redford was directing a movie based on a book about a family who enjoyed fly-fishing in Montana.  A virtually unknown actor (except for fans of Thelma and Louise) named Brad Pitt would have one of the principal roles, and it was certain to be a worthwhile venture. Fortunately, I read the book by Norman Maclean first.  I read it on a rainy summer afternoon, and was stunned by it, partially because I could relate to it, and also because of the predictable, yet shocking conclusion. After reading the book, I was even more impressed by Pitt (Paul Maclean), Craig Sheffer (Norman Maclean), and Tom Skerritt (Reverend Maclean).  If nothing else, I felt that they, as well as the entire cast at least remained true to book's portrayal of character traits. From the first scenes of the movie with Redford's voice narrating the past of this little Montana town inhabited by the Maclean's, one has the feeling that although one of the principal vehicles of Maclean telling the story is fly fishing, there is going to be much more to the story.  As a family, Brenda Blethyn (Mrs. Maclean) and Skerritt do a more than admirable job portraying turn of the century parents trying to battle even a young Paul, and teach a young Norman to be a good big brother. As the years go by, Norman and Paul go their separate ways, but not before they have an adventure in the river, and Paul takes responsibility for it.  Similar scenes where Paul takes the fall for Norman are throughout the movie.  Perhaps the most dramatic scenes occur with Norman trying to help pull Paul away from his drinking and gambling, which turns out to be futile, and one can sense this throughout, both by the narrator's comments and the action of the movie. Besides the acting and directing, the award winning cimematography was outstanding (Philippe Rousselot).  It gave me the feeling more than once that I was in the Big Blackfoot River with the Maclean's.  The music (Elmer Bernstein, Mark Isham) was also appropriate and even helped the story in the many dramatic moments. To be honest, the plot-line concerning Jessie (Emily Loyd) and Norman was somewhat tedious, even though this is based on true life.  Funny, but also kind of unnecessary, was the plot that concerned Neal (Stephen Shellen) as Jessie's irrascable brother.  Redford almost tried to portray him as Paul's foil, but at least Paul had some admirable traits. Overall, I will remember this movie with Norman  trying to convince Paul to come with him and Jesse to Chicago, and Paul's response Oh, I'll never leave Montana, brother. It was prophetic for many reasons.  And few lines are as chilling as the narrator's I'm haunted by waters. Metaphorically, most of us are, or will be.  "},{"Title":"A celebration of life and nature","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Redford's narration lacks the kind of feeling I would expect from a quality actor, but his directorial work was very good. Indeed, if this had been release in another year, it may have netted him an Oscar nomination.  The acting by Tom Skeritt and Brad Bitt was exceptional, although the remainder of the cast was OK at best.What this film is all about is a fabulous story about life, and an even better celebration of nature.  The overall quality of the film is good, and I would recommend the film for a quiet evening.  "},{"Title":"This movie isn't just about fishing","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my humble opinion, this movie did not receive the recognition it deserved. Robert Redford lives near me here in Provo, Utah, at Sundance. I enjoy most of his work, and this was my favorite. I'm sorry that more people didn't appreciate it. My grandmother was an avid reader and read the book years before it came out on the big screen. She gave it to me to read after we had seen the movie together. The movie and book hit an emotional spot within my heart, and I was weepy for several days after seeing the movie. Sometimes love isn't enough to keep our loved ones from hurting themselves. We see this in our own family relationships, yet our love and our families and their stories endure throughout generations of time. The cinematography was perfect and breathtaking -- I was awed by its beauty and how well it brought to life the words of the author of the book, Norman Maclean, But when I am alone in the half light of the canyon, all existence seems to fade to a being with my soul, and memories. And the sounds of the Big Black Foot River, and a four count rhythm, and the hope that a fish will rise. Eventually, all things merge into one, and a river runs through it. The river was cut by the world's great flood and runs over rocks from the basement of time. On some of the rocks are timeless raindrops. Under the rocks are the words, and some of the words are theirs. I am haunted by waters. These words, taken from the book and spoken at the end of the movie (by Robert Redford who is narrating as Norman Maclean), are basically scripture, in my opinion. Any possible flaws the movie may have are overshadowed by the beauty and grace of the story and the cinematography. It was beautiful! "},{"Title":"..what a savior this film is..","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is not much more I can say about this movie than all of the commentaries on page one, except - as Jesse says - it's the berries. All of page one's commentators wrote eloquently - as almost so as the dialog is in this movie. This just may be one of those illusive things we hear so much about, but usually are made so by the actors who deliver the lines a beautiful script. Maybe Robert Redford did hold strict sway onto the actors/actresses during the filming of this movie, so that the beauty of the story would not get lost.I, too, attended church when I was very young and into my late teens. The church's pastor spoke very eloquently and quietly as the Rev. Maclean did in his church. That, in itself, is a totally different picture that is portrayed of Southern Baptist churches - no holy-rollering in my church. It was a big church, with many different programs to keep its congregation busy - the most inspiring perhaps was the music-department with its huge choir and almost classical anthems. Too, the Sunday evening-congregation was almost entirely younger people. Are you even aware it was once safe to go to church on Sunday night? How I wish it still was ! Watching A River Runs through It is very much like going to hear a beautiful sermon in a church whose members are fully involved in life. As has already been so beautifully written, the sermon for this movie is the open-space beauties of Montana - yet, aren't there also missile-silos there, too? Fly-fishing or any other activity which draws family-members closer together for a happy life - and deep understanding of one another - becomes a blessing. Although you see some of the shadier aspects of life then, too, the simplicity of the story paints a lasting impression on your heart, if you let it. Speakeasies and prostitutes are counter-balanced by the simple gatherings of old-fashioned, community picnics as this movie contains - in heavy contrasts to modern families taking their kids to Disney Land for screeching joyrides and calling it a day together. There is noting wrong with that, but as River demonstrates, some of its taciturn beauty could do nothing but make life richer. This is the third film I've seen in which Tom Skeritt (?) plays a father, all different styles and brilliantly acted.Brad Pitt, mostly an undiscovered talent except for Thelma and Louise and Meet Joe Black, and all of the cast-members deserved many awards. Little stories superbly told will get 10-of-10 from me over any movie with violence, foul language, ugliness and action. I am thinking particularly of Crash and most of Arnold's movies. What a savior for peace this movie is. "},{"Title":"The river runs and runs...","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would imagine that Norman Maclean's nostalgic reminiscences of his youth in the first part of the 20th Century, as filmed here by Robert Redford probably means a lot to Americans yearning for the country, which the director drives home with endless variations on the scenic pastoral shot, with actors occasionally dotting the landscape. Okay, I'm exaggerating, but to a city-bound Scot (and hey, I know my country has a countryside at least the equal of the Montana shown here), I failed to really connect with the story or the characters.Perhaps I watched too many TV episodes of The Waltons or The Mississippi in my formative years, but found that the family portrait conveyed here and the ups and downs of the two brothers was a little too sentimental, second-hand and, to be honest undramatic, to really engage me.It's entertaining in its undemonstrative way and acted well enough, especially Tom Skerret and Brenda Blethyn as the God-fearing parents but until someone finds a way to make fishing exciting to watch, a film like this which celebrates the art of angling to the extent that this one does, will never quite hit the mark for me. More style than content in short... "},{"Title":"Aspiring to be more than it is, this film just doesn't quite feel right","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although this film is shot beautifully and has great potential, it somehow doesn't seem to live up to that potential for me. I was always waiting for something to happen - and although I know this is not a necessary attribute for every film out there, it just felt like the film was consistently building up to something, wanting us to feel as though what was happening was direly important, but never quite delivering.The acting was decent, although I believe the actors had more potential and were likely hampered by poor direction; Robert Redford isn't exactly the best actor, and at times it feels to me like Brad Pitt had been overly influenced by Redford's style of acting, as though Redford were trying to mold Pitt in his image.The film does succeed in some respects. Although the plot never quite seems to get anywhere, the mood and atmosphere of the film are worth experiencing. It's just a shame it didn't feel more substantial to me. It wanted to take us somewhere... but somehow it just didn't take me. "},{"Title":"How the Movies Always Have to Upgrade","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Macclean's moving short novel -- and for all that it reflects his childhood, it IS a novel -- Norman is married and living in Wolf Point with no hint of a professorship anywhere in sight. Redford et al can't let this happen -- too ignominious for their version of St. Norman (which the real one doesn't seem to be the type to want to be). He has been living near Paul all his life and what he does for a living isn't mentioned. Nor could they hire a Paul who a) can act, or b) act rugged, indifferent, and eaten alive by booze. The settings are magnificent, of course, and so are the shots from afar of the fly fishing itself (I understand better the love of the sport now) but that's not enough reason to reclaim this from the dust bin. I usually don't care when a movie departs from a book -- they're two separate entities, but I do when it's done to elevate & to try to turn what has been fictionalized back into autobiography. Do yourselves a favor on this one read the book. "},{"Title":"Dull indulgent exercise in nostalgia","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cinematography is great, but that a great movie does not make -- there is nothing at all special about this indulgent autobiographical exercise in nostalgia and sentimentality. A trite, mundane, trivial story with no dramatic tension and dull dialogue. Take away the period costumes and the simpering strings score, set it in today's world, and you'd say, this is a story worthy of a feature film? I'll sum it upMy brother and I grew up in Missoula, had some rowdy times (like millions of other brothers), I went off to college, he stayed home, I came back to Missoula and met a girl, then brother was killed in a barroom brawl (which is not depicted). And we went fly fishing a lot. End of story.And how do you make a film spanning several decades in Montana without a single winter scene? It might as well be Florida, with mountains. The attempt to make fly fishing some sort of poetic symbol of life in general falls is just dumb and doesn't salvage this quotidian story at all. "}{"Title":"Thank you, o merciful professor of poetry and trout.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A River Runs Through It is one of those movies that deserves to be seen in the theater so that the majesty of its cinematography can be truly appreciated. The acting is wonderful and understated, with every gesture and smile and nod carrying meaning. Brad Pitt gives a radiant performance and Tom Skerrit is powerful as the preacher father. The movie moves like a river, you have to be willing to follow it through ebbs and flows, but it is well worth it in the end.  "},{"Title":"From masterwork to mediocrity in one easy Redford lesson.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story by Norman Maclean is a masterwork; Redford's film is a mediocrity. He adds banal scenes of the Maclean brothers going over a falls and of  them double-dating in  a seedy bar that were not even hinted at in the story. The cipher, Brad Pitt, trying to play the charismatic Paul Maclean, a genius outdoors, proves either risible or depressing, depending on what the original story meant to you. Some of the fly casting scenes are beautiful. Also, Tom Skerritt as the father and Craig Sheffer as Norman are strong and masculine, as men were once expected to be. None of the women make an impression in the film, which is regrettable, because Maclean loved the women in his story and made this clear, even poetic.  "},{"Title":"Should have never left Montana","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only good part about this film is the beautiful scenery. This movie was long and boring. The minister should have retired from the pulpit the time his son Paul strayed from the teachings he proclaimed. How many times can his boys take the Lord's name in vain in this film being from a Presbyterian background? It doesn't fit. I wished Paul was swept down the river without a boat at the very beginning to spare us the silly, smirkish, selfish story of Paul (Brad Pitt). So Norm becomes a teacher and Paul becomes a compulsive gambler who Norm wants to rescue but doesn't-so what. It's very uninteresting. We see the prejudiced whites being stood up to by Paul because of his native American girl. That was the only part that had some interest and maybe could have been developed into a real 'wild western'. What we only see is a sleepy town where the two minister's sons have nothing to do but 1. Norm chase a lame girlfriend and deal with her family and 2.Paul make up dumb stories at the newspaper shop while scratching his head and take a lot of swigs and tie a lot of flies. I'd rather watch a show about fishing that that film again-which will be never. "},{"Title":"Spent most of the movie waiting for it to begin...it never did.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has beautiful scenery. Unfortunately it has no plot. In order to have a plot there must be a conflict. This movie had none. It spent two hours painting a beautifule scene and failed to ever place any activity in it. The picture trys to be artistic but fails to pay attentions to the fundamentals of story telling.If you love Montana scenery and fly fishing you will find some value in this film just don't expect a story. There isn't one. "},{"Title":"Redford Behind the Camera","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story about two sons of a stern minister (Tom Skerritt) -- one reserved, one rebellious -- growing up in rural Montana while devoted to fly fishing.This is one of those films that catapulted Brad Pitt to stardom. In fact, it may be the very film that did, since it was not Thelma and Louise and he was fairly established by the time Interview with the Vampire came out. So, good job, Brad! This is just a nice drama about two brothers in Montana. You know, nothing too exciting, but just a nicely scripted, well-acted story. And having Robert Redford narrate and direct is a nice touch. He really knows how to craft a story, making even the mundane worth watching. "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very good Robert Redford film dealing with a strict minister and his children. The latter grow up and the younger son, a reporter, has a lust for drinking and gambling which cause his ultimate downfall.Tom Skerritt is excellent as the stern minister dad. He comes to see nature as part of his religious training and emphasizes the sport of fly fishing to his young charges.Time periods seem to go very quickly in the film, such as the older boy attending Dartmouth.The usually feisty Brenda Blethyn has a rather benign part as the mother of the two boys. Besides her, I would have liked to have seen more of a character study of Jesse's brother, smitten with Hollywood and a drunk as well. Did he show homosexual tendencies?The nostalgic ending was terrific as we returned to nature to exhibit our values. "},{"Title":"Slow meditative with the appearance of weight","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on Norman Maclean's memoir, Norman (Craig Sheffer, Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is the older brother to Paul (Brad Pitt) under their strict Presbyterian minister father (Tom Skerritt). They get their love of fly fishing under the regimented teaching of their father. It's the early part of 20th century in Missoula, Montana. While Norman goes away to Dartmouth for 6 years, Paul stays closer to home for college and then writes for a Helena newspaper. Paul works on his writing, hard drinking, gambling, and fly fishing. It's the spring of 1926 when Norman returns home. He is unsure of his future and starts courting Jessie Burns (Emily Lloyd).With the Robert Redford narration and the long sweeping story, this feels like a novel turned into a movie. The good aspect is that it has the appearance of weight. The less good aspect is that it is meditative. I guess it's fitting for a fly fishing movie. Redford keeps casting the lines but rarely gets a good bite. It is in the casting of the lines where this movie exists. It's not particularly interested in having an exciting time catching fish. Even the big climax is left off screen. There is some beautiful cinematography especially with the photogenic Brad Pitt. It's a long slow beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie true to a wonderful book","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is quite hard to believe, that a movie with so many hateable clichs in it, could turn out to be such a good movie. A River Runs Through It a film directed by Robert Redford, based on the novella by Norman Maclean by the same name, stars Craig Sheffer as the lead Norman Maclean, and Brad Pitt as Norman's little brother Paul Maclean. The movie sticks fairly well to the story for a story of this kind, that doesn't many many cinematic opportunities. Although a few details are sacrificed, it does not take away from the originality of the story. It also adds some of it's own, new touches, that help make the movie more memorable. The adaptation of the film, while not being completely accrete, is able to stay true to the story if that makes any sense. This is why the film A River Runs Through It while not sticking completely to each event of the book the of the same name by Norman Maclean, is able to stay true to the overall story and messages that are portrayed in the book. While adding a little touch of cinema so that the average masses of movie goers won't get to bored. By the time the credits role. The characters in this film, are just the right amount of book adaptation, and the it would already take a very intriguing actor to play the free spirited Paul, but seeing Brad Pitt in the role, just makes it even more interesting. Craig Sheffer, while not p ache viewing such stardom as Brad Pitt, still is able to play his role in the movie very effectively. These two leads, realistically, couldn't have been cast any better. Of course there are other side characters that weren't as perfectly cast. Norm and Paul's father didn't particularly fit in the role. Almost everyone who read the book probably imagined him as more of a big rugged guy, even if her was a preacher, that is how the book portrayed him. Not to mention Paul's beautiful Native American girlfriend p, who was neither beautiful, or Native American. But this is just nitpicking, since no film can have a perfect cast, and the two brothers are enough to keep this movie afloat nicely.The theme is something that movies can get very wrong, very easily, in book to movie. adaptations. Especially when dealing with a theme such as the one in this book, which is confusing to the most advanced reader. The film makers were treading on thin ice, when they took up this part of the story. But, to their credit, they don't just portray the theme accurately, they make it easier to understand. With a story such as this one, with such a narrative and underlying meaning in it's characters. The theme is not just being waved right in your face, and screaming that it's the theme. Your have to search for it, and even then it's very hard to understand. It one of those themes where you read the whole book, and came find all the little details, and put them all together, and your starting at complete nonsense. The movie decides to uncork the nonsense for you, while still not shoving it in your face, so obnoxiously, as films tend to do with their themes. The actors also certainly know what their young to portray their theme. With their clear use of meaning in their lines, and just how subtlety the can lay on the emotion. It's clear the message in A River Runs Though It isn't one that's going away any time soon. So on the whole, even if the movie did have a few things that seem to crop up in movies are less than appetizing, (seeing a girl from acrossed to room at a party, and falling in love with her, the strict parent, the reckless decision as youth, that could have killed them, but they turn out okay anyway). However the movie was a successful adaption of the book it is named after. It's characters are for the most part, well adapted, and it's theme is clear. Little more can be asked of a movie adaptation of a book. This movie is one that is sure to please, fans of the classic short story, and true movie lovers a like. Although if your a person who only likes big studio movies, who favors big explosions, among other unrealistically big things on the screen at all times, I'd leave this one out of your collection. But if your like so many other classic movie lovers out there, this is a movie for you, just try and see passed all the obsessive fly fishing. "},{"Title":"Deep & Moving","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Timeless Classic- Never did I think such boring text could be given an incredible breath of life and excitement through motion picture. In the movie A River Runs Through It, based on the Novella by Norman Maclean, two boys are born and raised in Montana by their Minister father while they are molded by religious ways and specific techniques of fly fishing. Norman, being the oldest, is also the narrator of this tale of simple living in Montana. He is very successful, however, Paul, the youngest brother gets himself into a good amount of trouble. Later we learn how and where Paul's successes shine through. A River Runs Through It is a beautiful film about family, simplicity, life lessons and values that takes the viewer out of their busy day and back down to the core of things. The novella was beautifully and very successfully adapted, expressing the emotions of the boys who struggle to express them themselves. The setting for the movie is very scenic and just as described in the beautifully descriptive novella. Although the life is simple, the brother's encounters and internal struggles are much more complex then they initially appear. The emotionless black and white characters are brought to beautiful visualization of human life and love in this visually and emotionally comforting film about life lessons. The film touches on a new level then the book could ever fathom and more, yet it still includes all the aspects the book had. Brad Pitt as Paul and Craig Sheffer as Norm were perfectly casted. Brad perfectly exemplified the cute and small persona, along with the heart and drive of a fighter that Paul had. Brad is very charming and appears perfect on the outside, but is much more complex and conflicted on the inside. Craig seems rough and tough, but with Norms personality, he the loving one, and is more the type that is caring and supportive of the important people in his life. Both boys adapted to perfectly fit the era and the setting. If one didn't know they were actors, one would say that they truly believed they were born and raised in Montana. These two strangers come together as actors in the film to have a bond that is not shown in affection; but a bond that is strong enough to be visible by the pure sense of feeling, devotion and family ties. The theme of the film is subtle throughout, but shines through if one really looks past the different things that these small town boys get themselves into. Even though the theme of the film could be over looked, the simplicity helps by putting more emphases on the meaning of the experiences, then the experiences them selves. The main symbol in this book is no secret fly fishing. It can be looked at as a metaphor for a lot of different little things. But in general, fly fishing is used as a metaphor for life. It is the boys life, so it is used as kind of a guide line for everything that they learn, and all of the decisions they have to make. The dedication, the reach for perfection, the focus, the competition, the friendship, the technique. Everything about how these boys use fly fishing, is also mirrored in their every day lives. A River Runs Through It really reminded me how much family matters. In the ending lines when the Eventually all things merge into one, and a river runs through it line is spoken, that's when it really dawned upon me as a viewer. The viewer realizes the depth and love and meaning that was presented in the insightful minds eye of the film, aside from beautiful scenery, there is much much more in a human life, no matter how simple it may appear. "},{"Title":"A River Runs Through It","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film A River Run Through It, was based on the novella by Norman Maclean. That was a short story, and made into a long, funny and entertaining film. It captures the interesting parts of fly fishing along with the beauty of Montana. In this film you see the best rivers that Norman and Paul fish at. Paul and Norman go down this one river in their teenager days in a boat. It had tons of rocks and big waves in it, very unsafe. There friends weren't sure if they were going to make it but Paul and Norman did. Entertaining parts of the movie was when Norman and Paul ended up going fishing with Jessie's brother Neal. Neal ended up getting burnt real bad. "}{"Title":"Seen better, but still good","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Suspense abound! Not quite, but this adaption of Norman Maclean's short story drama certainly has plenty of emotion to it. Sticking closely enough to the source novel, the film doesn't seem to sacrifice much from the novel for a more entertaining film. Instead, being able to see in the film what the novel vaguely describes helps much in getting everything out of the story. It's clear the novel meant something for someone, as there weren't many times where the movie strayed from the book, only at a few points it adds new things to the story. The changes it does make generally aren't very important, in one such case, Norm having already known Jesse in the book is turned into a brief subplot where he meets and builds a relationship with her. It's not as in other films, where they take the name, and make an entirely unrelated story out of it. The film looks exactly how the book described. The setting of the story feels looks how it was described in the novel, feeling like that Montana the characters talked about. There isn't excessive special effects, everything for the most part looks natural, and convincing. It's not as if it's a film needed many effects, but it's nice to see how the film wasn't covered in unneeded effects just to make it look more interesting, at the expense of story, like other films.Perhaps the most important thing the movie has going for it is the acting. Starring Craig Scheffer as Norm, and Brad Pitt as his brother Paul, these actors portray the two biggest characters rather accurately. Along with Tom Skerritt as their reverend father, the actors look the part, and make convincing enough brothers. Together, they make the film more compelling, being able to pull off Norm's concerned, wiser personality, and Paul's tough guy personality pretty well.Overall, the film is well acted, fairly well paced, and good looking. It doesn't make us suffer through the long descriptions of fly fishing that the novel did, instead maintaining fly fishing's importance to the story without doing that. The most unusual thing about this film is that it's superior to the source novel. Any film accomplishing such a feat deserves much respect. "},{"Title":"This movie was extremely emotional and better than the book","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's nothing quite like reading a dense book. Once you open the book you just think to your self crap. That's how I was until the last few pages of A River Runs Through It. I had not heard of Robert Redford, or this book until it got assigned to me in this literature and film class and for good reason. It was not my kind of book.Maybe it was only because I like books that don't put me to sleep, or maybe I just really don't like imagining the smell of fish and sweat throughout 90 or so pages. This slowly improved in the last 10 pages when there was an emotional bond between Paul,norm and their dad. That was my favorite part of the book but I may have been a bit biased because I was excited that the book was almost over. When I started the movie I was shocked at how many new scenes there were, but this wasn't necessarily a bad thing, I think it made y movie a bit better. It was nice to watch Norm and Paul grow up and see their bond grow. It was a very nice touch to hear norms voice narrate the whole movie but I was very upset that once Paul died and we got to the end where it's Norm fishing by him self and he's 80 years old, that his voice still sounded like he was 30 I believe that they should have aged the voice with the character or they should have had his voice be old through out the whole movie and they should have had him telling it through,Emory, but with that said it just my opinion and I'm sure most people weren't as bothered by this small fact as I was.I think that the scenery in the movie was very beautiful and it truly captured the essence of the book as for the connection to nature. The river was exactly how I imagined it would be and it was just a flawless setting choice. However The good movie choices won't make the book any better. I believe that Paul and Norman's characters where adapted perfectly. Paul is cute, fun loving and oddly protective. While norm is reserved mature and loving. The actors where flawless and I agree with the casting 95 percent. I just believe that Jessie was too uptight and unlovable in the movie. I'm not sure if it was the director or the actors fault but its the only person I disagreed with. "},{"Title":"Boring book but fantastic movie !!","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The River Runs Though It Film Critique Allison Pendleton 9/30/13In some ways books can make people very bored and wonder why people would want to read this book and why is it such a famous book. In this cause in the novel A river runs though it it is so true! The novel the River Runs Though it was written by Norman Maclean in 1976. The book takes place in the small town in Montana. Where flying fishing was almost as important than their fathers preaching. Where fly fishing in the book took over every thing that was explaining about the boys Paul and Norman. The story was about a preachers family that made up of two boys Paul and Norman and the book was based on their life and struggles. The most important thing that came out of reading the book was seeing the film that came out of the fictional book the River Runs through It. For the movie it brought the book a better understanding and a light to the end of a very boring tunnel of facts and talk about nature. The film the River Runs Though it was a shot of excitement to the novel the River Runs Though it by being able to catch and keep the audience all the way though the movie. In the film the RiverRuns though it the book came to life we were able to understand the really drama that was coming out of Paul and Norman. Aside from the novel in the movie were where able to focus and understand the certain major events in the story instead of getting lost in the setting in the book. For example when Paul had the accident with the rabbit it was hard to understand because it was in a section in the book were all Norman McLean was talking about was the setting and the fly fishing. To the people in your lit and film the book was made in too lots of confusion were we had to keep double checking with each other for the key events that happened in the novel because we keep on getting lost or bored of what we were reading. The film surprised everyone we all though that the movie was going to be as boring as the book but the film was fantastic and it cleared up all the confusion that the book brought to the surface. The adaption was an success and totally worth the money to make the movie . The movie was able to show us the story of the boys and make it more interesting than the book did.As the book was so boring the only good thing was that Norman Maclean made his Characters his number one thing and detailed these people to the exact point. In the film the characters where exactly like the book described and made them seem more real and believable. The cast in the River Runs Through it were casted appropriately. the character Paul was seen as a prodigy son with a very bad drinking and gamboling problem. Paul was also very built in both the book and the movie. Norman the main character was the better Planed and caring person and son.Norman was always taking care of Paul through out the whole story. Norman was the narrator of the story. Norman and Paul's father was both in the movie and the book a stern religious person. He taught this kids to respect the nature around them and the importance of fly fishing. All of the characters were casted greatly because it made the story easier to understand and more believable. The characters also made the book more interesting and the movie fantastic.The setting and location was appropriate in the film because they made the movie in Montana were the book took place. For example they used the setting to create emotion to the scene and make people more into what is happening. They also use the setting in the film to create a more interesting and beautiful background to the story. They also used the setting to show how important nature was in the film The River Runs Through It. Most importantly the director used the setting to help us understand the boys and what they loved the most in their lives and how much things can change in matter of a few days or months. The setting in the film was able to show us how beautiful the nature was but in the movie it did not over power the characters stories like it did in the novel. Unless you love reading about a lot of nature and fishing the book The River Runs Through It is not for you. The movie on the other hand can be more interesting to the people who do not like fly fishing because in the movie they focus on the story of the two boys instead of the scenery. In fact the movie is actually better than the book because people have said that the movie is easier to understand. So here is to Norman Maclean best movie sellers The River Runs Through It. "},{"Title":"Great film, through & through","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film, A River Runs Through It, is a true story about two boys, Norman and Paul, who grow up in Missoula, Montana. Paul is rebellious of his father, Reverend Maclean, while the other, Norman, has his feet on the ground. The one thing they both have in common, and happen to love, is fly fishing. Norman ends up going away to college for six years without returning home, until that summer. This film is about his return home and his summer with Paul, as adults. This movie was adapted from Norman Maclean's book, A River Runs Through It. The film A River Runs Through It successfully adapted Norman Maclean's novel, A River Runs Through It by capturing the true beauty in the fly fishing, In our family, there was no clear line between religion and fly fishing (1, Maclean), and the emotional struggles that Paul and Norman were going through. Paul, with his drinking and gambling problem, and Norman, with his struggle between doing what he wants, or what is expected of him. Not to mention, their parent's emotional struggles, worrying about Paul and what kind of trouble he's going to get himself into.The setting in this movie is extremely important. Throughout the whole book you have pictures of Paul and Norm fly fishing, the River, Neal when he passes out in the sun, of all the fights and no other place than the Rocky Mountains in Montana could have captured what was really going on. It really puts you in the 19th century and you finally have a visual of the endless words, in his novel.Redford's cast is nothing short of perfection. Tom Skerritt is Rev. MacLean, whose methods of education include fly fishing and the Bible, putting them on the same shelf. Brenda Blythen, the mother, and her sons, Craig Schaffer and Brad Pitt create a family who reflect the same problems all families encounter with growing teenage sons, and later on, young men. Both Schaffer and Pitt are believable as brothers with their love of fly fishing and each other, they'll always be tied together. The relationships between men, father and sons, brother and brother, man and wife, is what really ties this story together, and Redford wouldn't have been able to capture their emotions and relationships if he had any other cast.If you didn't enjoy the book because of endless description and no dialogue, you really have to watch the movie. This needs to be filed under Saving the Novel section in movies. It tells the story better than the book and when it's over, you're sitting there in awe, wondering how something so boring, could be turned into something so captivating. "},{"Title":"This film is 1 of 4 favorites that I watch as often as I can","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To watch the rural setting of this film reminds me of the old photographs given to me of my grandmother of her youth in Westchester County, New York (1893 - 1989) as she taught herself book keeping, play basketball, and to drive a car. Following her daughter, my mother, to Oregon in 1946 where she remained until her death in June 1989. This film reminds me of my own experiences of fly fishing on the Row river in Southern Lane County, the North Fork of the Santiam River in Marion County and the North Umpqua River in Douglas County 1955 through 1995 and though I am now retired from the United States Army (1966 - 1992)I return as often as I can to these rivers. I've watched this film A River Runs Through It many times now. "},{"Title":"An All-Time Favorite Coming of Age...","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the movie that really launched Brad Pitt into super-stardom and landed him a spot on the A-List! Although great acting by all other players in the flick, Tom Skerritt is the only other one who went on to do much of anything. I read once Robert Redford (who directed the film) was one of many actors/directors that asked Norman Maclean if he could direct a film based off his popular 1976 novel A River Runs Through It and Other Stories. Maclean agreed, and apparently was able to approve the final screenplay draft prior to his death and the movies release respectively. A River Runs Through It was another one of those coming of age films much like Stand by Me that I grew up on. It's outstanding and truthful depiction of Maclean's childhood by talented actors is what has kept it in my top ten favorite movies of all time! I was never good at fishing and conversations people had about it bored me, but this movie made it fascinating. How one can compare and make so many references about life and the passing of time by a few rocks and rushing water to this day baffles me. Reviewed by AN/NR 11-14-11 "},{"Title":"Not the most entertaining or exciting film but it does have heart","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a beautiful movie from the sceneries to the family values and character interactions. But I can see why some audiences can find this movie to be boring, including myself. It's just not a entertaining or exciting movie. But what it does have is good morals and values with a bit of love to it and those elements works for a movie like this. Even if everything just seems to be a bit too darn generic when it comes to the portrayal of a Christian family. And doesn't seem to have a distinct goal or ambition. But a movie like this shows that even if your life isn't all that adventurous or out of the ordinary, it's still amazing and has beauty and heart to it. Norman Maclean(Craig Sheffer) is the older brother in the family and he is basically the narrator and the protagonist. But this movie is basically popular for having young Brad Pitt in it as the younger brother Paul Maclean. This is a soft prairie movie that takes place in the 1920's. And basically shows the two brothers go to church, work and go fishing and their affections. Like I said it isn't the most entertaining or exciting movie but it has heart and I will just leave it at that.7/10 "},{"Title":"Boring And Dull But Powerful And Compelling","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A River Runs Through It is film directed by Robert Redford and it features Brad Pitt, Craig Sheffer, Tom Skerritt, Brenda Blethyn, and Emily Lloyd. It is a period drama based on Norman Maclean's semi- autobiographical novella of the same name.Set in and around the city of Missoula in western Montana, the story follows two sons of a Presbyterian minister&#x97;one studious and the other rebellious&#x97;as they come of age during the 1920s.The film tells the autobiographical story about two young men, Norman and Paul, growing up during 1920s Missoula, Montana with the guidance of their father, a Presbyterian minister. Their mornings are spent in school and religious study, while their afternoons are devoted to fly fishing in the nearby Blackfoot River. Norman goes to the east coast for college and lives there for six years, without returning home until then. In the meantime, Paul gets a job as a journalist and makes a name for himself back home. The movie is mainly about Norman's return home and his and Paul's summer together.As adults, Paul is a rebellious journalist and his brother, Norman, a serious, literate teacher. Norman matures and channels his rebellion through his writing while dating Jessie Burns, while his reckless brother Paul turns to gambling and liquor. The movie chronicles their intertwining and sometimes conflicting lives, emphasizing Norman's point of view, as they grow up in the shadow of their minister father. A great deal of the movie surrounds the men's love of fly fishing for trout in Montana's rivers, and their shared experiences through it while growing up.Robert Redford's lyrical direction sets the tone for this evocative adaptation of author Norman MacLean's memoir of his idyllic Montana youth.The story's message to the viewer is to realize that that most of the events in any life are accidental or arbitrary, especially the crucial ones, and we can exercise little conscious control over our destinies.That was the case between this moving and powerful movie of two brothers - Norman and Paul.Although it has a powerful message,it was boring and dull at some points.Nevertheless,if one wants a movie that is both tasteful coupled with powerful performances from its talented cast especially Pitt and Skeritt,then this one is a must-see. "},{"Title":"A tale of two brothers told beautifully...","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Norman and Paul are the sons of the Reverend, Norman is the polite, law abiding son while Paul is the rebellion...The film explores there life in Montana.I was passing through the channels and to be honest would never have watched it...But I was bored and spotted a young man named Joseph Gordon Levitt from 3rd Rock from the Sun...I was mesmerised by the beauty in the photography, the camera work; the setting of every scene.And then the film fast forwards and we witness a older more mature Norman trying to keep to his fathers strict rules and keep his younger brother in check. Here I saw Craig Sheffer, I couldn't quite put my finger on it...But i'd seen him somewhere....I was struck hard by his characters inner struggle...I found the fishing scenes...calming..More importantly Robert Redford's narration seemed to easily flow with the calm nature of the film.....And his direction was pitch perfect...A great cinematic masterpiece...And oh...yes...I watch Craig Sheffer everyday on a series called One Tree Hill........ "},{"Title":"A beautiful, picturesque, glorious film experience","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've never been a monumental Robert Redford fan, but that being said, I truly think that A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT is not only Redford's greatest accomplishment (in this case as a director), but also one of the top 10 films of the 90s. First, RIVER is a beautiful film to look at the glorious scenic view of skies, mountains, streams, valleys, roads of 1920s Missoula, Montana. It's like seeing a great book transferred flawlessly to the screen. It just seems to capture this time and place to absolute perfection.The film is about the MacLean brothers, Norman and Paul (played by Craig Sheffer and Brad Pitt in fine performances). Norman and Paul have very different personalities and ambitions. Norman wants the simple family life like the one that he was raised under and aspires to be a college professor of English, while Paul is a wild hellion who wants to live everyday as if its his last. The boys were raised by a stern, stalwart minister (played by Tom Skerrit in a dignified performance) and a homely, dedicated mother (Brenda Blethyn in a quietly likable performance). Norman returns from college for the summer awaiting word of his job application to several universities as professor and the sibling rivalry between he and Paul is renewed. Paul stayed in Missoula to work for the local newspaper.While home, Norman falls in love with a local girl Jessie Burns (played by Emily Lloyd) and his future seems set with a mate and job on the way. Paul goes out almost every night drinking and partying at a seedy tavern on the outskirts of town. One night he and Norman double date with Jessie and an Indian girl that Paul meets and b/c of the racist tendencies of the time, Paul almost gets into fight with the locals at the tavern for bringing the girl there. Norman gets Paul of this scrape, but he can't always be there to save him.Although the brothers have their sibling rivalry, the one thing that has always bonded them seems to be fly fishing, which their father raised them to do from childhood. There is a special, great scene near the end where the 3 have a beautiful moment of admiration of Paul's brilliance as a fly fisherman and it makes you realize how great he could have been had it not been for his violent, tormented nature.The film says a lot about familial relationships fathers and sons, brother and brother, even mothers and sons. And you can feel these ties more in what is not said and shown than it what is, which is especially true in a tense scene where Norman, the Reverend, and Mrs. MacLean are waiting for Paul one morning at breakfast after another night of hell-raising and debauchery, wondering if their deepest fears have been realized. Norman's reaction at the climax of this scene is one of my most favorite film moments.RIVER is a film of beauty but it is not purely a stylistic piece. It has characters that everyone can identify with on some level and I think everyone can relate to the family aspects. It also has moments of humor as well (the scene where Norman and Paul chastise Jessie's drunk city-slicker brother after waiting all morning to take him fly-fishing is hilarious). And those moments where Paul is on the brink of getting into insurmountable trouble are nail-biting and tense b/c of his violent nature. Watching Brad Pitt in these scenes is like watching a great young actor ready to break loose on the world. Sheffer deserves a lot of credit for being essentially the lead in this film and he carries it extremely well. The most brilliant aspect of the film is in Redford's narration as the older Norman. This is perhaps the best film with a voice-over EVER! A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT is a special, beautiful, moving film that is Redford's greatest accomplishment! "}{"Title":"A brother's revenge","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like this movie(and book), it was extremely well made, but there was always one thing that bothered me. Norman did not even think twice about taking revenge for his brother's death. I know he is a preacher's son, but come on. It was such a close nit community he could find out who was responsible, break their right hands & kill them. The hand breaking would let people know the death's were in retaliation for Paul's death. Furthermore, since Norman was moving to Chicago, there would be no chance of reprisals and besides, whoever was left would probably fear him. Also, Norman could have prevented Paul's death by caring and doing something about the fact that Paul owed unsavory people a lot of money. What did he think would happen? Norman is a terrible brother. "},{"Title":"Peace, help, innocence","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie left me in such a peaceful state of mind. The scenery is beautiful. It makes you feel grateful for the beauty of America. The message is all too relevant to most families. There is usually someone in everyone's family that you see as a beautiful person. But, you also see their immaturity or innocence get the best of them. This movie made me want to slow down and think about life. It made me want to remember what life is about - relationships. It's a great movie for both men (mountains, fishing, drinking, gambling) and women (romance). It made me want to move out to the beautiful countryside. It made me yearn for nature. "},{"Title":"Story of Truth, America, Love, and Fish","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are 3 movies that I could watch over and over and over again. Very, very few movies move my heart and soul. Those 3 movies are Braveheart, Last of the Mohicans, and A River Runs Through It. Masculine movies to be sure, but beautiful as well. This movie is beautiful. The plot is not Hollywood type stuff, but rather it is more of a story. The river is the divide, the bridge, the time that cuts across one family's journey in and out of life. It is almost mystical how the story is told. I read the book after I saw the movie, and it was one of the most moving pieces of literature I have ever read, and the funny part is that it is fairly short-a short story to be exact. The plot of this movie is about life, and how the river, always constant provides the benchmark by which that life is measured. To be honest, I am surprised that Redford did such Americana-God type stuff as this, but he did. The brothers feelings in the movie are very heartfelt and wonderfully acted. The fight scene in which the brothers fight and Norman has tears in his eyes out of fear, rage, and sadness, reminded me of my fights during my youth. The lessons learned from that were transfixed onto the screen in a flash. That is brilliant film-making folks, to capture true human emotions and thoughts and impose them on believable real people. I loved how the fishing and the river keeps all things equal and true. This is a movie about life, and the sadness, hurt, regret, joy that is captured by one powerful river in Montana. The son Paul, played by Brad Pitt, goes his own way, and as a result becomes a master fly fisherman, and a gambler and a drunk. This movie (and book) shows that nothing is ever what it seems, and every person has gifts and liabilities that they must choose to deal with in their own way. Its also a movie that shows us that we can't save everyone, each person is endowed with gifts. But those gifts may also contain the seeds of our undoing. No more waxing poetic. This movie will fill your heart with ache and longing. But it will also make you feel something stirring deep within you at the most basic, fundamental level. All things merge into one, and A river runs through it. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie, very exciting.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie goes very slow in the begining but towards the end there are some very exciting parts.  The scenery when they are fly fishing is beautiful and very believable.  If you haven't yet seen this movie, i recommend it. "},{"Title":"A must See!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is outstanding from the acting to the directing to the cinematography.  Brad Pitt and Craig Sheffer were great.  You will not see any better acting in any movie than this one.  I am an avid Brad Pitt fan and I love to fly fish, so I was drawn to this movie.  I will say this again  It is a must see. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a must see for any Brad Pitt fan.  He gives a sensational performance.  Everyone in the movie is wonderful.  Robert Redford has done an outstanding narrative  detailed account of each stage in the film. It is truly a work of art. "},{"Title":"A literary triumph turned into a cinema classic.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film, based on Norman Mclean's novella, is the reason discriminating movie goers continue to give Hollywood the benefit of the doubt.  Even after deluging us with garbage like BRIDE OF CHUCKIE, JOSIE AND THE PUSSYCATS, and ARMAGEDDON (or anything else from Michael Bay,) Redford's small, poignant film about the discovery of life and family on the banks of the mighty Blackfoot River, argues that a few in the business still possess integrity.Those looking to find an exact adaptation of the book are bound to be disappointed.  The novella was heavily weighted down with very detailed, technical fly fishing terms that would not have translated to the screen. Still, the story of Norman and Paul is fairly accurate, movingly played by Sheffer and Pitt, the cinematography is stunning and the voice-over narrative of Redford sets the emotional tone of the film.What's even more interesting is the story behind the film.  Mclean was almost 70 when he wrote the story and upon finishing the first draft, went to read the last twenty pages to his children, where he wept openly for the first time, commenting, I've been waiting 50 years to say these things.There's an informative documentary about the actual events in the making of the film entitled, Shadowcasting The Making Of A River Runs Through It. One sad and touching footnote included in the documentary is that Mclean died before the film was completed.If you haven't seen this masterpiece...don't waste anymore time. "},{"Title":"A very positive review","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a truly great picture.  The picturesque Montana landscapes make a wonderful backdrop for this magnificent family drama.  Brad Pitt is refreshingly clean looking (Something that is rare in his more recent films), and does a wonderful job supporting Craig Sheffer's character throughout the film.  Sheffer is also very good as Norman Maclean, but the best aspect of this movie is Tom Skerritt who seems born to play the role of Rev. Maclean.  This movie follows the book it is based on almost to the letter, and Robert Redford is to be commended for it.  The Narration is beautiful, the story is powerful, and the acting is tremendous.  All in all, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Book and Film are different, but each has its merits","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was floored the first time I viewed the film, and on subsequent viewings became obsessed.  I did not read the book until about the seventh viewing, but I was impressed with it even more.However, I was disheartened to find that the book is considered fiction. From my research into the life of Maclean I found that some of the scenes actually happened, but most of it was made up.  I am guessing, because I do not really know, that the film was more of an attempt at a biography because much of the film is based on Maclean's articles and lectures.Here are some major differences between the film and the novella for your perusal.  One, Paul and Norman were much older in the book, Norm in his mid-thirties, Paul in his early thirties.  The film shows the romance of Norm and Jesse, but they were already married in the book (in fact, when Neal gets burned it sets up some real conflict between the husband, Norm and the wife, Jesse).  Rev. Maclean had longed been retired in the book.One of the more disturbing things I have come across in my research is what I call the Phantom Line.  The line is it is the world with dew still on it, more touched by wonder and possiblity than any I have since known.  The film sets up to believe, from the opening narration through to the famous closing, that the spoken words are words of Maclean himself. This line, however, is from a literature critic writing on the novella, but a beautiful line nonetheless.Where the movie succeeds over the book is the examination of a life lived.  It is slow because life is slow, and is lived moment by moment. In the end all you have is your memories of those moments.  The book tends to live more in the moment.There are many differences and I could name a hundred.  These are perhaps the most interesting.  Buy the book, and read all three stories. Also read YOUNG MEN AND FIRE, also by Maclean.  This is a true story of the Mann Gulch fires, and it will fill you in on what happened to Jesse in her later years.  Whatever you do, understand that these two works of art are separate and should be kept that way.         "},{"Title":"A great supporting cast","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A  great movie i have seen many times. Like other movies it has great destination points in the film that you cant wait to happen so you can feel the emotions to make you laugh and cry. The  best part that i felt was when stephen shellen appeared playing neal a perfect character that we all have know or are related too .His character gave a real boost to a very long movie and we hated to seem him leave. Like the story said why cant you help the ones who really need it. Thanks "}{"Title":"Good, Sad, and Slow-Paced","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A River Runs Through It was one of the greatest movies I've ever seen. Although moving at a fairly slow speed, A River Runs Through It, is a work of art. The ending is a sad, so I give it a rating of 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent story about brothers, family, & love of life","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of Robert Redford's best films. This is a story about brothers, family, love, respect, family, God that really touches at the heart strings. The acting is great from Tom Skerritt to Brad Pitt.I enjoyed all the characters in this film and can't wait for it to come to DVD so I can purchase it. I already have the video.Strongly recommended if you enjoy movie watching and seeing what hard work pays off in bringing an idea to film. This story is based on a true story and very well told. "},{"Title":"Pretty bland","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A superbly cast, well acted, exceptionally well shot film with lots of production values, but no plot elements to hold it together.This films looks at a time gone by. Early turn of the century Americana (or a decade or so after) in the Midwest, and specifically Montana. The cinematography is fairly well crafted, and the actors and on set people all do their jobs.But where's the story?The copy on the DVD box says this is a character study. Okay, but what about this character makes him interesting? The fact that he's a minister's son? That he dates women others might not? In the midst of a very picturesque location with lots of period props and costumes, there is absolutely nothing here to hold your attention.Does he engage in courtship with these women? Did he get his cues from another character who had loose morals? We don't really know, nor are we given any real insight, other than he's degenerating until he meets his end. And even then we don't get insight as to why it happened, though we can sort of piece things together.It's a film that looks like a masterpiece, but is ultimately pretty devoid of any feeling other than looking like it should have been more than it is. "},{"Title":"too bad Terrence Malick didn't make it","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford's ode to the art and religion of fly-fishing follows two competitive brothers growing up in a stern but affectionate Presbyterian household during the 1920s. Craig Scheffer is the more studious and dependable of the two, and Brad Pitt is the charismatic ne'er-do-well born to raise as much hell as you can raise in Missoula, Montana (which isn't much, as it turns out). Reasons to recommend the film include several excellent performances, the rich small town nostalgia, and some convincing period flavor, but watching it can be a frustrating experience because, except for some annoying cosmetic drawbacks, it could have been a minor masterpiece. All the tight, TV-style close-ups don't suit the breathtaking and panoramic Rocky Mountain scenery; the intimate story certainly doesn't need the crutch of THX sound; and the intrusive voice-over narration, quoted by Mr. Redford himself from Norman Maclean's memoirs, almost ruins the movie by making it sound more like an illustrated book reading. The assumption is that American moviegoers won't understand anything unless the meaning is spelled out in totally unambiguous terms, and while the language is certainly pretty it belongs in print, not on screen. "},{"Title":"Love and Help.","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this film is about love and help, the most important sentence in this film is Why those people who need the most help, won't take it? And what the father said at the end of this film express similar meaning. We should help those whom we ought to help based on our belief more actively.Actually, the elder brother could have done much more to help his younger brother, although his younger brother resisted it. I think the author expressed deep regret in this film.Brad Pitt is really cute and handsome when he is young, unbelievable! Craig Sheffer is also very good. A beautiful film with beautiful scenes and beautiful boys and girls. "},{"Title":"one of the best film's i'v seen for a long time","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this film was just brilliant,casting,location scenery,story,direction,everyone's really suited the part they played,and you could just imagine being there,Robert Redford's is an amazing actor and now the same being director,Norman's father came from the same Scottish island as myself,so i loved the fact there was a real connection with this film,the witty remarks throughout the film were great,it was just brilliant,so much that i bought the film as soon as it was released for retail and would recommend it to everyone to watch,and the fly-fishing was amazing,really cried at the end it was so sad,and you know what they say if you cry at a film it must have been good,and this definitely was, also congratulations to the two little boy's that played the part's of Norman and Paul they were just brilliant,children are often left out of the praising list i think, because the stars that play them all grown up are such a big profile for the whole film,but these children are amazing and should be praised for what they have done, don't you think? the whole story was so lovely because it was true and was someone's life after all that was shared with us all. "},{"Title":"A River Runs Through It","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" by Jessica Bigford.If you want to see a fly fishing, fun, thrilling, romance-speaking, caring love, action movie, then you should watch A River Runs through It.There are some opinions I would like to say. One is that it's a well acted movie where these two boys who become men try to find a way to make themselves better. The two boys who are in the movie are Paul and Norman. Paul is acted by Brad Pitt. The person who tells the story of Norman is Robert Redford.One example of drama is one day Norman and Paul when they were little went to play at the river where they fly fish. Norman asked Paul what he wanted to be when he grew. Paul said a boxer. Then Paul asked Norman the same. Norman said a boxer or a priest. Another example of drama is when Norman got back from going to school and he found out that Paul was an alcoholic.One example of suspense is one day Paul wanted to take Norman and Jesse Burns, who is acted by Emily Lloyd, to this bar. Paul had a date, but she was an Indian. When they came up to the door and the man at the door said the Indian girl couldn't come in, Paul said that he would pay him back. So Paul and his date were let in. Another example of suspense is when the police found Paul dead in a dumpster.One example of action is when Norman, Paul, and their dad went fly fishing. Paul caught the biggest fish for the first time. One example of romance is when Norman went to the Fourth of July weekend and met a girl named Jessie Burns. Norman and Paul went to this bar and Norman found out that Paul was heavily in debt from playing poker. Those are some examples of the movie that I found interesting. "},{"Title":"Deep, Reflective Film","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A River Runs Through It is based on the true story of two fly fishing brothers, Norman and Paul, (Brad Pitt and Craig Sheffer) whose Reverend father (Tom Skerritt) is a strict man whose two passions are his faith and fly fishing, - and, for him and his sons, there is a fine line between the two. This story describes the slow progression of the brothers' lives and how their lives separate on two different paths. It is a touching movie narrated by the director, Robert Redford, playing the elderly Norman and reflecting on times long gone and people long dead.Certain themes recur in the movie, such as memory, death, eternity, and dreams. Most of these themes revolve around the almost tragic hero of Paul. He is a capable, charming, and brave man, but has his fatal flaws.The closing lines sum up the point of the movie Then in the Arctic half-light of the canyon, all existence fades to a being with my soul and memories and the sounds of the Big Blackfoot River and a four-count rhythm and the hope that a fish will rise. Eventually, all things merge into one, and a river runs through it. The river was cut by the world's great flood and runs over rocks from the basement of time. On some of those rocks are timeless raindrops. Under the rocks are the words, and some of the words are theirs. I am haunted by waters. "},{"Title":"A profoundly lyrical and visual masterpiece","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is superbly made, and virtually flawless. Although it is one of my favorites, every time I view it, I make a conscious effort to find fault in the technical, and film making aspects of it, and I fail to do so. The cinematography is splendid and flows so gracefully throughout. There is a reason for the slow moments, as some reviewers have pointed out, and I believe it is meant to provoke thought and feeling about the McLean clan and their languid, peaceful life in 1920s Montana. It is symbolic of the times. This is the story of how two brothers interact with each other, their father, their devotion to their mother, and what ultimately always brings them together, fly-fishing. The narration is note worthy and wouldn't be the same had they not added Norman McLean's eloquent words (narrated by Robert Redford). The acting is some of the finest performances you'll ever see. Notably from Brad Pitt,and Craig Sheffer, as the two brothers. However, most of the cast also turn in wonderful performances. If you are looking for action, this isn't the film for you. If however you are looking for a beautifully told, and visually satisfying film, this it. Treat yourself, sit back, relax and let yourself be brought back to a time that's all been but forgotten were it not for people like Mr.Redford for having had the vision of bringing it to film. It was a simpler time, when family, and community meant something. This film resonates peaceful integrity,grace and heart. If this means anything to you, don't miss this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is in my top ten favorite movies of all time. Due to the fact my favorite hobby is fly fishing. Its nice to see a film featuring fly fishing. I didn't think Brad Pitt would fit in this role but he comes through magnificently. I wish my dad would have taught me how to fly fish as the father in this film teaches his kids. The acting is excellent, the plot is pretty good and the cinematography in the movie is second to none. I can see how people that don't fly fish won't have the same connection to this movie as I did. A must see for any fly fisher. Hopefully this movie gets some more people into the sport. Excellent film.10/10 "}{"Title":"Eventually, all things merge into one...","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is certainly one of my favorite's of all-time, if not my all time favorite.  I will say its not the best movie ever made, but it has many great sequences that leave a lasting impression on me that just won't go away.  Being a fly-fisherman, I was happy to see a movie created to show parallels between life and fishing. If I were to ever pick one movie I wish I could've been in, it would be this one. Here are some of the best things about the movie*Spoilers*First, I loved all the still photograph shots, like of Norman working in the lumber industry.  I think it gave the movie an even better feeling of nostalgia. It was also a good way to show time differences. Second, I obviously enjoyed all the fishing scenes.  Anyone who ever views the scene of Paul trying to land that huge trout in the raging waters won't forget it anytime soon. What a perfect river. Third, I liked the fact that the characters aren't perfect. This movie is about life and enjoying the great things life has to offer. It is also about coping with difficult situations, especially when other family members are involved. I would like to say that Tom Skerritt plays a perfect early 1900's father. Fourth, the ending is one of the best ever, in my opinion. You have such an emotional high after Paul catches the big fish and all three (father and 2 sons) are seen laughing and having a good time.  Then the next scene is the depiction of Paul's death. WOW. The very end when the kids are shown again almost made me cry, and I don't cry for many things. There really isn't much you can put onto paper about it. And the ending verse speaks for itself. Personally, I don't know or care what I am haunted by waters means. Probably only Norman knows. I just take it for what it is... a great way to end a great movie.*END SPOILERS*So please see this movie if you haven't already, especially if you like movies about the outdoors and families. It will probably make you feel good that you have people around you to enjoy, and you'll realize what your missing if you've lost touch with those you care about. ...and a river runs through it. "},{"Title":"Human Reality","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a real show.Two sons, same house, different results!Paul stays home in Montana.  Norman goes away for College out east, and comes home to a place of familiarity, yet is awkwardly uncomfortable.  He tries to woo Jessie, and ends up sticking his foot in his mouth by bragging about where he's been, what he's seen, and what real music is.  He gets his woman in the end, so I guess its all good.Paul too, has his own issues.  His vices take his life, in the end.Even though Paul and Norman grow into two entirely different people in adulthood, their true brotherhood stays intact despite flaws and issues that could make a 'respectable' person RUN away, not wanting to associate with the other.I must say that if more people stuck by each other threw thick and thin, like Norman stuck with Paul, and did everything he could to bail little brother out, then we might see a much different society than we do today. "},{"Title":"Awesomely Tedious","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When actors become directors they seem to want to prove that they can do as good a job as anybody.  Four come to mind (Clint Eastwood, Jodie Foster, Barbra Streisand & Robert Redford) who deserve this reputation.  They UP the production values and try to stamp 'class' and 'good taste' on every frame.  In doing so they've made two dozen lifeless, tedious, respectable movies that I can't stomach.  Instead of making movies, they construct boring arguments for the points they favor.This is one of those movies.  Early on you know it's not going to be daring new work.  It will be a hushed reverent look back at an chatty authors idyllic upbringing.  It has adapted-from-a-book written all over it; from the faux-poetic musings of the narrator to the snails pacing.  The approach is so even-handed that it ends up lifeless.  The hushed & reverent tone fearfully prevents you from interpreting the story in any way but the one Redford has conceived.  I wanted to heave.  Eons before Redfords comatose narration spells it out, you know that fly-fishing has been a metaphor for life (How sensitive... Ugh!).Worst of all, there is no dramatic arc to the movie.  You wait and wait and wait for something to actually happen instead of being told about it.  Every scene that might involve drama or emotion occurs off-screen.  A son arrives home from college after 6 years.  Redford eliminates the reunion.  Another son is killed.  The plot only mentions it & the mother leaves the screen to react to it.  It goes on & on.  Redford is one incredibly repressed director. (Horse Whisperer was equally horrible.) There is a preachy myth-making aspect to this movie that Redford might have picked up on 'The Natural.'  The material has a tiresome averaged quality to it.  In order to get the audience to identify, Redford supplies a generic look for every scene.  i.e. In the 20's scenes, Redford places exactly the hat Hollywood has trained you to picture on the characters heads, etc.  This robs it of any specific details that might make the viewpoint unique or fresh.This is a thin, thin story.  Historical views are much more engaging when they aren't shoving nostalgia down your throat. "},{"Title":"Real Review","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is not an outright piece of fiction, so it cannot tell the story within the constructs of a tightly spun piece of fiction; all SLOW-minded commentors who complain of the pacing and plot elements should take note of this before opening their mouths.This movie is a cinematic representation of a real-life MEMOIR written by Norman Maclean on his family and life in Montana. Asses keep saying in their reviews, why were some parts narrated instead of shown? The answer, ass, is that if you are not present at an event, you can only relate it as it was related to you.Yes, it moves fairly slowly. He's only telling it like it happened. If you don't like the prospect of a film taking its time, then you should never have watched a movie titled A River Runs Through It anyway. How fast does it sound like it's going to move, moron?Though it does take its time developing the relationships between the brothers, their father, and others, an recounting specific memories of the narrator, I would not say it's boring because during these parts, you recognize moments from your own life and relationships. You may only think about things like this rarely, if ever.Try to understand your family members. And try your damned hardest to help them if they need it.Using strict film criteria, this film still scores pretty highly. It is beautiful to look at, and even the most crass moron cannot deny this. The plot, while differing in construction from that of most screenplays or other works of fiction, still scores highly because (as has already been proven by Lynchian film) a plot which creates its own structure in and of itself based on an element or elements of real life and which does not necessarily adhere to the strict plot pyramid can still succeed easily on a conscious AND a subconscious level to the viewer so long as it DOES adhere to the rules which it creates for itself and/or the rules which the area of life from which the plot structure is drawn dictate; if the film is not trying to bulls**t the viewer and instead supports its conclusions and the characters' actions with rational evidence and realistic mechanisms, then an unconventional plot structure can still make a favorable impression on an observer. River's plot structure was very straightforward, slow, and linear, but because this structure was a derivative of life experiences through the reference frame of a human being in a world where most events are beyond human control, few events remain in our control, and all events stand to be observed by us, the developments in the plot all play out quite logically and sequentially and in quite a familiar fashion. The only persons who have severe issues with the plot or pacing of A River Runs Through It are most likely those who either do not have a family at all, do not have good interaction with family members, or do not give much thought to family members, and are thereby unfamiliar with the area of human experience from whence the quintessential element of the plot structure springs and therefore unable to appreciate the film's veracity in some places as well-done artistic presentation; unfamiliar with circumstances similar to those presented in the film and are unable to recognize the inherent truth of what is shown on film. The plot, in short, was uncommon for its truthfulness. The acting was very solid. The direction was sensitive to the source material for the screenplay as well as the screenplay itself. And, as I mentioned earlier, the cinematography is very well done.The end result is that this film is very solid. Very good, even. Some would say poetic, but I don't get into all that sentimental crap. All you can say is that on a technical level, the film is virtually devoid of mistakes, and on an artistic level, it was very full with the underlying veracity and emotional content which a piece of art grounded firmly in real life should provide. People who malign the film are not family-oriented and probably do not value memories very much, either. That's basically all this film is a representation of a memories. It is not hard to understand, but it is not for everyone because the family content may not meet some people's expectations as movie-script stuff. But I actually believe this film does a great job at being easy to watch, well-acted, great to look at and listen to, and also at not being boring, given the potential.  "},{"Title":"Montana goes Hollywood","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have very mixed feelings about the book A River Runs Through It. Its lyrical passages about fly fishing bring to mind newspaper sports feature writing at its worst, and the creepy antics of its macho protagonists are not pleasant from a civilized female perspective. But the very point of the story it seems to me is that these men are so emotionally immature and alienated that their only true joy in life is the self-absorbed (and highly competitive) act of luring a strong healthy fish to its death. Maclean expressed these experiences with tremendous honesty that makes his painful attempts at fine writing worth squelching through.The film version hangs on to the Hemingwayesque flourishes (replicated in its prettily photographed vistas of mountains and rivers and a tendency to hit overcrank when something significant is happening at the end of one of the fly fishermen's lines) but regrettably jettisons the honesty. The story's setting is changed from 1937 (in the depths of the Depression, when an ability to catch good fish for supper had a very different connotation) to sometime in the twenties, and the brothers are correspondingly in their early twenties, which gives their bawdy, irresponsible antics a much different connotation than it did when the same characters in the book pulled them well into their thirties. Refocusing the story line from the brothers' inarticulate love for one another to a standard meet cute romance between Norman and his future wife Jess was probably good for box office, but all I could think of watching Brad Pitt with his strawberry blond dye job and Emily Lloyd slinking around in her blonde finger-wave wig and fragile linen dresses was that Redford was reliving some fixation that originated twenty years previously during the filming of The Great Gatsby.I think this is a bad film, and I found myself horribly impatient with it. But I can also see why so many people enjoy it. The romance, the Sierra Club cinematography and cheap thrill gags like the pop-up scare after the whitewater boating adventure and the ride through a train tunnel in a tin lizzie are all calculated audience pleasers. And it's nice that Maclean's heirs got the royalties for the use of the old man's title. "},{"Title":"Great Scenery, Excellent Acting, But Slow, Very Slow.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great acting from Craig Sheffer, Tom Skerritt and especially Brad Pitt who portrays the role of the brother who is outgoing, loves life and enjoys it to the fullest as nobody else can in my opinion.The movie, though, sometimes appears to drag on for no apparent purpose. It is very slow and although I gave it a 7 for a first viewing, I would never want to sit through it again.As an example of what I mean, how does Jessie's brother fit in? and what is the purpose of including this part of the story in the movie? Beautiful scenery, no doubt about that. Worth a watch if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"One of the best movie about communication","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie consists of perfect combinations of allegories, metaphors on a symbolism base. The river symbolizes the life of Macleans.Blackfoot River in Montana represents routine life of Presbyterian Maclean family. Reverend Maclean raised his sons very well both through positivist education and morality. But he can't throughly communicate with his sons actually he couldn't express his feelings not just great ones but also daily ones. However he develops a communication channel which is fly fishing in Blackfoot River. The river resembles the life and all the Maclean men go into life and live it through fishing. When they hunt fish from river actually they live different events from their life. Reverend obsessively bind to fishing because he couldn't find another way of communicate with his beloved sons. He was afraid that if he express himself through words may be their sons can't get him or misunderstand. By the way Reverend is not totally aware of this method just do it instinctively. When times passes boys grew up. Older brother Norman actually can't get the real meaning of fly fishing he just perceived it as a great hobby of his family and make it for fun. On the other side, Paul grasp the idea. Paul as like as his father obsessed with fly fishing. Unfortunately he steps forward and fixate himself to Montana, he thanked best years of his lives for The River. He creates a state of belonging to his homeland. You could call it patriotism to the motherland or public spirit through the river. But when Paul and everyone around him (their childhood friends too)get older the whole situation changes. Now they become adults they have to take higher education, they have to find a women and marry her or find a regular job. Because of Norman's naivety on The River he quickly left home actually forget The River and his family relation and fishing of course. But that is not the same story for Paul he can't go far away from The River. He became a local journalist and refused to promote. He periodically visits hist father and mother and go out fishing with Reverend. If you carefully watch the movie you realize that even though Norman more asocial than Paul, he found Jessie Burns to marry with her. On the other hand Paul hasn't got any serious relations and has not intention of career-promotion. Norman wants to be an important man. Reverend actually couldn't think that his fly fishing method could cause one of his son to captivating in one sense trapped with Montana. Norman's return after graduation and his plans about marriage makes Paul and reverend happy and hopeful. However the reality is a little bit different. Norman is unsure about his career this saddened his father and at the last fly-fishing scene of Macleans when Norman expresses his idea about permanently moving abroad and propose him to come with Jesse and him aggrieved Paul. Paul and Reverend just want a stable, routine and happy life altogether with Mother Maclean and Norman's new family. Paul as in his childhood act aggressively and in time he finds a way of exit from dissatisfaction of his changing life through alcoholism and gambling. Reverend seek the situation but can't do anything besides approve Norman's wishes and ignore Paul's rebellion. When Norman ask Jessie's brother Neal to take out fishing Paul understands that everything is changing and nothing will be the same as in his childhood. But he never makes clear himself to his brother. The zenith of the movie is final fishing scene. Reverend leave his sons alone and when Norman invite Paul with them to leave Montana he respond that he will never leave his home. For last chance to try Norman understand them Paul tries a last chance, a last communication shot. Paul after a very hard hunting catches a big fish. Reverend call it as an art and Norman take a photo of Paul and his hunt. In that moment Norman really gets the idea of fly-fishing. Paul tried another shot when they were young and take a boat with their friends to fall down from a steep ravine on Blackfoot River but Norman couldn't got it. This time Norman gets something but do nothing. Paul was in trouble because of his gambling problem if he didn't fixate himself to Montana and accept the invitation of his brother most probably he wouldn't die. After that day in the morning police officers called Norman to inform Paul killed most probably because of gambling. Norman understand that Paul killed himself consciously because gamblers refused to let Paul to play card (he is already in debt); however, he illogically demand it. Then Norman tell Paul's dead to his father. At the last scene when Reverend addressing a speech on his congregation he talked about understanding each other,expression of feelings within a family or a communion. Norman with a sad face blame himself because he can't get his family's communication medium; fly fishing and perceived The River as just a river. Now he has a good career, beloved wife and kids but lost his brother and also his parents' joy of life. This is the greatest Redford movie and best performance of Pitt. Actually Pitt couldn't exceed Paul Maclane role. "},{"Title":"The Threads That Bind Us Together","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" SYNOPSIS The story of two brothers is told in narrative flashback. The film is set in Montana at the turn of the century. It explores the bonds that tie their family together and the differences that drive them apart against the backdrop of a beautiful landscape.CONCEPT IN RELATION TO THE VIEWER Understanding what binds us to one another and understanding how seemingly simple things are the glue that cement our relationships to one another even as we chart different courses in our lives.PROS AND CONS This is a film that I had seen before and I wanted to watch it again to see if it was still as good as I remembered it. It is a good film, although it is very subtle and introspective. This was one of Robert Redford's first attempts at movie making from behind the camera. He does not appear on screen but does lend his voice as the narrator.Without giving too much away, this is a film about fly fishing. Not the art of fishing itself, but how a common, shared experience brings people together regardless of how much they grow apart. In this film, the two brothers grow into men of different temperaments and ideals. However, both of them share the same life long passion that was taught to them by their father.This passion is the unseen thread that holds the family together. Many families have this type of thread but it can take different forms. The mother driving her daughter to figure-skating practice week after week which eventually stretches into years. The father and son that tinker on their 57 Chevy for decades in the garage. The things that seem meaningless at first, but when looked back upon, create a continuity that makes us who we are at our core.This film is exceptional in many ways. As a period piece, it makes the viewer long to live in rural Montana before World War I. Tom Skerritt as the father and the young Brad Pitt as his younger son give exceptional performances. I found the older son played by Craig Sheffer to be a bit emotionless and repressed. His love affair with the home town girl appears a bit forced at times and does not appear to move the plot forward much.In the end, the eldest son stands along in the river where so much was learned and you can sense his anguish at what he has lost during the course of his life. The final lines of the film pretty much sum it up. In the end, all things run together into one, and a river runs through it. And if you listen to the waters you can hear their voices.......I am haunted by waters. All in all, a beautiful film that makes us pause at the end and think about what is really important. "},{"Title":"stephen shellen rocks!","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me say first off that the film was memorable and aesthetically beautiful! For me the most memorable character was Neal played by Stephen Shellen. He rev'd the film into high gear and there was a noticeable void when he departed. He is the sexiest most charismatic character to grace the screen in decades and I'm surprised to find that he's slipped off the radar. Does anyone know what he's up to these days? I've spent way too many hours tracking this 'too sexy guy' and I'm having trouble understanding why he's not much more visible. He's a GREAT! actor and to be honest there aren't a lot of them around these days. I wish I could see much more of Stephen Shellen and I, quite frankly don't understand why he doesn't have much more of a presence. Can anyone enlighten me? Confused! "},{"Title":"Wonderful work of nature photography","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've read the novel by Norman McLean. But the film lacks. Emily Lloyd and Craig Sheffer are rather wooden. But Brenda Blethyn and Brad Pitt are terrific. Philippe Rousselot deserves the Academy Award for his marvelous photography. "}{"Title":"A River Runs Through It","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cinematography is sharp, capturing the beauty of nature and all its creations. The story is well kept and moves swiftly. The cast works well together. The piece is a fine study in editing, sound, camera operation.   "},{"Title":"A nice film, but slow as a wet week","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A gently meandering film about two brothers growing up in Montana in the 1920s. They fly fish a lot.At the one hour mark I thought something dramatic was about to happen (at last!) when the love interest's annoying brother blows in from Hollywood. Then at one hour 30 mins I thought something dramatic might happen (at last!) when the brothers visit a gambling den. Then at one hour 45 mins I though something surely dramatic is about to happen (at long #$% last!) when they go fishing.When something actually dramatic does occur we don't see it but are told about it by the ever present sombre voice-over. Then the film ends.This movie made me realise two things (a) some books can't translate to screen and probably the attempt shouldn't even be made, and (b) movies based on old folks reminiscing about youth and loved-ones gone are really quite depressing, and I will avoid them in future.A nice film for a spare Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"This movie needs to be scene by all.","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Simply put, this movie needs to be scene by all. It is not just a story about fishing or family for that matter. It is a tragedy and a life lesson. Some things we cannot change no matter how we were brought up, the attitudes of some are inborn. Every time I get done watching this movie I have a new understanding of it. The first time I viewed it I was very young, maybe 13. I have a younger brother, and he a I were brought up in a religious environment and my parents tried very hard to contain us. It was evident from a very early age that we both were rebellious. This story, I hold dear because of its sentimental value but I ask you to watch it for the other elements. The times are well portrayed, and the texture is rich. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Pretty Little Film","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If it were to receive an award for imagery, then A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT would hold the honors hands down. In attempting to bring forth the beauty of the America of yesterday, Robert Redford, an actor more known for his pretty features than his capacity to render deep, transformative performances, creates this time capsule of a film that tells the retrospective story of Norman MacLean, An American Writer, and his coming of age.The movie was responsible for one thing maximizing on Brad Pitt's almost too-good looks, and in a way, it's as if Redford had found a doppelganger to substitute for his own younger self in this movie. So where the focus from the movie, being Norman MacLean (played in an unmemorable way by Craig Sheffer who could have after this gone to better things but has since disappeared into the fog of forgetfulness and grade F movies), becomes a moot point.A fairly inactive movie that looks as if Turner had painted it with love and care. It never really steps out of its shell and bothers to say anything, and much of what happens just sits there and basks in the rays of cute that Redford has given it. It's the reason that the British are so good at telling static stories where the foliage and the costumes may apparently take precedence over everything else, but then neither Pitt nor Sheffer are British and wouldn't know how to act in this type of movie.It's for this reason that A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT stays put where it is, which is as a pretty little postcard from a friend in the middle of a travelogue. "},{"Title":"It's nicely done, kinda slow.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And it is missing some parts-more of Brad Pitt's life, for example.Spoilers am sure!They only scratch the surface of the man's gambling habits, his boozing, his debts, etc. And they don't even bother to show him being beat to death...just describe it instead. What was up with that??  And with the 'good' brother-Mr Bland-he never is shown fighting with his semi-hoodlum brother beyond age their teen years, not even after he comes back home and see's his brother's life falling into a morass of debt, gambling, bad choices and the like.  I find that to be lacking.The rest of the movie the acting, scenary, period detail-the fishing, the church stuff, Tom Skerritt-I liked all that. I even got a kick outta the proto-hippie/Indian chick that has the tattoos on her butt. All pretty good.What was the point of showing the drunken Hollywood brother? Or some of the other things-mentioned but not developed? I do not know.The river, the fishing and the actors were all fine.*** outta ****, typical Redford effort.  "},{"Title":"Narrative style movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you lean towards emotional narrative based accounts as in The Green Mile and Shawshank Redemption you will probably like this movie.  I found the casting of Tom Skerritt as a Scot woeful.  I find his acting style very forced and un-natural and every time I see him I'm always thinking this guy is trying to act. His Scottish accent - if it was meant to be one has got to be the worst!Apart from that the movie flows along quite amicably and there are some heart string tugging quotes from the supposed narrator at the end although we all know that ain't Robert Redford. Don't know why they didn't get the actor to do the narrative himself?  Actually there were a lot of disparate instances in this movie which spoiled it a little for me and made me think this is a flawed movie.I loved Robert Redfords directorial debut with the film Ordinary People but since then he doesn't seem to have learned as much as you'd expect judging him on the merits of this movie. "},{"Title":" Falls flat","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently watched this film back to back with Brad Pitt's other brother saga, Legends of the Fall. Legends is a far superior film. River has none of the conflict or spark that Legends has. Craig Sheffer shows barely any emotion throughout the film. Brad Pitt shows that he is the best actor in both films but shines brighter in Legends. Aside from the stunning cinematography in River, the story is lacking in excitement, conflict, character development and pace. Unless you're a huge fan of fly fishing, watch Legends of the Fall instead. "},{"Title":"Very disappointed","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought I knew what I was in for with this movie. I expected lots of beautiful scenery and a slow pace. What I did not expect was that nothing at all would ever happen on screen. Why were all the major plot points narrated instead of filmed? The actors were fabulous; it's a shame they didn't have much of a chance to act. By the end I had given up caring what was going to happen. I felt very detached from this movie, because it felt like someone else telling me about a movie they saw. It was like listening to the book on tape. This, coupled with the glacial pace made the movie completely unbearable. Also predictable - **********SPOILER AHEAD*************- was there anyone who didn't know that Brad Pitt's character was going to die at the end of this?  Was there anyone who didn't know that Norman wouldn't ever actually leave Montana? What could have been a great movie turned into nothing more than a fly fishing tutorial. "},{"Title":"Beautiful to look at but shallow all the way...","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you could cite gorgeous cinematography as the saving grace of a movie, this would be the one to choose. Obviously, director ROBERT REDFORD meant this to be a tribute to the glories of the environment, being the radical conservationist that he's turned out to be. And as such, it does succeed--for it's a beautiful film to look at.But by the time the end credits roll, you realize that what there is of a story is so vague in outline, so weak in imparting any truths, so muddled in whatever message was intended, that it's been a waste of a couple of hours of your life.CRAIG SHEFFER is merely bland as the older brother who secretly envies the free-wheeling, laid back lifestyle of his fly-fishing brother, BRAD PITT. Pitt crumbles under the conventions of having a strict religious upbringing from his father TOM SKERRITT. During the course of the story, the two brothers are at odds over many things and have the usual fights and squabbles. By the end, one brother finds the right path while the other ends his life in misery. That's about it for the plot outline.It's never clear, though, what the message is that Redford is trying to get across. The film's only strength is the picture postcard views of Montana, impressively photographed. The scenery serves as a nice background for a very weak drama that really goes nowhere and ends up being a bore rather than capturing us with an intriguing storyline. "},{"Title":"Sinks straight to the bottom!!!!","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is average. Redford has done himself no favours by trying too hard to make it cinematic but his talents do not meet his intentions. It directing simply looks and feels amateurish. On another negative note - The only interesting bits were the fly fishing scenes. The rest of the story was desperately poor. It was simply trying to be too placid and relaxed. I was pleased when it ended.To its advantage are - excellent casting, fine acting, impressive use of cool and texture and the fact that it eventually finished. The scene with the brother is the only slightly interesting event in a rather dull life. Even Paul's incident could spur no more than a mumour of Please say this is nearly over. It is a very 'American' film. Which is no bad thing if you happen to like this genre. All this, with subtle undertones of a pro-Christian, pro American, homely i'll have a apple pie ma story coupled with bits and pieces of how great Montana is. I hasten to add that the brother's capricous relationship was portrayed with half-hearted and quite limited effort. A lame attempt all round. But i expect it is the Fisherman's bible none-the-less. I won't be in a hurry to watch it again. "}{"Title":"Spectacular Scenery; So-So Story","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE GOOD - Spectacular scenery, the kind outdoors-man Robert Redford appreciates (and so do I) plenty of green in the beautiful mountains, streams, woods of Montana. Nature doesn't get a whole lot prettier than this. The minister in here (Tom Skerritt) is shown in a kindly light, which is a bit unusual with the secular film business.THE BAD -The story gets boring in spots, there is too much usage of the Lord's name in vain, mainly by the two sons of the minister, particularly Brad Pitt's character. The minister's sermons sound like secular humanistic poetry readings, nothing about Christ. It sounds like Redford wrote the sermons. "},{"Title":"brad pitt and acting very good movie boring.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  boring story with great scenery and extraordinary acting for people who are trapped in slow moving, going no way over dramatic crapolla.scenery was beautiful especially livingston montana flyfishing area. brad pitt carries himself very well in this movie and again his acting is superb,for such a slow moving picture.emily lloyd is also very good,scenery in montana adds to a really boring movie.again the actors tried to make a go of it,but story was too weak. "},{"Title":"Pretty But Shallow","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The landscaping cinematography within A River Runs Through It is very beautiful. However, the story is formulaic and occasionally boring. The movie is an example of how style does not overcome lack of substance. Furthermore, I couldn't fully grasp the concept of how fishing symbolizes life. Fishing is stupid and pointless; life is awesome. "},{"Title":"The FBI warning was the most exciting part","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I always felt that a good film should have a plot. This particular film was missing one, and I feel that it would have been more effective with a plot. This was made even worse by the fact that it seemed to go on forever; I was anxious for it to finally end. However, I just noticed that it was only 123 minutes long; it felt like four hours. Not only was there no plot but the film also lacked a notable conflict. It's not the worst movie I've seen, but I used to say that it was until I saw The Fast And The Furious. So, don't think this review of mine is from someone who needs nothing but action. I actually hate most action films out today; it's just that this film is all the way on the other side of the spectrum. Not much really happens in this movie. However, the scenery and costumes were nice.  "},{"Title":"More hook than fish!","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford's A River Runs Through It is a beautiful movie to see, but not to watch. Its images make me want to move back to Montana, to breath the air, to enjoy the people, maybe, even to fish. Yet it's a testament to the beauty of Montana that causes the movie to fail; Montana is so big and Norman Maclean's story, while lovely and touching in itself, doesn't fit the state.Now, I know I'm in a minority here. Just read some of the other comments and you would think ARRTI is a gift from God, but I just didn't believe there was enough story here, enough flesh and blood for the characters. Everyone seemed underused--there's no one person who is completely fleshed out as a real person. They come close, but the cast and its story seem somehow forced, as if Redford believed that if he shot the movie with just the right filters and filled it with poetic narration, he'd get the depth of emotion the script just couldn't deliver.Ultimately, the movie was a pleasant experience (and I really would like to go fishing, although I won't catch and release--I'm eating' those bad boys!), but I felt that I had missed the greatness, the huge commonality of a beautiful and deeply thoughtful story of brothers and love and romance and fly fishing as art. I'll I got was two hours of lovely photography and Brad Pitt.For some viewers, that would be just fine. For me, I wanted something from deeper waters. "},{"Title":"A Sunday afternoon movie","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Robert Redford's film of Norman McLean's autobiography, the sport of fly fishing and the mastering of it, appears to be some kind of rite of passage with a spiritual significance.  The story of two brothers growing up in Montana, Redford's film is best described as nice.  The boys' father is a Presbyterian minister, the young men themselves are basically decent despite their rebellion, and except for a few utterings of g--damn and son of a bitch, there is no foul language (In this era in which the F word emerges repeatedly from the mouths of screen actors, an occasional g--damn has been thoroughly reduced to innocuosness).  Alas, there is little excitement either.  This is what I call a Sunday afternoon movie  rural, timeless, and ultimately sad.  One senses time ticking away as the images flicker by. One may also sense one's patience running out waiting for the thing to end. I was relieved when it did. "},{"Title":"Great but....","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great drama with all the areas covered EXCEPT for screenlay which was too slow and should have shown more relevant scenes like Pitt's character interviewing the President,or Pitt getting murdered instead of just having it described to us.Scenes like those would have kept the audience awake.Cutting away some useless minutes could have made more room for more heartpounding scenes like those.The dragging of the film kept this one from all time greatness although to see Pitt here makes the film so worth watching.Also,big fans of fising,early 20th century styles and Montana will really like this as well........    "},{"Title":"The movie reminded me of how lucky I am...","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... to not live in Montana and especially not to live there at the end of the 19th century.A river runs through it certainly is a well made movie from a cineastic stand-point. Great landscapes, Redford acting well.Unfortunately, the story is bad (if there is a story at all).I felt sorry for the narrator / author, who is as dry, narrow-minded a character as his father, a preacher. Being driven, not driving his own life, he is left to watch his brother, who is also caged in the small town environment, losing his life. The author never even comes close to undestand his brother's motivations, but at least realizes, that he is lacking the slightest amount of homour / fun. All there is, is fly-fishing, where he follows even as an old man the style of his father.The end is not surprising, it is forseeable from the very beginning.Definitely NOT a must-see (3 / 10) "},{"Title":"Spent most of the movie waiting for it to begin...it never did.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has beautiful scenery. Unfortunately it has no plot. In order to have a plot there must be a conflict. This movie had none. It spent two hours painting a beautiful scene and failed to ever place any activity in it. The picture tries to be artistic but fails to pay attentions to the fundamentals of story telling.If you love Montana scenery and fly fishing you will find some value in this film just don't expect a story. There isn't one. "},{"Title":"Zzzzz...","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sorry, gave it a 1, which is the rating I give to movies on which I walk out or fall asleep. In this case I fell asleep 10 minutes from the end, really, really bored and not caring at all about what happened next. "}]