[{"Title":"Dolph Lundgren + Jean Claude Van Damme = Awesome","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"65 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember first watching 'Universal Soldier' on TV when I was about 8 or 9 years old. After that, whenever I saw it it didn't have sound, or I was rather inebriated, or both, or had other circumstances prevent me from appreciating the awesomeness of Van Damme v. Lundgren, until it was on TV again recently, and I got to revel in the glory of 'Universal Soldier'.Van Damme plays Luc Deveraux, a soldier serving in Vietnam, under the command of Sergeant Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren). Deveraux has an attack of conscience when Scott seems to lose his altogether. In fact, Scott seems to be somewhere between insane and plain evil. After Deveraux refuses - on Scott's orders - to kill innocent villagers, the two soldiers kill each other. Listed as Missing-in-Action, the bodies of the two soldiers are used in the Universal Soldier program, and the two are re-activated some time later as GR-44 (Van Damme) and GR-13 (Lundgren), supposedly with no memories of their past.When reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) stumbles onto some things she shouldn't have seen (seriously, if you want to keep your project secret, you don't drive around in an armoured bus, leaving unlocked crates lying around outside), her cameraman is murdered by one of the UniSols. GR-44 has flashes of his past, and takes Veronica on the run, with the slightly (very?) unstable GR-13 in hot-pursuit.Action abounds for the rest of the movie, and while there isn't anything truly special, it is way cool, or even Awesome. We have car chases, heavy vehicle chases, Van Damme beating people up, and Lundgren being one of the awesomest bad guys ever. What is there to complain about? Nothing, that's what. I must say that Dolph Lundgren is at his best playing villains, and I'd even argue that his role in 'Universal Soldier' has been some of his best work to date. Van Damme also gets to credit 'Univeral Soldier' as being one his best movies.Plot-wise? Again, little - if no - originality, and a pretty thin plot. However, as I always say Less plot = More action = Awesome, and everyone is happy, and if you don't agree, then you really should not be watching 'Universal Soldier'.I love 'Universal Soldier'. It stands close to the pinnacle of action B-movies, a genre everybody loves! It is a shame that I can the official and un-official sequels on DVD, but I can't get the original in all its awesome glory on DVD here in Australia. 'Universal Soldier' is a must-see for action fans everywhere - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Action Fluff","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier might be dumb and derivative but I couldn't care less, it is also one of the most entertaining action films to be released in the 1990s and provided signature roles for two of my favourite trash icons, Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren. The film also serves as a testament to the last good movie made by Roland Emmerich before selling his soul to the Hollywood machine.This film has long been a favourite with genre fans. Universal Soldier was a theatrical box office hit but really developed its cult following on video. I watch this film every couple of years and I'm always struck by the quality of the writing, directing and yes, even the acting. This is simply a well crafted movie and an excellent example of a film that is so much more than the sum of its admittedly tawdry parts.Universal Soldier owes a hell of a lot to The Terminator. It lifts a whole raft of ideas from Cameron's action classic, including the basic concept of a good guy with superhuman strength protecting a woman from a bad guy with superhuman strength. Actually, it even borrows minor details like the eye-cam, the nude walk and an act of self-mutilation. Nevertheless, the film never feels like a blatant rip off. Roland Emmerich, while never a particularly original mind, injects sufficient change and innovation into the film to ensure it has a distinct energy of its own.The film recycles old ideas with great skill due to the excellent screenplay. The action comes thick and fast, and the dialogue is first rate for an action film. Furthermore, it provides several memorable characters and successfully introduces an element of black humour without detracting from the action. No matter how well written it is, an action film is only as good its action sequences and Mr Emmerich does not disappoint. The film contains several fantastic set pieces, from the grandeur of the hostage rescue to the phenomenal truck chase through the desert, which even manages to find time for a mid-chase game of catch with live grenades and a string of memorably corny one-liners. Emmerich is in his element, filming explosions and stunts from every imaginable angle. Universal Soldier is also far gorier than his later films and is all the better for it.The film would not be half as enjoyable without its leading men. Jean-Claude and Dolph both give great performances. And no, I'm not being sarcastic. Jean-Claude was at his physical peak and excels during the action scenes. He performs several signature flying kicks in a great fight with Dolph, which is mercifully filmed in a long shot - I wish the John Woo wannabes from the cut and paste school of directing who directed Jean-Claude's later films had taken note. Dolph is great fun as the villain, making crazy eyes for all he is worth and relishing every trashy one-liner. They both are more than adequate in their non-action scenes, which probably has a lot to do with the fact that they are essentially playing refined zombies who walk around naked a lot. The supporting cast is also great. Ally Walker showed a lot of promise as the female lead and has gone on to have a good career in television. Jerry Orbach and Tico Wells, also TV regulars, give memorable performances in minor roles.Universal Soldier is relentless, the film starts with a bang and never lets up. It might be trashy, but it is never less than completely entertaining. In my opinion, this is one of the seminal action films of the 90s. The sequels, however, are only recommended for experienced crap connoisseurs. "},{"Title":"An action classic","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Muscles from Brussels and the Swedish man-of-war Dolph Lundgren team up as superhuman soldiers brought back to life from Vietnam in this movie. I'm not sure what it is exactly that they do &#150; I wasn't paying attention. But I'm pretty sure it's something about struggling with obeying the orders from their commanders and having flashbacks from their past lives. What I know is that they do fight a lot. They also fight civilians. They even fight each other, and that's when things start to get very entertaining.It is only fair to watch this movie at least once since it has brought us not one, not two, but THREE sequels. What's even more awesome about these sequels is that they are all rated under 3.5 but not by enough votes to get them on the bottom 100 list on IMDb. If you fail in getting on a list like that, you even fail at failing and that is admirable. Universal Soldier is much more well-liked and higher-rated and rightly so.I do not recall who, but another film critic put it best when he pointed to how different Universal Soldiers was from your average science-fiction movie. To summarize this, where most sci-fi movies get to the part where all the complex science needs to be explained by some brilliant professor, Universal Soldiers simply offers the explanation we hypercharged their bodies to turn dead flesh into living tissue. And that's how dead soldiers were reanimated into superhuman killing machines. Brilliant. There's no pretension &#150; just take it or leave it.I can't find it in my heart to give this movie anything less than a 7 based on what it set out to do. Even though the acting is atrocious, the script is a joke and the dialogue is stupid, it's still a classic in my opinion. It had some intentionally funny moments like when Van Damme was in the diner and ate like ten meals of today's special and everyone was staring at him. If you don't find stuff like that funny, you have to watch it strictly tongue-in-cheek and just go for the brainless early-90s style action and cut-rate explosions. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not great but solid action from Van Damme and Lundgren","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In a war zone Luc Deveraux stops his officer Andrew Scott, killing innocent civilians.  However both die in the struggle.  Years later they are part of a reanimation programme all Universal Soldiers &#150; perfect fighting machines controlled like robots.  However Deveraux has memory flashbacks causing him to flee with a reporter, his commander also experiences memory residues and takes the remaining soldiers to go after Deveraux.One of Van Damme's and Lundgren's best films &#150; although that's not saying much.  The plot is pretty basic although there is some reasonable moralising about the soldiers.  The action isn't fancy but it's solid and, unlike it's sequel, it's not afraid to be violent.  While it's not a classic it does allow some good scenes and is a bit better than the usual Van Damme fare.The cast are mixed.  Van Damme is a perfect cardboard robot but doesn't convince when he has become human.  He is the brunt of some good jokes too (`what accent?') and gets to bare his ass in customary style.  Lundgren is actually quite good and his character develops from robot into war-weary soldier quite well.  Ally Walker is so-so but she doesn't convince.Overall this is enjoyable but it isn't perfect.  For action fans it's solid enough to satisfy. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This may not be Shakespeare but it's certainly more fun. The film is basically elements of various other action movies and it works well. The key to this being the decent budget, the tongue in cheek style and the accomplished direction from Roland Emmerich (Independence Day).This is one of the few action films from Van Damme and Lundgren to really compete with Arnold and Sly in terms of production values, large scale set pieces and a sense of real fun, with the mindless and excessive violence. Van Damme is above his usual standard with a fairly subtle performance,let no one call it wooden. Ally Walker has charm and is watchable but it is Lundgren who steals the show with a delightfully villainous performance. Amongst fans they consider this one of his best roles.The action is big, loud and well choreographed. With some fantastic set pieces, such as the opening Hoover Damn sequence and the chase between a prison truck and an armoured truck. There is also the obligatory showcase karate from Van Damme.Basically is you like a good action film you won't go wrong with this. This is at the time when the brainless action movies were still entertaining without being painfully un-original like modern popcorn films such as XXX, Exit Wounds and various others. *** "},{"Title":"Good action film, Van Damme's best","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just wanna say that I have a real soft spot for the 80's action heroes that I watched relentlessly when I was growing up. Stallone, Schwarzenegger, Seagal and yes, to some extent, Van Damme. The Muscles from Brussels was always my least favourite but I usually checked out his films. I don't think any of them are REALLY good but I've always liked this one very much. Sure, it's pretty dumb for the most part but it has a distinct advantage over most of his films; IT'S ALSO GOT DOLPH LUNDGREN. Now, I just remember him so vividly in Rocky 4, and being as young as I was when I first saw it; I remember cheering him on, and being immensely sad when he lost.Universal Soldier has a good opener, introducing Van Damme and Lundgren as Vietnam soldiers (Lundgren a total nut and Van Damme a good soldier) who wind up killing each other. Decades later, they end up becoming part of a zombie ultra military squad who are controlled by the government. But they snap out of it, come to life and go head to head once more, since they have some unfinished business.Now, the story is no Oscar winner, but it's fairly original and sets the motion for some great action sequences and a very entertaining good vs. evil battle between Lundgren and Van Damme. If only the Ally Walker character could have been made a bit more tolerable (and less a cliché) we'd nearly have a total winner.All in all, the action scenes are great, Lundgren is terrific, obviously having a field day playing his role and Van Damme is alright, but then again, he's never been great.Universal Soldier is Van Damme's best film and quite easily recommended for action fans. "},{"Title":"Admit it &#150; you enjoyed it.","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Okay, okay it's as macho as hell, questionably acted, pretty brutal and not particularly imaginative. But it has faith in itself. Please don't think I mean to give this B-movie any real grandeur, but it does know how to get the blood pumping. If the action sequences are nothing new (cribbed from Arnie and Mad Max flicks), it pushes them home with a relentless logic, and the production values are fine.There is an element of self-parody, thanks largely to Lundgren's engagingly OTT psychotic turn (he's the best of the bunch) and the film-makers have enough nouse to make JVCD rely on his ability to kick the life out of everyone.Plot means nothing, the film is nasty, the semi-moral/sentimental tone that descends towards the end is pretty offensive and it's derivative.But admit it - you enjoyed it. Hell, I thought it was a laugh. "},{"Title":"Dolph Lundgren provides memorable mayhem","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier is an intense, non stop action film that has you hooked from the start. Roland Emmerich, as always, delivers a finely polished entertainment piece that pits two big action stars against each other in the best roles of their career. With Terminator 2 Executive Producer Mario Kassar being part of this film, quality was ensured (although not to the standard of T2).The gadgets and action sequences are what this film is all about and do well to distract from the far from original plot. With explosions and gunfights galore, this is an action seeker's dream as there is an exciting scene every few minutes. The UniSol Truck is a clever idea that makes for some great enjoyment later on in the film and also provides plenty of intense moments throughout. A truck that resembles a small military base is ridiculous but realism is not Universal Soldier's forte.Jean-Claude Van Damme is not a good actor and only this film and Hard Target are the only Van Damme films I've seen that are worth watching. In this film, he is uncharacteristically good. Like Arnie in The Terminator, Van Damme benefits from playing a sub human character, allowing him to get away with delivering his lines flat. Fight scenes are Van Damme's strong point and in this film, he is in great shape to dish out some butt whoppin' high kicks. Dolph Lundgren gives a standout performance and is one of the most enjoyable bad guys you can watch. His lines are fantastic and he shines with charisma all the way to the end of the film. Lundgren's screen presence is so domineering; he cuts a great image of someone you don't want to mess with. Whilst not the most demanding role for an actor, Sgt. Andrew Scott is a very memorable character and Dolph Lundgren does more than enough to bring him to life. It is great to see Van Damme against Lundgren as they are very different in stature and persona, and also have different fighting styles, which creates great contrast.Universal Soldier is not a film that will push any boundaries or be spoken about for years to come, but it is one of the most entertaining and well made films of this genre you'll ever witness. Watch out for Lundgren's psychotic, powerhouse performance which will have you in stitches and in amazement. "},{"Title":"This is Best Van Damme Movie, you will ever see.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Luc Devreaux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) and Sgt. Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) are two soldiers have killed each other in Vietnam. 25 Years Later... Devreaux, Sgt. Scott and other soldiers have been bought back to life by a secret government program known as Unisols. They are genetically enhanced, unstoppable killing machines without memory, feelings or free will. But when Devreaux's memory has come back to him, he escapes the program with a sneaky T.V. reporter (Ally Walker). The superhuman chase begins.Directed by Ronald Emmerich (The Day after Tomorrow, Independence Day, Stargate) made an extremely entertaining, violent, sci-fi thriller. This was a Box Office Hit back in 1992. This film that made directorEmmerich and co-writerDean Delvin to the A-List System in Hollywood. Emmerich went to direct major blockbusters film. Van Damme and Lundgren are nicely cast in the film as opposites.DVD has an sharp non anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound from the previous 1998 DVD. The latest 2004 DVD is the first time in anamorphic Widescreen with the same sound quality. DVD has an ingraining commentary track by the director, co-writerDelvin and actorsVan Damme & Lundgren. DVD has two amusing featured and an darker alternative ending.Universal Soldier went on to be Van Damme's best film, even Van Damme admits that his favorite film. This is Lundgren's best role to date. The film also starsEd O'Ross (Full Metal Jacket), Leon Rippy (The Patroit) and the late-Jerry Orbach (Dirty Dancing). Universal Soldier is followed by two t.v. sequels without Van Damme and Walker. Followed by a real sequel with Van Damme. Don't miss this violent but enjoyable film. Watch for the opening scene for Micheal Jai White, who went on to play The Lead Hero in Spawn and the Villain in Universal SoldierThe Return. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Universally watchable","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two dead American soldiers from Vietnam resurface years later as nuclear machines that help take down terrorists. However when a nosy reporter starts snooping around she rekindles the memories of the soldiers, one wants to go home and the other wants to kill the other. Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren together in one film doesn't exactly bring up expectations of quality. However Universal Soldier manages to be far more entertaining than one would've guessed and not even in guilty pleasure way. The action is rather spectacular and while Van Damme and Lundgren are rather well suited to their parts. The secondary characters such as Jerry Orbach,Ed O'Ross and Ally Walker only provide our hero and villain with targets to shoot at but for mindless enjoyment, you can certainly do worse.* *1/2 out 4-(Pretty good) "}{"Title":"Soldier of Facetiousness","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier pits two 1990s B-movie action titans (Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren) against each other in a sci-fi action epic, that while extremely dumb at times, manages to be an entertaining romp just the same.The start of Universal Soldier takes us back to 1969, to the Vietnam war GI Luc Devereaux (Van Damme) tries to stop his crazed sergeant, Andrew Scott (Lundgren) from killing some Vietnamese villagers; in the ensuing mayhem, Devereaux and Scott end up killing each other.Flash-forward to the present Devereaux and Scott have been brought back to life - sort of - as part of the Universal Soldier program, an elite, top-secret outfit that goes around thwarting terrorists and whatnot. Each of the Universal Soldiers (UniSols for short) have no memory of their past lives; they're basically zombie-like puppets following orders over a radio.After taking down some terrorists at Nevada's Hoover Dam, Luc's memory is triggered and he has flashbacks to his previous life. One thing leads to another, and soon Luc is on the run with a plucky TV news reporter (Ally Walker) in tow; hot on their trail are the rest of the Universal Soldiers the commanders want to get their property back and keep the collateral damage to a minimum, but Scott views Devereaux as a deserter and a traitor and wants him dead. Hmmm, it seems like someone else is remembering the good old days...What follows from here are a series of gun battles, chases, vehicular mayhem, fist-fights, and massive explosions as Luc tries to figure out his past and get home, while Scott tries to spoil the party. Everything is basically a setup for the inevitable big martial-arts finale between the two stars, and while the action in Universal Soldier isn't revolutionary, it's well-staged and choreographed by director Roland Emmerich, and there's lots of it. Universal Soldier has some flaws, but being boring isn't one of them.What else Universal Soldier has going for it is a sense of humor, which helps gloss over some of holes in the Terminator-styled plot. Universal Soldier is a funny movie at times, thanks in no small part to Lundgren's over-the-top villain turn; he's surprisingly effective in the heavy role, gleefully giving it his all. Universal Soldier would have been a considerably weaker movie if Lundgren wasn't in it. Try not to laugh during Lundgren's big monologue in the grocery store; kudos to the director for allowing the store's muzak to keep playing during this Oscar-worthy clip.Van Damme is funny too, albeit in a deadpan/earnest kind of way. He's more of the straight man in this one; a wise choice, as it keeps his wooden thespian tendencies in the background. His scene in the roadside diner - where he just wants to eat - is probably the most humorous bit in the movie, though.It's hard to tell how much of the comedy in Universal Soldier is intentional, but an action movie with a sense of humor is only a good thing.Universal Soldier has a mostly-solid mix of action and laughs, but it does fall down in other areas, like plotting and acting. The storyline is predictable, with its main themes being lifted from better flicks like RoboCop and The Terminator. There are also logic gaps and plot holes that are kind of hard to ignore. In the acting department, save for Lundgren and Walker, no one really registers; sure, nobody watches Van Damme and Lundgren movies for the great emoting, but most of the secondary characters in Universal Soldier are one-note archetypes (nerdy scientists, hot-headed commander, redneck sheriff, etc.) who don't get much development or meaningful dialog.Still, Universal Soldier is a mostly-effective action flick that should satisfy fans of movies like this. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Amazing!!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is quite possible the best movie I have ever seen! Dolph Lundgren is an action god in my books! There's no words I can find in the English dictionary to help me describe how amazing this film is. It combines great acting (mostly on Dolph's part), with excellent fight scenes. The thing that will be etched in my mind the most is the way Lundgren displays his joy after he throws a grenade at Ally Walker. If there could be joy in blowing someone up then Dolph Lundren has depicted it flawlessly! Oh yeah and Van Damme was okay.  "},{"Title":"Great action movie","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I do not recommend this movie if you do not like action movies. This movie does not have much acting, but the acting it has, is good enough. It has a great cast, great action, and a pretty good story line. I think it's Jean Claude's best movie...hopefully the sequel will be even better. "},{"Title":"Original and entertaining first  Universal Soldier followed by several and inferior sequels","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Acceptable action movie with two wooden but exceptional action men  Van Damme as Luc Deveraux and Lundgren as Andrew Scott as two soldiers who were killed in Vietnam, but the army has a secret project for reanimating dead people as near-perfect soldiers. It deals with a secret organization with top-secret technology, they have created a next-generation Universal Soldier - an elite fighter genetically altered into a programmable killing machine . With the UniSol under command by the military staff , Colonel Perry (Ed O'Ross), leading the way, they avoid terrorist attacks and robbing . But there a killer soldier , Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) , is executing a criminal spree , the only one who can stop him -as he is threatening to unleash a massacre- is Luc Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme), a good and amiable soldier UniSol . Along the way Luc is supported by a likable reporter (Ally Walker) . Luc Deveraux's codename in the UNISOL program is GR44 and he will take on not one but various of these virtually indestructible warriors . Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren), Deveraux's vicious UniSol enemy and Deveraux to confront a titanic duel among colossus . Now, these elite fighters are locked, loaded and programmed to kill; and the fate of millions hinges on this high-action showdown .This moving picture contains noisy action , thrills , shootouts and fierce combats . From start to finish the action is unstoppable and frenetic . Thrilling screenplay dispenses absurd excitement as well as violence and lots of fights . Breathtaking action movie full of struggles , crossfire and tension , this is a fast-paced, stylized action-suspense film . Interesting plot based on a story from Richard Rothstein & Christopher Leitch and screenplay by Dean Devlin , also producer . They designed the special military costumes worn by the old and new model Unisols in US  TNG . And the UniSol's basic sidearm seen in throughout the film is a Magnum Research Inc 357 Magnum Desert Eagle .Though they're all supposed to be American the Universal Soldiers are played by a Belgian (Van Damme) a Swede (Lundgren) and a German (Ralf Moeller). The tension of this picture keeps snowballing as the clock ticks ever close for a groundbreaking as well as spectacular final . Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren have some scenes together at some impressive fighting . The motion picture was well realized by Roland Emmerich , though Andrew Davis was attached to direct the picture based on a different screenplay. The budget being too high and creative differences arising, Carolco hired Roland Emmerich, fresh from his low budget feature Moon 44 . Roland made his feature length film in 1984  ¨The Noah's ark principle¨ , he subsequently made ¨Joey¨ . In 1997 wrote, directed, and produced the critically acclaimed Moon 44 . Filmmaker Roland Emmerich quickly understood the freedom and malleability that direct in USA presents and has gone about creating some incredibly interesting genre fare in ¨Universal Soldier¨, his first American movie in which displayed an acute understanding of the action genre . Roland ulteriorly directed 1994 Stargate , 1996 Independence Day , 1998 Godzilla , 2000 The Patriot , 2004 The day after tomorrow , 2008  10.000 , 2011 Anonymous and his last movie 2013 White House Down .-Series  The best film of the series was the original ¨Universal soldier¨ by Roland Emmerich with Jean-Claude Van Damme , Dolph Lundgren , Ally Walker , Ed O'Ross ; it was followed by ¨Universal soldier  the return¨ with Jean-Claude Van Damme , Michael Jai White , Heidi Schanz , Xander Berkeley and Justin Lazard as subsequent Universal Soldier films ignore the events of The Return and outright contradict it in a number of ways ; while still an official entry, it is no longer considered part of the series canon . New sequel titled ¨Universal soldier  day of reckoning¨(2012) by John Hyams with Scott Adkins , Andrei 'The Pit Bull' Arlovski , Dolph Lundgren and Jean-Claude Van Damme , but here they have not scenes together . And released theatrically in a few countries and Direct-To-Video (DVD & Blu-ray) in the rest of the world . And two TV films  ¨Universal soldier  Brothers in arms¨ (1998) by Jeff Woolnough with Matt Battaglia , Gary Busey , Burt Reynolds , Richard McMillan and Chandra West and ¨Universal Soldier III Unfinished Business¨ (1999) by Jeff Woolnough with Burt Reynolds Juan Chioran , Claudette Roche and Matt Battaglia . "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal SoldierThe only way to defeat an army of robots is to download a PTSD virus onto their system.Thankfully, the armed forces in this sci-fi film are only reanimated corpses.After shooting each other in Vietnam, Private Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) and Sergeant Scott (Dolph Lundgren) are resuscitated in the 1990s under a secret military operation.Tasked with wiping out terrorists, the pair does its job flawlessly.But when Scott's bloodlust returns, it jogs Deveraux's memories of what happened in 'Nam and of the family he left behind.With Scott unhinged, Deveraux is compelled to help a reporter (Ally Walker) expose the army's inhuman experimentation, even if it means taking down his teammates.Perfectly cast as emotionless robots, the mumble-mouth leads make the most of the formulaic material by relying more on stern looks and leg splits to convey their feelings. Furthermore, recycling dead soldiers saves a fortune on death notifications.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Interesting story with a dragging plot","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Before films like Sylvester Stallone's The Expendables (2010) were released, most action stars performed solo. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Stallone, Bruce Willis, Dolph Lundgren, and Jean-Claude Van Damme all made their own separate movies. Combining star power wasn't usually thought of because of how different the fan bases were. However, this movie is one those exceptions. Today it could be considered a movie where they collaborated before they were extremely well known (although at the time they were anyway). It was rare at that time to see two big names on the same screen - which probably pumped up a lot of people.Here, Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren play Luc Deveraux and Andrew Scott, two Vietnam veteran soldiers killed in the line of duty, who end up being regenerated to serve as a UniSol (short for Universal Soldier). As a UniSol, their purpose is to carry out impossible tasks that no other ordinary soldier could do. To carry out these missions, the UniSols are monitored and commanded by remote audio instructions. One day on the latest mission, Luc begins to have a relapse of old memories and begins to bug out. After disobeying an order, he runs off with reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) to find out what he missed. Close behind them is Luc's colonel with Andrew Scott 2nd in command looking to rid them of their existence.For the majority of the running time, the plot is a big chase. Yet, in only some instances does it actually feel like a chase. Writer Dean Devlin managed to include some unique scenes but his pacing on how the story moves, plods from time to time. That's not to say the material he includes in the story isn't noteworthy. Again, this goes back to some unique scenes that Devlin included - most of which involve Andrew Scott (Lundgren). This movie is also one of the few that director Roland Emmerich did not include a political commentary on since this idea is so far fetched. However, he does mingle some themes that are still important to recognize - for example, playing the role of God. If there was the technology to actually re-animate dead tissue, would it be possible to have complete control over the body? Hard to say, the mind is a tricky thing.However, the movie cannot be analyzed too much because throughout the story there are a lot of loopholes and questions that aren't answered - like how can someone survive a fall from an enormous height and not come back mangled or even bruised? This is one those films where it's fun to watch but cannot be taken literal because of how absurd the idea really is. The acting can be moderately dealt with. Ally Walker plays her role like any other person would. She has a few lines that'll make people chuckle but not much else. Jean-Claude Van Damme's acting is stone faced for most of the time because of how he's not familiar with the world. However, Dolph Lundgren looked like he had a great time playing his role because of how deranged his character is. It was also wise of the casting department to at least make Lundgren the antagonist because of his height. If it were the other way around, I'm not sure if the entertainment level would be as high.What is fun to watch here, is when Lundgren and Van Damme finally clash. Since they both have martial arts training, there's no question that the kicks and fists will fly between them. Lundgren's got the bulk and Van Damme's got the agility. They both are good in contrast to each other, the only thing that was needed was Van Damme putting just a little more emotion into his role. Other than that, the cinematography and editing works well too. Finally, composing the musical score belongs to Christopher Franke who now produces music for The Amazing Race (2002) series. Franke's score does contain tunes that can be heard with light emotional tones but it's nothing too deep; which is pretty much how the film should be taken. Fun but not deep.The action on screen between Dolph Lundgren and Jean-Claude Van Damme is fun even though it is sporadic. The story elements are interesting considering it also makes the plot drag. Look for nothing too deep here. "},{"Title":"One of the most awesomely bad-a** action films from the early 1990s!","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" On a scale of 1 to 10 on the meter for one of the most awesomely bad-a** action movies from the early 1990s, 1992's Universal Soldier rates about an 8. I mean that, really.For one, it has BOTH Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren going head-to-head, their murderous hatred of one another spanning the course of three decades. Of course, the sci-fi/action plot shamelessly re-hashes elements of The Terminator (1984), RoboCop (1987) and maybe even a little bit of Apocalypse Now (1979), but it's impossible to not like the finished product - just a little bit, even if it's just to see Van Damme and Lundgren sharing the same scenery together and exchanging death-blows.Another little tid-bit is that Universal Soldier marked the early beginnings of the future master of disaster himself, German-born Roland Emmerich, who would go on to make such science fiction fanfare as his next film after this one, 1994's Stargate, and followed it up with blockbuster disaster epics Independence Day (1996) (my personal favorite of his so far), Godzilla (1998), The Day After Tomorrow (2004), and 2012 (2009). But he had to start somewhere, and Universal Soldier was his introduction to the United States, and it's not a bad effort, nor is it really anything like he subsequently directed in the U.S.Beginning in Vietnam in 1969, good-natured, morally principled Private Luc Devereax (Van Damme), who is at the end of his tour of duty, stumbles upon a massacre where innocent Vietnamese civilians and fellow American soldiers have been slaughtered alike - all their ears severed. Deveraux finds the culprit, Sergeant Andrew Scott (Lundgren), who has gone insane and considers anyone who opposes him as a traitor to his rage- and violence-fueled war against the insurgents. In short order, the two kill each other, only to find themselves re-animated in the present as Universal Soldiers (or UniSols), mindless, emotion-less genetically enhanced killing machines that operate with perfect logic under remote-control as part of a top-secret government program involving the (illegal) regeneration of dead American soldiers.And of course the UniSols operate with perfect logic - they have to - except for the little traces of human memory and emotion still lurking around somewhere deep within their subconscious. And soon, GR44/Deveraux and GR13/Scott come to relive the exact same Vietnam-era horrors and hatreds that originally turned them against each other - in the present. As Deveraux gradually recovers his memory and learns his past, with the help of nosy reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker), he embarks on a cross-country quest for his original identity - with the increasingly insane Scott hot on their trail.Universal Soldier contains many of the same car chases, gun-fights, explosions, and kick-boxing mayhem audiences will come to expect from this type of film - with a heavy dose of graphic blood and violence added in for good measure. But Roland Emmerich directs the picture with such ferocious macho attitude, and energy, that it still leaves a lasting impact 21 years later. It's an action movie that rightfully earns its title as a bad-a** action flick. Van Damme makes good in a part that requires a minimalist acting performance, yet it still shows shades that he is indeed capable of a dramatic performance (see 2008's JCVD for further details). But it's Lundgren who steals the show in another villainous turn from his impressive role as Ivan Drago, American boxer Rocky Balboa's Soviet nemesis, from Rocky IV (1985).And the two have one of the most awesomely bad-a** martial arts showdowns in recent memory at Deveraux's family farm in Louisiana at the end of the film.The future just isn't big enough for the both of them.8/10 "},{"Title":"It's an action movie with Van Damme, enough said.","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember as a child catching the end of this movie or the beginning or even the middle and then having to go to bed. But as a twenty year old man I sat down yesterday and decided to watch this movie that seemed to elude me as a child and I found it quite enjoyable.I've never been the greatest Van Damme fan, I've only watched Kickboxer and the terrible 'Street Fighter'. So, I thought it wouldn't b very good, but it surpasses my low expectations.The American government has found a way to revive their dead soldiers and control them to approach situations that would be suicidal for their own men..But one soldier goes rogue and then the hunt begins.Van Damme's acting isn't Oscar worthy, but that's not why he is famous. It's his fighting abilities, his kicks; the speed and power as well as the infinite grace. And he displays that in this movie as he destroys people who get in his way. Dolph Lundgren a major star back in the 80's gives a satisfactory performance as the soldier who still thinks he is at war and add's some sort of credibility to the role...All in all a good action film. "},{"Title":"Super Soldiers of the future &#150; set in far off 1993!!","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier starts out in 1968 with Van Damme playing the good guy, standing up for some innocent Vietnamese people in a village during the war. Dolph Lundgren plays an embittered American soldier, consumed with anger about his fellow soldiers who have been killed in the war, and intent on taking it out on any Vietnamese people he can find. Luc (Van Damme) insists that the village has been cleared and those people have done nothing wrong, and the ensuing conflict leads to both of them killing each other before the opening credits are even over. The dead soldiers are declared M.I.A., not because their having killed each other would be a little difficult to explain, but because they are needed for a new kind of military technology.Now here's where I get a little lost. We cut to the Present Day Nevada Desert, 25 years later. You'll notice that 25 years after 1968 you'll find 1993, the year after this movie was released. I supposed the original audiences were left in complete terror about what was going to take place around the following Spring. The rest of us may wonder why the movie markets itself as being a story about futuristic military technology, when it takes place about 5-6 months after the release date.At any rate, we are immediately taken to a tense hostage situation that is taking place, if I'm not mistaken, on the Hoover Dam, so that the new cyborg-soldiers could be put to the test (a full quarter of a century after they were made). Truly they are impressive pieces of machinery (or whatever they are), and the situation is soon under control. The local news outlets gleefully report that the situation has been taken care of, and with no casualties or injuries. Maybe they forgot about the dozen or so innocent people that had been machine gunned right there in the middle of the road in broad daylight. Or maybe they just don't count.The movie plays around a lot with what Luc and Andrew Scott (Lundgren) have become. There's a scene where, after Luc begins having flashbacks of Vietnam and escapes with an attractive reporter (who was fired for being late to the scene), he walks outside naked as the day he was born, explaining that he's hot. You see, one of the symptoms of the new soldiers is that their body temperature runs hot, so they have to sleep in refrigerated compartments to avoid overheating. Soon after that, they are discovered, so Luc (now named GR-44) asks Veronica, the reporter, to examine his naked, chiseled body and look for where they have hidden the tracking device. Look for something unusual, he tells her. Something hard. Clearly, the ideas lifted by the boatload from the Terminator movies need not be named. I have only room for 1,000 words here, and to list the borrowed ideas would take more than that. But even though there are literally scenes lifted directly from the Terminators (like the café scene where GR-44 casually beats the crap out of everyone in sight), the movie never feels like a rip-off. Maybe that's because, for all the bad rap he gets, Van Damme has a definite, undeniable on screen charm. At one point, not long after they've met, Veronica asks him where he's from. I figured you gotta be French or something, she says, because of your accent. What accent? he asks. He seems genuinely confused. The movie sort of descends into routine action clichés by the time GR's 13 (Lundgren) and 44 start having flashbacks, and start to remember that they killed each other and hence have unfinished business. It seems that they revert to the emotion that they had at the time they died, so GR-13 wants vengeance of anyone within shooting distance, while GR-44 just wants to go home. Thus we get the government-made super-soldiers trying to kill each other. This leads to a half amusing and half disturbing scene where GR-13 terrorizes some astonished civilians in a supermarket (while another GR mindlessly gnaws on a raw steak), and then ultimately to the obligatory final showdown.I found the explanation for the transformation particularly interesting. I feel like, in science fiction movies, how the 'fiction' is explained is where most of the creativity lies. Sadly, there's not much here. A scientist explains to Veronica how it all worked. By hyper-accelerating the bodies, we discovered that we could turn dead flesh into living tissue. Hyper-accelerating? Is that how they got the soldiers to age super-slow? Or not at all, and for 25 years? Sadly, we may never know. When Veronica replies, What are you saying, doctor? there is a knock at the door, so he doesn't really have time to explain. Too bad.There's not much to be said about the ending. It's the worst part of the movie, by far. An enormous copout the likes of which is rarely seen even in bad b-movies. But I should also mention that the movie is not as bad as the ending, or even as bad as many people say. It's not a science fiction classic, but it's a fun action popcorn movie, like many of Van Damme's films. If nothing else, the movie teaches us a valuable lesson - don't throw a beer can at a man wearing a necklace made out of human ears.Note At the Cannes Film Festival when Universal Soldier was released, Van Damme and Lundgren got into an argument and then a shoving match right there on the red carpet in front of the world's cameras (you can check it out on YouTube). Many lament that we may never know if it was real or just a publicity stunt. It definitely looked real to me, but if it wasn't, then all the mystery around it must mean that they really CAN act! "},{"Title":"He-Man gone bad!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's one thick accent VS another thick accent when Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren start duking it out. Kickboxer and the former He-Man play two soldiers in Vietnam, Van Damme the down home nice guy Cajun boy and Lundgren a sadistic sergeant who has a fetish for ears. After a personal and political dispute regarding the execution of some Vietnam prisoners, Van Damme and Lundgren kill each other, but are preserved in ice and then resurrected years later as Universal Soldiers - Unisols for short - hi tech government weapons of mass destruction, and they are just two of a few. Naturally things go awry when the two remember their past, with the colonel in charge naturally refusing to take them off line when the scientists say they should be pulled for a systems check. Throw in Ally Walker as a sexy, sexually repressed reporter who doesn't work and play nice with others, and you've got the recipe for an engagingly trashy action film featuring the clash of titans who can barely speak English.Having grown up with Dolph Lundgren as He-Man in 1987's Masters of the Universe, there's something extremely not kosher about watching him play a bad guy, especially with the way he relishes lines like I'm all ears. Of course, the biggest stretch of the imagination is the idea that Jean Claude Van Damme could actually DEFEAT Dolph Lundgren. Oh well, just watch the violence. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Good For A Van Damme Vehicle/Minor Spoilers","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jean Claude Van Damme, like many other martial artists-turned-actors, simply cannot do much real acting. Like Chuck Norris and Steven Seagal, his acting is wooden, and Van Damme also has an accent thick enough to cut with a knife. However, sometimes even a poor actor can find a role to suit him, much like Arnold Schwarznegger as a cyborg in The Terminator. That seems to be what happened here Van Damme found a role that worked well within his limitations, a role in which he unexpectedly shone.The movie is typical sci-fi/action fodder Dead men are revived as virtually unstoppable soldiers. The viewer meets the two main characters in the opening sequence as soldiers fighting in Viet Nam. Van Damme's Luc Devereaux is a decent man doing his best to survive the brutal conditions of war with his soul intact. Dolph Lundgren's Andrew Scott is a psychotic reveling in the horrors around him, feasting on obscene cruelty with relish. The two opposites finally clash with predictable results Good and evil annihilate each other like matter meeting antimatter. But these dead men are not left to rot in peace . . . for the military has developed a technology to recycle them as soldiers, Unisols to be exact, to be placed in harm's way in lieu of regular men. Powerful, emotionless and practically indestructible, these new universal soldiers are shown off by the brass in a difficult hostage-rescue mission, which the Unisols pull off flawlessly.All seems peachy. However, something during the rescue triggered a memory in Luc of his experiences in Viet Nam. He eventually deserts the unit, followed by the dangerous Scott, who has also recovered enough of his past to hate Luc and hunt him down. A self-serving reporter named Veronica helps Luc, at first for a story, then because she grows to care for this powerful yet childlike fish-out-of-water. She's caught in the middle when all hell breaks loose.Typical Van Damme fare . . . only it isn't. There's a strange charm to his character, a vulnerability and even hints of humor usually lacking in his acting. Van Damme conveys subtle emotions in his face, especially in his large gentle eyes. He's still at his best when fighting, but surprisingly good at playing this role. Oddly enough, the acting in this movie is one of its strong points, the other being special effects. The other performers are all solid, from Ally Walker as Veronica to Lundgren as the incredibly creepy Scott. The director was wise enough to work within the limitations of his leading man, so Luc's dialog is used sparingly. The fighting sequences are also well utilized, fitting in with the plot. Weaknesses include the plot, which is full of holes, and exposition of key elements, such as just how these fighting machines were created. The film at times had an abbreviated feel, as if too much information was truncated that should have been included in the story.Still, it remains overall a reasonably enjoyable film, even for non-fans of martial artists like me. Van Damme actually fit his role and was likable as the unlikely hero. Though it's considered sci-fi/action, this movie in truth occupies a strange niche, one not easily identified. Worth watching when not in the mood for the usual fare. "},{"Title":"Flat, Plain Action!!!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Nothing special whatsoever. I did not like this movie because there was nothing to it. A decent movie has to have a twist and en excellent movie will have multiple twists but this had none. It relied purely on the fact that Jean-Claude Van Damme was in it and that didn't carry it. It made a few bad attempts at humor but even put those in at the wrong times. There was nothing terribly original about the fight scenes either which I was surprised at because Jean-Claude Van Damme generally does have pretty good fight scenes but they just didn't seem to be there in this film.The only reason I can give anyone to watch this movie is if you're an absolutely die hard Jean-Claude fan. Otherwise do not bother. "},{"Title":"2 me, its Van Damme's best movie yet.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Van Damme & Lundgren star in this action packed thrill ride. They 're soldiers who kill each other in vietnam. They r brought back 2 life as Unisols. From there, all hell breaks loose as VD escapes & is in pursuit by Lundgren after he kills all the authority (people that told them what 2 do). Its filled with great 1-liners. Say goodnight a$$hole. Goodnight a$$hole. & I'm all ears. But then they fight which is the best fight scene I've ever seen. Sure, there r many close ones but 2 me, this is the best. The music & tempo was in the right place. Well, there were those stupid tv sequels which sucked a$$. The real sequel came in 1999. US is 1 of the best action films ever.  "},{"Title":"Rent this movie now!!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dolph Lundgren is the best action star there ever was, he has yet to make a bad movie, except of course blackjack.  This movie was beyond good,  it was filled with wicked action scenes and some very memorable quotes See....They're everywhere!  The supermarket scene was the best sequence ever put to film.  Dolph Lundgren reigns supreme, I give this movie a perfect 10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Better than Godzilla.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is a good action movie and it is very exciting, especially the beginning.Roland Emmerich did it very well.And it was more sucessful than Godzilla which provided so much work and design. "},{"Title":"A vietnam vet who died in action is brought back as a UNIVERSAL SOLDIER.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the best!  All I can say is that it came out at the wrong time, America wasn't ready for it in '92.  If they were to rerelease it, I think it would do so much better in theatres and movie stores.  Not to mention Ally Walker, goddess of all things was in it!  There are some great scenes between Walker and Van Dame.  Must see! "},{"Title":"A good Action movie.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier is a solid Action movie. It has all the desirable elements, a decent story line, violence that isn't overly gruesome, some hot bodies and some good acting.I enjoyed this movie immensely and recommend it to everyone as long as they don't mind a little violence.  "},{"Title":"Status daft","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's a quick film school In the late 70's, two young guys on different sides of the pond are so awestruck by Star Wars, they decide they want to be a part of movie-making. One quits his day-job as a truck-driver and drifts to Roger Corman's factory, at the time busy reassembling Star Wars clones. The other enrolls in a Munich film school. Several years later, they both debut the same year with sci-fi films. One guy churns out a glorified film student thesis that is by all admission clunky and daft, the other guy comes out with the fully-formed vision of The Terminator.So why the world of difference? Why such divergent paths that Emmerich ends in the position of debuting in the American market with a Terminator knockoff?The script is not significantly better or worse than Cameron's Terminator, both are simple rehashes. The budget could not have been significantly different. He's got about the same marquee value as Cameron did then.Simple. Before Cameron could be in charge of vision, he had done an awesome lot of grunt work in Corman's assembly line. He had puzzled about the mechanics of spare parts. By the time he debuts with The Terminator, he knows it's the effective (not necessarily clever) deployment of machinery to build a world what carries the viewer into a story, everything else including the story being incidental cogs. That was even more clearly sketched in his Aliens get in there and get the job done.Emmerich thinks in terms of concept, he probably had it drilled into his head in his film school years that you build from a story-idea. He simply seems to consider a coherent world something that happens by itself, because you write a story and add effects, instead of something you weave BEFORE the main effects.Like the second Terminator, you have a contemporary world and governing laws, a TV crew freely reports on terrorism, there is conventional police, etc, but genetic technology from the future. You have human-machine and evil machine. The problem is it doesn't jive at all. Here's a possible clue why. In Aliens, the portrayal of special ops as rowdy and unstable couldn't be further from the truth, nevertheless it registered as cartoon reality Vietnam in the future.This one starts from a similar background in Vietnam and unhinged soldiering, but goes on to portray 'modern' troops as mindless , conditioned droids. Those were the Gulf War years, with public military support at an all time high after decades. Subversive? No, because it is stressed the Pentagon has no knowledge of the super-secret military program, but more pertinently the unreality of even the 'real' Vietnam scenes whitewashes the possibility for metaphor.You end up with technology of a hypothetical cost in the hundreds of billions at the hands of an obsessed colonel. The driven journalist simply walks in the secret military complex. And on the other hand you have these ersatz ruminations on being human. Daft.And as self-effacing parody, Van Damme and Lundgren simply cannot pull it off (which is why they never became the next Arnie). They're both squares. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Probably both Van Damme's and Lundgren's best, Universal Soldier is one of the best action movies of the early nineties, with plenty of explosive stunts, fights, a decent story, some fine acting, and lots of great dialogue. In the wake of Terminator 2 this, and most sci-fi action movies look inferior, but this is a great watch for action fans, and should be seen by non-fans too as it is a good slice of entertainment.Van Damme stars as Luc Deveraux, a marine in 'Nam. His superior is Andrew Scott, played with menace by Lundgren. Their team stumbles upon a village in 'Nam where Scott goes on a kill crazy rampage, wiping out men, women, and kids, and when Luc tries to stop him, they kill each other. Flash forward to the nineties and the US Army has managed to save and restore both Luc and Scott an their team. The are now part man, part computer, easy to control soldiers with a much higher skill and strength rate than any human could have. The Army has created them for special missions and they have a flawless success rate. Veronica Roberts is a snoopy reporter who wants to follow the mysterious team, but can never get close. The soldiers are autonomous, doing whatever they are told, and with no memory of their past lives. However, as all computers inevitably turn against their masters, Luc and Scott begin to have flashbacks. Soon Scott has killed Veronica's cameraman, and Luc has saved her to become a renegade. He begins to remember everything and Scott takes control of his team with the sole objective of killing Luc and Veronica. The chase begins.Once we accept the Universal Soldier's abilities etc the story is all simple and will of course end with a final confrontation between the two stars. Between these two points there is a lot of action, gun fights, bombs, the usual, but it is done with a fair amount of skill and style. Van Damme does well as a cyborg and has little to say, but shows off his martial arts skills. Lundgren has less to say but is effectively sneering. Walker is the feisty heroine and gives a fine performance, and the rest of the cast range from grunts with guns to comedic parts. There is a good amount of humour which helps to make the film more appealing, and there is the inevitable Van Damme nudity. There are some interesting elements involving the Government's control of mindless soldiers, sending in faceless masses to do their dirty-work, but of course this is reading between the lines. Overall it is a simple, but effective and well-shot action film, and one of the best of its kind.8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bad-Ass best Van Damme Science Fiction-Action-Packed Film!","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take the best Science Fiction-Action-packed-Vietnam film of the 90s, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Universal Soldier (1992) Is one of the best Van Damme action sci-fi classic movies from the 90's also my favorite childhood movie that I am still watching it today. It is my third best favorite Van Damme movie! It has Dolph Lundgren in it and I love this movie to Death!!! Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundrgren are awesome in this film. Action and fighting sequences were awesome till today Roland Emmerich did made a great job as the director of this action sci-fi film flick. Every time I see this action flick I am not bored with it and is definitely Van Damme's best action movie. I enjoy the action, I mainly love this movie, because it focus on Vietnam War and it has experiments that US military actually really secretly did that. The fights scenes between Van Damme and Lundgren were awesome! This is the only movie that I care and love about! All the sequels to me sucked ass! None of them can hold a candle to this movie! Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren reunited 20. years later after working together in here, in the film The Expendables 2 (2012) my favorite action packed movie. This movie is a bad ass and kicks ass! I love it so much, I even prefer above Kikcboxer and Double Impact. This is the movie that I love. I love all the actors in this movie, Ally Walker was a great cast as reporter Veronica Roberts. Chandra West who played her in TV movies couldn't even hold a candle to Ally Walker./Ally Walker was also cast as Dr. Samantha 'Sam' Waters in my favorite TV Show Profiler. ARE WE HAVING FUN YET? Hell yes.The best science fiction action film ever made. It still holds up great to this day. Whenever I watch this movie I am having fun. A really fun inventive action flick with some really kick ass fight scenes and a sense of fun about it, that makes it irresistible. Van Damme and Lundgren were great in this and it really is a shame that despite this being a hit Lundgren still did not get out of direct to video land and continued to get overlooked by Hollywood after the film's release. This movie it is the film that made Van Damme in to a star and saved his career. It is so aggravating how far they rushed with the sequels. At least we still got the one amazing movie that made Dolph one of the greatest villains ever, well maybe not a villain a but a real bad ass! I like the aspect of the cool down process and the story is easy to understand. Also, Dolph Lundgren's scene in the grocery store is one of my all time favorite scenes in any movie. I really love this movie to death. Alongside Hard Target and Bloodsport, Universal Soldier is my third favorite Van Damme movie. I don't care what anyone say's or thinks about this movie, I will not listen to them, I will listen to my self! When I was 13. years old, I was in the hospital talking with my new friends about this movie, that I have made them there, when I was lying on the bed. That time, I never watched or heard about this movie before and they told me how great it is. They where right, it took me few months till I finally watch this movie on TV and I absolutely loved it. This film for me has a great memories on my childhood. Universal Soldier is the 1992 science fiction action film directed by Roland Emmerich and starred Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren as US combat troops who after being killed in action during the Vietnam War, are resurrected in present day as genetically-enhanced super soldiers. The film would eventually spawn a few DTV sequels as well as three more feature films 1999's Universal Soldier The Return, 2009's Universal Soldier Regeneration and 2012's Universal Soldier Day of Reckoning. This is the basic plot about the film it has death soldiers, that turns in to a cyborg killing machines that are anti terrorist and their experiments goes awry wrong and they start killing innocent people and only one man, a machine can stop them. The final battle scene between Van Damme and Lundgren is epic! Van Damme uses his awesome spin kicks with his legs, that we already saw in Bloodsport, Kickboxer and Double Impact. The meat grinder scene is, when Scott is crushed and killed, that was really a bad ass scene! I am giving this movie my perfect 10, because it deserves it and Roland Emmerich did a great job directing this movie. I can watch this movie over and over again. Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren did a both a perfect solid job playing their characters. I love them! 10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Carolco Pictures, Centropolis Entertainment IndieProd Company Productions Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Dolph Lundgren, Ally Walker, Ed O'Ross, Eric Norris, Leon Rippy, Michael Jai White, Tommy Tiny Lister, Jerry Orbach, Tico Wells, Robert Trebor, Gene Davis, Drew Snyder, Joanne Baron, Allan Graf, Joseph Malone, Ralf Möller, Kristopher Van Varenberg, Rance Howard, Lilyan Chauvin, Ned Bellamy Director Roland Emmerich Producer Mario Kassar, Allen Shapiro Screenplay Richard Rothstein, Christopher Leitch, Dean Devlin Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 42 Mins. Budget $23.000.000 Box Office $65,700,000 "}{"Title":"Van-Damme's 'Terminator 2'","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Shared universes' are kind of in vogue these days, largely thanks to Marvel's superheroes movies. However, if one film was supposedly happening in the same world as another back in the early nineties, I'd wager that 'Universal Soldier' would be happening while the Terminator and John Connor busted Sarah out of that mental institution.Yes, both films are made by the same production company and some of the same producers are behind the two of them, however Universal Solider will never quite be remembered as fondly as Arnie's second cyborg outing. T2 had bigger stars, better effects and a deeper plot, but there's no denying that the two films share the same 'vibe.' Van-Damme plays a Vietnam soldier, killed in action during the war, and then resurrected by a black-ops military agency as a 'super soldier,' used for thwarting terrorists. Yes, feel free to ignore what happened to Van-Damme's corpse during the twenty-five or so years between death and revival. This would be all well and good if it wasn't for the fact that the same unit also revived Van-Damme's borderline psychotic commanding officer, played (amazingly!) by Dolph Lundgren. Now, these two bad boys had a history of animosity between the pair of them when they were alive, so old grievances are soon revived along with the soldiers' bodies and the two go head to head.And it's great fun &#x96; violent, action-packed, big, dumb, stupid fun. And it knows it. Like T2, there's actually some nice moments of humour which are never overused and do help to lighten the mood and give it a 'comic-book feel.' Both lead actors have been criticised over the years of being little more than muscle men with no real acting ability. However, in my opinion, both shine here. Van-Damme is the good guy, but never boring due to his naïve personality. He can't really remember what he was and what he's here for and has a childlike quality in the new world he's found himself in. Lundgren is just psychotic. In know this is just a loud, over-the-top sci-fi film, but, in terms of lunatic badguys, he's right up there with them.Maybe Universal Solider is mainly for guys, especially those who (now) enjoy The Expendables-type movies which bask in the glories of the silly old action films of yesteryear. It's not T2, but it's a nice little comedian piece to it. "},{"Title":"Unisol.","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Right, I'm pretty drunk, but I'm still going to try and review all of these as for some reason I've had a week in which, for one reason or another I've seen most of them. Also, I am home early with feck all to do, and Universal Soldier 2 is on. We'll get to that. This one, Universal Soldier 1, is alright. Well, it's rubbish really. But its the kind of high budget, cheesy, action rubbish that the 90's was good at. An attempt to churn out what the 80's did so well. Yes, Dolph is fun, Devlin managed a fair amount of spectacle, and it was all carried out with a certain amount of tongue in cheek. I remember playing the game on Sega and it was a blatant rip of of another game. The film is the same, a rip of of terminator, and a heap of other 80's, 90's sci-fi action flicks. However, I could never say never for this film, and if you're still reading this review its worth a bit of brainless time. "},{"Title":"One of the better Van Damme Movies","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well, Dolph Lundgrun and Jean Claude Van Damme in the same movie? If so then why would anybody want to watch it? Okay, there are a few die-hard Van Damme fanatics out there but even so, what makes Van Damme that appealing? Personally I don't really know. In my opinion, I can't stand the guy's acting ability. I personally do not know him but from what I have seen of his movies, they aren't all that great. People ooohhh and ahhh about his martial arts moves, but the guy's a dancer, and Patrick Swazye is far better. I guess this is a mystery that will never be solved.Universal Soldier is actually one of Van Damme's better movies, though none can really beat Hard Target with the skillful direction of John Woo. This movie though his acting ability seems to be much better, but that is probably because he keeps his mouth shut most of the time. As such this movie is vaguely tolerable.This movie is about two soldiers who kill each other in Vietnam after one of them brutally kills some innocent Vietnamese. They are declared missing in action and the bodies are taken back to the United States to take part in an experiment where the dead tissue is resurrected. The dead soldiers are thus transformed into living soldiers, and are sent to perform very dangerous missions. These soldiers have a flaw, the last emotion they experienced now dominates them, so many drugs are used to suppress these emotions and memories.The themes of this movie tackles the ethics of experiments and the fallibility of humanity. Firstly the military experiments are very unethical. Generally our society has respect for the dead and to reanimate the bodies is considered to be evil. If we look through our literature, the animating of corpses is generally considered to be the realm of evil sorcerers. Thus the scientists working on this project are constantly thinking about the ethics of the project while the commander in charge simply wants to be recognised. As such, in here and other cases, ethics is swallowed up by the desire of one man to become famous.The flaw in these soldiers though shows us how by creating something more powerful than us, there is the possibility of it turning on us. This is another theme that has been around for a long time and is explored deeply within Frankenstein. In fact Van Damme's character resembles Frankenstein's monster in that he is treated as being evil when all he wants to do is to return home. The evil awakens within Lundgrun's character though, because he is a fanatical right winged military man who will kill anybody not the same as he is.This seems to crouch into being an anti-right winged film because the most right character, that being Lundgrun, is bad. Where as killing innocent Vietnamese was common in the war, especially when they did not know who was a Viet Cong, this movie escalates it. Thus when Lundgrun breaks loose of his bonds, he lives out his paranoia in that there is a secret anti-American government out to destroy him. This is made out as being paranoid delusion, while the secret activities of the army, a leftist idea, is made out as true.Universal Soldier is a tolerable movie. I do not warm to it much though, yet I did not feel that I wasted my time watching it. Unlike other Van-Damme movies, it does seem to hold the interest, if only for a little while. "},{"Title":"Standard Action Film","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier (1992) ** (out of 4) Vietnam soldiers (Jean-Claude Van Damme, Dolph Lundgren) kill each other but in the present day both are brought back to life by the government as a secret experiment meant to create the perfect killing machine. Both men eventually regain their memory and the Van Damme character heads off with a reporter (Ally Walker) with Lundgren right on their trail. UNIVERSAL SOLDIER has several interesting ideas but in the end they really don't add up to too much and we're left with a standard action film with some not-so-memorable scenes. I remember watching this back in the day as I was a big fan of the two stars and I found the film to be a disappointment and my memories of it rang true when watching it today. I think the story itself is a pretty weak imitation of ROBOCOP with the exception here being that we have dead soldiers being used for the perfect killing machine. The explanation given for them isn't all that memorable but I guess we really shouldn't expect too many brains from a film like this. Both Van Damme and Lundgren really seem to be sleepwalking through their roles as neither one brings too much life or energy to the film. I get that the Van Damme character was meant to be more quiet and laid back but this leads to a pretty boring road trip with him. Walker is certainly charming in her bit as the reporter and we also have Jerry Orbach picking up a paycheck. The action scenes are nice to look at and we get some pretty bloody violence but this isn't enough to keep the film entertaining all the way through. "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude Van Damme Film Festival","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As we move forward with Jean-Claude Van Damme, we get a little more plot each time. No street fighting in this film; we instead rely on high-tech military hardware. Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren are two soldiers who died in Vietnam. They are preserved for 25 years until our Law and Order buddy Jerry Orbach can reconstitute them into Universal Soldiers. As happens in all science fiction, they did not perfect the science and some memories remain and thus the two who fought each other in 'nam are now fighting each other in the US. Lots of bang up chase action and high-tech noise with a predictable ending. Ally Walker showed some good stuff, "},{"Title":"A fun flick for Van Damme/Lundgren fans!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In this Sci-fi/Action/Horror thriller, JEAN CLAUDE VAN DAMME stars as LUC DEVERAUX, a U.S. soldier in the 1969 Vietnam war, who's fellow comrade SGT. ANDREW SCOTT (DOLPH LUNDGREN) has lost his mind & has not only slaughtered many innocent civilians, but his own platoon, severing the ears off his victims to make a necklace out of them. Deveraux confronts him, but things get even more out of hand, when Scott kills two hostages & both men wind up shooting each other dead. 25 years later, both men along with four other dead soldiers, are resurrected as part of a top secret U.S. military program called Unisols or Univeral Soldiers, who's emotions & memory are wiped clean & their skills monitored by scientists who control their every move. During a hostage take down from which said soldiers are used to kill the hostage takers, Deveraux has a flashback, but due to him being under the military's control has no idea what it is or why he experienced it. Later that night reporter Veronica Roberts (a great turn by actress ALLY WALKER) & her camera man sneak into the compound to see if they can get any information on how the military & police took care of the hostage crisis, since neither group wants to talk. Finding what appears to be a dead soldier, Veronica is shocked when the dead man, who's full of bullet wounds, arises & both her & her partner are captured when trying to escape by the Unisols. During the taking, Scott shoots the camera man dead, causing Deveraux to regain his memory & escape with Roberts. Both head cross country, with the Military in pursuit, along with the Unisols. When Scott regains his memory, during a confrontation with Veronica & Luc who escapes him, he slaughters those in control of the project & takes over himself, hunting Luc & Veronica determining to kill them & anyone who gets in his way, since he thinks the war is still on. UNIVERSAL SOLDIER is a highly entertaining action movie. A real fun popcorn film that never lets up from first frame till last. The direction by ROLAND EMMERICH was really cool. The acting was well handled, with Van Damme bringing a certain charm to his role as Luc. While Lundgren really relishes his role as the psycho soldier Andrew Scott, he's so much fun to watch & makes for a great imposing villain & plays the role with such a pure demonic fury, that it's hard to believe that anyone but him, could play this role. That said, despite the pairing of the two action stars, one would almost expect this film to be a super charged fight fest, with both men engaging in a series of fights both between themselves & others, but it never really occurs. In fact, the film's main action revolves around explosions, car chases & gun fights & very little on the hand to hand combat. The only fights here include Van Damme taking on some patrons at a bar/restaurant that lacks any kind of excitement before finally meeting Lundgren in the climax for a final showdown. But the sad part is, it's a let down & has nowhere near the amount of excitement one would get in a fight between these two! it's clear that straight action is not director ROLAND EMMERICH'S strongest suit, since it lacks the high powered exhilarating moments one would have, could have & should have received here. The fight is not only shot from the wrong angles, but also after such an exciting build up that eventually leads to these two duking it out, it fails to deliver, despite the fact that the two men are phenomenal martial artists & could have coordinated a much better fight than this. All that aside, UNIVERSAL SOLDIER is still highly recommended. It definitely could have been better where the fights were concerned, but on a whole, It's a highly entertaining movie, that is definitely recommend to fans of both men. Written by CHRISTOPHER LEITCH, RICHARD ROTHSTEIN & DEAN DEVLIN. Followed by five sequels, the first two were made for TV movies dumped direct to video that were actually pilot episodes for a potential TV series based on this movie, that failed to stir interest with fans, with MATT BATTAGLIA replacing Van Damme as Luc Deveraux. The first was called UNIVERSAL SOLDIER II BROTHER'S IN ARMS.**** stars "},{"Title":"If you are a Van Damme Movie or Dolph Lundren Fan you will be happy!","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You can compare this movie to a regular movie. Because I you would rate it as a regular movies you would come across some stuff like Stupid Story or thing like that. But if you rate it as a Van Damme Film you'll really gonna like it He shows off (as usual), Much Blood and a hell of a lot action. The story is that to soldiers that killed each other in Nam are now in the same program. The Universal Soldier Program. A Program where KIA's or MIA's are brainwashed and then used in highly dangerous missions. But then, of course, something goes wrong, first Van Damme (the good guy) begin to remember stuff. And go out on their own. Well and it's a war again between those two guys. But at present day. Well if you like that kind of stuff you are in for a great ride. I don't personally like movies without stories. But for some unknown reason I really liked it. Oh and for all fans of this movie who just read this comment for kicks since October 2004 there is a special edition out of this movie. But it seems like it's the same length like the original version. So, no extra gore or so.. sorry.. But for everybody who hasn't seen this one yet and likes good old fashioned action and a lot of unnecessary action. Buy it. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's best movie to date","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kickass. Van Damme and Dolph battling each other from start to finish. It has lots of sweet action and some very funny lines, especially from Dolph. Im all ears is a classic line from Dolph which i still remember. This is definately Van Damme's best movie to date and too bad he doesnt make more movies like this. I guess the same can be said for Dolph too. Theyre both struggling these days and their movies are going DTV. I heard that they are teaming up for Street Fighter 2. I would rather see them team up in Universal Soldier 3 but after US 2, i doubt that a sequel will be made. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Best Van Damme Movie","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is Van Dammes best movie by a long shot, and surprisingly is a good movie overall.  The action scenes are quite impressive, acting is so so, but who needs that good of acting in a van damme movie anyways. Overall I enjoyed this film quite a lot, making it one of my personal favs. "},{"Title":"An action classic!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What's not to like? Van Damme and Dolph star as soldiers who kill each other in Vietnam and are than reanimated as Uni Sols but when Dolph remembers his sadistic ways the trouble starts.Universal Soldier is Van Damme and Lundgren's best movie ever made.It has some strong action scenes and decent acting from the cast. The climax is one of the greatest in a long time. And if anybody tells you this movie sucked. Feel free to knock them upside their heads. (JK)Overall Universal Soldier is a great movie that shouldn't be missed.**** (Out of four) "}{"Title":"The diner scene made the movie","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The diner fight scene pretty much tells you everything you need to know about the movie -- humor mixed with violence.Ok, ok, in all fairness, it wasn't THAT bad.  The lead roles did very well considering what they had to work with  Van Damme was born for action movies. Ally Walker, by far the strongest character in the movie, did and admirable job of playing the civilian caught in the middle. Dolph Lundgren's, while imposing of stature, actually delivered a nice performance.Just don't go in to this expecting Ben-Hur, and you'll be entertained )My Grade C  "},{"Title":"Great movie, kicks butt, great performance by Jean-Claude Van Damme","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier is a different movie.  It is categorized in the genre of Sci/Fi, but I don't care what it is, this movie kicks butt!  When I first saw it, the first thing I thought was, I know that this movie will be around for a long time.  Here it is almost nine years later.  If you don't like Sci/Fi or action thrillers, then watch it to see the great performance that Jean-Claude Van Damme gives. "},{"Title":"Best Action Movie I've Seen In Ages","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier is a great movie, had great acting, great storyline. Basically everything about this movie was brilliant. The bits where Luc took all of his clothes off just to let Veronica look for something strange was a little strange but overall all I recommend that you do go and see it cos if you dont you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"You can wake me in the night for a movie!!!!!!!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is a Van Damme movie but not like all the others If you would ask me i think this is Van Damme his best movie.A real macho movie that contains a story that is not bad.I really like the way the movie starts.I think that when a movie starts back in time like x-men,people become interested in what will follow.I have seen it 3 or 4 times, The movie still gives me a kick every time i watch it. It is like others says violence,but it containes more,that makes it interesting(((Don't watch universal soldier the return)))god dam wat a bad english "},{"Title":"Dolph steals the show!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A must-see action film. This is one of Dolph Lundgren's best performances. Dolph and Van Damme play soldiers who were killed in Vietnam and then brought back to life to and trained to be unfeeling killing machines. But due to bad blood between them, Dolph and Van Damme turn against each other and it's a fight to the death (again). Dolph's performance here is EXCELLENT as a psycho villain with high tech weapons. I actually watch this movie over and over to see the priceless expressions on Dolph's face. The action in the movie is non-stop and Dolph has some good one-liners that rival Arnold. Van Damme's performance is on target in some parts and lame in others. But Dolph steals the show! "},{"Title":"good entertainment","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Van Damne and Lundgren are well cast in this action flick. The two action stars play rival soldiers who kill each other in Vietnam but are brought back to life in the present day as Universal Soldiers, emotionless fighting machines.  The film is pretty exciting, with good action scenes.  Just don't look for any signs of intelligence. "},{"Title":"VAN DAMME'S BEST MOVIE","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't like Jean Claude Van Damme very much , but this film is his best to date , better than KickBoxer, or Hard Target or many many others. It is an interesting movie and you will watch it again because it so good ! Yes it is great and funny ! "},{"Title":"One heck of an action film!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier is undoubtedly one of the best action films ever made, and it is made so by the excellent performance of Dolph Lundgren as the evil Sergeant Andrew Scott.This film, which also stars Jean-Claude Van Damme in one of his better films has all the elements of your standard action film -- violence and coarse language, but no sex which is good, although some butt nudity is featured.The final showdown between Van Damme and Lundgren is the film's high point, and is one of movie history's longest fight scenes -- it runs for over 15 mins.This film was followed by two Made-For-TV films which had Matt Battaglia replacing Van Damme.On a scale of one to ten, I rate this 7.5 "},{"Title":"I'm all ears!","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is great, starring two of the biggest action stars of this millenium! Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren. Its even buy the director of Independence Day and Godzilla. So why has nobody seen it? Is it because people think it's just another action/ sci-fi. Its not its full of one liners and martial art scenes. One liners like I'm all ear's when Dolph Lundgren is asked to have a word, he lifts up a necklace of ears, Hillarious!   10/10 "},{"Title":"I just wanna eat!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier has the same impact and atmosphere as an army recruitment commercial. It's purely an army-based flick, only to add the same elements that could be found in George Lucas' subconscious! Van Damme and Lundgren play rival 'Nam vets that die during the war, only to be resurrected as cyborgs by the U.S. government. Later, their emotions left over by their previous lives come back to screw with their main frames. Van Damme runs off with a reporter, while Lundgren tracks them down. That's where the fun starts.Van Damme is as athletic as ever, and still struggling with his English up to then! But I think Dolph is the one with the powerhouse performance here, again playing a villain just like in Rocky 4. He's the one with the one-liners and acting style, while Van Damme gets crappy lines like the title I used for this summary and all he ever does is punch, kick, and headbutt! I feel extremely bad for Jean Claude, and I gotta give Dolph real credit!!** 1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"Jean Claude is a versatile actor & shines in this one!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have been a true Jean Claude Fan since I saw kickboxer.  I really enjoyed Universal Soldier!  I thought it had an interesting plot. It incorporated Sci-Fi into an action movie.  I think Jean Claude is a very versatile actor! He does not get the credit he deserves.  I think the critics need to take a longer look at how talented JC is.  He has written, acted in, helped tremendously with the fight sequences, and directed numerous films.  How many actors can do all this and pull off a great performance?  >  I would LOVE to meet him someday.  It would be the thrill of my life.  I teach school and all my students past & present know how I feel about Jean Claude's movies.  I own almost every one.  Jean Claude, if you ever read this, keep up the good work!  You have a true fan here.  Thank you....   "},{"Title":"Van Damme and Dolph play United States super soldiers...ironically neither speaks very good English.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was not a bad movie really, it had some moments and did entertain a bit. It also could have been better too, a lot better. For a movie about super soldiers it just was not all that action packed as you would expect and the end of the movie was all about Van Damme's kick boxing skills rather than about them being super soldiers. The film is about a new breed of soldier, a soldier literally reanimated from the dead with only the mission as their primary concern. Unfortunately, they may have been better off trying to get volunteers as one of the soldiers has memories of the lead guy going crazy and that guy ends up going crazy yet again. He basically takes control of the super soldiers and begins to hunt down the other guy. Like I said it needed a bit more. Maybe a couple of other actors in the leads would have helped as neither Damme or Dolph are the best actors in the world. Damme has that thick accent and Dolph kind of slurs his words so he is hard to understand at times unless he is speaking Russian as he was in Rocky IV. There are some good points to the film though and in one restaurant scene there is a rather humorous moment as Van Damme proceeds to eat a lot of food, however he does not quite get you are supposed to pay. Still, all this action and all this super soldier talk and the movie ends quite similar to the end of Cyborg with a face off in the rain which is mainly used to showcase Van Damme's kick boxing skills. At least this time though he is not facing off against a blind man so it works a bit better. So in the end it is a somewhat enjoyable movie to watch, but it could have used some improvement. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable futuristic sci-fi thriller action flick.","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier starts in Vietnam where Private Luc Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) & his superior Sergeant Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) get into an argument about killing innocent Vietnamese natives & end up killing each other instead. Jump forward twenty odd years & both Deveraux, Scott & several other dead US soldiers have been re-animated as living soldiers with superhuman powers & the ability to regenerate. Nosey network reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) discovers what the military is up to & threatens to break the story to the public, Colonel Perry (Ed O'Ross) can't risk that so sends Universal Soldiers Deveraux & Scott to kill her, remembering back to Vietnam Deveraux again stops Scott from killing an innocent person & in the process annoys Perry who orders both Deveraux & Roberts hunted down & killed...Directed by Roland Emmerich this obvious sci-fi action cash-in on the then recent success & popularity of both Robocop (1987) & Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) is actually a very enjoyable way to pass 100 odd minutes. The script by Richard Rothstein, Christopher Leitch & Dean Devlin takes prominent themes from both Robocop & Terminator 2 like the idea cybernetic type protagonists, plenty of full-on action scenes, lots of violence & profanity, a seemingly emotionless robot/soldier/cop used for corporate/military purposes that starts to regain some of their humanity as well as an attempt at a bit of social commentary & satire although these little stabs don't really hit the mark here & are a mild distraction at best. The whole film is set-up for a string of ever more ambitious set-piece action scenes & from that viewpoint Universal Soldier is all it sets out to be, an enjoyable fast paced sci-fi actioner that doesn't require too many brain cells to understand. The character's are a bit clichéd though like the reporter looking for a big story who stumbles upon more than she bargained for, the single minded military Colonel who puts the mission before anything else & a main bad guy who in this case turns out to be Sergeant Scott to chase the hero for rather tenuous reasons. It's all here, it all works very well, it's a lot of fun & there's plenty of dramatic incident if nothing else.Universal Soldier was Emmerich's break through film & has gone on to make such big budget fare like Stargate (1994), Independence Day (1996), the excellent (I don't care what anyone says) Godzilla (1998), The Day After Tomorrow (2004) & 10,000 B.C. (2008), his subsequent efforts have been considerably less bloody & violent than Universal Soldier though. He does a good job here, get the DVD version & watch it in full 2351 widescreen & enjoy a stylish & well made film. There are several violent martial arts scenes, some good old bar room brawl style fights, several severed ears, there are plenty of gory gunshot wounds including a fair few head shots & a gory impaling. The action scenes are well put together from the bus chase to various shoot-outs to an exploding garage. According to the IMDb the working title for Universal Soldier was Crystal Knights, I am not sure how truthful that is because the title Crystal Knights means absolutely nothing when placed alongside the finished film which is maybe why they changed it but why call it Crystal Knights in the first place?With a supposed budget of about $23,000,000 this is very well made with good production values, special effects, photography & stunts. Shot in Arizona. The acting is OK, I've always liked JCVD & think he's fine in this & he gets to show of his naked bum again, Lundgren has never been a great actor but he does OK in a standard mad as a hatter bad guy role & the two can fight so all in all they make a good pairing. Ed O'Ross & Jerry Orbach from Law & Order (1991 - 2004) provide the acting talent. Looking through the credits it seems that Eric Norris has a small role & he is in fact the youngest son of 80's action star Chuck Norris! Why didn't the filmmakers just hire Chuck? I mean JCVD, Dolph Lundgren & Chuck Norris all in the same film? I am shaking just thinking about it...Universal Soldier is a great sci-fi action film that delivers both plenty of sci-fi & action just as it should, it's not the most deep or meaningful film ever but it sure entertains for 100 odd minutes & to be frank what more do you want? Followed by the made-for-telly Canadian productions Universal Soldier II Brothers in Arms (1998) & Universal Soldier III Unfinished Business (1998) & then a theatrically released sequel Universal Soldier The Return (1999) for which JCVD returned as Luc Deveraux. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mr Lundgren and Mr Van Damme may not be the greatest actors in the world but in 'Universal Soldier' give performances more interesting than usual. Dolph losing his mind is quite amusing, (Do you want to play catch he says while lobbing grenades into a bus)and Jean Claude's immobile features works to the defining of his character. A man frozen in death who is beginning to warm up. There is subtle comedy in the film amidst the mayhem and Jean Claude has a dry line in humour.But of course we want to see the two of them square off and the film doesn't disappoint. The final scene in the rain is pretty good and shouldn't disappoint fight fans. The plot is nonsense, the film being a basic chase movie, but the explosions are fun and the moderate budget well spent on fancy looking equipment.The best thing in the film is Ally Walker as the TV reporter. Yes it is an usual I'll-do-anything-for-a-story role but she gives it all she has and is by turns funny and serious in a believable way. Why she isn't more celeb-rated I can't fathom.  "},{"Title":"Cheap Terminator rip off? NO WAY!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This really is a good film, and one you can watch numerous times. I know that for I have seen in like for the 8th time now and I still  enjoy it. It really is the best work van Damme (Timecop and Streetfighter), Walker (TV's Profiler), Lundgren (Rocky &#145;I don't know how many', Showdown in Little Tokyo and The Punisher and Roland Emmerich (Independence Day, Godzilla and The Patriot) have ever delivered. The enormous amount of comedic elements (some of the grimaces van Damme pulls off are just hilarious), action elements and bloody scenes make this a highly unforgettable, recommendable and enjoyable thrill ride.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great action/sci-fi","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier starrs Jean-Claude Van Damme (from Belgium) and Dolph Lundgren(from Sweden).  The Universal Soldiers are American soldiers who were killed in Vietnam, and later resurrected.  The soldiers don`t feel any pain and are extremely strong. The movie is a great actionmovie with many spectacular actionscenes.  The leading actors will never get an Academy Award for their performances, but who cares as long as Universal Soldier is an entertaining movie. 8,5/10 "},{"Title":"dead soldiers go at each other","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I usually avoid Van Damme's movies. He is a turkey actor who makes really bad choppy socky films. But this one was pretty good, not great, but watchable. The government brings back to life a group of dead Viet Nam soldiers and turns them into bionic warriors. The plot thickens when 2 of the soldiers don't get along because of problems they had when alive. Good action and fight scenes keep the film moving right along at a good, if predictable, clip. Worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier is a superb action film that stars Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren plus Ally Walker,Ed O'Ross,Ralph Moeller,Tiny Lister jr.(Zeus),Jerry Orbach,and none other than Thomas Rosales jr. and yes you guest it,He gets killed in this film too!Universal Soldier is quite an epic film and is arguably Van Damme's best!I laugh every time when ever Lundgren speaks because his lines are dang funny and he says them well!I like Ally Walker as she is a very good actress and a beautiful woman!This is the best of the Universal Soldier films and is a great experience to watch for action fans! "},{"Title":"I knew it was in trouble when I recognized the Profiler.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So, the other day, on a lazy Sunday afternoon, I had some laundry to fold.  I clicked on the TV to find something to fold to, and came across Universal Soldier just as it was starting.  What a perfect movie for laundry-folding.  You can look down, grab some socks, put them together, ball them up, look up, and you haven't missed a shred of plot or character development.  Because there isn't any.This movie follows action/ sci-fi formula so well that you could probably go to the laundry room, pull out whatever's in the dryer, then load it with wet clothes fresh from the washer, then load that with soiled garments, come back, and *still* be ahead of the film in the logic department.For those wondering, I did manage to get all my laundry done, so un-gripping was Universal Soldier. "},{"Title":"Lundgren by far steals the show.","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I put off watching this movie because I'm not really a Van Damme or Lundgren fan, but I judged the book by it's cover and decided it might be good. Turns out it wasn't half bad. Although not with it's fair share of problems. Like it pretty much being a Terminator clone, but it has a little of it's own charm to it so I didn't let that bother me. The movie establishes right away who the villain and who the good guy will be when Dolph Lundgren (Andrew Scott/GR13) kills two innocent Vietnamese in complete mental confusion. This causes Jean-Claude Van Damme (Luc Deveraux/GR44) to take action ending with the both of them dead. They are both brought back to life though as cyborgs controlled by the army, but these two cyborgs soon remember their grueling memories of the Vietnam war and then begin their fight against each other. Well, a one way fight for most of the movie actually which is what mostly bothers me. Although, it's fun to watch GR13 turn on the people who control him and hunt down GR44. The problem is I think it consisted too much of just that. I had kind of wished I could've seen the movies two action stars duke it out a little more in this movie. Out of the two main actors in this film Dolph Lundgren's performance is by far superior to Van Damme's. Where Van Damme was dry at times, Lundgren never failed to entertain me with his character's unnerving presence. His speech at the supermarket where GR13 believes he's still fighting the war is one of my favourite scenes of the movie. Now, another small problem I had with this movie and maybe it's just me, but I failed to feel any serious emotion when GR44 is reunited with his parents knowing it's not their son but a cyborg. I'm also as a viewer confused if the parents even got news of their sons death, or instead believe he returned alive from Vietnam. But, seeing as we weren't introduced to the parents till the last 20 minutes, and received no answer for the rest of the movie. It's apparent that this question will remain unsolved. The final fight though between the two cyborgs which I had been waiting for the whole movie was totally worth the wait. Now it might sound like I hated this movie, but no it was good. Van Damme was OK, but it's really Lundgren who makes this movie so entertaining. "}{"Title":"excellent action B-movie","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" During the Vietnam war, Private Luc Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) tries to stop Sergeant Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) who has gone mad. It ends in a massacre and the military tries to cover it up. Their dead bodies are used in a secret experiment. In the present day, Colonel Perry commands these Universal Soldiers in a rescue mission when terrorists take 30 hostages. Reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) follows the team back to their base. The soldiers start experiencing traumatic recalls and Scott goes crazy once again. Deveraux saves Veronica and goes on the run.This introduced me to director Roland Emmerich. This is a simple action thriller and it's fun. The story works. It's not complicated. Sure, it has that Terminator flavor but that's a good thing. This uses Van Damme and Lundgren to their best possible side. It lets them be a little bit robotic. It's an excellent action B-movie. "},{"Title":"Ignore the critics, Universal Soldier is pure action packed entertainment.","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier is one of those violent action movies that is much maligned amongst a lot of critics but still popular amongst audiences. Released in 1992, Universal Soldier was a box office success however critics dismissed it as a mindless and derivative action film with over the top violence. I first saw Universal Soldier when it first premiered on TV as a 10 year old back in 1994 and I have always considered this movie to be a fun an entertaining movie. Not only that, you cannot deny that Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren as the star leads boosted its eye candy appeal.Universal Soldier starts off in Vietnam in 1969 where Private Luc Deveraux (Jean Claude Van Damme) has discovered a village in which US soldiers and Vietnamese villagers have been brutally murdered with their ears severed off. The person responsible for the massacre is the platoon Sergeant Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren in a cracking performance as the villain) who has kept the severed ears as a necklace and is also holding a young Vietnamese couple hostage. Luc Deveraux tries to reason with the deranged Andrew Scott however the couple end up being killed and both Deveraux and Scott shoot each other to death. Deveraux and Scott's corpses are recovered by a second U.S. Special Forces squad and cryogenically frozen, their deaths covered up as missing in action. Deveraux and Scott are revived without memories of their previous lives and are selected for the Universal Soldier program, an elite counter terrorism unit. Also known as UniSols, they are genetically augmented soldiers with enhanced healing abilities and superior strength, but also have a tendency to overheat and shut down. They are given a neural serum to keep their minds susceptible and their previous memories suppressed. Fast forward to 1992 and the UniSols are deployed to resolve a hostage situation in which a number of armed hostiles are taken a number of hostages at Hoover Dam and have killed a number of hostages and police officers. Deveraux's callsign is GR13 and Scott has been assigned GR44. The situation is resolved however there is some flaws that start to surface, when Deveraux becomes unresponsive after having a flashback and Scott is seen using excessive force. One of the technicians, Woodward (Leon Rippy), wants to remove Devereaux for further analysis, but UniSol commander Colonel Perry (Ed O'Ross) refuses and insists there is no problem. After being fired, television news journalist Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) attempts to get her job back by trespassing onto the military base to further investigate the UniSol project along with her cameraman. After they are detained by Deveraux and Scott, Scott executes the cameraman in cold blood and Deveraux escapes with Veronica. Deveraux along with Veronica must uncover his past life and how he was resurrected, and how the Universal Soldier project came to light in the 1960's by Dr. Christopher Gregor (Jerry Orbach). Unbeknownst to Colonel Perry and everyone else, Scott slowly regains his psychotic behaviour and spearheads the mission to kill Deveraux and Veronica.A lot of people saw Universal Soldier as a rip off of the Terminator movies and the plot as unoriginal. I didn't see it that way nor was it a concern for me. I liked all of it. In particular, the butt kicking old school action was enjoyable and Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren were fantastic as the main leads. Van Damme was still at his height of his popularity and his 360 kicks are still on display. Dolph's physical prowess was also at his best and he has still maintained his physical abilities many years later.Director Roland Emmerich who later became well known for blockbusters such as Independence Day (1996) and The Day After Tomorrow (2004) does a quality job in one of his early movies that helped gain him recognition.I didn't care for any of the sequels, they were just pure rubbish. Universal Soldier The Return (1999) was one of the worst movies that I had the misfortune to see and I refuse to see the rest of the direct to DVD sequels that have since followed.Universal Soldier is pure action packed eye candy and you certainly can't go wrong with Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren as the main attraction. Although it may be a bit dated now, many years later I still have a soft spot for Universal Soldier. Ignore the critics and ignore the plot, just sit back and enjoy the action packed fun.8/10. "},{"Title":"Fun enough T2 knock-off","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The plot is pretty unoriginal, but the existence of the plot in this particular film is really just an excuse for action, and the action in question is good enough to make this worth your time.If you looked at the poster and saw the names of Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren, you probably figured out that the acting would be pretty poor, and you were right. Van Damme tries his best, but he doesn't really have it in him. To be fair though, Luc Deveraux isn't a compellingly written character in the first place. Lundgren is OK when he's just an emotionless soldier, but pretty hammy once his character's true personality reemerges. Even though neither of them are very convincing actors, the opening of the film is actually quite dark and compelling. As previously stated, the action is quite good, with the best sequences being in the third act. The cinematography and production values are of high quality as well. "},{"Title":"Brain dead","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was really the first time that JCVD graduated beyond low budget karate movies and into the realm of popcorn entertainment. Unlike fellow early 90s karate man Steve Segal, who would more or less make the same film over and over for his entire career, Van Damme flirted for a while with becoming the next Arnold, and perhaps no film in JCVD's filmography is more Schawzeneggerian than 'Universal Soldier'.Directed by the man who would go on to become the king of the disaster movie, Roland Emmerich, it's heavy on gory violence, but paradoxically light on action. The result is a surprisingly dull film carried mostly by a strong turn from villain Dolph Lundgren, who steals the movie right out from under JCVD. "},{"Title":"Ally Makes the Film","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm amazed that in all the reviews of this film here, not one has recognized the primary star as Ally Walker. Without her, this would have been just another B action flick, but her arresting screen presence and wide-eyed ditzy/tough character elevate it to classic status. Beautiful women are common in such movies, of course, but Walker is also a brilliant physical comic, with an energy reminiscent of Lucille Ball. That's the sort of factor that makes an otherwise silly plot entertaining, by pulling down its seriousness level.Kudos to the director also, for making sure her hair was perfect in every scene, no matter what trauma she had just experienced. Again, a subtle comedic touch that makes such a film stand out. "},{"Title":"Universal Soldier","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From director Roland Emmerich (Independence Day), this is the first film I have seen starring the French action star, and not a bad one. The film starts in the Vietnam war, where U.S. soldiers Luc Devreux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) and Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) are fighting, and kill each other. In the present day their bodies have been flash-frozen and turned into super soldiers, almost human robots, known as UniSols. While carrying out a mission though, both Luc and Andrew are reminded (have flashbacks) of their past lives, and soon enough are ignoring the orders of their new commanders. After Luc gets away, he teams with TV reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) as they are being chased across the country, and Andrew obviously is trying everything to kill him. The ending looks pretty normal when Luc is taken home to his parents, and you don't completely expect to see Andrew again. Also starring Ed O'Ross as Colonel Perry, Jerry Orbach as Dr. Christopher Gregor, Leon Rippy as Woodward, Tico Wells as Garth, Ralf Moeller as GR76, Robert Trebor as Motel Owner, Gene Davis as Lieutenant and Drew Snyder as Charles. The action is not too bad, the dialogue is most certainly the cheese you'd expect to see in comic book speech bubbles, but worth at least one try. Apparently the two straight to video sequels without Van Damme are rubbish, but the fourth when he does come back is even worse, don't think I will be bothering with them (I'd recommend others do the same). Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Van Damme & Lundgren together........eternal bliss.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The best two men in the business clash in this action/sci-fi classic..........a definite not to miss feature if you are a fan of the genre.  A superb cast & crew (experienced stunt coordinator Vic Armstrong and the well known team of Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin to mention a few) deliver the entertainment.  Without going into many details, this is one movie where fans of Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren are guaranteed to be satisfied. Universal Soldier rocks! "},{"Title":"Good Action/violence","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fun action movie that has a few dark moments,good stunts and good acting for what it is.Good story line and two of my favorite action b actors,it's a win/win for viewers.Bottom line...if you like action and violence in your movies,then this ones pretty good. "},{"Title":"Fun Action Flick","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw Universal Soldier when I was about 10 and I can remember how entertained I was. At the time, it was a relatively new concept (cyborg/ reanimated people) and that is what I think really drew people to this movie. I have just bought the DVD here in the UK hoping that I would still share my enthusiasm of seven years ago, but in all honesty I was not. There are some great action sequences - the dam and the final showdown to name a few - and all were beautifully choreographed. However, the fast paced plot of the first half hour really begins to die the moment most of the Uni Sols burn up, and afterwards you realise that it is basically another one of Van Dammes weak attempts at rivalling Arnie or Sly.  As I said - the action is great, mainly due to having Vic Armstrong on board, but don't expect miracles. Afterall, a movie that takes music from Terminator 2 for its trailers cannot be that good, can it? 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's Best.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily Van Damme's best movie. A cool story, lots of action, and an awesome villain in Dolph Lundgren. Better than anything else Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin have made. Action fans will love this. 3 out of 4 stars. AVOID THE SEQUEL! "}{"Title":"'I'm all ears.....'","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Great action sci-fi from the guy who likes to blow up the USA in most of his recent movies.The story is basically about soldiers who were killed in Nam, and are regenerated by the government/some private company, into super-soldiers, who dress really cool and can do really cool stuff whilst having one eye covered.Two of these are Van Damme and Lundgren. About twenty minutes into the film, Lundgren wakes up and realises that Van Damme has a better career, and starts to go on a rampage, and takes over as the leader of the Uni-Sols.there is nothing to be taken seriously in this movie. It's basically an excuse for the two stars to have fights and chases on numerous occasions. Lundgren is fantastic as the evil Scott and should do more villains. Van Damme keeps it low key in this film, and doesn't say very little apart from lines like 'What accent' and cocking his head like a puppy.it's very funny in places, especially where Van Damme and Phallic metaphors are concerned, but it's slickly made and there are some great set pieces.the story is okay, but nothing special, and the final fifteen minutes is just pure mayhem. "},{"Title":"You had to know this was coming","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seriously. Van Damme and Lundgren? Of course they were going to beat up each other on the big screen, sooner or later. As far as getting to watch the two battle one another, this delivers pretty well, and it's often rather awesome. One might not off-hand think of Emmerich as being behind a film like this... granted, I haven't watched much of anything he did before this, and since, he's pretty much just done different takes on something threatens to destroy the world, with choices so varied one might think he pulls them out of a hat. He does a good job, and this is an entertaining, about average action-flick, with one-liners, shoot-outs, fights, chase sequences, and such. The humor genuinely gets laughs. They made this fairly dark in tone, and the bloody violence is brutal and plentiful. The concept behind this is quite interesting, and this being fairly mainstream, it of course doesn't reach its full potential here. With that said, they could have done a whole lot worse. The guns are cool, marvelous choices and well-handled. Pacing is great, this never really slows down, nor overwhelm you. The acting varies. This is intense and exciting. There is nice tension, as well as dramatic moments. It tries for a point, sort of. The effects hold up, and still look largely convincing. It doesn't feel like this was built around the FX, either. The music is nifty, the score well-composed. There is strong language in this, as well as half-naked men. The 2-Disc Special Edition DVD holds a cast & crew commentary track which is informative and funny, an interesting alternate ending that changes things(whether it's superior to the actual one, I leave up to the individual), two featurettes I will review on their own pages here on the site, a teaser, two trailers and a bunch of TV spots. I recommend this to any fan of either or both of the bad-asses, and/or of this type of movie in general. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Something borrowed","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Roland Emmerich has borrowed from several films (including The Terminator and Robocop) to create this new action vehicle for Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren. The two are 'Universal Soldiers', unstoppable combat soldiers used in top secret military special operations. Only there is one problem, they're not completely controllable.This is a routine action flick, so none of the action sequences are particularly inspired. It is for the most part fairly entertaining though, even if it's very light, and the occasional humour, which is indeed quite good, helps proceedings nicely. Not too bad.Monday, September 28, 1992 - Hoyts Cinema Centre "},{"Title":"Discrepancy between Scott and Luc's memory","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie today and I really liked it but I was a little confused on how Sergeant Scott could retrieve all his memory from the incident in Vietnam and Luc could only remember a couple things and a few basic instincts and it was a lot more obvious that he was a robot. Andrew had a lot more personality and he acted the same way he was before he ... died. For example in the resturaunt scene when Luc was being asked whether he was going to pay for his meal or not, it was like he had no idea what he was being asked while Scott's full memory and grammar returned to him. I found that to be just a little odd. Any thoughts? "},{"Title":"Dolph and Van Damme are top action movie actors","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The title is not bad at all, but I would go for Human Machines. The content is good, there is an interesting imagination on the way the story starts, they die at the beginning. the director performed a good job, small elements in the movie were taken into account, such as, rain in the first scene and in the last one. Humour was also present although it proved to be a very serious action movie. Ally Walker made it even more interesting with her astonishing acting skills. but what made it really fantastic was the physical condition and martial arts abilities of Van Damme and his opponent Dolph, fight coreagraphies...adding to all that we cannot forget the fact that Dolph played a very clever villain, not only evil, but clever. "},{"Title":"The ultimate action flick!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The ultimate action flick! For a long time this was Jean-Claude Van Damme's finest work (prior to Legionnaire), and it isn't difficult to see why. Universal Soldier stands out as an action movie because strangely an audience is emotionally drawn to the protaganist (Van Damme's Luc Deveraux), and sympathises with his situation and how he's been exploited by a secret government organisation. Complete with a bonafide formidable, pyschotic, loony villain in Dolph Lundgren, the film has some great action sequences, and a hard hitting showdown between Van Damme and Lundgren in the final reel. Well worth a look for action fans. "},{"Title":"van damme rules","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the greatest movies ever. Van Damme kicks ass in this movie. The greatest part in this movie is when he can't pay for the food in the dinner and he fights everybody and kicks their ass all over the place. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren star as Luc and Scott, two dead Vietnam vets who are reanimated by the U.S Government who use them for terrorist missions, however science goes awry when Luc remembers his past as does Scott who declare war on each other. Enter Veronica (Ally Walker) a reporter who stumbles upon the whole UniSol program in this exciting and action packed Terminator clone. Universal Soldier may not be a classic but it certainly provides it's own creative actionscenes as well as a few novel touches with a touch of humor. Universal Soldier isn't exactly a thinking man's Sci-Fi/Actioner, but it provides a lot of fun for the action fans. It also remains Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren's best movie to date. "},{"Title":" One of the best Sci Fi Action movies","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier realeased in 1993 is one of the best action flicks from Jean Claude Van Damme.In fact, this film was done during Van Damme's increasing popularity.Van Damme and Dolph play two 2 vietnam Vets who kill each other during the Vietnam War.Actually the scene in Vietnam are intense and well directed.Dolph, plays the psychotic and vindictive Staff Seargeant from the Army who wants to kill any Vietnamese (guilty or innocent) in path.When Van Damme, tells the Sergeant that it's time to pull out , the crazy Sergeant sees him as a traitor and proceeds to beat up his comrade while Lungren tries to save the innocent Vietnam girl the Sergeant is holding hostage.Eventually all of them die, or so we think.The military eventuallys finds the dead bodies, but instead sends the Sergeant and Damme into a secret biochemical, regenerative expirement in which dead military soldiers are being revived as security soldiers known as the Universal Soldiers.The project at first is a success, but when Van Damme, starts recalling memories from his past, he remembers how his bloodthirsty Sergeant kills and all hell breaks loose.It also reminds of the Robocop movie with Peter Weller, in which a dead cop is resurrected as a crime busting machine, but as the machine stars recollecting his past memories, the machine starts becoming more human.The film has so many big budget stunts and fist fights and kickboxing action that you'll have to watch it a  couple of times to appreciate the full value of this great sci fi film.The other's film stars is the beautiful and sexy Alley Walker, who plays the reporter who joins Van Damne on his fight against the Universal Soldier.Great critics like myself, remember Alley Walker from the great crime drama show Profiler on Nbc which lasted about 5 years.Alley's character is great to watch, here character is very beautiful and has alot of humor and pizazz.  "},{"Title":"excellent!!!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this film contains two of the finest action heroes and Lundgren well suits his character as hardman sgt Scott and this has to be one of Van Dammes greatest movies.I love this movie and would watch it again and there is a good sequel. "}{"Title":"This film is short, but good.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is short, but good.  It has filler in the middle, the sci-fi, and action mixes well.  I give it a 7, the scene with the men on ropes with the dam is incredible.  I love the truck and the big plane at the beginning. Rent this one!  It is one of Jean Claude Van damme better films. "},{"Title":"Exploitative trash","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Devlin and Emmerich meet 'RoboCop' and 'The Terminator', and the result is, of course, a logic-free rip-off full of clumsy humour and a casual disregard for the audience's intelligence. Worst of all this film's offences is its approach to the reanimated Vietnam soldier characters, who are used with an insensitivity that defies belief - the initial scenes setting up the premise are quite disgraceful. Perhaps if this movie had some depth and humanity - like, oh, to pick an example out of thin air, 'RoboCop' - rather than revelling in its sadistic violence, maybe it wouldn't come off as such a trashy, cynical and disrespectful exercise. There are nods in the direction of Van Damme's character regaining his personality, but it's all so thick-headed it makes no difference. He can't remember how to eat but can buy a bus ticket? Well, okay.Emmerich's direction is, as ever, completely bog standard, failing to round up even a speck of tension or excitement, although congratulations to him for pointing the camera in the right direction, no easy task for someone as devoid of talent as he is. Utter, utter garbage. "},{"Title":"The bad kind of 90s action flick","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a typical 90s Hollywood action blockbuster simple plot, big   explosions, net down (see note 1 of this Grantland article for a good   definition of playing with the net down), and big-name actors.   Unfortunately too many of the big-name actors in 90s action movies   were barely actors. Fitness sciences weren't as developed then, so a   diesel body could land you big roleseven if your acting ability was   suspect. Nowadays, a talented actor can put on 30 pounds of lean muscle   to play an action hero. Therefore, I'd much rather watch a modern,   more-intelligent, well-researched, more-realistic, better-special-   effects-enhanced action movie, starring more talented actorsalthough I   am a sucker for Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone films,   because no matter how bad those guys' acting was, they'll always be   awesome to me. Van Damme and Lundgren don't have the same charisma,   however, and Walker was just plain annoying in this movieI liked her   much more in Sons of Anarchy.    Also, some 90s action flicks made up for bad stories, acting, etc. with   great martial arts. Unfortunately, the fight scenes in Universal   Soldier were unimpressive, as well.     "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the greatest sci-fi movie of all time.","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Possibly one of the greatest sci-fi movie of all time. It has both explosive action mixed in with humor without over playing either. Dolph Lungren (tragically this was one of his last big movies) did make me laugh with his Quentin Tarantino humor while still being one of the more scary and sick villains. Jean-Claude Van Damme is perfect for the hero against Lungren. It's always interesting how the small guy in the movie always beats up the bigger guy, like the Napoleon complex. This was the first Van Damme film I ever bought when the Special Edition version was released on DVD and I am proud to say it was worth the money I paid for it. "},{"Title":"Born Universal Action !!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Earlier comment by some IMDb memberJean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren star as two soldiers that were actually killed in Vietnam but are kept alive by the U.S. military and regenerated to become types of super soldiers. It is as dumb as it sounds. Anyway Lundgren starts to create havoc all over the desert and it is up to Van Damme to stop him in this laughable action film that looks cheap and rushed. The screenplay is corny and the direction is near non-existent. 2 stars out of 5.And my reply Where have you been living mate. The movie is from 1992 and Roland didn't make any cheap ass movie like you are assuming. For all of you, this is pure action like you are used to get from Van Damme and Lundgren.8/10 Superb.  "},{"Title":"The Amnesia Marathon Episode 2 Universal Soldier. Real Summary The ultimate weapons of the future have just declared war on my brain","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OH MY GOD OH MY GOD these are the words that are sugarcoating my opinion about Universal Soldier now I have seen my share of Roland Emmerich movies and after this I will NEVER watch another one so long Independence Day goodbye 2012 and adiós to Godzilla this is him at his worst now who would I recommend this to either Michael Bay fans, these gay guys and women who want to see Jean-Claudde Vanne Damme naked (don't get surprised it's directed by Emmerich) and people who like to see Lungren kicking the crap out of dead bodies saying get up if you however are not one of these people I say BEWARE BEWARE your brain and eyes will sting when you reach the halfway mark now I am going to my third stop I can barely hold this togetherEdit 1 out of 3 People found this review useful... are the 2 clicking no Dolph Lungren or Jean-Claudde Vanne Damme by any chance? or are computer mouses failing more and more? "},{"Title":"Great bad guy, one-liners and action scenes.","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The story isn't all that original and is reminiscent of Terminator and many other movies, but who cares? It's Dolph vs. Jean-Claude Van Damme and it has one of my favourite fight scenes in the history of cinema. Dolph's bad guy death is the greatest of all time You're discharged Sarge.It marked the beginning of the ascent for the mighty Roland Emmerich/Dean Devlin combo, as they showed their love of B-grade science fiction (dead soldiers brought back to life to fight!) with an assured hand at both carnage and comedy. Van Damme shines as a lethal innocent, a side to his acting that really helped to set him apart from the ever invulnerable likes of Seagal and Schwarzenegger. There's a genuinely sweet sense of naivety to Luc Deveraux, marked with the existential tragedy of being a man out of his own time, which makes his plight even more compelling, especially knowing that he was killed for trying to do the right thing. I hold that it's the same quality that makes Jet Li so great in the likes of Unleashed, but it's a role that really helped to humanise and differentiate Van Damme from the crowd. I'd be remiss not to mention the mighty Lundgren, too, as deranged Andrew Scott (a man, it seems, who just won't stay dead), who fills the running time with endless quotes that I'm still partial to impersonating, from Do you hear me? to It's empty! It's Dolph's greatest performance, and the sheer mania, combined with his penchant for necklaces made of body parts, is just superb. "},{"Title":"Universal Entertainment","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The subject of this film production is interesting, the idea is clear, the entire plot unfolds logically, Roland Emmerich brings talent and creativity to this film; soldiers killed in the Vietnam War are resurrected to become super soldiers trained to kill terrorists; but two of them recovered memory. Luc Deveraux is a Universal Soldier, manages to remember his former life, this man wants to go home and meet her parents, will have the help of journalist Veronica Roberts; Universal Soldier the other is Andrew Scott, this man is a psychopath, is obsessed with war, Scott does not realize that the world changed, Luc is aware that the world is different, Veronica and Luc seek answers to the situation.During the course of events, we see chases, shootings, deaths, the action scenes are nicely filmed; all performances of the cast is excellent, Jean-Claude Van Damme and Ally Walker have great chemistry, the fight scene between Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren is brutal; this is an action movie and science fiction spectacular.The action scenes of the desert is perfect; the beginning of the film is dramatic, the fight scene in the restaurant is great, when Universal Soldiers kill terrorists film cleverly sets intense; Emmerich knows how to film action scenes; Ally Walker is beautiful and nice, Van Damme gives sensitivity to his character, Lundgren does just fine as a villain; Luc is a character who tries to adapt to a new world, lost many years of his life, and he needs his family, Andrew is insane, this man is addicted to death, war is their world and never exceeded; Veronica is irreverent, it is the hope of Luc. This movie is wonderful. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Soldier Gone Rogue!!","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier is the story of Luc Deveraux/GR44 (Jean-Claude Van Damme) & Andrew Scott/GR13 (Dolph Lundgren). They kill each other in the Vietnam War, but are revived by the government as universal soldiers. Soldiers that are capable of having awesome strength and if they die, they can be resurrected. The only problem is that they have feelings and memories, so when Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) is about to die, Luc goes rogue and helps this girl out, and she helps him get home. Good plot, good acting by the part of Van Damme and Lundgren. This action film is very interesting how the events develop, and of course it has Van Damme's moves and well as Lundgren's. "},{"Title":"Superb action film.","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Action genre superstars Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren headline this slick, high tech thriller that, refreshingly, does have a sense of humour about itself without resorting to a lot of self-conscious jokes. The muscle men play Luc Deveraux and Andrew Scott, two soldiers who were serving in Vietnam when they had an ugly confrontation that resulted in their deaths. Almost a quarter century later, they're reborn as super human fighting machines created as part of a secret government operation (naturally). Problems arise when both of them have their old memories triggered, and remember that they hated each other. So the fight is on! Director Roland Emmerich, who's been pretty consistent since with his handling of mega budget escapism (Stargate, Independence Day, 2012, etc.), makes this a good deal of fun. Hell, it's got a dream cast for an action fan, even if some of the actors present don't get to do too much. Among Van Damme and Lundgrens' fellow Universal Soldiers (or UniSols, if you will) are Ralf Moeller (Gladiator), Tommy 'Tiny' Lister (No Holds Barred), Simon Rhee (Best of the Best), and Eric Norris (Chucks' son). Ally Walker is both beautiful and perfect for the genre with her energetic portrayal of the feisty female tagalong who attempts to help Luc; also among the strong supporting cast are Ed O'Ross (Arnolds' nemesis in Red Heat), Leon Rippy ('Deadwood', 'Saving Grace'), and Tico Wells (Trespass). Van Damme is likable as always, and Lundgren gets a chance to really chew the scenery, especially in his one big emoting scene where he admonishes the stunned onlookers in a supermarket. This scene, unlike any other, shows that nobody is pretending to take any of this very seriously. The script not surprisingly calls for Van Damme to remove his clothes, so there is some eye candy for some viewers. Production design (by Holger Gross) and cinematography (by Karl Walter Lindenlaub) are excellent, the enormous van in which the UniSols travel is pretty bad ass, and the action is first rate, especially the climactic chase scene and the final fight which is atmospherically done. This has become quite the franchise, with several sequels having been released over the years, and it remains a solid entertainment 20 years later. Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"If you haven't yet seen it (or haven't watched it in a long while), see Universal Soldier!","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Back in 'Nam, soldier Luc Deveraux (Van Damme) met and became mortal enemies with the sinister fellow soldier Andrew Scott (Lundgren). Luc objected to Scott's killing of civilians, and in the ensuing brouhaha, they end up killing each other. Or so we think. In 1992, they, along with other former soldiers have been turned by the government into Universal Soldiers, or Unisols for short. They are part man, but part machine as well, and have been programmed to follow orders emotionlessly. But slowly both Luc and Andrew start to regain more and more of their humanity. Luc escapes the compound with reporter Veronica Roberts (Walker) - but Andrew is not happy about that. So now Luc and Veronica are on the run, with Andrew chasing them everywhere they go and causing a lot of mayhem along the way. Old grudges die hard as the final fight proves. What will happen? Universal Soldier is a classic from the golden age of action in America. This was a time from the late 80's to early 90's when movies like this went to the theater and had decent budgets behind them. And this in particular was such a success that is spawned four (soon to be five as of this writing) sequels. But the high quality of this production goes a long way and is nice to see, especially in light of the brutal violence and constant, messy head shots which are usually reserved for lower-budget outings.But, beyond the violence, there are some interesting messages at work. One is that humanity will always remain in us and is stronger than any outside force. Despite all that has happened to them, Luc is still good and Andrew is still evil. The movie also tries to make modern-day parallels to their 'Nam experiences. Funnily enough, there's a (probably inadvertent) pro-steroid message, as characters get stronger and win fights after they inject a chemical into themselves. Besides Van Damme and Lundgren together at last, we shouldn't forget Ralf Moeller is on hand as well. That's right, Brakus himself plays a Unisol. Now that's an amazing power-trio if there ever was one. As if that wasn't impressive enough, Tommy 'Tiny' Lister and Simon Rhee also play Unisols. Of course, the whole program was developed by Lennie - i.e. Jerry Orbach - who really doesn't get a lot of screen time. Ally Walker as the classic know-nothing reporter who serves as some kind of audience identification is okay, not great. But Dolph puts in a rare animated performance and seems to relish being the super-evil baddie here.While the movie follows a very definite formula, there's also plenty of humor so the proceedings don't get too dour. Part of that, presumably, is the surprising amount of un-asked-for, unneeded Van Damme nudity. But the Unisols are kept in cold storage like so many hot dogs, and their eyepiece resembles an evil monocle, adding to their scary appearance. It's also amusing to see Belgians and Swedes fighting in the Vietnam War...but come to think of it, this movie can really be summed up in three words Necklace Of Ears.Just get some action stars and a solid budget and entertainment will ensue. If only Hollywood kept on this path, but sadly they didn't. If you haven't yet seen it (or haven't seen it in a long while), see Universal Soldier.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"An Underrated Action Classic","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's quite underrated here and in general movie opinion. It's got all the excellent action requirements; off-your-seat fast-paced scenes, some blood, some humor and good screen-play. As far as the acting is; well it is quite poor. Van Damme is in it, so what do you expect? Besides that, Its got quite an intelligent script behind all the cameras, and they executed right in the movie. The average Van Damme fan will like this movie, as we get to again see his full-filled material arts and some of his un-funny, funny humor if that makes any sense. In general it's an underrated action classic that began to set-foot in Van Damme's acting career. "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude Van Damme	Vs. Dolph Lundgren","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the bests Jean-Claude Van Damme's movies. Ignore the rating, it's so low because of the people who hate movies, this movie is great. The plot was great, maybe it doesn't look so original nowadays, but it's because many similar movies were made. The action sequences were great and I really liked that comical fighting scene in a bar. There are usually a colorful villain in Jean-Claude Van Damme's movies, this time it's played by Dolph Lundgren, and he is incredible in this film. This movie proofs what a great actor he is. I really think that this is the best role Dolph Lundgren ever had, or at least one of the bests. Ally Walker did also a great job, her character was kinda comical, what is a necessary element in action movies. "},{"Title":"A great action movie","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a brilliant action film, with brilliant action sequences. It a shame action movies from today aren't made like this. OK the story is a bit ludicrous but i think they do a good job and they defiantly got the lead roles right using Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundren. They did a really good job being tough. The fights scene were good between the both of them, especially the end fight. I thought that was brilliant. I really like the chase when Dolf Lundren was chasing JCVD in the jail truck. That was very good and ended very well. It's a shame both action stars don't make as good as films as this any more, because if they did i'm sure they would be up there with the action stars.I found this film very enjoyable and they always had brilliant action sequences to keep you occupied. They weren't too long or too short with was good. This is a must see for you action fans out there. You will enjoy all the action sequences they have to offer in this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universal Soldier is one of the greatest action sci-fi movies I've seen and with Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren it makes the film even more good.The Universal Soldier gear is really sci-fi looking and great, the eye gear is one think I love about the suits plus the Armor itself.The action is some good stuff with the shooting and the fighting, both being Martail Artists makes the fight scene seem more real. The acting is good, the guys playing the Univerasl Soldiers really make it work.Universal Soldier is one of those action classics like Terminator 2 that has a good plot and action. If you like action films like Terminator 2 then you should check this one out. "},{"Title":"Quality Film","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think this film is quality, and i pity the fools who gave this film a s**t rating, Jean kicks ass i mean no1 can touch him, he would discharge any of u ass holes who disrespected this film. And thats all i gotta say about that! Your discharged sargeAnd i have not put enough lines on here but there nothing else i can say about this film apart from that the film is awesome and i think this film should have a higher rating than the public has given it. I still have not taken up all the lines at the moment so I'm jus chattin a lot of crap now dint really think the sequel was that good did make me laugh but goldberg being in it made me laugh she cannot act what a fu*kin looser "},{"Title":"watchable Van Damme film","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw most of this movie on TBS Superstation and I thought it was one of the better Van Damme film's.  A lot of the acting in this movie was not very good, considering that Van Damme and Lundgren are pretty bad actors, and the performances from Ally Walker, Ed O'Ross, and Jerry Orbach were decent but not their best.  What this movie does have is some solid action scene's, particularly the chase involving the bus and the soldiers truck.  It also had some decent fights and shootouts.  I personally think this film lacks originality, borrowing from both ROBOCOP and TERMINATOR.  Both those films are better than this, but this movie is still enjoyable for action fans.  3/5 "},{"Title":"Doesnt get any better than this..","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Are you an action fan? If so, then this is the movie for you. Not the best actors around, but good enough, Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren do deliver the goods with this movie. Van Damme(at the top of his game in this) plays Luc, a Vietnam veteran brought back to life by a secret service to become one of many Universal Soldiers(UniSols). Dolph Lundgren plays Andrew Scott, a Sargeant in Nam who is also brought back to life to become a UniSol. Both men start to have flashbacks of there brutal deaths, which were at the hands of eachother. From here on its an all out two man war waged between Van Damme and Dolph. Van Damme does a good job at making you root him on and Dolph does an excellent job at being a villain, his charachter has lost it..this was Dolph's best movie and could have possibly been Van Damme's best too. A good action movie with all the ingrediants. "},{"Title":"As JCVD movies go, this is one of the very best.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Perfect VanDammeness. He's a reanimated corpse, so that explains away the jerky acting and monotone delivery of lines. He loves his country (even though he's from Canada, or is it Paris? Or maybe Brussels? Who can tell?), he loves his family and he doesn't mind taking off his clothes. All the while battling Ivan Drago with an ear-necklace. This movie is pure *genius* and will always remain one of my firm favourites. The bar brawl is a must see moment.  "},{"Title":"Movie Sucked","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only good part of the movie was the first 20 minutes of it.!!!Possible Spoilers!!!! And the thought of preserving and then reanimating corpes from the 60's is laughable. I doubt man will ever have that kind of technology. We still don't have the technology to cure the common cold let alone reanimate the dead. !!!!!!SPOILERS!!!!why the hell would the army house this technology in a trailer that had almost no perimeter security? Like i said before The only good part of this movie was the first 20 minutes of it, When they took out all those terrorist's. From then on the movie was awful "}{"Title":"What happens when you get two B-movie actors together?","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've often wondered about this film, its meant to be a serious action movie. Yet every time I watch it, I don't know whether to laugh, cry or just switch off whenever it comes on the TV.Not only do we get Jean Claude Van Damme, we also get king of B-movie action, none other than, Dolph Lundgren.The plot has some company or the government re-creating lost souls/soldiers from Vietnam and giving them birth as unstoppable soldiers or a super delta squad.  Which is great, because you get to see the super special forces run down dams, take out terrorists and save hostages with NO emotion...Anyway, Van Damme escapes after having a nightmare, and awakes from the confinds of the Government's programming - remembering that Lundgren is the evil bad guy (which he plays pretty darn well) and he must run...who knows where, he's just running - (and so is the plot - running out of steam that is), and we've got an annoying reporter type woman who has to get the story AT ANY COST..After this point, Lundgren wakes up, takes control of the Uni-Sols and reeks revenge on Van Damme...By this point, the whole purpose of a Uni-Sols / Super Delta Squad is thrown out of the window, indeed the whole plot is thrown out of the window and we get down to boring action sequences and little character definition.This is the weakest action movie I've ever saw...its pretty hammy, its fun at the start - but it degrades into mindless action nonsense before too long and you wonder why you sat through the film in the first place.You'll probably enjoy it, but on the second viewing you'll probably hate it for its weakness in direction, script and good, solid action sequences.Overall 4/10 "},{"Title":"not the best action movie ever.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *sorry for spelling misstakes* This is one of Jean Claude van Damme's best movies ever, and Dolph Lundgren's best movie ever. I think that the plot is kind of good and the script isn't so good. *warning a little spoiler* 1.Shouldn't luc's(Jean Claude van Damme)parent's be much more happier,or they wouldn't believe it because they was told that he was dead?? 2.I hate this in every action movie that when Luc(Jean Claude van damme) got shot in the leg , he stands up and starts walking and shooting.(this is in the beginning of the  movie) Everybody think's that teenagers only like action movies with explotions, gun's and stuff, but it isn't so(exept maybe they who are brain dead).I am not like that at all, i can see almost every movie. I give this movie 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good, fun action film","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13Scott, played by Dolph Lundgren, went crazy during the Vietnam War, killing innocent people.  When Luc, played by Jean-Claude Van Damme, went along to stop him, they both killed each other.  However, in the present, they are resurrected as Universal Soldiers, near-perfect warriors who combat terrorists.  Veronica, played by Ally Walker, follows the Universal Soldiers back to their base, where her cameraman is killed.  Luc has flashbacks, changes sides and helps Veronica escape.  But Scott also has flashbacks and makes it his mission to get rid of Luc.This film is filled with some great action sequences, and is Van Damme's best film that I've seen.  The acting isn't that great, but it doesn't need to be, as the main roles are emotionless warriors.  The action is incredibly fun, and I recommend this film, but not to people who can't stand too much violence.  The final showdown at the ending is fantastic and it caps off a good, fun action film well.Australian Classification R 18+ Medium Level ViolenceRating 71 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Don't waste your hard earned money!!!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well let me say this, when Dolph Lundgren is the best actor in the movie you know your in for a treat! How on earth did this piece of crap get made anyway. These are the reasons I didnt like this movie 1. The acting stinks so bad that the kids on Barney have a better chance of winning an Oscar! 2. The plot makes no sense whatsoever! Some key parts in the movie look like they were wrote by one of my 3 year old children!  3. The dialogue makes you want to wonder if you got the version for people who have problems with comprehending words that are longer than two syllables. The finale battle of the ... the... whatever they are looks like something from Power Rangers. And whats up with this Uni Sol thing! It sounds like the name of an air freshener or a toilet. No folks this is not a great or good or entertaining or fun movie. Its just pure crap!  "},{"Title":"Two super soldiers into one won't go!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When this action pic came out in '92, it seemed an obvious effort to emulate the 2nd Terminator pic of the previous year, right from the previews. Both in tone and subject (action spliced with some sci-fi), the picture does a good job of copying James Cameron. In a way, if you copy Terminator 2, you can't really go wrong - at worst you end up with a slightly pale imitation. It was also a minor casting coup to get Van Damme squaring off against Lundgren; those two both peaked in their careers as action stars around this point. Both also give better-than-expected performances (in other words, better than awful), injecting some needed humor, so that Ally Walker didn't have to carry that part all by herself. Lundgren, in particular, seems to be enjoying himself. Though there's some cartoon-style violence, there's also enough bloodshed that Lundgren poses a real threat at some points - he really does look like someone who can snap your neck too easily. But getting back to the violence, it veers sideways a bit in the climactic fight; I heard they re-shot this to extend it and give it more 'oomph' but it's still the weakest portion of the picture, full of clichés, like Van Damme standing up in slow-mo after he's supposedly had it. But it does have a strong beginning, carrying vestiges of the Vietnam War, and you get a slight chill when the 2 dead soldiers are reintroduced in modern times. And when they zip up those body bags in Vietnam, seeming to close the story on the 2 before it even begins, you may think, this could be good. It kind of was. "},{"Title":"If only Dolph Lundgren were a mute.","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As far as Jean-Claude Van Damme movies go (which usually range from average to awful), this is one of his best.  Still, it's only an average actioner, if an enjoyable one.Van Damme's troubled super-soldier doesn't say much, which is a good thing, as Van Damme has never been much good with dialogue.  He actually pulls off some rather good character moments, especially when he is learning how much he enjoys eating.Ally Walker's heroine is pretty annoying but calms down halfway through the picture and becomes more likeable.  The comic relief locals who own the various ill-fated pit stops on our heroes' fugitive road trip are downright unbearable.  I was just waiting for them to be turned into collateral damage.As for Dolph Lundgren, he will forever remain a wannabe action star.  The man has no charisma, and he's a few big clicks below Schwarzenegger and other tough guys at delivering one-liners.  If he'd kept his mouth shut in this movie, he'd have come off as a more menacing, less laughable villain, and the movie as a whole would've been that much better.There are some truly cheesy moments in this movie, as in all of Emmerich's sci-fi work, and it suffers from the usual Nam-flashback cliches, but it's worth seeing at least once.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent B-Level Action Film","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" How you view this film may depend on expectations. Compared straight up to other films, it is highly derivative (very reminiscent of RoboCop and the Terminator films, for starters), and its attempt to meld action with some humor, a la Schwarzenegger, tends to fall flat, especially since Van Damme is so completely lacking in charisma (somewhat surprisingly, Lundgren does a little better in this regard).However, if you compare it to many B-level action films, it's really not that bad, maybe even better than most in that category. Van Damme can only be helped being cast (basically) as a robot, even though he still can't hold a candle to Schwarzenegger in that regard. If you're looking to kill time, you could do much worse. "},{"Title":"Two minutes in and the two lead 'characters' are dead. Sadly this doesn't last.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Health warning. If you read the following plot very quickly it might make sense. But it should be treated like quicksand. If you stop you'll be drawn down into the murky depths of idiocy. Now take a deep breath...The ever-devious US military has been collecting the still-warm corpses of its own Vietnam dead and then re-animating them with super powers (which any mad scientist would tell you is never a good idea). By injecting these zombies with some glow in the dark goo they conveniently forget everything and can be unleashed to defend freedom, democracy and bad plots everywhere. Jean Claude van Damme plays the hero who has to save a plucky reporter (Ally Walker) from the attentions of the US military and a rogue colleague played by Dolph Lundgren. After an interminable series of chases it all ends up as a nasty zombie versus zombie versus combine harvester fight.You can breathe again now.If you hadn't guessed, they passed on the original title of 'Zombie Commandos From Hell' and called them Universal Soldiers - a title so unwieldy that they are referred to throughout as Unisols.Unisol? That isn't very scary; it sounds more like a haemorrhoid preparation. Which might just come in handy.If it had been a B-feature made on a tiny budget 'Universal Soldier' could have been played for fun. With a witty script and some sly in-jokes the whole thing could have become a camp classic. Unfortunately it is an incredibly po-faced film with no sense of humour - about itself or its cast. And it is dumb - even for an action movie. No care has been taken with basic plot development or continuity.Our top-secret stealthy commandos go round in a special plane and an even more distinctive truck (one that comes with Transformer-style pop-up sections and a dry-ice machine). Had they painted it green with flowers on the side and named it the Mystery Mobile they couldn't be more obvious. Each Unisol comes with a heads-up camera that appears to show the world through the exciting new medium of Teletext. Despite their super-powers they are sensitive to heat, so they are deployed to a desert wearing padded jackets (Sadly, this does give Jean Claude van Damme the perfect excuse to take his clothes off - again). When Unisols move, they stagger around like the Addams Family butler (and have you noticed how Dolph Lundgren and Lurch could have been separated at birth?), yet underwater they can swim faster than a man can run - AND NOT GET THEIR CLOTHES WET! Incredible stuff!Worst of all, there is a plot hole that is so obvious it is incredible no one noticed during production. Our heroes are trapped at a petrol station, the Unisol truck drives up, EVERYONE gets out of the truck and starts looking for them. Do our heroes (a) get into the cab of the truck and drive off leaving their enemies safely behind, or (b) go into the back of the Mystery Mobile and start looking for clues?Hint don't choose (a).'Universal Soldier' is the freakish result of some genetically engineered script writing.  A demonic plan was unleashed to graft the undemanding half of 'Frankenstein' to an even less-demanding part of 'Terminator', all Carolco needed were two suitable leads to play the walking dead. They picked Jean-Claude van Damme and Dolph Lundgren. With the exception of the remarkable height difference between the two leads (and we are talking about at least a foot!) this has to be perfect casting.Unfortunately dream casting can't help a fatally flawed movie. It is a sad fact that it is very difficult to make zombie characters interesting; without any common reference the audience has no emotional involvement with the story. Zombies have largely been restricted to shambling around the woods chewing on teenagers; perhaps wisely no one has seriously considered them starring in a period piece opposite Kate Winslet or a romantic comedy with Meg Ryan ('When Harry Ate Sally' anyone?).There are two ways to make such characters interesting. One is to give them a tiny facet of humanity - the scene in Frankenstein where he meets the blind man, or the relationship between the Terminator and the child John Conner show how this can be pulled off successfully. The second is to play them as ruthless machines, bent on destruction (Terminator first time round).There is none of that in this movie, and it manages to miss both solutions. The attempted relationship between the newly human van Damme and Ally Walker is undermined by having him suddenly regain all his memories and playing the part of a normal human being with a Pinnochio complex. The man-child role is a challenging one for skilled actors, in the hands of someone less talented it is embarrassing. Want to guess what it is here?The second part is undermined by not keeping the bad guy as an unthinking machine. Lundgren's character suddenly regains his psychotic personality. This is clearly someone suffering from a medical problem, not the usual two-dimensional movie killer. A clever plot (think Frankenstein (the book)) might want to try and resolve the problem by playing on the human part of the character; a bad plot would have him kicked to death and chopped to pieces. Want to guess again?The second problem is the casting. Obviously Carolco couldn't afford the salaries demanded by Schwarzenegger and Stallone, so they had to pick from the B-squad, and it shows. van Damme rolls through this movie on the twin charms of having puppy dog eyes and showing his backside. Lundgren emotes his role with all the charm of a run-down Speak and Spell machine. (Which is odd, because when I've seen Dolph Lundgren interviewed he's witty and charming; but put him in front of the movie camera and you're wondering if someone has forgotten to flick the 'ON' switch).Individually they are painful to watch; together - excruciating.It's not a complete loss on the performance front; if you watch very carefully you'll see that Ally Walker is in fact acting (and stands out a mile for doing so). Her lines are ludicrous, her character is painfully underdeveloped but Walker does a reasonable job of trying to play a halfway-realistic character. Sadly what starts off as an independent, successful woman is quickly reduced to bimbette status screaming on the sidelines. So much for feminism.Is there anything else to recommend this movie. No, not really, there is a neat abseiling stunt near the beginning and lots of stuff blows up, but for the first time in my life I would have to admit that not nearly enough stuff blows up.Universal Soldier's greatest contribution to movie history has to be that it helped sink Carolco. Cinema audiences stayed away in droves from this charmless production and it is perhaps best remembered for the desperate publicity 'fight' between Lundgren and van Damme at Cannes. The franchise spawned some sequels with ever decreasing budgets. The directors, Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin went on to make two even worse, but somehow more successful movies - 'Stargate' and 'Independence Day'. The two leads descended to the bottom shelf of your local video store never to return. Ally Walker sadly vanished from our screens and you still can't buy cans of Unisol.'Universal Soldier' is best watched on a long cold winter's night when you don't want to go to bed and there is nothing else on television.But then again, have you considered taking up astronomy?  "},{"Title":"great action,clever writing,great one liners=one great movie","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" this movie really impressed me.it's clever,well written,and funny.it also has some great,memorable one liners.oh,there's also a ton of action.putting Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren in the same movie really works.add in the beautiful bombshell Ally walker and you have a really,really great film.this is so far my favourite Van Damme film.i really had a blast watching this thing.Van Damme even shows some acting ability.some of the expressions on his face and his deadpan delivery were very funny.Lundgren had quite a few funny one liners,and did OK in the acting dept.Ally Walker was also funny at times.some of the fight scenes are pretty good,too.normally,i don't expect a lot from a Van Damme flick,but i have to give the filmmaker's credit for this one.the crafted a great movie.i can find no fault with this movie.it's just so entertaining.maybe i'm crazy,but Universal Soldiers gets a 10/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Universal silly story!","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier has one point of curiosity Van Damme and Lundgren, action films standouts, working together. So, even if you're not an action film fan you will be curious to see the result of this explosive encounter. But that's only the remarkable point here because the movie is just a sucession of violent scenes, shallow dialogue and even the possible chemistry between the two leads doesn't clik. The special effects are good for a movie of medium budget like this one and the premise of the plot is interesting although not well developed. I give this a four (4). "}{"Title":"Two action stars doesn't mean this movie is any good","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Oh, Jean Claude van Damme and Dolph Lundgren in the same movie, you say? That's gotta be cool, or what? Maybe that sounds great, but I can tell you that it wasn't. First of all, the plot in this movie is very weak and uninteresting. It's about two soldiers (Yes, van Damme and Lundgren) who got killed in Vietnam. Now, they're brought back to life as semi-robots or something like that. The whole movie is an example of a rather bad action/sci-fi-movie. There are not enough action in this movie in my opinion. A long and really boring drama-sequence takes part in the middle. And for the last scene, well, I have seen it at hundred times before, and it's not very good. "},{"Title":"Dumb fun.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Universal Soldier plays like a low-rent version of Terminator 2, and it's a fun film, if your expectations aren't too high. The script is both dumb and relentlessly predictable, but it does give Van Damme a few good lines. Lundgren may be an untalented actor, but he has an terrifying physical presence, and the movie makes good use of it. Their final showdown is dynamic, if unclear at times. An OK pic. "},{"Title":"HA!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Typical brainless star vehicle... just so BAD! I got the biggest kick watching the leads attempt to make some sort of chemistry between them, and the lame direction... "},{"Title":"Grim , idiotic and joyless trash action from the 90's","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERSThis is REALLY poor man's Robocop or Terminator , with no sense of style , substance , intelligence or fun that appear in those classic science fiction movies. Directed and written by Roland Emmerich - one of the worst movie makers in history - what could you expect ? The fact that for some people this is a great classic action movie really tells you about their bad taste and questionable intelligence.The story has no depth or humanity . Unlike Murphy's story in Robocop it doesn't go anywhere . The Lundgren character could have been a tragic one instead he is wasted as one dimensional villain. Don't also expect any substance here. The story is just a excuse for the action scenes. If this was a B class movie , the whole cheesy story could be made with irony and for fun. It could have been a cult movie. Unfortunately this trash takes itself TOO SERIOUSLY from the beginning to the end. It is an incredibly grim film with no sense of humor - in it or about itself. And it is dumb - even for an action movie. A great action movies also have sometimes dumb moments , but there is a thin line between acceptable mistakes and pure idiocy. Few examples of complete disregard for audience intelligence  - Universal soldiers are SECRET weapons of US army , so they are traveling in special plane and truck that even blind would see -Universal soldiers can hit a guy people in the head from 500 meters with a silenced pistol, but miss the hero when they shoot him with machine guns at five meters range. - Universal soldiers move slower than zombies , yet underwater they can swim faster than a man can run and NOT get their clothes wet ! - Universal soldiers are sensitive to heat , so they are wearing padded jackets - A journalist simply walks in the secret military complex - Van Damme would rather steal an used car than army truck - Army leaves a truck with no protection at all - Lundgren knows in which car EXACTLY he should hide -Van Damme can't remember how to eat , but he knows how to buy a bus ticketThe acting is horrible. Ally Walker is just bad as the cliché independent journalist . Van Damme and Lundgren are tolerable to watch when they are in form. Here they are given a difficult roles , that would have been a challenge for REAL actors ( man child with Pinocchio complex and killing machine). They are just painful to watch.Emmerich's direction is terrible , completely flat , failing to create even a speck of tension or excitement. The final fight is terribly cliché. The humor is clumsy and cringe worthy , worthy of a village moron. Avoid it . It's a total trash only for action movie junkies. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Best Van Damme Quote in ANY Movie!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently caught this movie again off the satellite, and was reminded how delightfully bad it is.  It does have its share of good one-liners, as any respectable film of this genre must have.  The best quote must be that of Luc (Jean-Claude) when he's pigging out (and concurrently kicking some serious trucker ass) at the roadside cafe I just want to eat!  To claim that the characters (Vietnam casualties reanimated into super-GIs) in this movie are one-dimensional is gracious.  If Luc's mantra in this movie is Make lunch, not war, then that of his nemesis Scott (played by action buffs' favorite Scando, Dolph Lundgren) is Lend me your ears.  Don't expect him to return them anytime soon...Here's a tip  if you're looking for some bad, boys-night-out drive-in fodder, Universal Soldier might fit the bill (although you may find it ranks disappointingly low in the T&A column).  If, however, you're looking for a serious movie - with clandestine Vietnam-era plots of making more efficient human killing machines - definitely check out Jacob's Ladder.  Both are frightening movies, in their own ways. "},{"Title":"Please help us God","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No words can really explain this movie excepted for REALLY SHOCKING, there is no acting involved, a very weak story, the only good thing about the movie is that it successfully puts you to sleep from 100mins of boredem "},{"Title":"Way too stupid, even for a Lundgren film.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Even dumb action films should have standards. This one has all the clichés. The bubble-headed bleached blonde reporter is insensitive and incapable of seeing things that are clear to any audience member above six years of age. The mercenary techs who run and maintain the zombie soldiers are cold and unfeeling, but when their creations turn on them they get all fearful and whining.But the following, which I guess you could call a SPOILER, is an indication that nobody did their homework when putting together the script...The Unisol project is supposed to be top-secret, and in fact not approved by any civilian or military authority. So how is it that Bimbette, the female presence in the movie, is reporting on the rescue operation that starts the film? Since this is a successful military unit (given the times, perhaps the only successful one) why didn't the President, or any of the Joint Chiefs, or anybody wonder where this unit came from and what was happening in it? Don't they watch the news, too?There are lots of action movies like this one, admittedly without even the B-list beefcake that was this film's major promotion factor. But they're more logical than this hunk of cheese. Many filmmakers work in these films, hoping to prove their worth to direct better films. That Carolco spent so much money on this, without having anyone check the plot for gaping holes, may be one reason the company went under. "},{"Title":"Universally Mediocre.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren star as two soldiers that were actually killed in Vietnam but are kept alive by the U.S. military and regenerated to become types of super soldiers. It is as dumb as it sounds. Anyway Lundgren starts to create havoc all over the desert and it is up to Van Damme to stop him in this laughable action film that looks cheap and rushed. The screenplay is corny and the direction is near non-existent. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Erase this from your memory","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I read all the great comments about UNIVERSAL SOLDIER and i don't agreed. For me this movie could a great science fiction-action flick and is not. The performance by Van Damme and Lundgren are pathetic and the plot is original but totally predictable. I admire the career of Roland Emmerich; he have a great imagination but with films like ID4 and STARGATE I think that this director must forgot this one from his portfolio. If the movie is not bad enough seven years later a group of producers made a sequel; and if you want to make it worst there's two more sequels made for TV.Just like the soldiers in these movies ERASE this from your memory. "},{"Title":"Doffe and Damman","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really dislike this movie. I watched it late one night in Austria, with German dubbing. I doubt it affected my view of the movie. The witty one-liners, the plot twists, the great acting, none of that was lost, I am sure.This is a movie all about action. And action. And action. Did I mention action? Emmerich throws logic, acting and plot out of the window and takes the worst parts of The Terminator. Plot Outline Revived soldiers from Vietnam are used as a task force to combat terrorists. They can hit people in the head from 500 meters with a silenced pistol, but miss the hero when they shoot him with machine guns at five meters range.Explosions occur. Bad guys die. There is a bar brawl. Dolph Lungren displays bad acting. Jean-Claude van Damme displays worse acting. Emmerich laughs at people who buy this movie.That's about what I remember, except when the main bad guy was pierced on a farming tool and the hero made a witty remark, which sadly was lost in the translation.1/10. "}{"Title":"A mess","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie has probably reached fame mostly because it brings together two of the major giants of 1980's action movies Jean-Claude van Damme and Dolph Lundgren. Other than that there is little to be excited about.Luc Deveraux (Jean-Claude) and Andrew Scott (Lundgren) are both part of a secret military project that involves reanimated soldiers. Their dead bodies are put back to life and their brains programmed to be the ultimate soldiers. But it seems not all memories from past lives are gone, and soon there are problems with insubordination.Considering this movie does feature no less than two real action stars there is surprisingly little action going on. Sure there are action scenes in the movie, and a whole lot of quite gory violence. But the adrenaline rush never comes, the pulse never really speeds up. Mostly this is due to poor direction and poor action sequences. The wooden acting of the two main characters fit the movie (they are reanimated corpses after all...) and the story is believable enough in an 80's action flick sort of way. But there is something missing and i don't know what it is.When the movie is over i am left with a feeling of disappointment. This should have been so much more. A classic maybe. But it was not even one of the better movies in it's genre. A lot of noise for almost nothing. I rate this 4/10. "},{"Title":"The Actors Studio Presents...","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Every so often a film comes along that makes Chuck Norris's life's work worthwhile. This is one of those movies.There's so much wood on the screen you could build yourself a log cabin, then set it on fire to take yourself away from the pain that is this flushable excrement.The fight scenes are rubbish, the average 6 year old girl could take either of these pansies, the plot is not even remotely funny, and the worst thing is it could have been a good idea but ended up like so many other mid-nineties action flicks, in the fifty pence bin at your local pound-shop.Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Universal Golfer","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Every now and then i watch an action movie just to see how dull they are. While watching UNIVERSAL SOLDIER i'm now again convinced for - at least - the next two years.It came to my mind that they only made so much obvious goofs in the movie (Logical, Continuity and other errors) that one doesn't have to pay too much attention to the plot itself. IMDb does only list a few of them but there was almost every minute another mistake that it makes you really wonder who could put the story together so woefully. I don't want to make a list (the movie makes me sick thinking about it) but just think about this fact The US Army stations for an unapproved project (so it doesn't get any financiers) undead ice-troops in the middle of the desert but it comes to a personal war of honor and revenge when the before well controlled killing machines follow their own will.Folks, don't trust this movie! "}]