[{"Title":"Steven Seagal's best!!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"63 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far Seagals best film and his only one that you could truly call good. His others range from average to just plain awful, but this is a great action film. Its basically Dies Hard on a boat, but is one of the few successful Die Hard clones. Andrew Davis made this before The Fugitive, and his direction is tense and exciting, whats more he gets Seagals best performance which basically means he is slightly less wooden than usual.The plot revolves around this Battleship which is being taken out of use. On its final run, coinciding with the captains birthday, the ship gets hi-jacked by terrorists who plan to use the nuclear weapons on board. Seagal a former Navy Seal, with more medals than a medal shop, is on board as the ships cook, as this is the only position he can occupy in the ship after he was involved in a military blunder previously. Seagal uses his skills to cause problems for the terrorists as he sets out to stop them, aided by Miss July 89 Jordan The played by the sexy and melon chested Erika Eleniak who is certainly there for her looks ahead of acting ability, she is however a cut above Seagal in the acting department.The action in this is great, Seagals usual Aikido master class is on display as well as some good gun fights, and impressive stunts. Seagal has always had a bit of paunch but he looks a lot fitter than his recent films where he lumbers about, in his earlier films he actually seems in some sort of shape and actually looks tough.Overall this is an entertaining film, Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey are in scene stealing form as the bad guys and Seagal is at the top of his game.  8/10 "},{"Title":"This Seagal Flick Took The Cake","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"54 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was a fast-moving Rambo-style action flick (good guys never get hit despite 10,000 rounds of ammunition fired at them) that was very popular. It spawned a very weak sequel, par for the course. Several reviewers here wrote that it is Steven Seagal's best movie, and I wouldn't argue with that..Under Siege probably was more popular than the normal Segal action flick because of several aspects 1 - the interesting story featuring the lowly cook (as Seagal described himself in this film) beating a bunch of terrorists taking over a U.S. Navy vessel; 2 - the over-the-top villains portrayed by fun-to-watch actors Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey, and 3 - the fabulous looks and body of Erika Eleniak, who pops out of a cake topless in a sight that every guy who saw this film remembers.Jones was just about hitting his acting career peak as he demonstrated the following year with his Oscar-winning performance in The Fugitive. Busey was the opposite, nearing the end of his run after a starring role as singer Buddy Holly made him famous. This film might be Segal's most successful, or at least in the top three. His star has faded since the new century. Eleniak never made it far past the cake. She played Elly May in The Beverly Hillbillies the following year and nothing but 'B' films after that.The first part of this movie is far better than the second. It gets out-of-control by the end, as most of these action films do with the violence overdone and with little credibility. But watching the three leads, and ogling Eleniak, always make this film fun to watch for a little while, at least. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best film","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"48 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this movie a solid ten, and I stick with it. I'm not in particular a fan of Steven Seagal, though I don't arbitrarily hate him like many critics do. In fact, this was the first of his movies I'd seen, and I liked it immediately.For any people expecting this movie to deviate from the usual formula of (1) Seagal is wronged, (2) Seagal becomes killing machine, you'll be disappointed. Almost everything in this movie is to be expected, as Seagal plays his usual tough but lovable good guy who gets pushed just a bit too far and goes into full-on expert martial arts killer to enact revenge. A dozen or so people will die, as many or more limbs will be broken, and Seagal will do it all with as much emotion as a stick. To those expecting more of Seagal's usual stuff, that's what you'll get.But in my opinion, what we also get are some inexplicably high level bad guys for this outing. Although about a decade or two behind today's times (keeping in mind the film itself is a decade and a half old), the two antagonists are the well known actors Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey. While getting on in their age nowadays, these two were some of the most crazed and entertaining actors of the 70s and 80s. Jones is probably best known from The Fugitive, for which he won an academy award, while Gary Busey has done a boatload of famous, not-so famous, and video game voiceover work. Together, these veterans almost steal the show as they chew the scenery and provide Seagal's most colorful and charismatic characters. Busey is a former ship's commander who's willing to drown his crew simply to taunt Seagal, whereas Jones' character used to send body parts to his ex-bosses at the CIA before turning up here.The plot of this movie is that the two aforementioned crazies, with an entire crew of inside tech guys and hired muscle, have overtaken the aircraft carrier USS Missouri, with plans to extort various things from the big guys in Washington with the ship's small but capable arsenal of weapons at their disposal. The catch is that a high-ranking ex-navy seal is on the ship, serving a commuted sentence for misbehavior. Stuck here as the ship's cook, Seagal plays Casey Ryback who must do whatever he can to rally the ship back into responsible hands.Strangely enough, the movie departs in several ways from the regular formula. The aforementioned bad guys are not only one head honcho but two equally ambitious ones, as well as a capable force of a dozen or so armed men. But where one would expect Seagal to be alone, this time the film adds at least a little credibility to the mix Seagal still raises hell, but he also has to get the help of several others stowed on the ship if he's to have any chance in operating its guns and other functions. In a film rooted in implausability, it's at least nice to see old Steve actually running around with some admitted help.The pace is interesting, as the early scenes in the movie set up some beautiful shots of the ship as well as some of its intricate interiors and set pieces. Some characters are the token one-line kills, but then there are some side characters who are given their own personality and a scene or two to take advantage of. Many characters from the aforementioned Fugitive (1993) make returns in this movie, as well as a decent character played by Colm Meaney, who was Miles 'O Brien to Star Trek fans.Probably the only annoying bit of this movie is the female lead, played by Playboy model Erika Eleniak. She does a serviceable job, shows her breasts for a minute like she's expected to, and sometimes comes across as a believable person. But for the most part, she's there to lend support to Seagal, and add a little comic repartee between them. I didn't really mind her until she had a silly turn as hero(ine) for a minute or two.But that's a minor quibble, in a film that I still love as being Seagal's most tight, interesting and energetic. It somehow seems more well written or polished than all his other efforts, and this is no doubt aided by the considerable time that is spent establishing the villains, who I've already noted as being the best Seagal's had to tackle. The sequel to this one was quite a letdown but still fun on its own, but in my opinion the original is Seagal's best and a great choice for those looking for some good old fashioned action heroics "},{"Title":"'Welcome to the revolution!'","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When terrorists decide they need nuclear Tomahawk cruise missiles 'to sell like hot cakes,' they turn to the U.S.S. Missouri, the fastest and most powerful naval force ever to sail the seas... (The Missouri fired the first shots of the Gulf War... Her powerful 16' guns destroyed Iraqi bunkers... Her Tomahawk missiles rocketed deep into the heart of Baghdad.)As luck would have it, Chief Ryback (Steven Seagal) happens to be on board working as 'head cook.' Ryback is seen by all as a 'sorry-looking sailor' but his true identity as an ex-SEAL expert in martial arts, explosives, weapons, and tactics, is the Captain's best kept secret... There's supposed to be a 'surprise' birthday party for the Captain (Patrick O'Neal) but he is shot before he can even show up to the fiesta...The terrorists, a group of professional killers, under the guise of entertainers and musicians, get access to the U.S. battleship by a helicopter cleared to land on the vessel's last voyage by a heavy turncoat officer...Tommy Lee Jones is fabulous as the lunatic Hippie, a former CIA undercover operative, who is for a railing system to offload the missiles onto a submarine they will rendez-vous with...Gary Busey is (Krill) the commander graciously ready to give a 'surprise' to his captain... He is absolutely perfect as the maniac everyone loves to knock him down...Erika Eleniak is the beautiful Playboy centerfold who will knock you off your feet... Erika is hired to jump out topless of the cake and dance...If you like to see your favorite celebrity shooting an evil bad guy in the back, don't miss Andrew Davis' 'Under Siege,' a good entertaining movie, well directed, and very exciting... "},{"Title":"Not great but an enjoyable action movie that is probably one of Seagal's most successful films","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" On board the Navy battleship USS Missouri, a group of terrorists use the rouse of a surprise party for the Captain as an opportunity to take control and start to load up the weapons &#150; specifically tomahawks with nuclear tips. Lead by a bitter rouge CIA agent William Stranix, the group put their plan into action while the military struggles to formulate a fast response. Meanwhile, lowly cook Casey Ryback is locked in the meat locker for disobeying an order by the Commander but manages to get out and have the run of the ship. Luckily for him, but unluckily for the terrorists, Ryback also happens to be a trained Navy SEAL, working as a cook to serve out his time, and he doesn't like his cooking being interrupted by anyone.In the wake of Die Hard we were treated (and still are treated) to lots of reruns of the one man against terrorists scenario and this film was one of the better ones, also providing Steven Seagal with arguably his best film to date. Of course this is not too much of a recommendation given the poor standard of Seagal films and this derivative genre. However, for what it is, it moves pretty slickly and provides lots of men shooting and things going boom which, lets be honest, is all we're really here for. The plot can't compare to Die Hard because it doesn't share the link of the common man being the hero (if you can call John McClane a common man); instead Ryback is a trained killer and the plot quickly loses any vague touch with reality as his fight becomes more and more extreme. The action is still enjoyable though and, while it isn't a classic in the realms of Die Hard, it is still an enjoyable action film in an overdone genre.In terms of acting, nobody could accuse Seagal of being good but at least here he was at the height of his powers in a vehicle that suited him but also had a budget and style to work as a mainstream product. His lack of emotional range shows as he kneels over the body of his dead captain and looks like a man who has just missed his bus &#150; annoyed but not THAT annoyed. However what he does do well is move and shoot &#150; both skills the film has lots of for him to do and physically he is impressive. Eleniak should serve as a warning of the fleeting nature of a-list stardom for those that rely on looks alone. At the time she was the face (?) of Baywatch and on many people's bedroom walls and she plays an actress who is using her breasts to make a living &#150; amazingly she plays it without a hint of irony. Looking back her dated haircut is hilarious and the fact that her breasts are the only thing that I can remember of her entire career to date is quite depressing. Jones and Busey can do crazy bad guys better than many people and they do it well here &#150; especially Jones, who appears to be enjoying himself immensely.Overall this is an enjoyable action film as long as you know what you are getting into &#150; it is not great but it is certainly one of the more enjoyable Seagal films and does manage to be a good entry in the genre and it was no surprise to me that Seagal came back for me in a less successful but equally as silly and enjoyable sequel. "},{"Title":"Fine action film.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal might not be Arnold Schwarzenneger or Bruce Willis, but Under Siege quickly became one of 1992's most successful films, earning Seagal a fine reputation as a good action star. Andrew Davis directed the film about a US Battleship that has been taken over by Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey and it's up to Steven Seagal, whom acts as a chef cook, but is really an Ex-Navy Seal to save the day with the help of the ever sexy Erika Eleniak playing Miss July 1989. Jones and Busey particularly are great as the two villians and the action scenes and karate moves from Seagal are quite well choregraphed with a fine score by Gary Chang. The supportive cast, topped off by Patrick Adams, Colm Mehoney, Nick Mancuso, Andy Romano, Troy Evans, Glenn Morshower, Dennis Lipscomb and Damian Chapa all turn in fine and impressive even humerous performances. Highly recommended for fans of the action genre.  "},{"Title":"Its a FACT","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" FACT 1 - All knives used on the set were donated by Bob Hoskins who at the time held shares in Sheffield cutlery industries.FACT 2 - During the cake scene where the woman arises from the dessert, the actress demanded that the cake did not contain any sugar because of a childhood skin condition.FACT 3 - Seagal was the directors 2nd choice after Van Damme refused due to filming Universal Soldier.FACT 4 - Due to spiralling production costs several of the scenes are actually old archive footage.FACT 5 - Seagal designed his own costume for the movie after several attempts by costume designers failedFACT 6 - Conflict between Lee Jones and Seagal aroze due to Lee Jones' obsession with calling Seagal, Seagull or Mr Seagull whilst leaving fish around his dressing room.FACT 7 - Seagal followed a strict diet of 9 medium raw eggs a day during filming as recommended to him by De Niro after filming Raging Bull "},{"Title":"Seagal's best!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"    This movie is definately Steven Seagal's best movie. This movie is definately worth a look. The supporing cast like Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey make very good villans. Jones did a great job as the half insane mercinary who's in on a plot of hijacking a U.S. Battleship. There are a lot of actors in this one who would appear in director Andrew Davis's next film The Fugitive The action in this movie is great. I think this movie also contains some good cinematography by Frank Tidy. This is not a movie you can take seriously. You have to use your imagination and know it's not real but pretend it is. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Giving bad Naval cooks everywhere a good name","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Segal's greatest movie ever. Bar none. Who could ever have sold the idea of an ex-Navy Seal-turned-cook could ever kick that much butt in any movie. No one. Segal's tongue in cheek performance was great, talking like he had something to prove in just about every line, trying not to crack a smile due to the cracker-jack dialogue that was created for this specific role. Tommy Lee Jones, Colm Meaney and Erika Eleniak were all okay in this film, but Segal was clearly what made this film. What especially made everything enjoyable in this film was the lack of artistry. This was purely for made fo the joke it is, a funny-bad delight that was supposed to impress us with stupid dialogue and big action. Chalk one up for the big guy. "},{"Title":"One of Segal's last stand out films","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Basically Under Siege is Die Hard on a boat. But the direction by Andrew Davis and the martial arts of Segal make this one stand out. Tommy Lee Jones makes a good villain as always. And extra points for Erika for getting naked. "}{"Title":"One of Steven Seagal's best flicks","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I have seen a lot of Steven Seagal's films...a lot of them bad, some fair and in this case really good. It has almost nonstop action, some really great over the top villainy by Gary Busey and the always fun to watch Tommy Lee Jones. The only thing I didn't buy was Elena Eleniak of ET fame as the token female in distress. Though she does save Seagal butt once (to which he responds next you'll be dating musicians. At the end of the flick, he nails her with a kiss. I'm sorry but Steve is old enough to be her dad. They should have gotten an actress in her mid 30's so it wouldn't seem like Stevie was robbing the cradle.Seagal does utter a great line during a climatic scene with Tommy Lee Jones....We're both puppets of the same ungrateful master or something like that. Don't hold it against Seagal that he is usually a one dimensional actor....if you like action movies, you have to see this one. "},{"Title":"Seagal's most enjoyable movie","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" After spending a few years as a martial arts instructor and after starring in some mediocre action flicks (Above the Law, Hard to Kill, Marked for Death), Steven Seagal hit his peak in 1992 with Under Siege that was a box office hit and after this he probably started to get ahead of himself and made a atrocious effort at film directing with On Deadly Ground and after that he was never the same all because of his ego. But we still have this to remember him by when he at his best.It's actually not as bad as I thought it was going to be, but it still has a few flaws. Casey Ryback the lowly, lowly cook might be somewhat interesting since he is the only character played by Seagal that has some humanity in him. This is perhaps most evident in the scene when two of his boys are dancing to hip-hop music and you can tell that's apparently enjoying himself and enjoying that his cooks are having fun. And also the scene when he finds out that perhaps his closest friend, the Captain was killed and gives him a proper respectful memorial of him. And you can tell that he's upset by it. So at least we get to see Seagal in another kind of character besides those annoying wooden performances that he usually puts forth.Tommy Lee Jones as William Strannix is another high point of Under Siege, since even though he's a little over-the-top, he doesn't show any shame, embarrassment or awkwardness for acting that way. He delivers his lines perfectly, but because of the material he was given he wasn't really as threatening as Clarence Boddicker of Robocop, The Joker in The Dark Knight or Anton Chigurgh of No Country for Old Men were. But he was still very entertaining to watch and a very realistic psychopath.Gary Busey as Commander Krill is not really as memorable here and his flame was starting to wear out after his great role as Buddy Holly in the 70's. But if you see two names like Jones and Busey as the 2 bad guys in this, then you gotta know that it's worth watching. Busey still manages to put up some tension with Seagal at the beginning when he keeps harassing him and his cooks. Erika Eleniak is absolutely sexy as the damsel in distress in this and makes an unforgettable scene when she pops out of the cake and goes topless for a few seconds, which all those who fantasize about Playboy girls will remember.The action is obviously the high point here, and Seagal delivers some great martial arts as usual. The fistfights the explosions are really great to look at and the sound may have been a a little bit ahead of its time since it was nominated for 2 Oscars related to only the action genre. The knife fight between Ryback and Strannix is one of the better ones I've ever seen thanks to the music and cinematography. And like a said, its basically a rip-off of Die Hard only that it's set in a different place.When you first hear of this film, you might automatically hate it because of Seagal, but give it a chance and its a good way to kill an hour and 40 minutes. "},{"Title":"Get my pies out of the oven.....","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Casey Ryback is a former Navy SEAL captain who is now the cook aboard the USS Missouri. Everyone aboard is about to celebrate the birthday of Captain Adams.They've even hired a band led by William Strannix, and former playboy playmate Jordan Tate to jump out of a cake and dance.What Adams doesn't know is that he is in for a deadly surprise.Strannix has Adams killed and takes the ship to steal its nuclear missiles, spreading his men, including Commander Krill, throughout the ship, but Strannix and his men are underestimating Casey.Casey is an expert in martial arts, weapons, tactics, and explosives. After crossing paths with Jordan, Casey lets Jordan tag along with him in his mission to stop Strannix...To the non-Seagal fan, this was the best film he ever made. To the fan, this was the beginning of the end of his star power.Thats not dismissing his other films, they all have an endearing place in my heart, but the box office dwindled after this.But this is the best Die Hard homage/rip off, and the production values are great. The story is what you would expect from this type of movie, and it sails along without causing the grey matter any problems.Seagal is good, but the lack of Aikido can be frustrating at times, as is the manner Seagal holds his guns, but he looks like he is enjoying himself and provides a great performance.Lee Jones does what he does bet, as the villain with the sarcastic tone and animated body (see also Blown Away) and Busey and Meany are great foes too.Eleniak steals the momentum from the film, and ruins the pace with her whinging and performance. She is only there for laughs, but never really says anything funny.Davis has made a slick, exciting, taut movie that never lets up on action but leaves a few things unexplained (I wish the Strannix/Ryback back story was elaborated on), but other than that, it's a fun night in and it won't disappoint action fans. "},{"Title":"the high watermark in Steven Segal's career","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" i haven't seen all of Steven Seagal's films,but i am in the process of doing so,mostly in order.some i have seen before,and am re watching for the first time in years.certainly this film ranks as his best to date,that i have seen.the hand to hand combat scenes are very well done here.Seagal's acting is actually pretty good,better than in previous movies,plus he has some great lines.and there are some great supporting players in this one.Gary Busey,Nick Mancuso,Tommy Lee Jones,and Colm Meaney are all stellar.and of course Erika Eleniak is also in the movie,which could be a good or bad thing,depending on your view.anyway,this film is action packed,though not completely original.you could call it Die Hard on A Ship.if you're a Seagal fan,you won't want to miss this one.for me,Under Siege is a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Seagal at his best","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is about as good as it gets. Lone Hero done to its best, if you liked Die Hard or any of the Bruce Lee movies this movie will not disappoint. Tough guy taking on the enemy, outnumbered and out gunned and he is a cook! Ohh now add couple of fantastic bad guys, Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey. And just for some eye candy throw in the luscious Erika Eleniak. This is not some fruity drama or foreign romance&#x85;this is a fighting shooting DUDE movie.This is Seagal's 5th movie and one of his best, he also produced it. Seagal finally had the clout and budget to pull of a great movie with an awesome set and story. Movie is well worth owning and watching with the guys or when you feel like watching a action flick. "},{"Title":"It's Die Hard, on a boat!","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal (Hard to Kill) stars as Casey Ryback, a cook on a US battleship who gets trapped in a storage compartment when terrorists come aboard and take over. Now only Ryback is undetected and can save the lives of his colleagues.In one of his earlier roles, Seagal performs acceptably in a typical action thriller, which reminded me somewhat of Die Hard.With one major setting, and a central character that is sneaking around unnoticed under the enemy's nose, it's John McClane on a boat, though John had more swagger and more personality.Though its filled with clichés, predictability and unrealistic action sequences, Under Siege still keeps viewers hooked on the edge of their seats as new deadly situations arise with a great villain in Stranix, played with great enthusiasm and sophistication by Tommy Lee Jones (The Fugitive).It's a tense film and the whole concept of the take over is great and tense, but is still Die Hard all over in my personal opinion. without the money and the wife The tense action sequences and general idea of the film, plus Tommy Lee Jones equals an entertaining action film which is consistent throughout.Average support is given by Gary Busey and Erika Eleniak, though not very convincing.The action sequences are directed well to create excellent tension and with a cool sophisticated hero in Seagal, the film justifies the genre well.Though as with many action thrillers, there is many close calls which doesn't generate realism but if you like Die Hard then you will either feel cheated by this similar ideology, or will love it.The ending was atrocious with predictability all over from the start and did take the edge off the film a bit for me, but in conclusion, is still an entertaining fast paced worth watching thriller. "},{"Title":"I'm just a cook!!","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" OK, This is the greatest Seagal movie of all time, I mean come on he is a great action star, he plays the part right down to the tee. The action is great and all the actors are wonderful. Steven Seagal is Casey Ryback an ex-Navy Seal who is on board as the captains personal cook. After the ship has set sail for its last voyage the sailors hold a surprise Birthday party for the captain. Tommy Lee Jones plays an ex CIA operative who wants payback on the men who tried to have him killed. If you are looking for excitement and adventure or just a good explosive time, this is the movie for you. If you are a Steven Seagal fan you will love this movie. Just a cook my butt. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest at sea action movies I've ever seen","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the greatest at sea action movies I've ever seen. It really kept me on the edge of my seat. Steven Seagal can really give an action movie a nice touch. However, seeing Jordan (Erika Eleniak) in the nude really grossed me out. The only thing that scared me was when the bad guys were searching for her. If you ask me, Casey (Steven Seagal) was a really tough guy when it came to fighting off villains. I just have to say that Andrew Davis has scored a huge hit. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that the performances were superior, the production design was beautiful, the cast was perfectly chosen, and the costumes were perfectly designed. Now, in conclusion, to all you Steven Seagal fans who haven't seen this great at sea action movie, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The best Steven Seagal movie... ever","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so that's not saying much. Seagal has hardly had a glittering career as far as 'critically acclaimed' movies go. Let's face it... he's a B-movie actor at best (and not always a very good one!). His films normally involve him beating up baddies, as he can throw a pretty decent punch and a kick, although, recently, that's come into question as he's got older! However, 'Under Siege' is one of those movies that is so simple that everything just works. It's impossible to talk about it without mentioning 'Die Hard,' largely because it's basically the same film, but set on a boat. There were even rumours going around in the mid nineties that Under Siege stopped production on Die Hard 3 because the third instalment of the Die Hard franchise was also going to be set on a boat and they didn't think they could outdo Under Siege.Terrorists overtake a US Navy ship. Steven Seagal fights back. That's all you need to know. It's a simple action movie that anyone can understand. It doesn't try to be anything different. There are countless others like it, but few that actually stand the test of time. This one does. Although there isn't really anything I can tell you which really differentiates it from the masses, apart from the fact that it works. If you're in the mood for an action film, watch it. It'll do the job. Yes, there are also pretty decent performances from some of the other cast (mainly Tommy Lee Jones as the &#x96; cartoon-obsessed &#x96; baddie), but it's the whole package that makes this one stand out from the other.Naturally, after Under Siege's success at the Box Office, a sequel was green-lit. Sadly, lightning didn't strike twice and it was pretty poor and fell into the category of all the other forgettable action B-movies. Just stick to the original. It doesn't try to be anything other than a fun action flick. And, in that, it succeeds totally. "},{"Title":"Best Segal Flick","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege is probably my favorite Steven Segal movie. I loved Hard to Kill, Marked for Death and Out for Justice but those movies were more or less carbon copies of one another. With Under Siege taking place on a naval ship it made the story and the action a lot different.Segal plays Casey Ryback, a navy cook who just so happens to be a bad mofo. He has to put his fighting skills and prowess to the test when the ship is hijacked by William Stranix (Tommy Lee Jones). It was nothing but thrills.This was the first movie I'd ever seen Tommy Lee Jones in and he played a wonderful bad guy. I mean he was a perfect fit for the animated megalomaniac type. The movie was great. "}{"Title":"Seagal's Best","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Well, this film is the height of Seagal's career. The best film he has ever done.....fact!Playing Casey Ryback, the ship's cook, Seagal brings a level of charm, charisma and action man can-do attitude to this film. Aided, of course by beautifully OTT villains, played by the unholy trinity of Tommy Lee Jones, Gary 'Insane in the membrane' Busey and Colm 'DS9' Meaney, they all chew the scenery until their mouths are full. Gary Busey especially excels as the charmless and dangerous Commander Krill (Busey in drag is a scene that highlights his frame of mind).The director, Andrew Davis (who also directed Nico) directs this film with flair and style and commands a not terrible cast to perform well with a run of the mill script. The story is a simple, terrorist highjacking narrative but it is elevated with a cheeky humour, nice little one liners and characters fleshed out a little bit more than you would have expected from a film of this type. Once again, the martial arts and gunfights are well done, there is a knife fight towards the end of the film which is just good and there is no shortage of explosions, creative deaths and gunfire to keep the crowd from noticing a number of plot holes.All in all, a good film. Not even a good film compared to the other Steven Seagal films listed here, it is actually a good film if you're in the mood for, and can tolerate, mindless action. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Entertainer!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" 'Under Siege' is A Terrific Entertainer, with everything working for it. Tight-Script, Gripping Direction & Fantastic Performances, make 'Under Siege' a must see.'Under Siege' Synopsis A former SEAL, now cook, is the only person who can stop a gang of terrorists when they seize control of a US Navy battleship.'Under Siege' is entertaining & exciting from start to end. It never loses its pace. J. F. Lawton's Screenplay is top-notch. Andrew Davis's Direction is Gripping. Cinematography & Editing are good. Action-Sequences/Stunts are fabulous.Performance-Wise Steven Seagal delivers a heroic performance. Tommy Lee Jones & Gary Busey are simply Fantastic as the repulsive villains. They both are the real scene-stealer's! Erika Eleniak looks wow & does reasonably well. Others lend support.On the whole, 'Under Siege' is a terrific film. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than it Probably has a Right to Be","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) is a navy cook on a soon to be decommissioned Battleship, when terrorists take over the ship they discover soon as do we that Ryback is a former Navy Seal who was demoted for striking an officer and is serving out his tour. With the ship's crew held hostage Ryback has only one ally Jordan Tate (Erika Eleniak) a stripper hired for the Captains party to help him stop the terrorists and rescue the hostages.Steven Seagal performances have never been overly impressive but the low key approach here works for the character and the film, likely better than in any of his other films. Both Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey the principal villains, arguably considerably more talented actors go much more over the top which again works for the film although it won't likely be cited as being amongst their best work. Not to be outdone we also have a supporting turn from Colm Meaney who apparently takes his cue from Jones and Busey The humor and action mix from director Andrew Davis who would go onto to make The Fugitive the following year is perhaps the biggest reason for the films success. Both Seagal and Eleniak neither of which is well known for their comedic talents, never the less deliver some very funny lines. The effective action scenes and the setting upon a ship at sea also serve to make this an enjoyable film, as long as you aren't looking for nuanced performances or a depth of story.The films sequel Under Siege 2 Dark Territory without director Davis or any of the principles except for Seagal was far less successful and much inferior. Though it did attempt to mimic the successful formula by retaining the terrorists but changing the location from a Battleship to a train. "},{"Title":"Seagal cooks up a top notch buttock kicker.","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Masquerading as the ships cook, one man army Casey Ryback is forced to fighting off pirates who want to commandeer his ship and its nuclear capabilities.The DVD cover proudly boasts that this is Die Hard on a boat!, and they be right. Because of all the shallow, and at times painful imitators that followed Bruce Willis' action molder in 1988, Under Siege is right up with the best of them. It's of course a complete no brainer, one where the outcome is inevitable, Seagal we know will don his usual blank expression and beat the living daylights out of all comers, and even look cool in the process!. Thankfully the action sequences are handled excellently by director Andrew Davis, this is not out and out carnage, and with Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey having the time of their villainy lives, Under Siege just really rocks the action genre boat.Not one to look too deeply into, lest one is obsessed with token totty Erika Eleniak that is, but certainly a film that is as much fun as it is knowingly dumb. 8/10 "},{"Title":"An infectiously absurd escapist action hoot","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A vicious band of terrorist hijackers lead by bitter and vengeful covert operative William Stranix (the always fine Tommy Lee Jones in peak wicked form) take over a Navy battleship in order to get their evil hands on an arsenal of nuclear missiles. It's up to cynical and disgraced former Navy Seal turned measly cook Casey Ryback (remarkably stiff'n'stolid stoneface supreme Steven Seagal sans his trademark ponytail) and several others to stop them. Director Andrew Davis, working from a gloriously preposterous script by J.F. Lawton, relates the gripping Die Hard on a boat story at a nonstop breakneck pace, creates a reasonable amount of tension, and stages the copious action set pieces with considerable rip-roaring aplomb. Seagal is his usual dry and cardboard self. Fortunately, the strong supporting cast compensates for his flatness. Jones in particular makes for a great hateful and ruthless heavy. However, Gary Busey almost steals the whole show with his deliciously deranged portrayal of the treacherous Commander Krill, a man so heinous that he not only tries to drown his own men, but also has the gall to spit in Ryback's bouillabaisse sauce as well (Gary even does a hysterically funny drag scene to boot!). Plus there are sound turns by Patrick O'Neal as the sage Captain Adams, Andy Romano as the ramrod Admiral Bates, Colm Meaney as the coldblooded Doumer, Nick Mancuso as shady chain-smoking jerk Tom Breaker, and Troy Evans as the gung-ho Granger. Delectable Baywatch blonde babe Erika Eleniak isn't given much to do in the thankless role of the token hot chick, but at least bares her beautifully bountiful breasts in one of the single most laughably gratuitous topless scenes ever committed to celluloid. The brutal hand-to-hand fisticuffs and heated firefights are every bit as taut and exciting as they ought to be. Frank Tidy's slick cinematography, Gary Chang's rousing, throbbing score and a cool trashy rock soundtrack are all likewise up to par. Sure, this movie is wildly implausible and ridiculous to the extreme, but it's this very sense of gleeful absurdity which makes it so much tremendously entertaining dumb fun. "},{"Title":"Segal's Best Outing.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Segal has very little to offer in the acting stakes. Like Jean-Claude Van Damme, he's a one-dimensional tough-guy Bruce Willis without the gags and fags the sort of right-minded no-nonsense hard-case that gives most normal men an inferiority complex, and feel guilty that they don't spend more time at the gym. It's down to the director to build enough interest around him during any movie within which he stars, to offset his lack of talent. Mostly, they don't work, unless you happen to be a fan of up-tight testosterone-topped Alpha males. 'Under Siege' does work. I suspect that is because Segal is outshone by the real star of the movie - the colossal American Battleship. Considering that these vessels were the very last of the WW2 giants, they have been a very under-utilised asset either from the standpoint of action movie or even documentary. Capital ships really were amazingly beautiful works of engineering art. Whatever one's views upon war may be, they have a grace and symmetry unequalled since the days of sail. And if I have a complaint about this movie, it is that we see too little of the ship, especially whole-vessel photography. What we do see is pretty unimaginative, and I suspect that this is because most of the shooting took place on a retired vessel that was permanently at anchor. Even so, I think a lot more could have been done. There is a very good cast adding additional tonnage to an othewise buoyant story. Tommy Lee Jones plays a manifestly deranged bad guy, leading a gang of sundry cut-throats who have hijacked the warship. Otherwise it's Segal's slaughter by stealth pass-card through and through. You must have seen it a dozen times by now. An additional and largely unnecessary dimension is added by a pneumatic blonde bimbo. She is (literally) a piece of party furniture and rises out of a cake with her flamboyant - one might even say bovine - assets presented to full effect. Her acting abilities are even worse than Segal's, and as she spends much of the movie in his company, he sometimes begins to look competent if only by contrast. And that's about it. Bad people get shot, stabbed, blown up and winnowed down to the their homicidal and treasonable leaders for the final and inevitable denouement. There's an equally inevitable heavy-rock incidental soundtrack to emphasise testosterone issues. And the all-American way prevails. But the movie is good fun for all of that. You are left in no doubt from the DVD cover that it's a Steven Segal vehicle. Just don't expect many surprises. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagals best movie!","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I've been a fan of Steven Seagal for a few years now ever since i first saw him in The Glimmer Man, now i've seen nearly all his movies and have quite a few of his movies on DVD, unlike his recent rubbish his early movies were great my favourite's being Above the Law, Out for Justice, Marked for Death and of course Under Siege.Under Siege starts with Seagal as a cook on a naval battle ship which happens to be carrying Toma hawk missiles which are going to be decommissioned along with the ship, fortunately for our entertainment the Bad guy (Tommy lee Jones) and his group of Ex marines or special forces something have other plans for the missiles and they take over the ship, unfortunately for them a specialist has escaped their grasp, Casey Ryback (Seagal) an Ex Navy Seal demoted to a cook was in the cooking quarters while the take over happened, when two bad guys go to kill Ryback, and the marine thats with him, the action starts.In 1992 when this movie was made Seagal was at his best, the fight scenes in this movie are great! very raw with no holds barred there wasn't a load of Aikido which is the martial art Seagal is known for but there was hints of it, also some karate and i assume they put in a few navy seal moves in there as well. All the stunts, explosions and gun fights were done very well and so was the script and story although it did remind me of the Die Hard storyline.Seagal performs well but nothing special or much different from his stereotypical martial arts expert ex special forces characters that he seems to always play, Tommy Lee Jones is a good bad guy and plays the crazy kill everyone persona very well, No complaints about the supporting cast i just wish there were more Baddies for Seagal to kill as the fight choreography was some of his best sorry for mentioning that again.as this is a great action movie and one of the best of its time i recommend you watch it i give it 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A comic masterpiece starring the new Buster Keaton","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First of all an admission.I don't know aikido from judo from tae kwan do from play do.But whatever it is that Mr Seagal does in Under Siege he is clearly very good at it.Although no longer a young man he has obviously looked after himself and remains supple and quite light on his feet for someone of his build.In this film he has lots of quite difficult things to do - that business with the knife for instance must have taken a lot of practice and he obviously keeps in touch with his feminine side because he spends a lot of time in the kitchen.He must be a good cook too because the captain of a United States' navy battleship keeps him on the payroll for his own personal use.He would make some lucky girl a wonderful husband.He meets a sweet girl - I believe she was Eliot's belle in E.T. - in somewhat unusual circumstances and she turns out to be a plucky little poppet indeed. When his ship is hi - jacked by a Gang Of International Terrorists (and on the captain's birthday too,such bad manners!)and the captain himself murdered(who,pray,is going to steer the ship?)Mr Seagal-like that nice Mr Clark Kent-proves that he is a man whom it would be wiser not to upset unless you are a better shot than any of the Gang of International Terrorists or have a large supply of kryptonite. Unlike Mr Kent,Mr Seagal does not have a telephone kiosk handy to change in so he goes into a cold store and waits around in there until he gets quite annoyed.You can tell he is annoyed because his brow gets furrowed. Well,heaven help the G.I.T. is all I can say. Having secreted a number of firearms about his person he bravely sets about the Herculean task of killing anybody stupid enough to suddenly appear in a lighted doorway. One by one the G.I.T.succumb to Mr Seagal's uncanny aim and unending supply of bullets.Cornered like the rat that he is,their leader dies,thinking Un-American thoughts while Mr Seagal's lips tighten significantly. Under siege,I submit,is a comic masterpiece,Mr Seagal the new Buster Keaton.In a brilliantly avant-garde manner it questions the need for dialogue in plot development.In daring fashion it rejects the perceived need for characters to have any connection however tenuous with so-called reality and it challenges in a post-modern ironic way the viewer's perception of acting as an adequate word to describe what Mr Seagal does. It is seminal.A film beyond categorisation,blurring the boundaries between genres,defying those small minds who must cast every movie into one or other of the accepted frames of reference.The fact that it was ignored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences,the British Film Academy,the Cannes Film Festival,the Venice Film Festival and every other self-regarding reactionary committee of small-minded short-sighted Luddites says far more about them than it does about Under Siege. "},{"Title":"Good simple and plain action...","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS ** Recap Casey Ryback (Seagal) is a former SEAL soldier now the cook on a battleship about to be decommissioned. He, and most of the crew by the way, dislikes his second in command Cmdr Krill (Busey), and frequently quarrels with him. The captain of the ship, a firm supporter of Ryback's, has a birthday coming up and Krill has caterers, a band and Jordan Tate (Eleniak), a playmate, flown in to surprise the captain. But everything is not as it seems. The band and caterer, with singer Stranix (Lee Jones) in the lead are in fact mercenaries in league with Cmdr Krill. Stranix is a former CIA agent gone rogue and with Krill he is about to Steal all the nuclear warheads on the ship. The entire ship's crew is taken hostage and everything seems to be under the control of the mercenaries. But they seem to have forgotten Casey Ryback...Comments This is a good action, nothing more. Seagal is very good as the competent and most deadly Ryback. Lee Jones, on the other end of the good bad spectra is great as the evil unstable equally deadly mastermind. This movie does not pretend to be better than it is, and that's a strength. The fights and shoot outs are good and there are a somewhat interesting relationship between Ryback and Tate. Both Eleniak and Busey, by the way, give nice performances. In conclusion, this is a perfect movie for an evening when your mind want a night off...6/10 "},{"Title":"Underwhelming","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A review of this film only really needs 5 words - Die Hard on a boat, and no doubt this is how the producers of the film pitched it to the studio. Instead of the wisecracking Willis here we has the rather soporific Seagal.The plot is the usual tosh (well, it's not like we are not expecting Shakespeare from the author of Cannibal Women in the Avocado Jungle Of Death). Terrorists - including an over the top Tommy Lee Jones and the ubiquitous Gary Busey (does he every play a good guy?) - take over a ship equipped with nukes. It's down to the ship's cook (Seagal) - conveniently an explosives expert - to save the day.This is viewed by some as Seagal's masterpiece - perhaps a slight misuse of the word, but it seems like Citizen Kane compared to his more recent direct to video work.Segall goes about dispatching his foes with a series of Heath Robinson-esquire explosive traps. A problem with Seagall's work is the lack of comedy - there is none of the cartoon violence of Jackie Chan or the smarmy comments of a Bond or a John McClane. Erika Eleniak tags along in full blubbing bimbo mode.The high points of the movie come when Eleniak bursts out of a birthday cake bearing her fabulous breasts for the world (before inexplicably bursting into one of her blubbing fits).Andrew Davis - the master of mediocre - directs with his usual competent but dull style. Admittedly this is notch above his Chain Reaction (also written by Lawton) but not as good as his Fugitive or Perfect Murder.Overall it's just Die Hard on a boat. "}{"Title":"An enjoyable romp&#133;","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  With Die Hard setting the standard by which I feel all action films should be measured, Steven Segal's Under Siege comes pretty close.Often described (perhaps unfairly) as &#145;Die Hard on a boat' this film may not be Shakespeare but does contain plenty of non-stop action, laughs and comical bad guys.Special mention goes to Gary Busey as the traitorous second in command but especially to the always watchable Tommy Lee Jones who manages to steal pretty much every scene he is in with his character of the former CIA agent turned nutball.Segal's sometimes wooden acting ability thankfully is sufficiently offset by the quality and intensity of the action going on throughout the film, annoyances however include the obligatory eye candy in the form of Erika Eleniak, she was quite clearly in her element coming out of a giant birthday cake (probably the most memorable scene in the film for many!!) but that is about all.All in all a good watch if you are looking for a nice no-brain-required action film. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I paid to see this.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just bad bad acting, bad storyline and bad action sequences. You can't expect anything else from that seagal guy, but I was disappointed with Busey and Jones. I suppose they weren't given much to work with. My main complaint has to be with the director/writers. These guys obviously have never even seen an Iowa-class battleship. Does anyone actually believe that a ship with nuclear weapons would really be left unguarded? It was never like that when I was on the New Jersey.Erika Eleniak, though, is very nice to look at. The cake scene is the only worthwhile part of this movie. "},{"Title":"A sharply-crafted and well-executed thriller.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A sharply-crafted and well-executed thriller that's about Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal), a former Navy SEAL, who's spending his last days in the Navy as a cook on the Missouri when a small, absolutely lethal band of terrorists unexpectedly overtake the ship, the crew, and murder the skipper.The thugs are led by Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey, both of whom colorfully portray Strannix, a disgruntled (and laugh out-loud) CIA operative and Krill, an embittered high-ranking officer who isn't too fond of Ryback.  What the terrorists are after is the ship's nuclear arsenal and plan to sell (and unload) it anyone for a hefty price.  In the scenes that they have, Busey and Jones share some funny moments like for instance, Strannix tells Krill that his code name is the Roadrunner.  I guess that some people haven't lost their affection for cartoons, old or new.As for Ryback, who is forced to retake the ship and he does find someone to back him up.  Jordan Tate (Erika Elenik), who is at first reluctant to help Casey, but she decides later on to do so.  You could say that Jordan becomes Casey's apt pupil in learning the guerilla tactics and doesn't turn into a stereotype.Some of the shootouts, fights and traps are well-organized even though some scenes do get a bit ugly and I won't say which ones.  Director Andrew Davis (The Fugitive) and writer J.F. Lawton deserve a lot of credit for keeping Under Siege creative, smart, and witty instead of letting the film become another Die Hard retread.  Gary Chang composes a nice musical score here, that's fun to listen to and it never gets too loud.Under Siege is my favorite Seagal movie although Jones and Busey sort of steal the show here.  The performances here provide part of the reason why the film is actually good and the other one is Davis' careful direction.  "},{"Title":"One of Seagal's finest","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  While I consider Seagal's new film Exit Wounds his best, Under Siege is his next best film. While the film is technically Die Hard on a battle ship, it is well directed enough and there is enough action to make it stand on it's own. Seagal is not a great performer but he makes this movie adequete. My major complaint about this movie is a lack of fighting scenes, some people complained thatExit Wounds was devoid of the same thing, maybe. But this film was made 9 years ago,and Seagal was 41 when this was made, he's 50 now.  Seagal could have done more fighting. But overall I really enjoyed this film, there are numerous exciting action scenes, and some really funny comical moments. his film stands on it's own as good entertainment and as a first rate action film starring today's biggest martial arts star, Steven Seagal. "},{"Title":"One of Steven's Best","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  «Under Siege» is considered to be one of Seagal's best movies. Although it doesn't contain that many aikido episodes (like his early movies «Niko» & «Hard to Kill»), for which Steven is so famous, «US» is still an action spectacular. A good thing here is that the story isn't Steven's usual not-to-clever-&-hard-to-make-ends-meet thing. A lot of credit goes to the movie's setting - a great naval battleship «The Missouri». It's long winding tunnels giving much to suspense & combat scenes. Then of course there is the cast - the beautiful Erika Eleniak(Jordan Tate -Miss July 1989) and the baddies Tommy Lee Jones(Stranix) and Gary Busey(Commander Krill). The former Commander Krill being the envious fool and Stranix being Ryback's shadowy counterpart (watch out for the last knife fight scene). The movie's musical score consists of some Rock and sinister tracks which help to fully enjoy the movie. All in all - if you are Seagal's fan, I'm surprised you still haven't seen «US»; if you are looking for a good action movie - its your choice and a good thing to start your Steven Seagal movie collection. "},{"Title":"Die hard on a ship","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the better, if not one of the best die-hard clones around and is certainly Seagal's best film - although he really doesn't do all that much - and all the credit must go to Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones who collectively steal the show playing well written and exceptionally directed bad guys.However if your thinking this is a direct carbon copy of Die Hard, it isn't.  Firstly Seagal doesn't seem to be scared at one point in the entire film, even during gun battles (perhaps this is because he is a SEAL?  I dunno - perhaps it the writers got careless and forgot about post-traumatic stress syndrome or pressure or fear?)Regardless of the problems that the Casey Ryback character may bring to this film, they are fortuently overshadowed by the good action sequences and good story, and the interplay with the psedo-military bunker...and of course the inclusion of Erika Eleniak helps things along too!Perhaps the only problems I have revolve around the helicopter explosion, there is not enough tension - someone should have seen him before hand, at least in Die Hard - you actually felt he wasn't gonna make it before the explosion ripped half the Nakatomi skyline off.The other problem I have is that Seagal gets rid of Jones way too quickly.  The knife fight is a good ending to a good film, but Seagal was winning all the way - never, in the film did I feel that Seagal was gonna loose - hopefully Seagal, an accomplished martial artist will realise that fans will only respect good fight sequences if they last longer and if the hero actually looks like he's actually met his match (Jackie Chan for example, almost always goes against villians who are of equal, if not better in martial arts).Anyway, the film is good to watch, and is certainly the best I've seen of Seagal's films - though why did he follow his gut to make turkey's when he could have become one of the 90s best action film stars?  I guess only Seagal only knows the reasons for that.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Seagals best ever...","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege is a typical good guy vs bad guy-movie...or, more precisely in this film, good guy vs. bad GUYS, cause Seagal is the lone wolf who has to take care of business when one of the four remaining U.S Navy battleships, the 'USS Missouri', is hijacked by a former CIA-agent and his men.I've seen almost all of Steven Seagal's movies, and I think that this is the definite best of them. And I think that Under Siege was made when Seagal was at his peak. Cause after Under Siege II (1995), all of his films has...well, to be honest, sucked. They've had bad, uninteresting stories, and not alot of good action-scenes in them either. But Under Siege has it all--a good plot, great action scenes, and Tommy Lee Jones, and Jones' plays a cool character (which he usually does...) even as the main bad guy.I think Under Siege is a very fine action-movie, and--like said--Seagals best movie. And when I even mention that Seagals acting performance isn't bad in this film (which isn't always the fact in the other movies of his), then you know it's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Classic Action + Erika Eleniak","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Remember when seeing a good action movie practically guaranteed at least one decent gratuitous sex scene. Chuck Norris, Van Damme, etc. always nailed some sexy bimbo at least once for no apparent reason. And the action, while completely unbelievable, was nonstop, predictable and a helluva lot of fun?Well, that's what we have in this movie. If you don't know already, Seagal, for some reason, is a cook who knows how to totally kick a**. It's the CO's birthday, and Seagal's busy running the kitchen when the terrorists take over. Meanwhile, totally sexy Erika Eleniak is crouching inside a cardboard cake, ready to bust out, and somehow does not notice any of the goings on. So she busts out, gets naked, and proceeds to do the sexy little striptease for a while, again without noticing that there's nobody to watch her other than Seagal and a pile of corpses. Then Seagal, the jerk, gives her his jacket to wear. What was he thinking? There was probably plenty of Saran Wrap in the kitchen he could have used! Then a bunch of other stuff happened and the movie ended. "},{"Title":"Noisy action features Steven Seagal against some bad guys who  take a warship","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Seagal's fifth film with lots of violence, suspense, struggles and action-filled. This Steven Seagal's splendid film deals about a tough cook-marine , he's a SEAL and Aikido expert. Ryback teams up with a playboy girl (Erika Eleniak), forming a sympathetic duo. Casey takes on nuclear arms smugglers and undergoes a violent confrontation some corrupt terrorists ( two exaggerated villains as Tommy Lee Jones, Gary Busey) and their criminal hoodlums.The picture packs unstopped action, thrills,fighting , shootouts, suspense and is quite entertaining.Violent and not particularly literary but worthy entry in action genre and realized in ¨Die hard¨ style. Wooden Seagal plays the violent Casey Ryback, he cleans up the battleship by means of punch, kicks, bounds and leaps, martial arts abound with fights certainly slick.The Aikido expert Seagal saves the day in this exciting movie which also co-produced .In the film appears many secondary roles played by prestigious players as Patrick O'Neal,Colm Meany, Damian Chapa, Raymond Cruz , Bernie Casey, Nick Mancuso and several others.Elaborately produced action film with two-fisted Seagal is just another action film full of struggles ,thrills, noise and lots of violence. Ever-wooden Seagal as almost always, playing a stalwart and loner fighter, he delivers the goods in his own style full of usual violence and fights with snapping wrists and worth it just to see Steve in action. Atmospheric musical score by Gary Chang though composed by synthesizer and appropriate cinematography by Frank Tidy. The picture was made in the Seagal's best period when he played high budget movies such as ¨Hard to kill¨(1990 by Bruce Malmuth), this ¨Under siege¨ ( Seagal's best film to date, 92), and the sequel titled  ¨Dark territory¨ (1995, Geoff Murphy), ¨Executive decision¨ (96 by Stuart Baird), ¨Glimmer man¨ (96, John Gray), ¨Exit wounds¨(2001, Andre Bartkowiak), among others. Nowadays he does fairly low standards, lesser budget and direct to video , such as ¨Half past dead¨, ¨The foreigner¨ and its sequel, ¨Shadow man ¨, ¨Flight of fury¨, ¨Urban justice¨ and many others.Director Andrew Davis who previously gave credibility to Chuck Norris in 'Code of silence' teams up with Aikido expert Seagal for this action-filled thriller.The picture contains enough action and violence for fans of the genre and the addicts will give this a passing grade because is professionally directed by Andrew Davis. He has shot most of his films in Chicago and he's an action movies expert(The guardian, Collateral damage, Chain reaction, The fugitive) and again directed to Seagal in this his best movie . This is a thrilling picture, ,exciting and tense at times with fine work ,as always, from director Andrew Davis. If you're a former Steven Seagal fan you'll like it because is a strong outing for action buffs. The result is a strong outing for action enthusiasts and Seagal is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"When Seagal was worth watching he was in films like this","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Forget that Under Siege is a Steven Seagal movie, because there is a lot more going for it than that alone. Tommy Lee Jones puts in a great performance as Strannix, a pre-cursor to his turn as Harvey Dent/Two Face in Batman Forever.The one liners, the humour, the ideas for Under Siege and its box office success is what derailed plans for the Die Hard series, because they were going to do the 'Die Hard on a Boat' film, but Under Siege beat them to it, and a damned good film it turned out to be.Seagal is funny, the fight sequences are good, the only problem I have is Seagal's usual infallibility when fighting, and he always kicks the hell out of ALL his opponents. Couldn't someone put up a bit of a fight? Here Seagal is slim, here he hasn't got the ridiculous environmental vibes running through the entire film, here is where Seagal was at his prime.Some people out there loath a Seagal movie, and some of his recent fare would certainly reinforce those perfectly valid views, but if you haven't seen Under Siege yet, it works very well.There's rumours that there might be an Under Siege 3.That being the case, please Mr.Seagal, get a good script, get a good director, get some starring names attached, and most of all, if we are to still believe that you are capable of doing your own fight sequences and play the part of an Ex-Seal....... lose some weight! And please, no 'by the numbers' retread of Under Siege 2 which in itself was a retread of the first film!!!! "}{"Title":"Hugely entertaining action thriller","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A terrific action movie and the high point of Steven Segal's career. Like many films that I'm aghast I've not written about on IMDb, this is one that I've seen many times and will doubtless watch and enjoy all over again, as predictably as Pavlov's dog (The Fugitive, Davis' subsequent film as director also comes in this bracket for me).Seagal is the big draw, quiet and understated but serious and a big physical presence. He's not an intellectual character but he's got a wistful, salty authority to him that manages to be both serious and gregarious. Perfect for this high seas heist romp then. His nemesis is a double act of spineless thug Gary Busey and Seagal's real doppelganger in Tommy Lee Jones, as Guignol a leading, maddie-baddie as Daniel Day Lewis' butcher in Gangs Of New York - and with the same penchant for knives. Erika Eleniak provides 'love' interest but gets to join in the wisecracks too. Jolly good fun 7/10 "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to the sequel","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Despite popular belief, this isn't the big man's best movie. Competent and skillful it may well be but there's far too much espionage and not enough action. It was made in that period of the early to mid-nineties where every action movie was 'Terrorists take over a (fill in the blank)'. In this case it's a Naval Battleship.Gary Busey, always one of the best bad guys ever, is the evil second in command who hates his crew and his captain. But the person he hates most in the entire world is the obnoxious cook Casey Ryback. Well he's an ex-Navy SEAL first and a cook second.Enter William Strannix (Tommy Lee Jones) and his band of mercenaries, disguised as a rock star and busboys, who take over the ship, kill the captain and lock what's left of the crew away. Strannix is hell-bent on blowing up Hawaii and Krill (Gary Busey) plans to sell off the ships nuclear weapons to the Ruskies.But wait...Krill has forgotten about the irritating cook he locked away in the freezer. And Ryback makes it his mission to find out what the hell is going on and put a stop to whatever it is. Erika Eleniak pops up to provide some help and toplessness.I'm not such a fan of the first Under Siege, the sequel is much, much better but they both have their pros and cons. For some reason, Ryback's renegade, rule-breaking personality was played down in Under Siege 2 and Seagal made NO effort at his acting in that film (he hated the idea of a sequel). However Under Siege 2 is much faster, has 50 times as much action, is way more exciting, has a higher sense of escapism and atmosphere (compared to the repetitive battleship scenes in this one) and has better villains.I know you'll disagree with me on the last point. But Strannix and Krill seem too over the top and seem to be acting up to the camera compared to the sequel with Travis Dane's wild eccentrics and Penn's icy, emotionless stare. Plus, Strannix's constant Looney Tunes references were totally out of place and distracting.Well all know Steven Seagal is good with the martial arts, so it's kind of odd that he simply shoots most of the bad guys in this movie. In Under Siege 2 he chops, slices, breaks, burns, chucks, slashes, strangles, explodes, smashes and crushes. It makes for a great movie is definitely the clear winner over this one.The DVD has a great looking 1.851 anamorphic picture with a loud and impressive Dolby 5.1 track. 8 trailers for Steven Seagal films are included. The R1 version still comes in a cruddy snap case but the R2 version now comes in a sturdy keep case, complete with lovely Warner hologram. If you have a multi-region DVD player, get this one. "},{"Title":"Under Siege","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Covert operatives, led by maniacal Strannix(Tommy Lee Jones)commandeer the battleship USS Missouri, disguised as a band and catering(..assisted by high-ranking officer, Commander Krill(Gary Busey))for the birthday party of Captain Adams(Patrick O'Neal), with plans to off load, by way of a railing system, Tomahawk, nuclear-tipped missiles on board a North Korean submarine. What they don't expect is a cook, Stacey Ryback(Steven Seagal), interrupting their grand design at making millions from foreign clients..what Krill couldn't discover until after Adams' removal was that this annoying, pain-in-the-ass cook was an ex-Seal with martial arts, weapons, and bomb-making skills. Even with about 30 men at his disposal, working throughout the Missouri, Strannix can not seem to halt Ryback's abilities to move about at will, taking them out little by little. Ryback has an unlikely ally in a Playboy model, Jordan Tate(Erika Eleniak, who was a major babe during this period)who he finds by accident, popping out of a cake intended for Adams. Together they free some trapped sailors, and attempt to thwart the efforts of Strannix, Krill, and their goons, hoping to stop the transmission of missiles, as well as disrupt their methods.The film alternates between the Missouri and a secret building within the Pentagon where Ryback will communicate with the military and governmental suits, such as Admiral Bates(Andy Romano), keeping them apprised of the ongoing situation. Meanwhile, we see how those in the Pentagon react as Strannix and company go about to threaten possible global terror. Those in the Pentagon plan, if they must, to send an air strike in order to keep the Missouri from destroying civilizations.Having previously worked with Steven Seagal on Above the Law, director Andrew Davis knew what to expect..let's face it, Seagal isn't gonna captivate us with some sterling performance. Stevens lets Seagal do what he does best, wipe out the bad guys in various ways, such as gunfights and knife battles. Anyone who comes within close proximity of Seagal is mincemeat, plain and simple. This was one of three films Stevens worked with Tommy Lee Jones, and the second where he's a villain and killer. Under Siege has plenty of personality to compensate for Seagal's lack thereof(..though, his silent calm is part of what makes his characters effective, the way they go about their business, not letting too much emotion take away from their abilities to take out those who wish to disrupt the peace, unleashing fury on the hostile and base). Stevens, for instance, allows TLJ to let it all hang out, going into any direction he so wishes, giving him every opportunity to go completely off-the-charts psychopathic. Busey, his side-kick, is also given carte blanche to chew as much scenery as he so desires(..he even has a scene in drag where he asks Strannix, Do I look like I need a psychological evaluation?). While TLJ is made short work by Seagal at the end, it's not about their final dueling of blades that he's used, but all the time before this. He's used as entertainment while Seagal obliterates his men, it's a balance I think that works exceptionally.I just love the way Stevens shoots the action set pieces throughout the ship, following Ryback and the few he has to help him..Stevens gets every bit of value he can from the ship setting(aboard the USS Alabama, in actuality), and the way Ryback goes about his business actually doesn't seem too far-fetched. Sure, he's a Rambo archetype, but I figure there are many like me who find great joy in these one man army movies. I like, though, how Ryback requires assistance from others in order to stop Krill from fixing a damaged wing(..Ryback bombed)on the sub and the many scumbags firing at them throughout the Missouri. I like the decision to alternate between the ship and Pentagon, establishing the importance of successfully upending Strannix or else risk doom to the civilized world. I imagine Seagal looks back at this movie with pride, it's easily one of his best to date. "},{"Title":"A superior entry in the Die Hard-on-a-what have you sweepstakes","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I went into an Atlanta theatre in 1992 to see this film with some college acquaintances by chance; some people in the group wanted to see 1492 CONQUEST OF PARADISE, others said hell no, I didn't really care. The argument became moot when that movie was sold out and Under Siege was playing at the right time for us to buy tickets and go on in.Two hours or so later, I was incredibly impressed. Yes, this is a formulaic movie, but so what? What's wrong with a movie that takes a reasonably clever premise (a U.S. warship is taken over by a grab-bag of ex-CIA agents, mercenaries, turncoats, and apparently a joint Swedish-Italian-North Korean submarine battalion; problem is, there's one guy on board who can beat them almost single-handedly) and provides twists and turns from beginning to end? This is a well-constructed film, something many critics and even fans don't really seem to recognize. For example, there is a scene where the good guys are able to ruin a system the bad guys want to use, and that leads into a situation where the bad guys have to unveil another system--and then one of the bad guys fixes the first system, and that leads to the good buys being able to pull a HUGE surprise on them!I wouldn't say the story here is plausible, but it allows for the willing suspension of disbelief, and fit in well with the time frame of 1992--when the Cold War was over, but it wasn't clear what would become of the U.S. military and intelligence bodies, so this film kind of considered that on a very light surface level before plunging into the action.There are some things about Under Siege that don't work. Ereka Eleniak's character has such poor dialogue and is so out of place that even a good actress would have been stymied in dealing with her, and her role in a showdown between Rayback and Colm Meaney's Dauber is completely unbelievable The only other plot points that had me just saying oh come on now involved two helicopters and dealing with a very unpleasant missile's flight path; I won't go into more detail because spoilers aren't my base of interest.Bottom line is that I saw that movie in regular theaters, then saw it again at a second-run theatre (there seemed to be a lot more of those 12 years ago) then rented it, watched it several times on HBO and have recently watched it about five more times on the STARZ! Action Channel. I'm a huge fan and not sorry about it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 1992!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There are three main reasons why I consider this to be the greatest film of 1992, perhaps of the 90's altogether.  First of all, Steven Seagal is a terrific actor.  When he is at work, the man is an artist. Clearly he must have spent months intensely studying other special forces commandos serving as cooks in the United States Navy in order to better prepare.  Hell when he comes onto the screen he appears with such an intensity that one is immediately reminded of a young Marlon Brando. Coincidentally, with his steady weight gain all through the nineties today he more closely reminds one of an old Marlon Brando, but that's straying from the topic.  How Seagal was passed up at Oscar time when this movie was released is beyond me.  In my mind the only thing more impressive than his performance was the realism of his character.  Don't ever venture into the kitchen of one of America's warships, because all of our fry cooks have previously served in special forces units were they'd been vigorously trained on how to kill a man ten times before he hits the ground. Its important to remember that.Secondly, the movie was such a winner because it was just so damn realistic.  I mean, they have seldom addressed this in movies before, but our naval surface fleet is just ripe for the picking from international terrorists.  When you get right down to it security on these ships is so poor it may be easier to break in to a K-Mart after hours than to lock a battleship crew in the ship's basement and start selling off their cruise missiles that very night.  Also, everyone knows that Navy SEALs are easy enough to take out.  Hell with the exception of the film Navy Seals (1989), I can't think of a single movie in which a SEAL unit wasn't decimated long before the closing credits.  Clearly all of Hollywood has keyed into the fact that these guys are incompetent, and lambs for the slaughter at the hands of well-trained bad guys.  But, Americans can still sleep well at night, for we've got our military's kitchens well stocked with highly trained killers.  The terrorists may be able to take over the ship and take down the SEALs, but if they head downstairs for a sandwich, they're likely to lose their life.And finally, this movie proves even today to be the gold standard by which all of the action movies are judged, because its plot every bit an original.  The idea that a group of well-funded, highly-trained, armed-to-the-teeth international terrorists-for-profit could seize control of dozens of American hostages and have their entire complicated scheme slowly become unraveled by the one man they didn't count on, a man who happens to have found himself right in the middle of things...yes that came all right from the brilliant mind of Under Siege's writing staff.  Kudos to them for finally coming up with an original idea in Hollywood.  After all, this is a town whose denizens more and more only seem interested in making a cheap buck by either ripping off whatever hot idea just hit it big in entertainment, or by strip-mining the original ideas from decades past thereby inundating us year after year with needless, uninspired remakes and sequels.  But that certainly is not the case here!! Everything came together flawlessly, most notably with Tommy Lee Jones playing a bad-guy mastermind with such flamboyance, such panache!!  I thought bad guys were all supposed to be jerks, but he was really cool.  I still can't believe what a craaazy guy he was.  Oh how he just lit up the screen.  But that's not to say he took anything away from Seagal, who made us laugh, cry, and most of all think.What does he lead us to think about?  Well, most all he led me to ponder just how safe the free world really is.  I mean if the taking of a battleship can be shown realistically to be a rather simple task, what will these terrorists take over next!  My money is on the Space Shuttle.  Or even worse, maybe the Space Needle!  Considering how likely this all is to happen, it's certainly scary to wonder about, so I just try and concentrate on entertainment.  Most of all I concentrate on first class entertainment such as this.  I feel like I am a better person for having seen it.  I highly recommend it to any persons who call themselves Americans.  God Bless this nation and all of its heroes...most notably the creators of Under Siege.  But more than all of that, God bless Steven Seagal. Amen. "},{"Title":"Under Siege","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Terrorists, hijacking a battleship for its weapons, didn't count on the cook being able to chop more than just vegetables. Seagal's most entertaining film, but the film is so good because of Jones. Jones electrifies the screen for director Andrew Davis, who obviously saw gold here...for Davis would be the same director of Jones' Oscar winning performance in The Fugitive. Gary Busey also stars. Followed by a sequel.   "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" One of my all time favorite movies. The best movie of Steven Seagal by far, and there are some gems in his oldest movies! A shame his latest ones are so different in quality. Pamela Basker did a wonderful job in casting. Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey as the villains are superb. The fight scenes are exquisite. The soundtrack of the movie is great. Actor I enjoyed the most in this movie Steven Seagal. Actor I enjoyed the least in this movie Erika Eleniak. I try my best to find something bad about the movie but I can't - this is the ultimate action movie, same level for me with Taken and The Bourne Identity. A Must Watch recommendation! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Die Hard-knockoff","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I don't like Steve Seagal. I honestly don't thing anybody really likes Steve Seagal. Most of his movies are pretty terrible and go direct-to-video. But to every rule there is an exception, and that exception is the 1992 action-thriller, Under Siege (aka Die Hard on a Battleship). Our story follows Casey Ryback (Seagal in one of his better performances) a cook on-board the soon-to-be-retired USS Missouri and ex-Navy SEAL (aren't they all?). Ryback remains a constant pain for the disliked Commander Krill (Gary Busey in full- on Busey mode), who in fact intends to hijack the ship alongside Strannix (Tommy Lee Jones, the best actor in the film) during the Captain's birthday party. Freeing himself from a meat locker (don't ask), Ryback and Miss July 1989 (Erika Eleniak) fight to free the ship from its captors. From the plot description I just gave, this probably sounds like a parody of action movies you would find on The Simpsons. And in many respects, it is. But the rather generic plot is handled well, fast-paced and with enough action to keep audiences satisfied. Director Andrew Davis (The Fugitive, Holes) handles the many shootouts well, with smooth tracking shots through the ship's narrow corridors giving the action a sense of energy while remaining comprehensible. Busey and Jones' banter is a constant source of (mostly intentional) laughs, and Basil Poledouris' work on the score is excellent as always. One of the better Die Hard-knockoffs, I think its worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Real-life Battleship!","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an action-packed and suspenseful flick from start to finish, where Steven Segal stars as Navy S.E.A.L. turned cook Casey Ryback, who must stop a gang of terrorists that seized control of the U.S.S. Missouri. Segal proves he is a force to be reckon with with his skilled martial arts moves and knowledge of trap-making. It's satisfying seeing him take on the terrorists left and right, giving them a taste of their own medicine.Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey play some pretty annoying bad guys and it's great to see them deck it out with Segal. The subplot of the Pentagon generals scrambling in how to deal with the bad guys and the hostage situation gives the movie added suspense, wondering if they will resort to launching an all-out assault on the ship, which puts the hostage sailors in more crisis.I just wished more drama concerning the trapped sailors were added, which overall, it's an exciting action flick that every action movie fans should see! Grade A- "},{"Title":"Watch Out For The Cook!","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal, Tommy Lee Jones, Gary Busey and Erika Eleniak star in this 1992 action film. Seagal (Hard to Kill) plays Navy SEAL turned cook, Casey Ryback who finds himself facing a group of terrorists aboard a Navy battleship. Casey uses his special skills to fight them and save the hostages. Jones (The Fugitive) plays Bill Stranix, an ex-CIA operative who takes over the ship seeking revenge with help from Navy Commander, Krill (Busey) and Eleniak (Tales from the Crypt Bordello of Blood) plays exotic dancer, Jordan who helps Casey. This isn't a bad action flick, Seagal is good in it and Jones & Busey are great villains as usual. I recommend this. "}{"Title":"The End of an Era","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Seagal's first four films undoubtedly constitute his best work as far as his fans are concerned. This DIE HARD clone set on a Battleship wins mass appeal based on its premise alone and cements its stature as Best Seagal Movie with very strongly directed and acted scenes involving the villains. There's a wonderful little cat 'n mouse feel to the film and even manages to stay interesting during the scenes in between the action with Seagal stalking the ship's lonely corridors and various rooms, encountering various obstacles along the way.However, there were a few worrying trends beginning to surface when this film was made. Most obviously was Seagal's weight, which was starting to become a bit of a distraction by this film and even more-so with each concurrent film following this (aside from his commendable attempt to trim down for EXIT WOUNDS). This would be the first film of many to feature his image on the cover heavily digitally doctored to reduce his double-chin.Additionally this is the first Seagal movie to introduce him working with a team of lackies responsible for doing a lot of his dirty work, presumably as a way to make his one-man-army routine have some semblance of realism. Okay, well MARKED FOR DEATH had some of this too, but they were at least interesting characters. Unfortunately though, they also serve to steal attention and screen time away from our hero, villains, and quality kills to the point where (as in all his modern films) Seagal is barely even in the thing.Now, Seagal never was the most approachable or friendly-looking guy but this film is the first time the villains are much more charming and compelling than he is. Given that Jones and Busey are charismatic actors, their characters are actually interesting and off-kilter while Seagal is just an even more one-dimensional version of himself, with all kinds of the shoehorned-in CIA and Special Forces ego-trip background motifs that have been with him since is first film. The entire movie I was rooting for them to just shoot him and felt a little sad with each terrorist fatality. It introduces the bumbling and annoying sidekick, epitomized by Ms. Eleniak who is utterly useless in this film aside from as comic relief and the all-too-brief birthday cake scene. Seagal unforgivably makes her change in the very next scene, adding to the unlike-ability of his character.UNDER SIEGE is a fun film, possibly the most fun of all DIE HARD's clones. It's got its share of disappointments though and plenty of brilliant villains whose IQ decreases by 100 points whenever they get a chance to kill the hero. At one point, one of them even dies twice if you watch closely, possibly another nod to a Seagal earlier work regarding a villain in MARKED FOR DEATH. We have the success of UNDER SIEGE to thank for the existence of Seagal's insane tour de force in the legendarily awful ON DEADLY GROUND, which was financed to secure his appearance in this film's inevitable sequel. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's best movie at the peak of his career.","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal has never been better in Under Siege, his most successful movie to date. After establishing his reputation in Hollywood with Above the Law (1988), Hard to Kill (1990), Marked for Death (1990), and Out for Justice (1991), Steven Seagal's career kicks into another gear with one of the most successful movies of 1992, which also proves to be his best movie at the peak of his career. Also with a good director and good screenwriter, Under Siege brought out the best in Steven Seagal.Steven Seagal (who has also cut off his trademark ponytail for this movie) is a former Navy Seal turned cook Casey Ryback. The movie starts with Ryback continuing to show defiance to most of the chain of command aboard USS Missouri, including Commander Krill (Gary Busey at his villainous best) who is also organising a party on board USS Missouri and has arranged to bring in entertainers via helicopter who are really mercenaries led by the unhinged and unstable William Strannix (Tommy Lee Jones at his over the top best). The main plan is for William Strannix and turncoat Commander Krill to hijack USS Missouri and take all sailors on board hostage in order to steal and sell the tomahawk missiles. The plan almost goes well until Casey Ryback, who was imprisoned in the freezer for assaulting Commander Krill, proves to be the hostages only hope as Ryback manages to escape and takes on the mercenaries himself. Along the way, playboy playmate Jordan Tate (Erika Eleniak who is the only actress in this movie) who was brought onto the ship for entertainment value, is roped into helping Casey Ryback along with a small handful of freed sailors.Under Siege is summed up perfectly as Die Hard on a battleship, and it proves to be a very entertaining action feast. There is no shortage of gunfights, martial arts fights, knife fights, stylized deaths, explosions, and cracking one liners that will keep all action fans very content.Steven Seagal has never been better in his prime as Casey Ryback, the former Navy Seal turned cook. He's very likable in this movie and its a shame that this one time box office champion has been reduced to keeping his career alive through non-stop direct-to-video movies in which Seagal is a shadow of his former self. Under Siege will always be remembered as Steven Seagal's best movie to date. Tommy Lee Jones is a quality actor who often appears frequently as serious no-nonsense characters such as The Fugitive and the Men In Black trilogy. Here in Under Siege he is excellently over the top and the wild and unhinged William Strannix.Gary Busey frequently plays bizarre and psychotic characters, and is often one of the go-to actors if they need a crazy villain as evidenced in Lethal Weapon (1987) as the henchman Mr Joshua. As Commander Krill in Under Siege, he shows that he is psychologically unstable, particularly when he appears in drag during the USS Missouri's party. He also makes a great bad guy partnership with Tommy Lee Jones.Erika Eleniak as playboy playmate Jordan Tate who has been caught up in the hijacking show off her assets for one brief scene and then cries, whines and huffs and puffs her way through the movie at first but later sheds her damsel in distress image to help Ryback take down the mercenaries. If I had one criticism of Under Siege is that her character was unnecessary for this movie and the movie could have done without her.Director Andrew Davis reunites with Steven Seagal from his 1988 debut movie Above the Law and he does a great job as a director. Following the success of Under Siege, Andrew Davis would be picked to direct the Harrison Ford/Tommy Lee Jones blockbuster thriller The Fugitive (1993).There have been so many movies that have attempted to replicate the success of Die Hard (1988) and there have been a variety of mixed results. Under Siege is definitely one of those movies that is a successful blueprint of Die Hard, but also carves out its own success without falling into the trap of being another Die Hard wannabe. Under Siege is a great action movie in its own right, and definitely one of Steven Seagal's best movies that will never be beaten.Watch Under Siege and enjoy yourself.8/10. "},{"Title":"Alright, but a Bit Disappointing","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I like Steven Seagal's other other early films but Under Siege was a bit disappointing due to a lack of hand to hand combat. There are too many gunfights. I mean, gunfights aren't bad or anything, but all of the actors who have ever played the hero of an action movie use guns. When I watch a Steven Seagal movie, I hope to see him use Aikido (or broken pool cues, at least) to dispatch bad guys. And the knife fight at the end was pretty bad. Tommy Lee Jones is a good actor but I still can't believe that he'd last more than five seconds against Seagal in a knife fight. But this movie was still pretty fun. I thought the setting was interesting. The stakes are high. In Die Hard, terrorists plan to steal hundreds of millions of dollars but here terrorists try to blow up Honolulu. And Erika Eleniak is quite beautiful. My favorite Steven Seagal movie is probably Above the Law, though. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal best film","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Yes! Die Hard on a boat but this time the hero is Steven Seagal. This film is unarguably Seagal's best to date and is filled with excitement and action. The story takes place on a battleship where the cook Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) prepares meals for everyone but this time he has to prepare an even bigger meal because the captain has a surprise birthday party coming up which will be attended by many people. However, something bad is going to happen on that day as a group of terrorists plan to invade the battleship and they have a dangerous agenda on their hands. But little do they know that there was someone they missed capturing - Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) the cook and they're in for a little surprise. The film was extremely good and successful and one of the best Die Hard clones out there. Sadly for some reason this film Under Siege is massively underrated. Seagal may not be as popular as compared to the likes of Van Damme, Arnold, Willis etc but he too has been part of some successful action films and Under Siege is certainly one of them. Other notable casts in this film are Tommy Lee Jones who starred in the Fugitive and Gary Busey who starred in Lethal Weapon so its a film certainly worth watching. "},{"Title":"Seagal's Best","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Rogue CIA operative William Strannix (Tommy Lee Jones) and his gang of mercenaries take over the battleship USS Missouri with inside help from batshit crazy Navy officer Krill (Gary Busey). At first things are going pretty smoothly for them but it turns out they forgot one little thing the ship's cook, former Navy SEAL Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal). Watch Ryback Die Hard it up and take out the bad guys one by one, leading to the inevitable final fight with Strannix for the fate of the world...or something like that.Awesome actioner with a wonderful cast. Steven Seagal's best and most polished movie. When you have Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey as villains, the script pretty much writes itself. Both are terrific with colorful performances like you might expect. Seagal does his usual stuff, which is probably hit or miss with most people. I actually like his early movies so I can't complain. Special mention to beautiful Erika Eleniak, who has probably her best film role in this. She's a comedic sidekick character and is quite good at it. She also has a brief topless scene, which hurt absolutely nothing. It's a fun movie. One of the few Seagal movies that can be enjoyed on its merits without the slightest hint of irony. "},{"Title":"I guess we'll just see what we'll see.","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Gee, I don't know - Seagal takes on thirty terrorists all by himself and comes out on top? I don't think so, but action fans love this kind of stuff and I'm a little partial to Seagal myself. Personally I prefer him when he's beating up on your standard bunch of saloon thugs or billiard room bullies where it's more up close and personal. At least you had Tommy Lee Jones and Miss July Gary Busey on hand here to add a maniacal touch to the festivities. Man, didn't Busey just creep you out in that dress and makeup? Probably the most unbelievable part of the story had Erika Eleniak go from a sniveling crybaby to an elite killer assassin in the space of an hour or so. Anyone could buy that, right? Well stuff like this is made for diversion and it's not the worst hour and a half you can spend. I'd have preferred a little more in the way of martial arts instead of the big guns but there are other Seagal films so you take what you get. Sure would like to have a birthday cake like that though. "},{"Title":"A solid Die Hard like action movie","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Ever since Die Hard, every action movie has copied the formula to death. Some have been successful and a lot haven't. Under Siege was Seagal's attempt at the Die Hard formula and thankfully it lands on the good side of the spectrum delivering a breezy and entertaining movie.Good The bright side of the movie comes in the form of Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones. They ham it up to incredible levels here especially Jones who is clearly having a blast as the villain. I liked the setting used and the action sequences are fun. Sprinkle some violence, Eleniak boob action, and some goofy one liners and you got an action movie that works. Even Seagal who depending on the material and director can make a movie work is solid as the lead.Bad Of course, a movie like this isn't going to deter from the course so it's predictable to a tee. The bad guys have horrible aim and of course add the nukes in there for dramatic effect that doesn't lead to much. I also wished there was more Gary Busey as well.Overall, it's one of the better Seagal movies and an above average Die Hard like action movie that delivers on light action entertainment. "},{"Title":"Great one-man-army flick","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" One-man-army flicks became popular in the 80s with the Rambo movies and, later, with the Die Hard films. 1992's Under Siege is a film in that mold.THE PLOT Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) is a Navy Seal and hero who works as a cook on a battleship to finish out his 20-year stint in the service (the Captain saved him from court martial for insubordination by graciously getting him the gig). A group of terrorist thugs come aboard and take over the ship. They purpose to steal the ship's nuclear missiles. There's one problem Ryback is loose on the ship and he's a professional killing machine, a veritable one-man-army.It takes about 25-minutes for the story to set up, and then the action kicks in. From there it's Ryback v.s. the thugs all the way to the end. The film runs 1 hour and 38 minutes before the credits roll.A few notables -- Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey are truly exceptional as the psychotic villains.-- Steven Seagal is perfect and even likable as the Rambo-like hero. The sequel Under Siege 2 Dark Territory takes place on a train, and it's a good one-man-army flick as well, but not as good as this one. Anyway, I've only seen a handful of Seagal films and Under Siege is by far his best.-- Erika Eleniak co-stars as the playboy bunny who came aboard to entertain during the big party. She has a notorious pop-out-of-the-cake scene where she's wearing very little clothing. Aside from this brief scene she appears fully clothed throughout the entire picture. Anyway, this infamous cake scene has become quite the running joke between me, my wife, my brother-in-law and sister. Generally speaking, red-blooded males will cherish the scene (their carnal side, that is) whereas wives and girlfriends will hate it or, at least, dismiss it with a role of the eyes. It's all in good fun, but I wouldn't let the kiddies see it.-- The entire film is confined to a battleship at sea, which makes it almost claustrophobic. So don't watch Under Siege if you're in the mood for picturesque landscapes (like, say, First Blood).-- While seeing the film it dawned on me how knowledgeable the screenwriter(s) must have been about all-things military. A truly exceptional job.-- I was also impressed with the directing, cinematography and editing. Such things usually don't occur to me while watching films, so it has to be pretty outstanding for me to notice. Needless to say, this is, technically speaking, a first-rate picture.So why not a higher rating? Because all one-man-army films must be judged in comparison to First Blood, the Citizen Kane of one-man-army flicks. And Under Siege falls a bit short. It's quite compelling but it's no where near as captivating as First Blood. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Take my pies out of the oven","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" After his breakthrough movie Above the law which was a nice action flick Seagal made a trio of bad (at least for me) movies  Hard to kill , Marked for death and Out for justice. The production values of those products were unimpressive (they looked like a TV movies) and they all felt like one and the same movie thanks to the lazy screenplays. Thankfully Andrew Davis ( director of Above the law) came to save Seagal career and together they made Under siege &#x96; easily Seagal's best movie to date.The production values are good . It's one of few Segal's big budget movies ( along with On deadly ground, Under siege 2  , Executive decision and Exit wounds). While the big budget doesn't automatically mean good movie it allows the viewer to feel a touch of epic cinema. In terms of story there's nothing original here . It's another Die hard clone , this time on battleship. However it's one of the best Die hard clones out there . While the story here is quite predictable (because it was done to death before and after this movie ) it's still entertaining. The writer puts quite a lot of humor and irony into this movie. Steven Seagal is Casey Ryback an ex-Navy Seal who is on board as the captains personal cook. He is the only person who can stop terrorists from using the nuclear weapons. Sounds funny ? Yes , and it could easily turn into unintentional autoparody of itself (like Van Damme's awful Sudden death) . Thankfully Under siege neither treats itself too seriously or too silly.Steven Seagal is no actor , but he is watchable here. Seagal looks relaxed here , often smiles and has some nice one-liners . Along with Above the law this is his best performance. The movie gives him female sidekick played by Erika Eleniak . She looks great (we get a chance to see her breasts) and gives a decent performance. Interesting thing &#x96; she actually was Playboy Playmate of the Month for July 1989 just as the movie says. Another interesting thing &#x96; Seagal doesn't defeat the bad guys all alone. He needs help from few other people and that was a refreshing thing to see.The show however belongs to two veteran actors  Tommy Lee Jones (The Fugitive) and Gary Busey (Lethal weapon). They play villains and they are obviously the most colorful and charismatic characters in the movie. They are little over &#x96; the &#x96;top , but never overdone it. The action is a high point here. Some Seagal fans might be a little disappointed because it doesn't contain that many aikido moves like his other movies. Still there is enough brutal violence , shootouts , death traps , explosions and a good knife fight to make every action movie junkie happy. The direction by Andrew Davis is top notch . Harrison Ford watched this film while he was deciding whether to take on the lead role in The Fugitive, which had Davis already set to direct. Ford was greatly impressed by Davis' work here and immediately accepted that role. 9 nine actors from US , including Tommy Lee Jones appeared in TF. The sound is also impressive (2 Oscar nominations). The only bad thing is Gary Chang's bland and completely forgettable score. Under siege  is the best movie of Steven Seagal. It's a good , fun popcorn movie definitely worth watching. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best film?","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Why do you tolerate this clown? Is one of the first questions addressed to the captain. There's no good answer. Steven Seagal stars in this as Casey Ryback, ship's cook. In this early incarnation, Seagal is not quite so overweight, not quite so mumbling and not quite so immobile. In fact this may be his best film! Ryback is the John McLane type character as the only one who can prevent terrorists taking over the USS Missouri and stealing the nuclear warheads. Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey head up the terrorists and Erika Eleniak plays Jordan Tate, former Miss July 1979 or thereabouts. She looks good and can act. She and Seagal link together to cause mayhem on board.There's an attempt at humour, even an attempt at acting by our hero. The filming is good and the plot makes sense, well as much sense as the Die Hard series. The pacing is very good. Tommy Lee tries to steal every scene and the overall result is quite pleasing. Imagine how much better this film would have been with Willis, or Arnie. "}{"Title":"Steven Segals best film of his career!","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is easily one of Steven Segals best films. After just recently re-watching it after a number of years I have decided to give it a brief review. Gary Bousey, Steven Segal, and Tommy Lee Jones all gave very breakout and believable performances. Although Tommy Lee Jones was the show stealer in this film, Steven and Gary both gave performances that put a smile on my face because this is when they were A-list to me. The writing was okay. There was moments as in traditional Hollywood that just didn't make sense. For one (Spoiler!!!) a ship that valuable with weapons that dangerous, I would think would have a lot more armed me throughout the ship for security and the Captain was just to lazy in that he allowed his XO to pull all roving patrols away without having any kind of fail safe. Being a military guy myself I think that the way that the hijack went down, it was just too far fetched. It was a thrill ride once the action got going, but I think it could have been a little more smooth. All in all a really great film that has aged quite well. "},{"Title":"Battle On A Battleship","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Andrew Davis directed this action-hit that stars Steven Seagal as Casey Ryback, a soldier who is also an accomplished cook, and is the personal chef of Captain Adams(played by Patrick O'Neal) of the battleship Missouri, which is due for decommissioning, but not before a team of mercenaries(led by Tommy Lee Jones) takes over, with the help of traitorous Commander Krill(played by Gary Busey). Casey is the only one who can defeat these villains from unloading its nuclear missiles for sale, and does precisely that... Entertaining film may not be entirely credible, with campy villains, but delivers enough crowd-pleasing excitement to compensate. "},{"Title":"Best Seagal Ever","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" If you're forced to watch one Steven Seagal movie, you best make it this one. The battleship Missouri is being decommissioned and Captain's personal cook Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) is actually a Navy SEAL. Commander Krill (Gary Busey) is a bombastic man. He brings in entertainment for the Captain's birthday except the band turns out to be mercenaries led by William Stranix (Tommy Lee Jones). The only help may come from former playmate Jordan Tate (Erika Eleniak) who was supposed to be jumping out of a cake.There is Steven Seagal action. In addition, he does a good job not overplaying his role. There is a hot playmate who can actually act. There are not one but two great bad guys. Both Jones and Busey deliver great takes on the crazy bad guy. Jones is more intense and Busey is more crazy. The action is big enough and fun enough. This is Seagal doing the best Seagal movie ever. "},{"Title":"Great action flick","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'm really surprised to see such a low average. In my mind, it's Steven Segal's best film, and it's an excellent action movie. It moves at a great pace, the plot is not too trite or unoriginal, especially for the time, and most of it was believable. It's a great popcorn movie!In short, Steven Segal is the captains friend For some reason he's working as ship's cook Something he's good at, but he's been demoted- I don't recall if we ever found out explicitly why, there's some talk of him getting in trouble, but I don't think they tell us the detail. A surprise party goes wrong, so there's a pretty girl involved when everything goes to heck. "},{"Title":"Awesome action flick.","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Let me just join the chorus here in saying that Under Siege is definitely the best film of Steven Seagals' career. It benefits from the presence of a genre pro as director, Andrew Davis. He'd previously directed Seagal in Above the Law, and he shows how well he can handle large scale action and shooting in confined locations. Another plus is more colourful villains than usual, extremely well played by Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey; they're both endlessly amusing. Playboy Playmate Erika Eleniak adds appreciable eye candy, and the film also has that irresistible over the top brutality that characterized Seagals' early films.Seagal plays Casey Ryback, a cook aboard the U.S.S. Missouri who must save the day when mercenaries, led by Jones and assisted by disgruntled officer Busey, touch down on the battleship under the guise of a blues band. They quickly take over, but Busey conveniently forgets about Seagal, who's able to slip away and start taking measures to stop the bad guys' plans. Ryback isn't entirely on his own, though, acquiring some companions (including Eleniak, who plays a centerfold hired to jump out of a birthday cake) along the way. Of course, as prepared as these bad guys are, they're no match for this particular cook.Slick as hell, this ass kicking film is consistently fun, perfect popcorn fare with a great pace and a sense of humour about itself. Seagal looks loose and relaxed here; even though he's never been much of an actor, he's always proved quite watchable (at least in his earlier efforts). Busey is a standout among the villains; at one point, he's actually dressed in drag. A *ton* of familiar faces play supporting and small parts Colm Meaney, Patrick O'Neal, Andy Romano, Nick Mancuso, Troy Evans, Glenn Morshower, Bernie Casey, Raymond Cruz, Duane Davis, George Cheung, Sandy Ward, Michael Des Barres, Dennis Lipscomb, and Dale Dye. There's enough explosions and gunfire to maintain ones' attention, as well as one marvelous and memorable comeuppance for one of the baddies.With a stirring score by Gary Chang as accompaniment, this is rock solid escapism from start to finish, and it's too bad that this level of quality in a Seagal flick wouldn't recur after this.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"Seagel at his best this film is a high tech laugh and pack of thrills .","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Lets say this was a good seagel film a thriller and action its very cool in ways . The film was described as die hard on a battle ship no its not die hard is a bad boring film but this is very entertaining .This has thrills , and laughs lots of action which is bad getting killed so its a classic this is simple different 90s action that is very inventive if you want to watch go ahead its an seagal film everyone knows seagal hes just awesome .8.0 out of 10.0 / entertaining film / it does lack brilliance and brill acting although seagal is the highlighlight its still very underrated and great . 15 certificate clearly underrated this is a brutal action film the seagal action ids always brutal . should be 18 for strong brutal action violence , threat and language and some sexual scenes . 7 0ut of 10 for violence can be very bad to viewers . total explitict content 10 out of 100 so it gets little explitict content . "},{"Title":"Lively and Fun","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is Steven Seagal's most popular film among fans and critics. Although he made some others that are just as good. Above the Law (1988), Out for Justice (1991), and Under Siege 2 (1995). These three are not as slick and audience friendly and have more gritty violence and raw characters.But this movie could be called his most fun. It has a light hearted tone and there is a lot played for laughs by the co-stars and there is much attention given to the ship itself. It is a lively affair with enough ingredients to give everyone a good time, even non-fans of the action star.Overall it is an inoffensive action flick with some big budget gimmicks and fun villains, some very good cinematography, and high powered sound. If you liked this one check out those others for even more entertainment from the whispering martial arts expert. "},{"Title":"Die Hard on a battleship!","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" After being decommissioned in Hawaii the USS Missouri; a colossal battleship is taking its last journey&#x85; and it won't be plain sailing! To celebrate the captain's fiftieth birthday the Executive Officer, Cmdr. Krill, has arranged a surprise party which is to involve having a band, some caterers and Jordan Tate AKA Miss July 1989 flown in by helicopter. The only problem is that with the exception of Miss Tate none of them is who they seem to be; they, along with Krill, intend to seize the ship along with its tomahawk nuclear missiles. The group is led by former CIA operative William Stranix who was understandably upset when the Agency decided he was no longer required and tried to kill him. When their plan swings into action most of the crew are quickly captured or killed; one exception is Casey Ryback, the chef. Krill has him under marine guard in the galley but he isn't captive for long. Ryback isn't an ordinary cook; he is a former Navy Seal and he is trained for just this sort of problem! Ryback soon finds an ally&#x85; Jordan Tate! The two of them work to thwart Krill's plans and prevent a nuclear strike against Honolulu!This is a solid action thriller; probably Steven Seagal's best film; certainly the best one I've seen. He plays Ryback and does a pretty good job in the role managing to hold his own against Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey who play Stranix and Krill; they are both delightfully over the top villains&#x85; at one point Busey dons a dress complete with a chest that makes Erika Eleniak, who plays Jordan Tate look small! At first I thought her appearance was just eye-candy and her emerging from a giant cake showing her breasts seemed to confirm this fear; thankfully when she puts some clothes on she made a good character&#x85; not necessarily believable but fun to watch. The story was pretty good and the action is great without getting too gruesome; there are shootings, knife-fights and explosions to keep things exciting and not too much time is wasted on unnecessary exposition. "},{"Title":"The Best Seagal Film","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege packs nonstop action and suspense into two quick hours, and is quite entertaining. Violent and not particularly literary but worthy entry in action genre and realized in ¨Die hard¨ style. Wooden Seagal plays the violent Casey Ryback, he cleans up the battleship by means of punches, kicks, bounds and leaps, martial arts skills with fights certainly is slick.The Aikido expert Seagal saves the day in this exciting movie which he also co-produced .In the film appear many secondary roles played by prestigious actors as Patrick O'Neal,Colm Meany, Damian Chapa, Raymond Cruz , Bernie Casey, Nick Mancuso and several others.This elaborately produced action film with two-fisted Seagal is just another action film full of struggles ,thrills, noise and lots of violence. Steven Seagal as almost always, plays a stalwart and lone fighter, BUT, he delivers the goods in his own style full of usual violence and fights with snapping wrists and flying bodies.Unfortunately, these days, a much heftier Seagal does mostly low budget and direct to video garbage , such as ¨Half past dead¨, ¨The foreigner¨ and its sequel, ¨Shadow man ¨, ¨Flight of fury¨, ¨Urban justice¨ and many others. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege is the most well known movie to star washed up 90s action movie star Steven Seagal. Seagal is a big-league jackass but that doesn't stop me from liking his first five movies, which include Under Siege.Ex Navy SEAL Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) is a cook on a battleship. A group of mercenaries lead by a rogue CIA agent take over the ship, intending to sell the ship's nuclear missiles on the black market by unloading them onto a submarine. The bad guys intend to cover their escape by firing nukes at Honolulu which will kill a million people. With all the ship's personnel imprisoned, it's pretty much up to Seagal to stop them. He shoots, punches, kicks, stabs, chokes and gouges bad guys. Complete with ample explosions, this movie really does deliver on the action front. The body count is respectable, but the filmmakers knew that good action is not just about people dying. There is a creativity to the action besides the various methods of violence. In keeping with the film's silly plot is consistent mild humor, not unlike Con Air and Speed.Ryback, typical of characters played by the egotistical Seagal, seems to be the toughest guy in the world, killing bad guy after bad guy with ease and retaining an almost superhuman calm throughout the whole ordeal. Whether Seagal is as tough as he says he is, (highly doubtful) it works, and the guy is at least a skilled martial artist. Ryback is friendly and humble. Ironically, Seagal is always good at being likable in his movies. The best thing about the movie is the villains. Tommy Lee Jones is William Strannix, the former CIA agent in charge of the bad guys. This is one interesting character. He has been driven insane by the pressure of his job and left without faith in civilization after an attempt on his life by the CIA. He wants money, but also has strong personal motivations. He wants to strike back at the establishment that betrayed him and has a nihilistic desire to carry out his terrible nuclear threat, which of course he attempts to do. This is a great character who you are likely to root for. He never kills anyone personally. You could forget that he is the bad guy. Exuding his Tommy Lee Jones charm, the humorous amusement he shows over his undertaking is funny and never viscous like Speed's Howard Payne or Cliffhanger's Eric Qualen. When Seagal has inevitably ruined his plans, his reaction is not furious raving but bizarre, crazy ramblings about Saturday morning cartoons. Commander Krill, played by Gary Busey is an officer on board the battleship who helps Strannix and his team take over. He is a psychopath with a grudge against the whole crew of the ship and Ryback (Seagal) especially. They never liked me anyway he says when he attempts to drown his captive fellow crew members. He behaves like a standard bad guy but Busey is my favourite actor and his voice and delivery are gold. Then you've got Colm Meaney, your average straight man third in command bad guy. His Irish accent makes him somewhat amusing. The other villains make great Seagal fodder. The screenwriters managed to fit in the supporting role of a real life/in the movie playboy centerfold chick who follows Seagal around and manages to give him a lot of help and does a little dance with some upper frontal nudity. Yep.If you are expecting to be moved by this film, like perhaps you were at the end of Die Hard, you will be disappointed. This movie is in sharp contrast to Die Hard in this respect. Die Hard has that very emotive score. Gary Chang's score for this movie is adventurous but unemotional. It is befitting of Seagal's cool headed character, who is very different to Die Hard's impassioned Mclane. The obvious intention to keep this film unemotional leaves something to be desired, keeping the film from being as exciting as it could have been, but it's not entirely a bad thing. Sometimes you don't want to watch an emotional movie and a creative movie with excellent villains and plenty of violence and explosions would hit the spot. "}{"Title":"Macho, amusing and dumb. (Good for some, but not for all)","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Kicking butt is nothing special to movies which is why Under Siege is nothing special, the question is whether the movie can provide pleasure to anyone other than Seagal fans. The answer is...possibly. For a 21st century audience it seems a little dubious considering that action goers don't go for anything less explosive than Michael Bay, or Roland Emmerich. Under Siege is no match for either of them in terms of spectacle, but then again, it is not nearly as loud or obnoxious either. A well choreographed fight scene can be far more engaging than watching New York Blow up. If you Seagal is not your reason for viewing this movie, the only way one can love a film like this is if you see it before watching any of the following films The Die Hard series, The Lethal Weapon Series, and maybe The Hunt for Red October. Under Siege is basically borrows the same formula without adding anything except Seagal.Seagal is Casey Ryback, a former SEAL officer and now the cook on board, the USS Missouri which is departing on it's final voyage (before retirement). It is the Captains birthday and to celebrate a group of Hawaian entertainers (including miss June) are flown in via chopper. Come evening the party is well under way, but suddenly it gets nasty when the entertainers put on a much bigger show, pulling out there guns and high jacking the ship, at the command of traitorous Commander Krill (next in command aboard the ship). All the crew gets locked up expect for Ryback (due to a very silly circumstance). Krill plans a nuclear strike on the United States, and now it's up to him to save the day. Along the way he gets some unusual help.The movie uses all the clichés of an all American hero film, especially during the climax, which features overly used lines such as 'Your plan wont cause any change' and what not. Under Siege is in no way weak (except maybe intellectually) but it is not so much exciting as it is amusing. There is little in the way of tension, because we just know that the ending is going to be happy, there are a couple of intentional as well as unintentional laughs along the way, But Steven Segal does kick butt in this movie which is all that the film intends to offer. That doesn't mean however that it is an action film of praise. "},{"Title":"Seagal's most successful film, also one of his best!","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege is Steven Seagal's most successful film.It made the most money at the box office and it is also hailed to be his best movie.I don't know about BEST, but it is definitely up there.It has plenty of action & the usual Steven Seagal's comedic one liners.It also features Tommy Lee Jones playing an excellent role as the villain of the film.I think this is the only Seagal film to have a sequel.The movie is about some terrorists who hijack a ship.However, they don't know that the cook, is also an ex-navy seal, which causes quite a bit of trouble from them.With the help of a super model and the rest of the cooks, they need to fight the terrorists! This is a very good action film. "},{"Title":"Action Packed and Movin' Fast!","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Another Andrew Davis actioner that proves he's one of the best with Action films. Here we meet one of the great film characters in Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal). The film has some nasty villains too in Tommy Lee Jones, Gary Busey and Colm Meaney. The story of the hijacking of a super nuclear battleship by extremely clever criminals moves fast as is director Davis' style. He keeps things moving with ex-Navy Seal, Ryback who's not one to mess with! Great cinematography of the ship plowing its course, a nifty music score and above all, non-stop action. There will be no acting Oscars here, but the stunt people sure deserve some kind of award. When will they have their day? This film made me a Seagal fan and some of his films are damn good! The sequel Under Siege 2 is equally good. "},{"Title":"The best film with Steven Seagal spiced with Erika Eleniak.","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The best film with Steven Seagal spiced with Erika Eleniak.The most of films with Steven Seagal is weird, bored and without any good story. But not this one! This is masterpiece of old action school. This good movie have the story, and the good one story and Seagal playing more than with his usual stoned face (as Chuck Norrise ) ).Under Siege is absolute classic. It's intimate as the my loved film Die Hard and with bigger guns.If you don't like Steven Seagals films, try at least this one. Others his films are poor, but this one is really good.Action classic, what i may say more ). "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever made","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is the ultimate action film. Martial arts, cool weapons and it takes place on a battleship. This is also Seagal's best film by far. If you like action, Seagal delivers, however in Under Siege, Seagal probably gives the best performance of his career. Seagal is not the only actor to make this film great. There are also the roles of William Stranix and Commander Krill played by Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey. Both of these actors play the villain roles excellent, especially Tommy Lee Jones. The acting by Jones, allows the insanity of William Stranix to come to life on the screen. Aside from the acting, the effects and stunts are excellent and for action movie lovers, you will not be disappointed. Under Siege is my favorite action film and favorite movie of all time. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Steven still cannot be contained","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" On a couple of occasions in the Austin Powers flicks, Dr. Evil's resentful, critical son, chides him as to why he doesn't simply whack Powers right now, instead of going through some elaborate machinations (such as suspending him above a shark tank) from which he'll inevitably escape before his delayed death can occur.This is, of course, a take-off on the many times James Bond's nemeses off everybody in sight except him, and where even if he had only, say, a packet of dental floss, he'd use it to escape in the nick of time.Here the delightfully awful bad guys, Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey, chewing every possible piece of scenery in their path, shoot point-blank many key personnel, including the vessel's captain, but for some reason wish solely to confine Steven in or around the meat locker in the galley, with only a somewhat nerdy enlisted man on-guard. The story holds no doubt, whatever, as to what will subsequently ensue. Like all of Steven's flicks, it's like an interesting piece of performance art with kicking, chopping, shooting in massive quantity until all is well - or some semblance of same is reached - at the conclusion.The real suspense in one of his movies is watching to see if at some point, someday, he might actually crack a true smile, or at least a wide grin. And the repartee between Tommy Lee Jones and his former, top-level friends, with him on-board the battleship and them around a huge table at the Pentagon, is another a wonderful piece of performance art within the main plot. Likewise the clueless beauty queen, who has apparently been asleep in the cake, originally planned for the late captain, and her conversations with Steven when she finally awakens. "},{"Title":"Downright great!","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" under siege - Steven Seagals best flick and by far a film of the 90's. Seagal is cardboard as usual but with great supporting actors like Gary Busey & tommy lee Jones - this movie was bound to be a hit. Busey delivers his best performance since point break as the Psychotic and generally unstable XO Commander Krill in such a way that only he can. Krill is a great villain, a killer, Unstable, and non patriotic. Busey was great and lee Jones puts in his best performance other than in the fugitive, as the Lunatic ex CIA operative Hippy, one of them should have been nominated for an Oscar!!!!!!!.The Movies best part is when busey runs off on the sub, whilst he believes he is away form seagal, seagal then blows busey to smitherines before heading to the showdown with lee Jones.a true masterpiece (seagal lets it down a bit) but regardless a 10/10 film. "},{"Title":"Easily Steven Segal's best starring role flick.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Why is this movie any better than his others? Well for one thing the story, it has one. His previous movies had stories of course, but they were all so similar that they were hard to distinguish. Usually him getting revenge or something. This one features him as a cook with a secret (he is a butt kicking chef). The other factor that makes this better than his usual movie is the villains. You have Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey, both portray great villains here. It is nice to see a Segal movie that has some good actors in it. Well these villains proceed to take over this ship and of course our hero is not accounted for and fights to take it back with the help of a stripper who pops out of a cake in a rather sexy scene. Yes, this does sound a bit like Die Hard doesn't it? So that is that, a good action flick for the most part. Not that it doesn't contain any flaws, the final fight is particularly bad as it is very one sided, and we are talking about Steven Segal here, he is not incredibly bad, but he is not the best actor in the world either. Still, this movie makes up for the short comings by being a very fast paced action adventure in the mold of a Die Hard flick. "},{"Title":"Likable genre piece.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What is Erika Eleniak doing in the movie, you ask? She is there as a proxy for the audience. Let me GO!, she cries. Or, I'm afraid of being alone. And she asks things like, What are you doing now? And Seagal can reply I'm disconnecting the circuit from the Smegmaphage GPS to the Etconspiri Two Two Oh. What does that mean? It means pointless bilingual word play. No, seriously, when I'm done they won't have access to the head. Probably it's not fair to call this a Siegel movie. You could call it a Schwarzenegger movie or a Stallone movie or a Willis movie or a Lundgren movie except for the fact that the action figure in this instance happens to be Seagal.His acting is, like the recent demotion of Pluto from planethood, not something to be praised or criticized. It's a simple fact of nature that must finally be realized. Eleniak can be dismissed, despite the admirable contours of her pelvic girdle. Gary Busey is pretty good, though. He's better as a man than a woman. As a woman he has no appeal whatever. As a guy he's almighty spooky. He's had his ups and downs, sabotaged at times by personal demons, but has turned in some fine performances along the way. Check out his frightening jerk in Carny. The other bad guy, the chief villain, is Tommy Lee Jones who overacts outrageously and is lots of fun to watch as an aging rock star and traitor.The story? A couple of dozen heavies with diverse technical skills take over a battleship about to be retired and threaten to destroy half the world with Tomahawk missiles unless they are paid a ransom equal to ten times the GNP of Oman. The plan is spoiled by Seagal and all the bad guys die violent and often highly colorful deaths. Some of them are foolish enough to take on Seagal mano a mano, evidently never having seen any of his movies.Anyway, I kind of like it. Battleships are great for action movies. Lots of nooks and crannies to hide in and to ambush others from. Big guns. Jones is on deck when a 16-inch gun is fired and is blown away and deafened temporarily. I can only imagine that that's accurate. If you are behind even a 5-inch gun your hair stands on end. Oh -- and another good thing. There are a couple of small-arms exchanges below decks, and the sound department has spared us the whine of bullets ricocheting off into infinity. (Cf., Magnum Force.) If you enjoy action movies, this one should suit you. "},{"Title":"The battle of two-word titles vs. three - Steven Seagal's Under Siege in his greatest movie to date","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Now this is what a Steven Seagal martial arts action/adventure should be, which unfortunately isn't really saying much, since there is not a whole lot to expect from his movies anyway. The stoic action hero of Above the Law (1988), Hard to Kill (1990) and Out for Justice (1991) returned to the screen in a big way with 1992's Under Siege, his most praised film role to date. He's still stoic and cool, mind you.Sure, he looks like he's put on a little weight, but his Aikido skills haven't suffered, apparently, since he snaps limbs and twists arms like they were twigs, and does so in a dynamite J.F. Lawton-written screenplay that is break-neck in its pacing, courtesy of director Andrew Davis, who was also behind the camera of Seagal's earlier Above the Law. Most of the action occurs on-board the USS Missouri, due to be decommission after its final voyage from Hawaii to San Francisco. But the celebrations are cut short when terrorists led by gonzo ex-CIA operative William Strannix (Tommy Lee Jones) and turncoat Commander Krill (Gary Busey) easily seize control of the skeleton crew and take over the ship's operations including its stockpile of nuclear weaponry.Back in Washington, D.C., the regular government stereotypes sit on pins + needles trying to figure out the best method of action since they're dealing with one of their own. The government's best hope lies in the fists of Casey Ryback (Seagal), a cook with a background as an ex-SEAL who was placed on the USS Missouri to finish out his 20-year tour in the galley following a scuffle with his officer-in-charge.So why should you care about Seagal, or his hottest action flick to date? First off, anyone expecting anything even remarkable such as a change of character for Seagal will be sorely disappointed. He plays his usual wronged hero archetype here, as well as the vengeance-seeking wrist-breaker, but he does so in a way like he knows the layout of the story and just runs with it. And Lawton's screenplay also supplies him and his cohorts with an arsenal of firepower, and one-liners that do warrant some carefully placed chuckles. Dragged into the fray with Seagal, are a couple of Missouri crew buddies, and a former Playboy Playmate hottie, Erika Eleniak as Jordan Tate, a.k.a. Miss July '89.On the flip-side away from our star, we have the villains played with cackling, over-the-top precision by Jones and Busey, who play off one another, have some of the coolest lines, and give the best performances in the whole movie. At the helm, director Davis keeps a pace that is almost in sync with his later The Fugitive (1993), which would feature another star-making performance by Mr. Jones.Of course, Under Siege has the best action sequences of any Steven Seagal movie, with plenty of scenes of him shooting up the bad guys, dodging bullets as if he was Superman, and even has a titanic kung-fu knife fight. Sure, it still takes its cues from Die Hard (1988) and the many knock-offs that have tried to imitate it, but Under Siege knows where it's going, and so do we.10/10 "}{"Title":"Overstuffed with Action...Mr. Seagal is Bad Ass!!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Oh, Yes! This movie ranks as one of my favorite action movies to date! Steven Seagal is Casey Ryback....a lowly, lowly cook on the USS Misouri, on it's way to San Francisco for de-commission. While en route, the ship is hijacked & it's cache of weapons is seized. Little do the hijackers know is that the lowly cook is a former navy seal....and a damn good one at that. ...and the hijackers try to eliminate the cook....only to have the tables turned on them. There are lots of excellent hand to hand fights between Ryback & the various members of the enemy. If it's action you want, Under Siege won't let you down. Again, a big thanks to my late brother, Michael for turning me on to this movie. "},{"Title":"Overstuffed with Action...Mr. Seagal is Bad Ass!!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Oh, Yes! This movie ranks as one of my favorite action movies to date! Steven Seagal is Casey Ryback....a lowly, lowly cook on the USS Misouri, on it's way to San Francisco for de-commission. While en route, the ship is hijacked & it's cache of weapons is seized. Little do the hijackers know is that the lowly cook is a former navy seal....and a damn good one at that. ...and the hijackers try to eliminate the cook....only to have the tables turned on them. There are lots of excellent hand to hand fights between Ryback & the various members of the enemy. If it's action you want, Under Siege won't let you down. Again, a big thanks to my late brother, Michael for turning me on to this movie. "},{"Title":"I'm just a ordinary cook...","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favourite Steven Seagal movies, in this one he really has a sense of humour and that's a rare thing to see.The movie is truly a classic, a good story, a good cast and some excellent lines from Casey Ryback. (Steven Seagal) Mr. Seagal stays always very cool under all circumstances and because he likes to destruct things, he is always fun to watch.Now he has to take on almost almost 30 men who have captured the ship, he is a ex-seal and a explosive expert, he is trained for these conditions.The movie has a great mix of action and humour...especially with Ryback's comments on everything...I give it a 8 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Memorable and brilliantly acted by Jones","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This will probably be the film by which Steven Seagal is remembered, which is actually a shame, because Out for Justice is rougher, tougher, and happens to be the one film where Seagal actually shows he can act.Under Siege is a walk-through for Seagal, who had gotten his whole shtick down pat by the making of it, but it is pushed to the limits by an utterly brilliant performance by Tommy Lee Jones as a right-winger who had wanted to be a left-winger during the '60s, and is so completely obsessed with disappointed nostalgia, he decides to nuke Honolulu. Honest.If the viewer can groove to that level of lunacy, he or she will be amply rewarded by a film that takes all the formulaic conventions of the genre and pushes them to the edge of credibility. The movie is wholly unbelievable, but the pacing is so rapid and so well handled, the audience has little time for skepticism. It's just a 90 minute ride, and should be enjoyed on that level.As Tommy Lee Jones' Strannix says when he flips out after his pet submarine has been blown apart Saturday Morning Cartoons - the best! "},{"Title":"You sunk my battleship...","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" An ex-navy seal turned cook is the only hope to stop terrorists who have taken over a battleship and have all the nuclear capabilities and plan to use them. Indeed this was the movie that stopped Die Hard 3 due to it's use of a battleship, instead of Bruce Willis we got Steven Seagal but people didn't seem to care. I for one had more fun with the villains played by Tommy Lee Jones and the great Gary Busey who kills in drag. Seagal is his usual butt-kicking self and it's really interesting to note that it manages to be Seagal's best despite the fact Seagal does less akidio and depends more on gunfire. Not that it matters, Under Siege is never boring and even Erika Elenik isn't too bad in it. Easily Seagal's best movie.* * * out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"a thinking mans action movie, even if Seagal is in it","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" i remember watching this movie back when i was like 8 and i loved it, it was different than any other action movie at the time and now that i look back on it and know more about film and cinema i know why. the directing, the writing, the action, even the acting was good (Seagal) I remember reading the spine of the VHS that i had, it was referred to as Die Hard on a ship. that pretty much sums it up right there. You have the unwilling hero (seagal) put into a situation where he must go up against a host of terrorist that is led by the main villain (Jones) as they are trying to steal tomahawk missiles off a battleship and sell on the black market. Tommy Lee Jones shines as the maniacal villain and he pulls it off well. Gary Busey plays the 2nd list bad guy and he plays the role of the wormy, slimy villain very well. hes the villain that the audience want to see land in Seagals hands so he can be taught a lesson. Steven Seagal is the hero, yet again, but in this role he seems more mortal than in his previous movies where no one can hurt or do anything to him. He plays the role of the hero that is out numbered to a tee. Erica Ellaniack (sp?) is the damsel in distress and she is the partner of Seagal on his quest. there is some cheesy dialog along the way, but most is pretty solid and there is some kind of knew that was going to happen moments but most of all the movie is pretty solid. Just like what most people are saying, this is steven seagal's best movie but it is not just him, tommy lee jones, gary busey also give stand out performances and andrew davis' directing is great as well, lots of props to him as he notches another tab as being one of the most talented, overlooked directors out there. if you liked Die Hard and Seagals earlier stuff, you will enjoy this. A great thinking mans action movie "},{"Title":"A solid, enjoyable action flick!","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Die Hard on a boat it may be, but Under Siege is one of the better action incarnations of the nineties and delivers. With exciting and colourful villains in it's supporting cast, most notably Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey as well as likable hero in Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal), Under Siege is a solid and enjoyable action romp with intense and exciting action scenes.Steven Seagal's martial arts background really works for this film, and his acting isn't wooden, in fact it's his most competent performance to date making it his best work ever. The character of Casey Ryback is actually a believable one, who can get hurt and although this is your typical hero caper with one man standing against impossible odds Under Siege will keep you engaged for the entire voyage.Remember, it's not a job, it's an adventure. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's ONLY decent film","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS Everyone loves a good action movie. A character is placed in a tight, impossible predicament and yet somehow they thrive, kill all the bad guys, and everything turns out great. The films tap into our blood lust whilst simultaneously remind us that even in the darkest periods of our lives, it's possible to survive against all odds. It's comforting actually.Anyway, out of all the action films in the world today, the best one by a mile is often regarded as being Bruce Willis in Die Hard. Brilliantly acted with an evil performance by Alan Rickman, it is the ultimate action story.Aside from Bruce though, who else really is that good in action films? One film which showed that there are alternatives is this one, Under Siege. Starring the truly awful Steven Seagal, it is a brilliant film because like Die Hard you can't help but feel drawn to it. It's a classic, and rightfully so.As cook aboard an American battleship, Casey Ryback (Seagal) is more than happy to stay in his kitchen out of harms way. When an attack is made on the ship however, led by the deranged William Stranix (Tommy Lee Jones), it is up to Ryback to remember his Navy Seal training and save the day once again.Steven Seagal is NOT a good actor. In fact, point blank, the guy is awful. He can't deliver a line to save his life, he has no emotion, and he's generally useless at it. One thing he is superb at though is choreographed fighting and the martial arts. Travelling through the ship shooting, stabbing and maiming the enemy, Seagal is unstoppable and always fun to watch. Out of all his films, the one example where Seagal's special skills are matched with a truly evil villain and a suitably violent plot is this film. Yes, despite Seagal ruining every line he delivers, Under Siege is really good entertainment.Just like in Die Hard, there is a fundamental reason for the brilliance of this film. Just like Alan Rickman in the other film, with Tommy Lee Jones we have a bad guy worth watching. Jones is perfect in his role as the psychotic Stranix, a man who is has been let down by the system and so wants to make a bit of money and get some revenge at the same time. He laughs, he cackles, he randomly waves his gun around, Jones is exactly what you want in a bad guy and he delivers with style.As Tommy Lee Jones' henchmen Colm Meaney and Gary Busey are both also up to the tasks put upon them. Both actors, screen regulars and quality actors in their own rights, are great as they strut around the ship, Meaney with a purpose, and Busey even more psychopathically than Jones. Combined with their leader, it is the ultimate evil trio and it works inexplicably well.Once you've considered the enemy and your main star, the one key feature behind an action film is how the enemy dies. Just like in Die Hard, Under Siege gives us a superb variety. There's the characters who just get shot, there are those who are gratuitously killed and there are those who are killed to allow a 'good' character to go through a renaissance. All different types are on display here, and it's hard not to smile as certain people meet their maker.It's hard not to like specific action films. Classic affairs like Die Hard and Under Siege. These films are the cornerstone of so many DVD collections and they are always something fun to put on when you want minimal plot and plenty of violence. In Under Siege we are given it all. We are given a woeful actor who is a lethal weapon, we are given three superb bad guys, and we are given countless different deaths. When you want to relax and satisfy your blood lust, there is little else you could possibly ask for. "},{"Title":"Seagal's Best","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal is a great actor, and in this movie he shows his full potential as an action-hero. As Casey Ryback, he takes the classic part of a former high-skilled military who is a whole army all by himself. The good thing about Seagal is that he has so much variation in how he tackles the bad guys. Knives, microwave-ovens, guns, chains, he uses almost everything in his own special way to handle the scumbags. Other actors does a pretty good job too. Tommy Lee-Jones delivers as a crazy villain, and Gary Busey fits perfectly to play assholes like Commander Krill. And the knife-fight at the end between Seagal and Jones is just brilliant.All in all One of the best action movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Its funny how things work out. I've posted comments about a few Steven Seagal movies recently. In fact, the last one was about 'Hard to Kill', and at one point I mentioned that I should check out 'Under Siege' again. Lo and behold, what was on TV later that day but 'Under Siege', in all its glory. 'Under Siege' was one of my favourite movies when I was a kid, now I think its Seagal's best movie, and still one of the best action movies around.Seagal plays Casey Ryback, a navy cook serving on-board the USS Missouri. He is liked by the captain, but prone to striking other officers. Only the Captain knows that Ryback is an ex-seal, and when the Missouri is taken over by terrorists, only Ryback can stop the bad-guys and save the crew.'Under Siege' is, at it's core, a 'Die Hard' clone on a ship. Its not as good as 'Die Hard', but its still a classic action movie. Ryback is a great action hero cool, collected, funny, and kicks plenty of butt. Tommy Lee Jones plays an awesome villain as William Stranix, an ex-CIA agent and now terrorist. Stranix is easily one of my favourite movie villain. Apart from Ryback and Stranix, there is almost no character development. The rest of the characters are just there, and some may have completely personality changes at random. Hey, its an action flick.The action scenes are exciting. There may be as many fighting scenes as there are in other Seagal movie, but Seagal is always keeping the action going, whether it by rescuing people, shooting people, sneaking around, or blowing things up. Awesome.'Under Siege' is a great action movie - 9/10 "}{"Title":"One Of The Best Die Hard Clones Out There!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best Die Hard clones out there,with an excellent performance from Seagal!. While it's not as good as Cliffhanger,Sudden Death,Die Hard or any of the die hard sequels, it's still an awesome one, and it's action packed throughout!. I can't say it's Seagal's best because i haven't seen all of his films, still i wouldn't be surprised if it was, due to 2 fantastic villains in Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey!, and a game Steven Seagal!. Maybe i'm just a sucker for these Die Hard kind of movies, but i really do enjoy them and this one was no different. If your an action movie lover (like me) then this is a no brainer,if not stay away!, also it's worth watching for people who think Seagal can't act!. The Direction is great. Andrew Davis does a great job here, with great camera work, some good overhead shots, and overall keeping the film at a very very fast pace!, great job. There is TONS of violence!. We get tons of extremely bloody gunshot wounds, a few bloody gunshot wounds to the head,knives in the neck and body,corpse,with knives in it's face,a very gory impaling, with a huge piece of wood,lots of bloody stabbings,slicing and dicing,gouged out eye,and a knife in the top of the head. The Acting is AWESOME!. Steven Seagal is fantastic here, and gives the best performance i have seen from him yet, he likable, had decent chemistry with Erika Eleniak, kicked that ass, and was lots of fun to watch! (Seagal rules!). Tommy Lee Jones is tremendous as one of the main villains, he has some really cool dialog, was extremely menacing, and really seemed to be enjoying himself!, he was awesome. Gary Busey, is also excellent as one of the main villains, and does what he does best play a psycho!, he was very menacing. Erika Eleniak is very pretty and does fine with what she has to do. Rest of the cast is fine. Overall a must see this instant! i can't wait for Under Siege 2!. ***** out of 5(Barely) "},{"Title":"Mediocre action film suffers from lack of action","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Oh, it has its moments, but overall this movie was--I hate to say it--dull. It is clearly reaching for the cinematic nirvana that is Die Hard, but unfortunately it falls short. Seagal spends most of his time sneaking around in the shadows and mumbling, and very little time actually fighting. The action scenes are awesome, of course--they include an interesting death wherein a guy gets an I-beam dropped on his head, and a truly kickass knife fight--but they are few and far between. Even Tommy Lee Jones as the villain couldn't save it. It's an admirable effort to put the Die Hard formula on a ship, but in the end, it is mediocre.6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"an opinion","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Now, this is a ridiculous film. BUT, I give it a 9/10 because First of all, you get to see Erica Eleniak a) come out of a cake with the proper outfit b) look helpless under the situation, and helpless she looks good, andc) perform well her part, which is a nice thing. Then, you get to see Tommy Lee Jones play bad (in my opinion) and its nice to see that even he is not perfect. Then, its a Steven Seagal movie and you get to see the people with big authority be the bad guys. I am not sure that Steven Seagal is a nice person in his real life, but if you want to see a film where the people in power have dirty hands, then you need to see one of his films. So, he can't be all that bad! And anyway, you must judge a film according to its nature. This one is not a Fellini movie, its just for fun, and some cheap accusation (always wellcome), and as this you must see it! "},{"Title":"Seagals Best!","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Seagal is at his action best,this time as a cook on the a battleship that has been hyjacked by an elite team of terrorists,led by(a perfect acting Tommy Lee Jones).But what the terrorists don't know is that Seagal is an ex-SEAL.And he's cooking up a storm that will blow them off their feet. "},{"Title":"Plain and simply, DIE HARD on a boat...","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The first time you watch this tripe you may think it is decent, but watch again. Under Seige fails like every other Segal movie to date. Segal plays the same kung fu motherf**ker that he does in every other movie he made. Since Segal has that same soft voice he has in every other one of his movies. The only thing that saves this film is its direction by Andrew Davis (The Fugitive.) At heart, this movie is nothing but a DIE HARD rip-off. This movie is more pathetic than Randy Conway trying to sing Lady Marmalade.  "},{"Title":"Commando Cooking","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've been studying the 'Die Hard scenario' (DHS) and have concluded that Air Force One comes closest to matching the original formula.  AFO was stupid, but the writers still knew what made the DHS work and what turned it into junk.  Enter Under Siege, less of Die Hard and more with Commando. The DHS involves communication, villainy, subtexts, and fireballs.  While Under Siege has the correct DHS pacing unlike The Rock and Speed (DHS movies don't start with action scenes, they start with the story), the villainy is PC and the subtexts are gone.  Tommy Lee Jones never struck me as an impressive actor, even in The Fugitive he is as blank as ever.  Steven Seagal competes with him in this movie not only for control of a relatively fake-looking battleship, but also for who can make the most deadpan delivery with bad one-liners.  Bruce Willis had a rough and cut style while Seagal tries to be cool.Andrew Davis certainly gets credit from me for being semi-diverse.  This is his action movie and nothing more.  While here the story and characters are paper-thin, much like Collateral Damage, it's funny how he goes to a plot overdose with Holes.  Perhaps he should make more family movies.  Too bad his style here is loaded with Richard Donner-isms reminiscent of TV and not the film world.Now let's get to where Under Siege subverts the DHS.  Under Siege tries one-upping its predecessors by throwing in Miss July '89.  Other than appealing to the almighty dollar, there is no plot reason for this.  Suddenly we are in a Dirty Harry/Lethal Weapon world where Seagal is stuck with a complaining attachment throughout.  Also, the hero is able to converse with his superiors, but contact with the villain is saved for the typical final encounter.  No points there.  For the record, The Rock's ending imitates the intentions of this one, the purpose all along of destroy the Area of Operations in some grand scheme to save lives.  Heroism has never been so lame.  Overall, if you want to learn...watch Die Hard.  If you want to be entertained...watch Die Hard.  If you're looking for phenomenal leaps of protocol unseen since WarGames, watch this.  Ever notice how they don't use minivans in action movies?  1 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Good action, good fun!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably Steven Seagal's best action film.  A Navy cook who is also an ex-SEAL takes on a battleship full of terrorists.  The bad guys, lead by a maniacally superb Tommy Lee Jones, want to steal nuclear Tomahawk missiles.  Seagal's character with help from a Playboy playmate puts the monkey wrench in their plans.High action, low humor and a few interesting twists and turns make for a nice ride.  "},{"Title":"Seagal's best. Thanks to co-stars and the director.","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Who would've thought? A good Steven Seagal picture. No wonder Die Hard 3 was re-planned after this, 'cause there was nothing to better anymore. The movie has a nice pace and it moves along smoothly. Even the wooden Seagal isn't that much of a torture to watch. But the real fun lies in the performances of Jones and Busey. They make their characters to be those bad guys you love to hate. Also director Andrew Davis is wide awake this time. If you watch this and straight after Collateral Damage, the gap between the two is astounding. Collateral is flat in key scenes and the movie has no feeling. Siege is a raw no-compromising action thriller. It doesn't kiss ass. And by that I mean the overly corny patriotism that ruled in Collateral Damage. And of course Under Siege has Eleniak's bare breasts. Keep the faith, Stranix.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The setting was a diner last night, where a couple of my friends and i were discussing Segall Films, and we all agree most of them are complete, utter crap.  Under Siege, however, is not.From the opening scene, you can tell something big is going to happen, but, i think what struck me the most about the movie is how, and watch out, there is a SPOILER below.-_-_-SPOILER-_-_-When an F-18 goes looking for the missing helicopter, the terrorists, led by Commander Krill, shoot down the F-18 via chaingun, and Voodoo Child plays right after it.END SPOILER.Also, the lighting plays a very crucial role in the film, to accentuate, the fact that they are all alone at sea.  The anticipation of help, on the radar system, proves that even in the early 90's, advances in technology have been made.  The movie plays off of important elements, like sound/lighting, and the effect of puns, along with the run of the mill action that accompanies a movie like this.The movie keeps you enthralled from beginning to end, and even though the ending is a little bit underdeveloped, the movie's stellar plot outshines all the other flaws.  If you are looking for an awesome movie to add to your collection, i suggest getting Under Siege. "},{"Title":"the ultimate heist","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  UNDER SIEGE is the ultiate heist where a battleship and it's weapons systems are up for grabs to the highest bidder. In the film only steven seagal can stop the band of criminals led by tommy lee jones. UNDER SIEGE is a faced paced action film with more than enough thrills for any seagal fan. The films strength is the original premise and having tommy lee jones as the villian. More than DIE HARD on a boat UNDER SIEGE provides viewers with almost two hours of intruige and no boredom. Some may find the film far fetched while others will enjoy the action spectacle.  "}{"Title":"good DIE HARD style action film","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Seagal movies.  It has lots of good action, humor, and the bad guy's were excellent.  The film was well directed by Andrew Davis(who did my favorite Seagal film ABOVE THE LAW, as well as the Chuck Norris hit CODE OF SILENCE) and the explosions and shootout's are solid.  Seagal gives a decent performance(Though I think he was better in OUT FOR JUSTICE) and I really liked Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey.  This ranks with Seagal's best films and its highly recommended. 4/5 "},{"Title":"Martial Arts","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably Seagal's best movie.  His departure from the rogue police officer is refreshing.  As always, his fight scenes are excellent.  If you like this one you should also enjoy the sequel.Seagal may not be the best actor around, but there is one thing that I do like about his films.  When he puts someone down, they stay down.  My main dissatisfaction with other action movie stars, Jackie Chan for instance, is that the bad guys always get back up and rejoin the fight.  I love Chan's style and his stunts, but his opponents always get back up and continue the fight, over and over.  In Seagal's fight scenes it does not take ten to fifteen punches and kicks to defeat his opponent.As for those who complain about his acting, why are you complaining?  What kind of idiot goes to an action movie expecting to find a character with real development?  I go to an action movie or horror movie for the rush of adrenalin that it gives me, not to delve into the deeper meanings of life. "},{"Title":"This film should've been strung on a bait line...","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal has to be one of the WORST actors of all time.  The action genre is known for spewing out notoriously poor acting in place of having things blown-up, but he has absolutely NO DEPTH whatsoever.  I sometimes wonder if he's had the muscles in his face surgically removed, because to show no facial expressions is quite a feat.  Yes, I take action films at face value, I have to because Arnold Schwarzenneger is my all-time favorite actor (well, actor is a stretch), but at least he doesn't THINK he's a good actor and he has done movies outside the genre, which have done well on their own for the most part.  You may wonder  If he complains so much about Steven Seagal then why has he been watching his movies?  Plain and simple... I like action films, even if they're terrible.  Fortunately, Mr. Seagal is getting to be really to old and out-of-shape to be the box office of draw he used to (or as they say, Age hasn't been to kind to him).  Maybe he should call his next movie You've Just About Seen The Last Of Me. "},{"Title":"                under acting","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones should be named Midas. He is one of a very few that can turn crap into something you can watch. A capital ship with nuke weapons is taken on the high seas. Any government would sink it and apologize to the families later. "},{"Title":"This is an interesting film...","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Not much of an action movie fan.  Actually, I watch very few movies. But my kids talked me into watching this film.  Really kept my attention. Have watched it several times.  Have probably enjoyed it more each time. Continuous action.   "},{"Title":"GREATEST MOVIE EVER!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't contain myself.  This movie is the absolute best I have ever seen.  The acting was so realistic, the plot was flawless, and the action kept you on the seat of your ass the entire time.  Steven Seagal showed in this movie that he is very much more capable than only delivering flat one-liners, and the Academy should have considered him when the 1992 nominations for best actor came out.  His fighting was so realistic and flawless, you could actually feel that he was breaking your own arm on screen.  Sure Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones played bad guy roles pretty well, and each deserved a best supporting actor nomination, but their performances were nowhere near the quality of Seagal's.  Of Busey's performances, I think it reaches far above the role he had in Point Break, but his best role remains as The Rocket in Rookie of the Year.  As for Jones, this was his best acting performance ever, with Rules of Engagement a distant second, and Fugitive in a close third.  The action in this movie was nothing short of amazing.  When watching this movie, you actually do blow up and die when you watch how realistic the explosion scenes are.  Too bad nobody ever lives to see the end of the movie because the knife fight at the end will actually slit your own throat.To sum this movie up in one word MASTERPIECE "},{"Title":"Not Seagal 's best film","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  To make an action movie, start with an unbelievable situation         ( apparently the crazier, the better ), develop it to its full extent ( don' t worry if it is full of holes, Hollywood has directors galore, whose craft and rhythm will make them up! ), and carefully select the hero  and the villain.  For the hero, you have the choice between stars ( but they are very expensive ), and martial arts specialists a  few are good actors too ( but often too exotic ), some are passable ones,  many  are lousy ; the rest cannot play, and unfortunately  Seagal belongs to this category. Sometimes you have an  other hero ( as a foil to the main one ), and it is customary to add a girl . Selecting the villain  is a difficult task, as some say he is more important than the hero. Some of the best actors make super villains  ( expensive , too ) ; but they limit the number of such parts, not to erode their image. So most often you have to recourse to specialists, but they lose their impact if  too often seen... In UNDER SIEGE , they  have Steven Seagal ( see above )as the sole hero,with Erika Eleniak as the girl, probably for her silicon breasts *** possible SPOILERS  We can understand that the villains brought her on board to divert the sailors'  attention; but her usefulness ends there, and the writers would have been well inspired to confine in her cabin for the duration of the film, because once free, she keeps hampering the hero's progress!  Two villains here - two good ones Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey     ( but  the reason of his grotesque  female impersonation remains a mystery).    The result is a moderately entertaining movie. But when they say that it is Steven Seagal 's best film, don't believe them. The best one is EXECUTIVE DECISION ... because Seagal is bumped off after some 20 minutes !! "},{"Title":"Erika Eleniak jumps out of a cake!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The most memorable moment in this action film is Erika Eleniak's topless debut as she jumps out of a cake in a most untimely moment ...  What a beauty!  Great juxtaposition of nudity with violence.  There's the usual smart-aleck and unfunny remarks of Seagal, who can afford better writers but doesn't use them.  The martial arts are wonderful.  I just wish Seagal wasn't such a one-dimensional actor.  But then, his audience doesn't require anything more of him.Eleniak is a better actress than she shows here, but she does helpless, buxom sidekick as well as you can expect from these writers.  Hollywood -- or somebody -- should be offering juicier dramatic parts to Eleniak.  Until then, she'll just be a popular poster girl in prison cells and juvenile bedrooms. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the top 3 action movies in the last 20 years","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this flick 50 times and it just keeps getting better. Seagal was born for this part, Gary Busey at his obnoxious best, my hero Tommy Lee Jones as a whack job cointelpro dropout, and ahhhhhh Erica Eleniak. Oh yeah, and the Missouri. Just beautiful. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Above average but under par!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of Steven Seagal. That said, I certainly think 'Under Siege' is one of his better films, not his best though! Dubbed Die Hard on a boat, it certainly holds no water in comparison to 'Die Hard'. The villain in Tommy Lee Jones was a bit too campy compared to Hans Ruber (Alan Rickman) in 'Die Hard', and Seagal's chef strolls through this film and easily defeats terrorists, unlike Bruce Willis whose plight actually felt real and his adversaries actually put up a decent fight.Andrew Davis directs reasonably well, and after this film he directed 'The Fugitive' which was nominated for Best Picture. Still, I even prefer Davis' 'Collateral Damage' over 'Under Siege' for a least Arnie is less smug! What can I say, I think Jackie Chan, Van Damme and even Stallone have made more appealing and better action movies than this touted Seagal venture. That said, 'Under Siege' is definitely above average, and Gary Busey was a welcome edition to this film! The action sequences were decent and the story-line was okay but the only problem is that I couldn't affiliate myself with the plight of the main character, probably because it was Steven Seagal. Oh well, 'Under Siege' is still better than most of his other films and gets a reasonable *** out of *****!  "}{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Really lame story I must say but nobody can kick ass like Steven Seagal. He is a master of martial arts. He can handle guns of different kinds and he can even use knifes in a cool way. That he show us in this movie. And I must give Tommy Lee Jones credit for his exceptional perform as a now dead terrorist. I can't wait to see Under Siege 3.  "},{"Title":"Mr Steven Seagal is the greatest action icon of all time.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If you put Steven Seagal in a movie you give the public a hunch about the aura of the film. He has just one line of films and that is playing a loner who has a mysterious past and knows how to beat you up in tiny fragments. All of his actions makes you proud. For example when he has kicked same bad guys butts you scream of pure pleasure. I love Steven Seagal and his movies and I hope that Warner Brothers and Steven can put their heads together and work on a third Under Siege. See you all at the cinemas. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Seagal film","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I would have to say that this is the best Seagal film.  I have seen some others from him and the direction and general look of the film do not compare to this. Also, Tommy Lee Jones makes an excelent bad guy. The action is almost non stop and the fighting scenes are great. I could easily recommend this to anyone to see "},{"Title":"steven seagal is number one","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  this is best action movie ever, proving seagal king of butt kicking martial arts action movies, to me forget about norris, chan, and lee i believe seagal can beat them all at he same time, in all his movieshe rarely gets a scratch on him, do u no y, because he is aikido style is better then all three them, forget about his acting but nobody cares about that just enjoy the movie and watch seagal rampage his way through the movie. "},{"Title":"Yes, Steven Seagal actually came out with an action movie worth watching.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, Seagal played the typical role that he always plays &#150; a cook on a marine vessel, in this case. Evidently the job requirements to hold his position on the ship were things like advanced culinary degrees in cooking and food preparation, as well as minors in knife-throwing, martial arts, and general ass-kicking. Luckily, we find out later that he was previously a Navy Seal of some sort who was forced into the position he now holds because he was wrongly accused and prosecuted long ago, but wanted to stay with the Navy. Erika Eleniak co-stars as Jordan Tate, the dancer hired to jump out of the cake topless for the captain's birthday party. She also delivers one of the very few half-decent performances by a Playboy model (ever see Anna Nicole Smith in any of her films?).However, in Under Siege, it is Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey who collectively steal the show. These two guys work together nearly as well as Riggs and Murtaugh in the great Lethal Weapon series, except that now they're bad guys. It's a little bit odd now to see Tommy Lee Jones playing a bad guy, but he's such a skilled actor that he can pull it off perfectly. They also provide some of the best comic relief seen in recent years. I particularly liked the scene where Jones and Busey break into the captain's office, and Busey reads a memo written by the captain, saying that Busey may need a psychological evaluation. Keep in mind that Busey was dressed as a woman in this scene (for reasons which you'll just have to watch the movie to find out), which makes it hilarious as he furiously asks Jones, `Do I look like I need a psychological evaluation?!'The story deals with a nuclear weapons heist, which is a pretty tired premise by now, but it is made entertaining by the good performances, stunts, direction, and script. The fairly brutal violence in this film is balanced by just the right amount of comic relief, which could come at seemingly any moment, such as when Rieback (Seagal) was locked in the meat locker and was trying to get the naïve soldier to let him out (`Take my pies out of the oven!').(spoilers) However, the movie did contain its share of action movie clichés. There were plenty of goofy one-liners, some of which were funny, and some of which just should not have been left in the movie, such as Rieback's final line in the film (`Here's one move&#133;'), which nearly ruined the movie on its own. And, of course, there could never be an action film with a big-breasted blonde like Eleniak without the hero getting the girl (in the cheesiest way possible, in this case). But before you label Under Siege as yet another Seagal film, compare it to the mind-numbing crap that he usually comes out with. Despite tasteless things like this that were thrown carelessly into the film, Under Siege still succeeded on many more levels (a Seagal movie worth watching!!), making it a worthwhile action film.  "},{"Title":"I agree that it's his only truly good film.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this in the theater and liked it a lot.  It's considered to be Steven Seagal's only good film, and is the certainly the only one that has earned any real praise or recognition, with good reason. It has a great supporting cast Tommy, Busey and Miss July give the audience something to care about. Due to the ship setting, there's a greater emphasis on hand to hand and weapons combat than firepower and explosions.  So it may not be a favorite among usual fans of Action movies, but I think it makes this one more personal and significant.  It even has a cool musical score (orchestra and heavy guitar interlaced), and the filming techniques are noteworthy (I read somewhere that the Missouri was actually docked for most of this film, and the ocean-going scenes were done artificially).  Seagal's only good film, and yes, his only film where effort was really put into the essential bells and whistles (multi-faceted plot, supporting characters, sympathetic and well-acted villains.) maybe at the expense of action, but with impressive results.  Compared to the rest of Seagal's work, and all things considered, this one's definitely worth its salt. "},{"Title":"ACTION ALL THE WAY","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film is superb! It starts off slow, but this is good because it builds up to the action. The fight scenes are good, but are mostly in the dark, making it difficult to see what happens. The climatic knife fight is superbly done by Seagal. In my opinion, Seagal's best film, and a great soundtrack. This is one to watch. I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic Villains....er....and some good guys....","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Either action movies in the last 10 years are hitting way off their mark, or I am turning into a very warped human being. I watched two films today - LAKE PLACID at the cinema, and UNDER SIEGE on video. Both films left me disappointed, not because they were bad films, but because the end of the day saw the end of a crocadilic reign of terror, and the sickly victory of the most boring of heavyweight action stars, Steven Seagal. Why oh why do they have to make these 'good' guys so incredibly bad!!! Together with token silicone Erika Eleniak, he marks his way through the film like a prima donna's moody dress rehearsal. The knife-wielding fight scene he shares with Tommy Lee Jones is just pitiful - I'm sure Seagal actually yawns at one point! There is obviously something to be said for action heroes playing down the fight sequences to look cool, but this is not the way to do it!! Maybe Mr Seagal could take a few lessons from the Bond/Indiana Jones franchises. And if you are going to walk your way through any scene in any film, for gods sake don't do it in a scene with Tommy!!!Mr Jones is as show stealing as ever, and together with the excellent Gary Busey they provide the sole reason for watching this movie. Only recommended for die-hard fans of the action genre. And even then, try flicking water at your television - it might be the only way to see Steven Seagal break a sweat... "},{"Title":"Relatively good action adventure","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Fans of this particular type of movie will not be disappointed. I find the lead, Steven Seagal, is a pretty humble and soft spoken fellow. A cook aboard a battleship. (Of course, he turns out to be one of big-daddy, club-wielding, Uncle Sam's killing machines...) What did you expect?!Terrorist take over, and well, that's just the lead-in needed for Steven to open a can of kick-butt stew. Actually, an entertaining and fun flick (Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones, in tow as the major baddies). Well made, escapist kind of stuff.  "},{"Title":"ACTION, ADVENTURE, GARY BUSEY & TOMMY LEE JONES AS BAD GUYS IN THE SAME MOVIE. WHAT ELSE CAN YOU GET FROM A GREAT MOVIE.","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  What makes this movie great is that it does not just rely on hero Steven Seagal, but also the villains in ACADEMY AWARD WINNER TOMMY LEE JONES (THE FUGITIVE, SMALL SOLDIERS) and ACADEMY AWARD NOMINEE GARY BUSEY (THE BUDDY HOLLY STORY, APOCALYPSE 3 TRIBULATION). With great action scenes and such Hollywood legends who play villains so well, this is a real must see.  "}{"Title":"Chef Segal?! Chef Seagal.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Good film, Die-Hard knock-off with some killer scenes-the home-made bomb in the nuke, for example, anything with Erika Eleniak will make you take notice too. Busey and the Sub stood out, too. I liked Tommy Lee Jone's whacked but deadly baddie, he and the rest of the crew here got up for what turned out to be Seagal's best moment and one of Tommy Lee's too. Seagal acted okay in this, though will admit he's better at the foot-in-face stuff than actually reciting any old dialogue....*** outta ****, seems to have that extra Something that most of Seagal's other films didn't. "},{"Title":"another action movie from Steven Seagal","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is another action movie from martial arts star Steven Seagal. Under Siege is full of action and fun. It has Tommy Lee Jones as the villain. The movie is full of holes , who cares(it's a fun action movie)!!You can also see Colm Meaney (Mystery, Alaska,Con Air) as a supporter of Tommy Lee Jones. The movie is a nice change of pace if you want a movie that takes place at sea!!Eventually the ship under siege is freed from the terrorists!This movie also had a sequel made a few years after the first one. It took place on a train instead of a navel warship! "},{"Title":"Hip stylish action adventure.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  O.k, o.k, so the plot is full of holes ( like the whole U.S navy is asleep while someone pinches their battle ship , or the woeful on-board security etc etc ). Put all that stuff aside and sit back to enjoy easily Steven Segal's best role yet ( love him or hate him ). The movie is a terrific action adventure with cool one-liners and a super performance by Tommy Lee Jones as the psychotic baddie. Sound-tracks which include Jimmie Hendrix are always a plus too. Top stuff ! "},{"Title":"What more could you want","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagel(The Glimmer Man) does his usual grunty know-all that is so tiring! Besides from that, the movie has Gary Busey(Carny), Tommy Lee Jones(Men In Black) and Colm Meaney(Con Air) as the bad guys who take a marine ship for ransom. For plenty of explosions and violence, you can't go wrong-Under Siege has it all, but it has no story and the characters with the exception of Busey, Lee Jones and Meaney, are so 2D it hurts. Don't expect too much intelligence from this explosive action. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Biggest doesn't necessarily mean best","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Seagal's most popular film isn't his best, mainly because there is less aikido in this one, and more shootouts. Still, his commando tactics are exciting to watch as he plays tiger and mouse with some clever villains. Another problem Tommy Lee Jones never recovered from this role. Everything he's done since is the same as Stranxis, including his Oscar winning FUGITIVE part. And people complain about Seagal stretching his roles! "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal at his best","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, Okay, I know what you're thinking.  Yes, Under Siege is a Die Hard rip off, and yes, Steven Seagal can't act.  But those things don't stop this from being a great movie.  Maybe I'm not objective though, because I do think that Seagal is one of the greatest action movie stars in history,  but it's still an awesome movie.  Seagal is Casey Ryback, an ex-navy seal turned cook on a battle ship.  When terrorists sneak aboard the ship during the captain's birthday party and take it over, only Ryback avoids capture.  Led by the traitorious first officer (Gary Busey) and an insane mercenary (Tommy Lee Jones), the terrorist try to steal the ships nuclear weapons.  But Ryback strikes back using awesome martial arts skills and armed with enough weapons to choke a horse.  The action scenes are incredible, and the martial arts scenes are great, reconfirming my belief that Seagal is the best martial arts movie star ever.  I recommend Under Siege to anyone looking for a good action movie. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's best movie.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal is at his best and most thrilling in Under Siege.  An extremely entertaining movie, Under Siege follows ex-navy seal Casey Ryback as he combats an army of terrorists who have come aboard his battle ship to steal the nuclear arsenal.  Tommy Lee Jones is splendid as William Stranyx, the terrorists vicious leader. Under Siege is full of cool explosions and good stunts.  Steven Seagal is awesome, performing excellent martial arts fight scenes and firing of humorous one-liners.  "},{"Title":"Probably Segal's Best Movie","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege was probably Steven Segal's best movie.  I use the past tense since in the past few years he seems to have  gone funny and started wearing psychedelic clothes, mounds of beads, and putting on the weight.  That's sad for a guy who's martial arts skills are the real thing.Either way, Under Siege is about as good as your generic Schwarzennegger/Stallone/Willis action movie, with the usual thrills and chills.  Segal plays a more or less normal person (he's even without his ponytail!) and doesn't drop into his Zen philosophic musings until near the end.Tommy Lee Jones does a villain that's a little *too* much over the top, while Gary Busey has once scene that is absolutely hilarious.  Good movie worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"!!!!!!!!!!Excellent!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this movie thirteen times, twice in the past week, and it gets better each time. It's easily my fourth favourite movie ever, after The Fugitive, 6 Days 7 Nights, and Enemy of the State. One flaw, too much money was spent on getting Steven Seagal, Tommy Lee Jones, Gary Busey, and the Missouri. Not enough money was budgeted for the supporting actors. With the exception of Tom Wood (The Fugitive), it looked like the crew had never seen a movie or play in their life. Andrew Davis should have got an Academy Award nomination for it, and this is probably Seagal's best film. Total, ****.5/***** "},{"Title":"Great movie! All time classic (csapnivaló)","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first action-movie that I (by accident) watched and had to say Great! Perfect! I'm happy that I didn't mind that intellectual conservations don't take Steven Seagal and action any seriously. In return I had a great time. Since 92 I've seen it some more times (8 - 9). ÜDV, (csapnivaló) "}{"Title":"Toss The Anchor On This One !!","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When this movie came out, I thought that it was Seagal's best simply because of the supporting roles of Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey. However, viewing this film a few years later, I found it to be as poorly acted as any other performance that Seagal has done and the plot is just ridiculously far-fetched. After a few viewings, even Lee Jones and Busey do not seem very convincing. As stated by many other IMDb reviewers, this plot is simply Die Hard set out at sea. Also noted is how Erika Eleniak's character transforms from a topless dancer into a combat veteran in a matter of minutes with a quick firearms lesson from Seagal, just seems absurd. The tempo of this film is typical action-movie stuff and the storyline development is just plain awful. Just about as convincing as any other of Seagal's roles. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"I suppose it just HAD to have the girl!","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I guess the most memorable part of Under Siege was wondering whether such a thing could ever actually happen. No, not the SEAL- turned- cook part - the hijacking of a battleship. Like, could a terrorist group of about 30 men really take over a warship on the high seas?Well, the way this movie presented it, it would seem that they could! Bearing in mind that this movie was made long before the events of 9/11 and, had it been made about what happened then, I can imagine that a lot of reviewers would be writing things like, Man!! THAT could never happen! and we all now know the answer to that one don't we?So let's assume that it could be possible for a group of lunatic terrorists to take over a battleship and then offload all its strategic weaponry onto an enemy submarine. At least we now have a believable plot which then leaves us with Steven Seagal. Next question Could a highly-trained Navy SEAL be busted to cook for insubordination? Obviously that would seem so too. Since I don't want to include any spoilers here that aren't already in the IMDb summary, suffice to say that Rybeck (Seagal) is (or was) a very efficient SEAL in his day because he very effectively deals with the gang of hijackers culminating with, firstly, the traitorous third officer Krill (not very well played by Gary Busey) and then the lead hijacker (very well played by Tommy Lee Jones).The reason for having ex-Playboy bunny Erika Eleniac on board as a surprise for the captain's birthday party was just sufficient to have her (and her ample bosom) in the movie although her extremely rapid change from bimbo to hard-nosed killer was a bit hard to take. Oh well, I guess we had to have it - after all, it is Hollywood! "},{"Title":"If you have to watch a Steven Seagal movie, make it this one.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Now that Steven Seagal has become almost a parody of himself, it's easy to scorn the movies he starred in. But there was a time when he was a handsome, charismatic, easy-to-watch action movie star.I guess you'd have to call this movie a guilty pleasure for me, because in many ways it's a silly plot. It's basically Steven Seagal as a former Navy SEAL, Casey Ryback (who through a series of unfortunate events is now a cook on the USS Missouri on her final voyage), saving the world from nuclear Armageddon with the help of a Playboy centerfold, Jordan Tate, played by Erika Eleniak. The perpetrator of the evil-doing is Tommy Lee Jones as a CIA operative named William Stranix gone rogue. Stranix is assisted by the second-in-command of Big Mo, Cmdr. Krill, played by Gary Busey, who is obviously psychopathically crazy. (One of the unsettling things about the movie is how comfortable Busey's Commander Krill is in pantyhose, a dress and HUGE fake boobs. Now that's scary!) A series of unfortunate coincidences leaves Seagal's Ryback as the only obstacle standing between Stranix and Krill off-loading Big Mo's nuclear weapons onto a North Korean submarine waiting to rendezvous with them mid-ocean. The crew is trapped beneath decks. Stranix and Krill don't know that Ryback is loose, don't know he's an ex-SEAL, and have completely forgotten about the Playboy centerfold they brought onto the ship as part of the ruse to get Stranix on board.And so the fun begins, and it really is fun! It's pure good vs. evil with Seagal, the centerfold, and a few members of the crew fighting off all the baddies and saving Honolulu from being turned into a radioactive puddle of recycled lava.It's suspenseful and fun, and Tommy Lee Jones is absolutely a riot as he hams it up as the evil and possibly insane Stranix. Busey's Krill is so nasty that you've got to love to hate him. Eleniak as the hapless Jordan Tate is surprisingly likable and effective as the tag-along to Seagal who proves that she's not just another pretty face and set of boobs. She does a nice job in this movie.The ending is, of course, predictable Seagal is going to save the day and end up covered in glory as he modestly accepts his medals for heroism, and the baddies are going to get their comeuppance in some appropriately spectacular fashion. But this movie is genuinely entertaining if you aren't looking for a serious plot or a significant movie. And if you're a Tommy Lee Jones fan, you're going to absolutely be howling with glee as you watch him ham it up as Stranix.And you may appreciate that although Steven Seagal isn't a world-class actor, with the right kind of movie and supporting cast he can be very watchable. I enjoyed this movie and I can recommend it as pure fun entertainment. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best film","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I have made it clear before that I personally do not like Steven Seagal or his films. I often find him lazy and uncharismatic, and his films are mostly derivative, shoddy, sloppily edited and poorly scripted. So it was a surprise that Under Siege was the complete opposite. Other than being a little too long, Under Siege is very entertaining and I'd go as far to say in my opinion it is Seagal's best movie. It looks good, the editing is more than decent and there are some striking production values. The film goes at a reasonably fast pace too, there is some witty scripting, the direction is surprisingly good, the story is engaging and the action is the best there is in any Seagal film. Seagal himself doesn't give an amazing performance, but here he does what he does best, and it is wholly acceptable. Best of all are Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones who are very charismatic. All in all, very entertaining and Steven Seagal's best. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Decent Action Flick","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I saw this one way back when it came out, and thought it was pretty good 15 years ago. The action is quick and fierce, the plot is interesting and the bad guys are all psychotic and evil (kudos go to Busey and Jones).However, where this film falls flat is the lack of suspense. Many people call this 'Die Hard on a boat', well, it is in a lot of respects. However, the most important thing that separates those two films is suspense. Bruce Willis showed us a vulnerable guy put in a extraordinary situation against a group of terrorists. Honestly, the first time I saw Die Hard, I was probably about 8 years old, and having never seen a movie like this (had there even been one before it?) I honestly didn't know if McClane would survive the ordeal. In other words, I was on the edge of my seat the entire movie. With Under Siege, we have an awesome setup, however, Seagal NEVER breaks a sweat, and comes out of the ordeal practically unscathed. That is why I prefer Die Hard to this one, is the human vulnerability showed by Bruce Willis. Seagal rarely, if ever, shows any type of human flaws...preferring to be his stereotypical quiet badass character that we've seen eleventy billion times.Having said that, Under Siege is still a good time waster. Good action, with great badguys, and let's not forget to mention that former Baywatch babe's perfect jugs popping out of a birthday cake, and you have a pretty damn good action flick. Still, this is not a suspenseful film in any regard...Die Hard this is not. I give her 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fast and Fun.","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Great movie? No. But a good and more importantly, a FUN movie. At least for guys like me who like this fare. Blood, guts, guns, boobs (nice ones too!) and some kick ass fight scenes. It's been 12 years since I last watched this one and it still holds up.One little gripe - it should be painfully obvious to any ex-military that ALL the military personnel in this movie have hair that is too long, especially Gary Busey. His hair length and style is completely laughable for any active military person but that goes triple for the XO of a USN battleship. And the sloppy demeanor (especially the way they wear their cover or hat) of the marines in this movie. Unacceptable by this ex-marines' standards.Get ready to take some great big leaps of faith and to suspend realism! Have fun. "},{"Title":"SLEEPER OF A HIT!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is considered a sleeper hit. There were some action, and a little bit of naughty-naughty. Especially the cake incident in which the surprise was unaware what was going on. Steven Seagal as Casey Ryback was great. Making that homemade bomb in the microwave oven. Erika Eleniak, was no surprise to me. Being a Playboy model, and on Baywatch, she's always great. Gary Busey, being bad is never a problem for him, that dirty turncoat of an officer he is. He did very well. Tommy Lee Jones, an hardnosed veteran, who plays a rogue CIA. I liked the knife fight scene which he gets a lethal headache at the end. This movie had a great cast, but the fun factor had a slow start. Other than that it was good. See the sequel, it's BETTER! Rating 2.5 out of 5 stars. 7.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Seagal in top-form","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is the pinnacle of Seagal's career as an action star. This and the sequel. All of his other work is, in general, either OK or, as he has lately demonstrated quite bad.The story kicks off with a hijacking of a battleship with nuclear capabilities by Tommy Lee Jones and his band of goons. However, he soon realizes that Seagal, playing the ship's cook (wtf!?), is onboard to give 'em hell. That is a pretty funny combination of things, especially when the cover the terrorists use to board the ship is a birthday party for the captain with, among others, a playboy model. All that put together with good production values and good action scenes makes for none other than a good action movie that stands well above Seagal's other movies. 8/10  "},{"Title":"'Under Siege'","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal gets to be hero for a day as Casey Ryback, a US Navy Seal, now the captain's personal cook. Ryback must thwart a group of terrorists lead by William Stranix (Tommy Lee Jones), a former US Navy Seal, from seizing control of a US Navy battleship.Most of Seagal's movies are disposable or ridiculous at best. 'Under Siege' may not be much better than Seagal's other work, but it does provide some edge-of-the-seat action and keeps its audience entertained.  That makes up for its at times laughably bad dialogue.  When Jordan (former Baywatch girl Erika Eleniak), the movie's babe, is asked by members of the Dept. of Defence to pass the radio to Ryback, she responds, He is currently in a gunfight, can I take a message? Regardless, 'Under Siege' can be relied on for entertainment.Rating (6/10)  "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's Under Siege!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal's Under Siege series is action packed with a big cast!The first film is very good. It has Tommy Lee Jones,Gary Busey,Colm Meaney,Glenn Morshower,and Damian Chapa!It has good fight scenes and I love it when Seagal fight Jones!The score by Gary Chang is good.The film is directed by Andrew Davis and he did a great job!If you like Seagal and the above mentioned cast members then check out the Steven Seagal's Under Siege! "}{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars as Casey Ryback an Ex-Navy Seal who takes on the hi-tech pirates who have taken over the ship and our threatening to use nuclear missiles. Typical Die Hard clone, with only Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey who provide the real fun here, although the actionscenes are well staged. A fun movie, but not without flaws. I actually got bigger kicks from Out For Justice, a punchier effort from Seagal. "},{"Title":"The best of the Die Hard knockoffs","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Sure, Under Siege shamlessly rips off Die Hard like a bunch of other movies but it at least does it well. The acting is bad (except from Tommy Lee Jones, who's great), the plot is ridiculous, and every single moment is predictable. But for some reason it just doesn't matter. It's so entertaining you don't care.There's not much more to say about Under Siege because there's not much else to it. It's not as good as any of the Die Hard films but as far as Steven Segal goes, it's his best. It's a movie where you can make some popcorn, sit back, relax, and keep a scorecard of how many bad guys get killed.Under Siege is very entertaining, and a good movie to watch once you've seen all the Die Hards.My rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies. Finally Mr. Seagal plays a normal guy in the first half hour of the movie. Casey Ryback is a cook with a big mouth and the same big mouth gets him stuck in the freezer for disobeying orders. Whilst he is forgotten in the kitchen with just one guard the rest of the battleship is taken over by terrorists.Playboy fold out Jordan (Erika Eleniak)assists Casey in order to prevent the terrorists from using the missiles.Tommy Lee Jones plays the bad guy and even though he is a great actor this role was not suited for him. He is meant to be a nutcase former CIA operative and yet here is another prime example of a bad guy not being able to stand 2 seconds in front of Seagal, who just wipes the floor with him! Excellent movie, great effects and great twists. "},{"Title":"USS Alabama Fills in for Missouri, GREAT 16 GUNS!!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This past weekend I visited the USS Alabama in Mobile Alabama. This great WWII battleship is on display daily for all to see. I had wanted to go see it for years and finally business brought me close enough to take a day and go. While there I discovered that the Alabama filled in for the USS Missouri in the film UNDER SEIGE.  I passed on this film when it was released in 1992 but went and got it tonight. Mainly just to see what I might recognize from my USS Alabama visit.  However I was pleasantly surprised and entertained by the movie. I wish I had seen this film back in 1992 on the big screen. The at sea  footage is I believe really of the USS Missouri but most (if not all) the deck action footage was shot on the Alabama. I was told at the ship that Alabama is the ONLY battleship on public display that actually has a clear OCEANscape behind her, thus making filming easier. Specific scenes in the film that are Alabama that a visited are The engine room, particularly where the large valve wheels appear and the guy says Twinkies. Inside the 16 gun turret and Barbette (sp). This is the area below the giant turret where the 2,500 lbs shells and sandbag sized powder bags are loaded up into the gun. The Alabama is also the ONLY battleship on public display where visitors can go into this very cool area. In the movie they fire the 16 guns (probably Hollywood pyrotechnics rather than a real firing). It is neat to see the loading and firing procedure. Also getting into the act is the USS Drum. A WWII submarine also on display with the Alabama. When I visited the Drum was being dammed and raised to put it on pedestal to prevent water damage/corrosion. I believe all the deck shots in the movie on the French sub were taken on the DRUM.      The movie is worth seeing even if you haven't visited the USS Alabama. There is a lot of good action and Tommy Lee Jones steals the film.( Though Gary Busey is great as well) My only real criticism is that Seagal's Character is way too much of a wise guy when talking to superior officers. His character is supposed to be a bit of a wise guy but he comes over WAY WAY too much so. It strains the credibility of the film. Also there is a shot of Seagal and the girl walking along in plain sight on the deck. It is a logic flaw because there has been all sorts of gun fighting and then these two are just strolling along on the deck. Well it was shot that way to allow Seagal to turn and suggest using the 16 guns, visible over his shoulder.     Another interesting note. The leading lady, Erika Eleniak plays a character, Jordan Tate, who was playmate July 1989. It is interesting because Ms. Eleniak REALLY WAS the playmate for July 1989. Her character starts of like a supper panicky female the suddenly gets very calm and cool helping Seagal dispense the bad guys. Despite this character inconsistency don't miss the cake scene. Also what was she, a civilian, doing at the end of the film in a sailor outfit? Maybe she enlisted? Also the crew is in dress whites one day and Navy blue dress (winter dress) the next. This might not be a flaw but actual Navy protocol for the ceremony depicted in the ending scene. I don't know)      Overall though UNDER SEIGE is a fun film, if only to get a nice view of the actual insides of a real WWII battleship.  "},{"Title":"'Siege' a copy of the DVD today! contains some spoilers","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  UNDER SIEGE is easily one of Steven Seagal's best movies. I thought he gave good performances in THE PATRIOT, HARD TO KILL, and this year's EXIT WOUNDS, but I think he gave a great performance here. As always, he plays the hero of the flick. Here, he's a chef aboard a ship that is taken hostage by an ex-NAVY sealTommy Lee Jones. It turns out Steven Seagal is also an ex-NAVY seal.  Hoping to return to the navy, he decides to save the day and kick some butt with help from an actress named Jordan Tate Erika Eleniak that came onboard along with Tommy Lee Jones. It's more exciting than it sounds with its gory but cool action sequences, memorable performances by Seagal, Eleniak, and Jones, moments of humor, fantastic dialogue, and interesting characters. One of the highlights of the movie is the finale fight scene between Seagal and Jones. Siege a copy of the DVD today!    "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege was Steven Seagal`s first blockbuster, which made a lot of money. Steven Seagal plays Casey Ryback, a cook on board the USS Missouri.  Ryback is not only a cook though, he is an ex-SEAL, which is good for him when terrorists take over the ship. The terrorists are lead by Tommy Lee Jones, who is excellent as a crazy terrorist leader.  Steven Seagal is one of my favorite actors, and this is a very good example of what he can do.  Acting is not Seagal`s strongest side, but who cares when he is excellent as an actionstar.  Steven Seagal starts killing terrorists by himself (and is joined by a female stripper?!) Andrew Davies is back as a director(he also directed Seagal`s Above The Law). The movie is very good, but still I prefer the sequel, which is even better!!!!!  Top marks for Seagal as a flawless actionhero! 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of Seagal's better efforts.","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege starts as the USS Missouri battleship prepares for a surprise party for Capatin Adams (Patrick O'Neal), a large group of caterers & musicians board the ship & the party starts. However it turns out the caterers & entertainers are in fact a highly trained team of mercenaries lead by William Stranix (Tommy Lee Jones) who take control of the Missouri & it's arsenal of weaponry & missiles including nuclear Tomahawks. The entire crew is captured & locked in the bow except for a seemingly harmless cook named Casey Ryback (producer Steven Seagal) who was locked in a freezer, now he's out, he's an ex Navy Seal & takes it upon himself to sort the bad guy's out with the help of Miss July Jordan Tate (Erika Eleniak)...This French American co-production was directed by Andrew Davis I have to say that Under Siege is one of Steven Seagal's better efforts during a time where he could actually fight & had a neck. The script by J.F. Lawton was apparently originally called Dreadnought which just sounds terrible, anyway this is a decent action flick in the Die Hard (1988) mould. I mean a group of heavily armed men capture some sort of building/boat/train/plane etc take a load of hostages, a lone one man hero has save the day single handedly & cue lots of explosions, fights, gun battles & unnecessarily gratuitous violence involving homemade bombs & combat throwing knives. Maybe I've become desensitised to really violent imagery but while looking at a film like Under Siege & even more so in it's sequel one can't help but feel violence is being glamorised, Seagal's character Casey Ryback is as brutal & vicious as any of the bad guy's here & the film becomes a constant barrage of ever increasing violent sequences of him killing the bad guy's & considering he is meant to be the hero he's not setting a great example. I must admit that I'm not too happy with the overall 'fight violence with even more violence' message that this film portrays in no uncertain terms, don't get me wrong because I like some ass kicking violence but sometimes one can question just what sort of example these types of films are setting. Having said that this moves along at a nice enough pace, it has a good solid good vs. bad guy story with decent character's & there's plenty of action & violence that will satisfy most action flick junkies.Director Davis does a good job here, there's a nice claustrophobic feel to the tight galley-ways & corridors. The action is brisk & well choreographed although maybe a little too violent for some. There are loads of shootings & bloody bullet wounds, people are blown up by grenades, people are slashed with knives, stabbed, shoved into band saws, eyes & throats are gouged out, people are crushed by falling metal beams & someone gets a huge combat knife stuck in their head. Again I don't normally mind some gory violence but it just seemed to me that the supposed hero played by Seagal was taking as much pleasure in hurting & killing people as the bad guy's & that just sat a bit uneasily with me.With a supposed budget of about $35,000,000 this did great business at the box-office, it's well made with that big budget Hollywood action flick feel about it with over-the-top explosions & huge set-pieces. The USS Alabama battleship museum in Mobile in Alabama was used as the USS Missouri. The acting is OK, Seagal is actually thin in this, the likes of Tommy Lee Jones & Gary Busey are fine actor's & manage to compensate for Seagal's lack of talent in that particular area. Eleniak gets her breasts out to play Miss July 1989 when in fact in real life she was Playboy Playmate of the month for July 1989, talk about typecasting...Under Siege is a great action flick & one of Seagal's best, it's got plenty of violence, action, explosions, great villains & a good solid story. Worth a watch for sure. Followed by the even better Under Siege 2 Dark Territory (1995) which, for me, remains Seagal's best film. "},{"Title":"well thought action movie","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Creating good action movies means building up slowly the story with meaningless details which eventually become meaningfull as the story unfolds. If the story as a whole holds, then I think, the audience finds it credible and enjoyable.  If the story has holes, it becomes less believable.  Many action movies made recently have holes, victims of a rush-to-market syndrome.  But this one holds out.  Well researched, the film is shot on board of an actual Iowa-class battleship (not sure if it the actual Missouri).  It builds momentum in a crescendo going from slow action to fast to fast forward.  The only thing I would have changed is when the helicopter with 40 navy SEALS is blown apart with a surface-to-air missile. Such piece was anti-climatic to the rest of the story.  Much of the strength of Segal's movies derive from how the human spirit and action is contrasted and can exist with a world of technology and machines.  Yet, the screenwriters chose to include a scene where exactly such a machine, a missile, is used to obliterate 40 people in an instant, in a scene sequence that is very brief and didn't add much to the dramatization.  "},{"Title":"One of the More Entertaining Tough-guy Adventures.","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The last Steven Seagal film that I saw was The Foreigner, which I can honestly say was the worst film I have seen for many years. It remains the only film I have reviewed for IMDb which I have awarded the minimum mark of 1/10.I was, therefore, pleasantly surprised by Under Siege. Certainly, it is not a particularly good film, but compared with The Foreigner it looks like Citizen Kane. A group of terrorists take over an American warship, the USS Missouri, hoping to steal its nuclear-tipped missiles, but are thwarted by Casey Ryback, a former Navy SEAL now working as the ship's cook. At first Ryback's only ally is Jordan Tate, a Playboy centrefold (Miss July 1989), who has flown out to the ship for the Captain's birthday celebrations, but he later has the assistance of a group of sailors he manages to rescue.The best acting performance comes from Tommy Lee Jones as the psychopathic leader of the terrorists, a former CIA agent turned rogue killer. Jones's contribution, however, is something of a mixed blessing. While it undoubtedly improves the overall quality of the film to have a gifted actor in a leading role, the contrast with Jones's abilities serves to underline by contrast the weakness of Seagal's performance. Seagal plays Ryback in his normal tight-lipped, laconic style, rarely allowing himself to show any emotions. His martial arts skills are much on display; his acting ones are more elusive. Erika Eleniak (who was herself Playboy's real Miss July 1989) confirms her hard-won rank of Bimbo, First Class, a rank gained during her years as one of the Baywatch girls. The transition from television star to genuine first-rate film star is often a difficult one; like most of her fellow Baywatch beauties Eleniak has an impressively long filmography, but few if any of the entries thereon have made much impression on the critics.One hopes that in real life security on an US warship would be much tighter than shown here; I was surprised both by the ease with which the terrorists took over the ship and by the ease with which Ryback and his allies recaptured it. Jordan seems magically transformed from a frightened young girl to a one who shows a good deal more courage under fire and skill with a weapon than one would expect from a woman with her particular CV. The film, however, is more about entertainment than about realism, like most films in this goodies-against-baddies tough-guy action-adventure genre. Despite (or perhaps because of) its implausible plots, frequently wooden acting and extreme levels of violence, it was a genre that became very popular in the late eighties and nineties, and remains popular today. This was the a genre that helped to make stars not only of the likes of Seagal, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jean-Claude Van Damm, but also of some rather more accomplished actors such as Mel Gibson.A year later, director Andrew Davis was to go on to achieve a great success with The Fugitive, one of the best crime thrillers of the nineties and a film which also starred Tommy Lee Jones (as well as several other actors from Under Siege). Under Siege is nowhere near the class of the later film, but it is one of the more entertaining tough-guy adventures. It is not the best of the genre, but it is far from being the worst. 5/10 "},{"Title":"WICKED good!","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie was just peachy keen. The action was just ducky. I like how there was a lot of killing and blood and guts and stuff. Not really, but that is alright. I like Steven Segal. That is all I have to say for now.Ta Ta For Now! "}{"Title":"Best of Steven Seagal","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie was made when Steven Seagal was at his prime.A group of terrorists highjacks the USS Missouri, and making demands on the US government. It's up to the lowly cook (Steven Seagal) to save the day.This is one of the best movie Steven Seagal made. It's also probably the only big budget movie he's starred in. The best actor in this movie probably is the battleship itself. All the exciting action scenes relates to the workings of this ship. The firing of the Tomahawk missile, and the 16 inch guns. The team of Seagal, Eleniak, and Busey, and Jones were spot on for the act.They chose the right backdrop for the movie. Being inside a battleship makes for many opportunity for good action scenes. "},{"Title":"Die Hard on a ship.","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of the best Steven Seagal movies but not that that is saying much of course.It's a pretty simple action movie, as action movies are supposed to be. It has a simple plot and basically only serves as an excuse to let the Seagal character kill as many villains as possible, preferably with a knife. It however is a better than average movie for a couple of reasons.Most important reason for this are the villains. Not the characters themselves but more the actors that portray them. Tommy Lee Jones, Gary Busey and Colm Meaney play the main villains. Three awesome actors. Especially Tommy Lee Jones is great, namely toward the ending when all the breaks are off by him. And I never expected to see Gary Busey as a drag queen. That was awesome, as well as unexpected (and completely unnecessary by the way once you really start thinking about it). I however felt that the villains were not enough present in the movie and the movie mainly was a Steven Seagal-flick, which will definitely still mainly pleases his fans of course.The action is good, although it mostly consists out of only shootouts and a couple of explosions. The knife fights were a bit too ridicules in my opinion but I guess Seagal himself enjoyed it more as I did. It didn't exactly made the movie any more credible. The movie itself is quite honestly nothing too spectacular, just an entertaining enough action-flick. The movie its reputation is definitely better than the actual movie itself.The musical score by Gary Chang is surprising good and worth owning and listening to.In the end the movie is nothing more than a Die Hard wannabe set on a ship this time. It still has power and quality on its own but not quite enough to regard this movie as one of the best or most memorable movies out of the genre. The movie is only maybe a little memorable thanks to its three main villains.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A really good film that I can re-watch again and again. It has conviction faces revenge and the innocent caught in the middle","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I like this film because it is simple in its construction, relevant in terms of current troubles and threats in this world. It recognises that even in the 'good world' 'the good' can fall from grace. There are also those whose historical backgrounds prevent them from having enjoined in the struggle in the past and have no commitment to maintaining the present world order. Then the 'innocent' who enter into the struggle echoing the courageous involvement of those caught up in past 'great' wars. The film also involves an individual that is well beyond fighting age who is integral in delivering the final blow to the enemy. Steven Seagal delivers his role in a believable and quiet way. His martial arts skills and status achieved in Japan make Stephen Seagals action scenes effective and believable.This is also a film that I find I can watch again and again. "},{"Title":"!!!!wicked!!!!","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" the reason that i have given under siege a massive 10 is because it is one of his top ten films! i own this movie and have seen it a thousand times!! steven seagal is just so cool! with his martial arts skills, he can tackle just about anything!!! if you are a seagal fan, then this film is defiantly for you! its about these terrorist who take over a battle ship. thats all i'm saying, because its a DAMN GOOD FILM!! the reason i liked this film is because it also stars tommy lee jones, who as you all know, is a class old time actor. skoals acting skills also add to the brilliance of the film. being a martial artists fan myself, i strongly say that steven seagal is a true martial artist. if there are any other martial artist fans out there, then buy it, watch it, and watch it again and again! also i would recommend into the sun, under siege 2, the glimmer man, which makes him show his skills off even more, out for justice, nico, and submerged, which is wicked!!BUY IT!! "},{"Title":"Action aplenty","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  BUT! The story just falls flat. Steven Segal stars in this film about a madmans plot to take over a US battleship. Once the action begins, there is more than enough to go around. I'm not sure where this one goes wrong. Certainly the budget wasn't very high for this film and maybe it just seems cheaply made. As I said, I can't quite pinpoint where this one fails but it definitely does. Segal isn't a very good actor anyway and the rest of the cast is in the same league. Gary Busey, who has done some good work, didn't put much effort into this one either. All around, disappointing. "},{"Title":"The only Seagal movie doesn't make me puke","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the only Seagal movies that I can watch more than once and not be bitter towards Hollywood.  Granted there are a couple of scenes that make me laugh, such as when Seagal is contacting the Pentagon on a satellite phone and shooting a gun at the same time, like it's nothing.  He looks like a house mom on the phone with a baby on her shoulder. All in all it's a 7 out of 10.  Just leave your brain at the door. "},{"Title":"Sweep It Under the Carpet.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars as a cook on a Navy ship that has been taken over by terrorists led by Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey in this would-be-thrill-ride. Naturally it is up to Seagal to stop the bad guys in this rather dull action film that tried to go for Die Hard on the water but never does reach the level of that series. Tommy Lee Jones is too over-the-top to be scary and Busey lacks the material to make an impression at all. Another in the long line of mult-million-dollar bores. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"one of Seagal's more entertaining films","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal stars in this action movie that clearly follows a Die Hard formula, but still entertains in its own right. A group of terrorists have taken over a U.S. Navy battleship. They're led by a rogue CIA operative (Jones), and a turncoat executive officer (Busey) who are determined to unload the ship's nuclear arsenal. The only one who can stop them the captain's personal chef Seagal, who happens to be an ex-Navy SEAL. Considering the film's familiar setup you don't even have to watch it to know that it's going to derivative, but Jones and Busey add life to the proceedings as convincing villains, and there's plenty of violent action and suspense to spare. **½ "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!!!!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege is the best action/thriller i have ever seen. It is Seagal at his best in my opinion.And i have seen the sequel....and it is just as awesome as the original. I highly recommend this film for any lover of action/thriller movies. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the 1'st Steven Segal movie that I would recommend","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I often like action films with one against many but most of the Steven Segal movies I had previously seen left me somewhat unsatisfied. It was quite some time ago that I viewed this movie so details in my memory have faded except to say that character played by Steven Segal in this flick had a false modesty more believable and made the character more likeable than the other films of his that I have seen. His martial arts apparently making him immune to the dangers of bullets in other films did not bother me here.  "}{"Title":"Higher than 10?","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  OMYGAW!!!!  Don't you have anything higher than a 10???? Probably my all time favorite!  It was easy to love the bad guy too.  Yea Roadrunner!  "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal at his very best","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies of all time.  Seagal is able to kick his way through the battleship of bad guys and get the girl without a scratch, he also begins to look quite attractive to boot.  Plus no sign of the ponytail! A must to all action fans. "},{"Title":"So what if Steven Seagal can't act?","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The U.S.S. Missouri, on its way across the pristine Pacific ocean, is suddenly hijacked by terrorists.  Notice how in Movieland, there's always an abundant number of terrorists, and all of them have the intellectual capacity of a plum?  No matter what, the hero will pound, shoot, or just plain massacre (i.e. the steel beam and the table saw) his enemies, who, naturally, have greater numbers and heavier weaponry.  But in this case, Under Siege is plain, simple action-movie fun.  Aikido expert Steven Seagal rocks, even if he can't act for beans.  Erika Eleniak's also pretty nice to look at, too.  I gave it a 7/10, for the action flies fast and furious, the humor hits it home, sometimes (He's in a gunfight right now, can I take a message?), and Tommy Lee Jones is just plain... WEIRD as the hipster bad guy.  As Dr. Evil would say, Nothing's worse than an aging hipster.  But then again, there's Double Team.  That's definitely worse than an aging hipster.  And this is a thrill-packed action-adventure that almost everybody will love. "},{"Title":"So this somehow found its way into cinemas","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Transferring the plot of 'Die Hard' to a battleship more faithfully than most screenwriters adapt novels, 'Pretty Woman' hack J.F. Lawton gives Steven Seagal a cinematic vehicle that's just as bad as all his straight-to-video dreck. Unlike 'Die Hard', this thing is devoid of tension, style and wit, preferring instead to make a lot of noise through various soporific action sequences. Once Seagal's character has finally been let out of that fridge he never worries, never fails, never has to improvise and is consequently never interesting, while sidekick Erika Eleniak stops being engaging as soon as she puts her clothes on and starts asking questions like 'What are they saying?' and 'What's that?' and 'What IS that?' Meanwhile Tommy Lee Jones hams it up to no effect, Andrew Davis's direction is desperately flat and every one-liner gets its very own tumbleweed. Rubbish. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever?","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I was listening to my Depeche Mode when my friend came into my apartment and threw a laser disc of Under Siege in my face.Dude, you've gotta watch this! I put it in, turned off my People Are People cassette tape, and sat down for what I call The Second Coming of Movie Jesus. The first coming being Die Hard.After this film, I asked my friend to help me to the bathroom, because I had just soiled my leather pants. This is the kind of movie that makes you absolutely sure that God exists and that he is in this movie. Watch it. It's what Dave Gahan would do. Now, I'm going back to my Dio... "},{"Title":"fun error in editing!","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I've just watched this movie again after many years. I did enjoy it, though after so many years it does feel a bit campy and Tommy over acts a bit. But in reading the list of errors, the one that made me laugh seems to have been missed by everyone else, including the editor. You have to watch really close and maybe rewind to catch it. About two- thirds into the movie, Steven and Erikas characters are going up a set of stairs in the interior of the ship, with Steven going first, Erika on his heels. Right at the top of the stairs as Steven is about to turn into the doorway, you can see Erikas right hand grab his bum and his left go back to swat it away!!! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Originality Under Siege","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This film is constantly compared to Die Hard but I think this gives the movie too much credit. True, it's action-packed and has the great talents of Tommy Lee Jones, Colm Meaney and Gary Busey. But when you boil it down, it's just another Steven Seagal movie which are all basically the same thing. Luckily, this one isn't as bad as Half Past Dead... this one even was nominated for 2 Oscars (God knows why). The plot is simple terrorists take over an aircraft carrier... Seagal fights to get it back. Also appearing is Miss July 1989, known for three things kissing Elliott in E.T., showing her body in Playboy and in this film (an over-rated body if you ask me), and running in slow motion on Baywatch with David Hasselhoff. Ddi I mention acting? No, I didn't. And won't. But I admit this film is fun and full of energy - you could do a lot worse. If you want action and have see all the Die Hard movies, give this a try. And if you only ever see one Seagal movie as long as you live, make it this one. Somewhat recommended. "},{"Title":"Die Hard On A Boat?","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" On board the Navy battleship USS Missouri,a surprise party for the Captain is organised and invite a band on the ship to entertain the crew. The band and caterers and others turn out to be a terrorist group who take over the ship. While? They know there happens to be weapons on there they can sell for big bucks-including Tomahawks with nuclear tips on them. Their leader is a former CIA agent who was double-crossed by his boss. He is William Stranix. The military are struggling to find an answer to respond to Stranix. What Stranix does not know is that the dead Captain brought on his own cook who happens to be a trained Navy SEAL who has been punished for striking an officer. He's been locked in the meat locker by corrupt Commander Krill. He escaped. And now, he's p***** off. He is Casey Ryback.The plot is good enough for what we want, which is violence, blood and swearing. Oh, and a topless woman starring as Miss July '88. Seriously, is it just me or are those tits fake as hell? Steven Seagal is his usual self, magnificent fighter, c*** actor. However this is possibly one of his best films (not that hard). Tommy Lee Jones is his usual show-stealing self as William Stranix. He cackles and plots his way through the movie well. Tommy Lee Jones is close to providing the perfect antagonist to Ryback. Gary Busey is a favourite as he can play either great roles or the easy baddie. He is great in this movie. Slightly surprised he actually cross-dressed in this movie.One problem for me is something that I believe in very much is that in an Action flick, you need a hero who has qualities you like and is believable. You also need a bad guy who is despicable and also is a match for the good guy. When they meet at the end for a rip-roaring a**-exploding finale of complete and utter destruction, the bad guy should respect the good guy, but still want's to kill him. The good guy should battle and it should be a 50-50 contest with both being cut, bloodied and injured before the good guy finally kills the antagonist and gets the girl after a whole movie of flirting.Good guy we like? Check. Believable? No. Bad Guy despicable? Yes. Match for the good guy? NO! When we get to the fight scene, Steven Seagal completely dominates the fight. Tommy Lee F****** Jones get's one cut and then gets Thumb through the eye, Knife in the head and Head through computer screen. Over The Top, One-sided, boring and a major f****** let-down. Oh, and then out of nowhere, Ryback kisses the girl. "},{"Title":"Seagals only half decent film","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a fan of Steven Seagal - his films, so a work colleague pointed out - usually have a hidden envirionmental awareness agenda. Yet his greasy hair must release more emissions than a D Reg Ford. This film is OK though, its a good watch. Its plot is entertaining enough and Tommy Lee Jones puts in a good performance as William Stranix. Stranix and his mercenaries take over a US warship by posing as entertainment for the captains birthday party. As the staff are taken hostage (or killed), all hope looks to be lost - but, wait - the saviour is in the shape of cook (yes, cook) Kasey Ryback (Seagal), an ex SEAL who is an expert at one-on-one combat and explosives (but not acting) A great appearance from ex Baywatch star Erika Eleniak who you first see jumping out of a birthday cake topless (nice) A good enough film to watch, in a nutshell the good and bad points are+ Tommy Lee Jones, OK Plot - Steven Seagala moderate 5/10 "},{"Title":"Sometimes funny - but seldom on purpose.","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege has one merit  you can hear good old insults and bad words from the early nineties that you don't find anymore in nowadays action movies, and it is sometimes funny. One or two lines are indeed witty. Steven Seagal runs the ship with one machine-gun in each hand, CROSSING the arms, and killing villains by the dozen without even looking at them. The clichés are so huge that you (almost) always end up laughing after thinking for a second it is not possible that they used such a old big fat trick ?.By instance, when the happy ending occurs, all the admirals, generals and President's advisers display so much emotion that you'd rather figure them as the Super Bowl winning team. Or the Girl that shoots the bad guy just before he kills Steven Seagal after having said that she would not kill anybody ; of course, the scene let you think that the shot was from the Bad Guy's gun, and when the Bad Guys falls, you see the Girl with her gun. Deja vu ? Besides, the acting is bad. Steven Seagal plays business as usual (one look, even less than Jean-Claude Van Damme), Tommy Lee Jones overplays so much that you would not believe that Under Siege was made just one year before The Fugitive. At least, Out for Justice was bettered by the stunning performance of the under-estimated William Forsythe. Gary Busey - though rather good in Point Break - does not act much better, and the Girl may be the best character - which, for an action movie, tells the whole story about acting. Of course, you can see her tits in one of the most meaningless scene of the whole movie history.It would be too boring to detail plot holes and unrealistic events - the best being the former Playmate of July 1989 joining the Navy and serving on the battleship in two days. "}{"Title":"Hokey action movie - overrated, even with its 6.1 star rating on IMDb.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal mumbles his way through Under Siege with all the screen presence of a dead body - and a lot of them make brief appearances in this movie, sometimes alive, before Seagal shoots, stabs or mortally wounds them using his lazy man's martial arts.Evil baddie Tommy Lee Jones takes over a ship and NAVY cook Seagal - who just so happens to be a retired SEAL if I remember correctly - attempts to foil his plans.Seagal lacks all the charisma, humor and screen presence of Ahnuld. He's also an unlikable hero, about as sleazy as he is in real life, and I find it hard to watch him in almost any movie. In fact, all movies - I have yet to see a fine film starring Seagal.Even Davis (The Fugitive) couldn't save this one. It's only for nerdy teenaged Seagal fans who haven't wisened up enough to realize that he lacks all the great qualities of an action hero.There's a reason that most of the films he's making today are released once per two years (sometimes longer), always flopping, and occasionally going direct-to-video. His career isn't as wasted as Jean-Claude's, but he's getting there. "},{"Title":"Under Siege","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I may have seen this film once before out of curiosity, and then the opportunity came to see it again, with Gary Busey appearing in Celebrity Big Brother, so I took it, from director Andrew Davis (The Fugitive). Basically on the legendary US battleship Missouri is ex-navy Seal now cook Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) who has been put out of the way so that he can't butt heads, and so the crew can celebrate the birthday of Captain Adams (Patrick O'Neal). A rock band, led by ex-CIA operative William Stranix (Tommy Lee Jones) board the ship, but then chaos begins with gunfire going off and the remaining crew being locked up. Stranix, with the help of now enemy Commander Krill (Point Break's Gary Busey), plans to use the many tomahawks and nuclear missiles on board to create chaos in many places, not for money, but for revenge. So Stranix has his team of villainous technicians to keep the ship and weapons in check, Ryback has got model and entertainer Jordan Tate (Baywatch's Erika Eleniak) to take back control of the ship. Ryback with his expertise in explosives, tactical and fighting skills gets around the ship to make a warning to the military forces, kill the many thugs and get to the crew. Also starring Colm Meaney as Doumer, Damian Chapa as Tackman, Ace Ventura Pet Detective's Troy Evans as Granger, David McKnight as Flicker, Lee Hinton as Cue Ball, Glenn Morshower as Ensigh Taylor, Leo Alexander as Lieutenant Smart and John Rottger as Commander. Green. Seagal is not the most charismatic and good looking actor, this is probably the only good film you will find in, he just about carries the hero role off, but the one who steals the show is maniacal and flamboyant villain Jones, and good support villainy from Busey. You may find yourself questioning some of the technical film flam dialogue, but you can ignore it and just concentrate on the funny mad turns from Jones, and great sequences full of gunfire and explosions, it is a terrific and entertaining action adventure. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing and Best Sound. Very good! "},{"Title":"Sterile Hollywood Crapola","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I cannot believe there are dolts out there who will seriously claim this to be Seagal's best. These are probably the same people who thought Armageddon was awesome and who watch Will Smith movies. This is a sterile, bland, Hollywood piece of crap, nothing more. Tomy Lee Jones hams it up worse than a cartoon villain, it's almost painful to watch. Busey is eclipsed by Jones, which is a good thing 'cause Busey himself is nothing more than a stupid little caricature. Seagal's character lacks the fury and the threat which he had in his earlier roles. The action takes too long to get started. When it does, it's not enough. When it does become enough, it's too damn late.If you want to see Seagal at his best, watch Marked for Death or the excellent Out for Justice. Under Siege is not his worst but he was already past his heyday, sad to say.The people claiming this to be Seagal at the top of his game are too dumb to know any better. Ignore them and go see his first four or five films. He never surpassed them. "},{"Title":"Bad Guys Galore!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I remember, mostly back when it got released but even still now, dull critics and sour people in general simply categorized Under Siege as a lousy and uninspired version of Die Hard on a battleship instead of atop a skyscraper. Okay, this may very well be the most apt description imaginable, but that doesn't mean this movie can't awesome popcorn entertainment! I usually restrain from writing about anything that isn't horror or cult cinema, but I gladly make exceptions for action flicks if they A) are extremely violent and/or B) feature highly memorable villainous characters. These two factors happen to be very well-presented in Under Siege. There's an enormous body count throughout the entire movie and the bad guys &#133; well &#133; they are simply what makes this film so darn enjoyable. I've never really been a fan of Steven Seagal and agree that if his role were to be played by Bruce Willis or perhaps even Sylvester Stallone the film could even be better, but it doesn't really matter all that much thanks to Colm Meaney, Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones. Particularly Busey as the treacherous and psychopathic commander and Jones as dangerously demented former special agent are so terrific that you'll often even forget Seagal wanders around the ship somewhere as well. A lot of mariners are gathered on the USS Missouri to attend a Pearl Harbour memorial but mostly to participate in the captain's birthday party afterwards. The ideal opportunity for greedy Cmdr. Krill (Busey) and a troop of mercenaries led by William Stranix to hijack the battleship and toy around with its huge arsenal of nuclear weaponry. One thing they didn't take into account, however, is the presence of the Captain's personal friend and acclaimed chef Casey Ryback. Ryback never really liked Krill &#150; maybe because the latter spat in his bouillabaisse? &#150; and with his secret Navy SEAL past, the terrorists are up against an opponent much tougher than they bargained for. Exactly like it was the case in the aforementioned Die Hard, Under Siege benefits mostly from its claustrophobic and nearly inescapable setting. Director Andrew Davis admirably makes great use of the ship's dark interiors and ominous mechanical chambers by having his characters stroll around endlessly with their guns ready to fire away. This is definitely Steven Seagal's best film and it would have even been better if his character was a deaf-mute, or something! His corny one-liners are terrible, but luckily he's often accompanied by the ravishing Baywatch babe Erika Eleniak (who also treats us to a totally gratuitous but oh-so-welcome boobs shot) or one of the baddies. Actually, I can't even be sure if this is Seagal's best film as I still haven't seen the majority of his not-so-impressive repertoire. I sincerely doubt, however, that straight-to-video productions like Belly of the Beast and Urban Justice can be any better than this modest action hit of the glorious early 90's. "},{"Title":"Would've been better with Arnie or Sylvester","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I love action flicks, even the big macho one's. Sometimes you just have to have a senseless violent action flick to escape reality. I was kind of looking forward to Under Siege. I've never seen a Seigal film. But seriously this was just way way way too predictable, which a lot of macho flicks are, but at least they have some comedy or fun action sequences to it. First off, the girl who played Miss July, goes from a stupid naked blonde bimbo to a Rambo street smart strong woman? Uh huh. Then Siegal, he tries his comedy jokes, but they were too dry. And the villain, Tommy does good, but he's not too convincing of a bad guy. Over all, I just thought that this was beyond predictable and not that enjoyable. It just copied off of Die Hard, only at sea. This is one action flick I would not really recommend.3/10 "},{"Title":"Only the audience is 'Under Siege'","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What a truly bad movie 'Under Siege' was. I believe it was one of those advertised as Die Hard on a boat!&#x85;on a plane!...on a train! films when in reality it was a blatant rip off of the original 'Die Hard.' And sorry, Steven Seagal fans even John McClane or Jack Bauer would call him a wuss. Calling this movie predictable, silly, outrageous and containing horrible dialogue is probably a compliment. If it weren't for Tommy Lee Jones doing the best he could with the clichéd (even for 1992) material and the absolutely beautiful shots of the Navy ship, I would've downgraded this movie even further. A special naval chef for the captain of the USS Missouri who (ooooh) holds secrets we simply can't guess until it's forced down our throats later on. Terrorist siege the vessel for the one thing on all terrorist minds. Well, movie terrorist, that is. Real life terrorist that just want money, don't destroy things; they simply put on a suit and tie and work for US Banks and/or the government. It's up to (never heard this before) a lone special ops to fight off 183 highly trained bad guys. Oh, and he's got a sexy side-kick who was such an incredibly dumb, clichéd, unfunny and predictable character that I would have surely shot her and blamed the terrorist. OK, fine, I'm taking the movie too serious, and again, its fun watching Jones play a baddie. And Seagal does show off some good moves from time to time. Comparatively speaking, this might be his best film to date. Is that saying much? Anything? I guess if you close off your mind completely, forget all the better lone-warrior action flicks, including ANY 'Die Hard' or 'Bourne' film, you might get a snicker out of this. "},{"Title":"Not A Classic","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"   Steven Seagal sets the screen alight in the all action classic- UNDER SIEGE  said the BBC announcer before the transmission . I beg to differ Mr Announcer . UNDER SIEGE isn`t the worst action film ever made but its no classic either . It can best be described as an ultra violent episode of MACGUYVER with the hero living on his wits and making all sorts of deadly booby traps with anything that comes to hand . The best aspect of the film is the performances oof Busey and Jones as the bad guys . Conversly the worst aspect of UNDER SIEGE is the performance of the leading man. We could sit all day on one of the boards and discuss who is the greatest ever action star but there can be no doubt that the worst one is Steven Seagal . He has the facial expression of a totem pole and the voice of a speak your weight machine that`s overdosed on tranquillisers , and seeing as UNDER SIEGE features Seagal`s greatest ever performance as an actor it comes as no surprise we don`t see him on cinema screens anymore  You`re good. You`re very good  No you`re not Steven you`re very bad and the only way you`ll set my TV screen alight is if you come round to my flat with a flamethrower   "}]