[{"Title":"Better than todays thrillers.","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in theater in 1992 and remember it being very entertaining and somewhat racy. Fourteen years later the film holds up well to the test of time. A major difference is in the level of nudity between this film and the thrillers of today. Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh are hot! lets see them naked and often. Barbet schroeder understands this, and we see them both naked from the onset of the film. The story and acting develop well, the dialog is well written and the camera work is adequate. Jennifer Jason Leigh steals the show in this film, she does a superb job handling the transition in the character of Heddy with her body language and shyness into the transition of a sexually charged woman, who is assertive and obviously losing her grip on reality. She takes more risks and becomes bold and violent. Overall much better and more entertaining than any of the crap you will find being made today in Hollywood. Don't expect Shakespeare and just enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"A pretty decent psychological thriller","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A fairly engaging psychological thriller. Of course, there must be some suspension of disbelief, as in Hedy(Jennifer Jason Leigh) wielding a shoe. Also, there really are no truly sympathetic characters here. Hedy, of course, is what she is. And, Allie(Bridget Fonda), the supposed heroine, does kind of screw over Hedy. And Sam (Steven Webber) is basically a snake anyway. As for the actors, I thought Miss Leigh was by far the best, though she had the meatiest part, so it may be hard to compare. And what an amazing apartment for a young software designer in Manhattan. OK, they mentioned it was rent-controlled. What an insane economic policy. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"47 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have never seen such trite in my life! The film, has no solid storyline and is amazingly awful. Bridget Fonda is gorgeous but i think this film totally undermined her, her acting performances were not projected as like a true actors would and god! It is just RUBBISH! The way the brunette woman killed Bridget Fonda's fiancée, by accidentally throwing the heel of a silver stiletto shoe in his eye, just cracked me up. This film cannot be of the thriller genre more of the comedy genre. The emotions that were meant to have been portrayed were not such as when Fonda found out her fiancée had died, what did she do? Just whimper! Show some emotion, please! The ending, oh my god! What an awful ending, the ending could have either been explained in a lot more detail or just shot differently, it would have made all the more difference, trust me. If they could just go back to the storyboards and elaborate on the shot angles, this film would be a little better.  "},{"Title":"Who needs references these days anyway?","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female is directed by Barbet Schroeder and adapted to screenplay by Don Roos from the novel SWF Seeks Same written by John Lutz. It stars Bridget Fonda, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Steven Weber, Peter Friedman and Stephen Tobolowsky. Music is by Howard Shore and cinematography by Luciano Tovoli.When it's revealed that her partner Sam (Weber) has been cheating on her with his ex-wife, Allie Jones (Fonda) kicks him out of the apartment and advertises for a female roommate. She chooses Hedra Carlson (Leigh), who on the surface seems to be the perfect roommate. Smoothly helping Allie through her crisis, a real friendship is formed, but it's not long before Hedra starts to exhibit some dark behaviour patterns&#x85;..The early 90s saw the Woman from Hell back in vogue in mainstream cinema. After the success and publicity of Fatal Attraction (1987), there was a period where you feel that sensible film makers wisely chose to let that particular film disappear from the film lovers memory banks. As it happens, they must have collectively chose 5 years as the cooling off period. For 1992 saw a wave of mad female on the loose pictures released. Led by the publicity gobbling Basic Instinct, films such as The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and Single White Female put bums on cinema seats and reopened the Mad Bitch sub-genre. Of the three, Single White Female grossed the least, which is strange since it's a better movie than the other two.Schroeder's (Barfly/Reversal of Fortune) movie isn't a complete success, there's not enough development of the main characters and there's some unintentionally funny moments. But when it's good it's real good. Reeling off a number of memorable and often chilling scenes, film is further boosted by the psychological smarts in Roos' (Boys on the Side) screenplay. It helps that Schroeder has a knack for pacing, too, where he neatly simmers the plot until the spill over for the big finale. No disappointment there either, a good combination of genre staples is enhanced in impact by some unexpected character developments, and there's moments of genuine suspense to lure the viewer to the edge of their seat. It's also stylishly shot by Schroeder and Tovoli (Suspiria/Tenebrae). Allie's Upper West Side apartment is imposing and expansive, with high ceilings, old time plumbing, a clunky lift and a dingy laundry in the basement. It's a different set-up for such a thriller, no picket fence harmony house or beach side residence, this is bustling New York, big spaces, but as it turns out, that means no hiding place. The boys behind the cameras get the maximum they can from the locale by blending imposing and ominous with grainy veneer and filtered light. On the acting front, the girls put great effort into making their thinly developed characters work, with Leigh doing a good line in progressive instability. While Friedman, Weber and a wonderfully naughty Tobolowsky, make the most of their secondary roles. One or two obvious flaws aside, this still rounds out as a thoroughly enjoyable thriller. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Close. Real Close.","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Formulaic, formulaic&#133; yeah it's routine Hollywood psycho-thriller territory, but too visually well made by director Barbet Schroeder and comfortably performed in the shape of Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh to not get something out of it. The story (adapted off John Lutz's novel SWF Seeks Same) plays its cards quite early, and goes about the subject in a too convenient manner to make it entirely effective. Quite a slow build-up and many sub-plots stem off the central plot, as we watch Leigh's character's twitchy transformation suddenly grow and form the basis of the early groundwork that would eventually unsettle Fonda's fragile character. A resourceful Schroeder sure does a brilliant job with many artistic flourishes, and inspired gimmick set-pieces where you just can't help but admire Luciano Tovoli's lyrically smooth cinematography. However trying to register the suspense, became hard due to leading us down the same old path of cheap clichéd jolts and shinny techniques. Although the potent climax goes over-board, it's particularly heart-pounding and downright exciting. There's nothing overtly tame about it, with its seamless nudity and tantalizing sex, and a wicked death here and there. But it's all tastefully done. Howard Shore's sumptuously airy musical score feeds off the well used location and compact sets (especially that of the stark Victorian apartment building) that are very ideal to the film's progression. In the two leads, a gorgeous Fonda is terrific and Leigh's needly attachable turn is one of confidence. The chemistry works, and when it comes to it they sure do look like each other. Talk about eerie. There's also solid support by Steven Weber, Peter Friedman and Stephen Tobolowsky. "},{"Title":"Definitely beyond average thrillers, but cliche ending","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another movie with great potential. The film unfolds almost perfectly and you find yourself in a tense and deep psychological thriller (no spoilers to the plot). But then, the director chooses the easy way and we have a usual ending with mostly unrealistic situations and splatter sequences (ouch this dragging scene with the head bump at the elevator step must have hurt!).  "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jason Leigh steals the show.","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this in the cinema many years ago and enjoyed it enough to buy it when it came out on video. While I don't rate it as highly as when I first saw it I still think it is a good film, mainly due to the quality of the two lead actresses, especially Jennifer Jason Leigh who seems to be excellent in everything I've seen her in.Bridget Fonda plays Allison Jones who learns that her fiancé has cheated on her with his ex-wife. She ends the relationship but doesn't want to live alone so puts an advert in the newspaper for a flatmate. Out of the applicants she chooses Hedra 'Hedy' Carlson a mousy girl played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, at first she seems like the ideal choice but things start to go wrong when it appears that Allie and her fiancé are getting back together. Hedy is determined to keep them apart, at the same time she starts to dress like Allie and even changes her hair style and colour to match. Things soon spiral out of control leading to a violent confrontation between Allie and Hedy. There is also a sub-plot about Allie's work involving a client who sexually harasses her then fails to pay for her services.Even though I ticked the Contains Spoilers box I have tried to keep them to a minimum as a thriller won't be very thrilling if you know too much. As mentioned before, the acting is good and the plot is fairly plausible till the climax when it becomes a fairly standard confrontation between the two protagonists. There isn't too much violence and what there is isn't all that graphic, there is however a fair amount of sexual content and nudity which I suppose some viewers might feel uncomfortable with. "},{"Title":"Unnerving, but never outstanding","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nothing new in this thriller which finds disturbed, possessive 'Hedra' (Jennifer Jason Leigh) moving in with career girl 'Alison' (Bridget Fonda), who has recently separated from her boyfriend.Barbet Schroeder creates his own style in a film which (with two effective lead performances) manages to elicit tension, even if it is not full of surprises. The plot line is not unlike that of the recent Poison Ivy, and the style is a little akin to Basic Instinct. However, Single White Female is a definite improvement on both of these films, though it is not as good as some other thrillers of late. Unnerving, but never outstanding.Saturday, October 10, 1992 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Not bad, for the early 90's...","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" if you compare what other fare was offered to the audience, in the way of suspense/psycho films. Also, Jennifer Jason Leigh is always interesting to watch, she adds depth to an otherwise one-dimensional character.Bridget Fonda is also good, as Allison Jones, a NY designer on her way up, (there is an amusing scene with Stephen Tobolowsky as her sleazy client). It is a bit hard to believe the square footage of the NY apartment however, for two young single girls to be renting something that size. Also, some scenes reminded me of Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby; the laundry room, the storage area, etc.Steven Weber is the faithless fiancé, with whom Fonda has a falling-out, and then Hedy (Jason Leigh) decides he is fair game. She has a psychological disorder, apparently lost her twin sister at a young age, and has never recovered.The usual psychodrama ensues. Fonda's upstairs neighbor, Graham, attempts to help her, advises her to get Hedy to leave the apartment. One scene which is quite odd is where Allison follows Hedy to a bar, there is some inference to S and M type behavior, but this is not developed. Strange.Worth watching for Jason Leigh's performance, or if you like Bridget Fonda. Not the best thriller- If you want something truly psychologically frightening rent Polanski's Repulsion, starring Catherine Deneuve. "},{"Title":"The promise is let down by a muddle of drama and action","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" After her partner moves out Allie Jones (Fonda) invites Hedra Carlson (Leigh) to move in, only Hedra has a few dark secrets and soon causes problems for her roommate.The 1990's was a big step towards engaging actresses into more notable lead roles. Kathy Bates in Misery, Susan Sarandon and Gena Davis in Thelma and Louise and Jodie Foster in Silence of the Lambs turned many memorable Oscar winners and nominees in some fantastic pictures and the playing field seemed to generate more female stars who are still remembered today. So a year after Ridley Scott's dramatic Thelma and Louise picture in 1991 could Fonda and Leigh generate the same level of press attention and accolade? The premise was definitely there. The claustrophobic feel of the plot with a stalker of a room mate and obsession reflects the nature of Kathy Bates' character in Misery and the whole love and cheating concepts could easily merit those reflected in Scott's picture but this never materialized. We are left with some, what can only be described as dull and boring soap styled concepts. The whole 'my partner has left me and now I'm depressed' is as flat as a pancake and Leigh's inclusion, whilst initially spicing things up became equally dull.What follows is a collection of mad antics by Leigh's awkward character and Fonda's struggling Allie. The pairing isn't too bad. There are some spicy moments that generate good drama and tension between the pair. The whole dog thing is a good reflection, as is the already mentioned stunning climax.The direction by Schroeder is frequently muddled. From high shots to low shots and the inclusion of the odd tracking shots there is never a settling momentum to carry the picture through its dramatic stages. The final half an hour is well handled as the script notches up a gear into flowing momentum with a good final ending.If you feel inclined to turn off after ten minutes then you can be forgiven as there is little to match your enthusiasm for this picture.But if you get up to the inclusion of the dog then you may as well carry on as the final stages generate some stunning tension.Single White Female is what you may call a wonderful promise that was horribly muddled. It's described as a dramatic thriller and the whole 'drama' part is evident throughout being soapier than a Dove product, but the thriller tag never is evident still the stunning climax that is great, but simply not justification of what we saw, and we are simply rolling our heads and imagining what could have been. "}{"Title":"The evil twin","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a psychotic thriller about loss, human fragility and the twisted games that could come out of a disturbed mind.It all begins when Allison Jones (played by Brigit Fonda) rents a room in her apartment, after breaking up with her boyfriend, to a girl called Hedra Carlson (Jennifer Jason Leigh), someone she didn't know. In the beginning everything was being OK but suddenly she starts finding out some strange things about her... and the troubles begin...This thriller has some good suspense scenes and a nice plot, but I was expecting a little more of it. I had already seen it some years ago, and at that time I did like it, as I did now, but it seemed to be a little better at that first time. Today I enjoyed it but found it nothing special, nothing too much above average; especially if we take count on its final disclosure. I think it could have been much better.I was thinking score it 7/10, mainly because of the plot, but after remember that standard and unsatisfying ending I can't score it more than a 6/10. "},{"Title":"The Evil Twin","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If I didn't know this was written by a man I'd swear it was written by a woman because it's got the female interactional style down pat. Don't blame me for this observation. It's straight out of Deborah Tannen, your major feminist. We have a friendship between two women, one very plain (Jennifer Jason Lee) with an ugly name, Hedra, and the other glamorous (Bridget Fonda) and with a suitably post-modern name, Allyson (Ally). (The plain one is nurturing and definitely non-threatening to the glamorous one.) They eat ice cream cones together, like the same movies. They swap presents. When one is upset, the other offers to make tea. And not just tea. CHAMOMILE TEA. Can you imagine John Wayne delivering Fonda's line -- I'll make some tea. Chamomile. And then we can TALK. No, you can't imagine John Wayne ever uttering such a suggestion. Don't kid yourself. Talkin' words is fer wimmin. Then the relationship begins to get a little twisted. Lee begins to delete phone messages from Fonda's estranged boyfriend, Sam. They begin going through each others' closets, drawers, secret shoeboxes, and other forbidden information preserves. There are intrigues, sexual and otherwise. Lee adopts Fonda's style of grooming and actually looks like her, which displeases Fonda and fools Fonda's boyfriend Sam. Lee murders a puppy. Then she evidently kills Graham, the gay upstairs neighbor, gives Sam an intraorbital prefrontal lobotomy with a stiletto heel, and puts two or three holes through the face of Fonda's libidinous scuzzbag of a boss. Lee, a complete fruitcake by now, ties Fonda to a chair with duct tape from which Fonda tries desperately to escape, only to find, when successful, that she is pursued by a deranged Lee down to the basement of the huge apartment building. It is all supposed to have something to do with Lee's twin sister who died at nine, but that's psychobabble.I want to get back to Graham, the gay upstairs neighbor. He has a habit of listening to the conversations downstairs through the grating of a heater. (Cf., the same device in The Horse Soldiers.) This prompted me to wonder what the hell kind heaters they have in this apartment building. But that's not what I wanted to get back to Graham for. I wanted to get back to him because of what happens to him about two-thirds of the way through. He's discovered something about Lee and when he confronts her in his apartment, she loses it, jabs him in the stomach with the iron prop bar from the door, then bashes his head in -- twice.The end of Graham, right? He is incommunicado and unable to help Fonda when things get bad for her because, after all, he's somewhat dead and must by now have assumed room temperature. Well, not exactly, because near the end we see that Lee has stashed his body under water in his own bathtub, his dead cat perched placidly on his chest.Graham has been feeling like this for hours. And yet, when Fonda is really IN EXTREMIS, and Lee is about to plug her with an automatic, Graham, ever the unflappable, ever the Mad Monk, springs to life, jumps out of the bathtub and temporarily disables Lee. And he's not even DRIPPING.The first two thirds of the movie are pretty well done. (I bought the DVD.) Nice photography and good performances from the two leads. The men are incompetent nincompoops as always, never there when you need them, and are easily forgotten. But the intricacy of the relationship between Fonda and Lee is nicely rendered. Lee has the splashier role and makes the most of it. She is thoroughly deglamorized to emphasize the contrast between her and Fonda, although to be sure Fonda can be made to look a little crummy too if the role calls for it.Barbet Schroeder, the director, certainly knows where the put the camera. Alas, he shrugs and throws away the story at the slasher climax. Just when someone is doing something a bit naughty, a figure appears in the background and looks over her shoulder. Fonda is hiding in an air vent from Lee, who is pursuing her with one of those lethal stevedore cargo-lifting hooks that can be found in every basement. Lee is creeping around, demented, eager to kill. Nevertheless, Fonda is so frightened of a mouse that she betrays her location.The film does have a good deal of redeeming social value though, in that it contains ample nudity and sex in various forms that should be familiar to any cultivated viewer.It's all quite impossible to take seriously but it is engaging. "},{"Title":"Fun Premise, Not a Fun Movie","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possible SpoilersThe idea of a female at the terrorist psycho in a movie is fun, and certainly refreshing for fans of slasher films; however, living with the characters for two hours is like living with your least favorite room-mate for two months; Brigit Fonda plays a confused city girl who wants to make ends meet by illegally subletting her apartment; she even takes pictures of her candidates.  Naturally, an endless line of women submit to this without question.  Jennifer Leigh shows up as Fonda is in the middle of a boyfriend breakdown and Fonda decides she's her room-mate.   The boyfriend is presented as clueless clod, Jennifer Leigh does a good job playing a depressed woman with a flat affect and a penchant for threats, Brigit is practically helpless, and everyone else in the movie, especially her boss, are jerks.  There is really no-one to like in this movie.  In addition, everyone's actions are off-putting and mean-spirited; Brigit's boss decides he doesn't want to pay her the over-time she's earned unless she puts out; Brigit has installed software on her computer to automatically wipe out her work if he doesn't.  The boyfriend thinks at one-quarter speed and can't make up his mind, and Brigit can't walk away from him.  The slasher scenes almost seem like a further irritation than a scare by the time they come.  The movie really doesn't provide suspense and terror; instead it substitutes manipulation (and heavy-handed manipulation at that), meanness and ugliness.  Why this received high ratings as a suspense movie is a mystery...but there are far better ones at Blockbuster.   Three out of ten stars.   "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, Edgy & Visually Strong","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female is a psychological thriller in which obsession, insanity and murder figure strongly. Its mood is dark and threatening and its shadowy interiors and exaggerated camera angles make the atmosphere even more unsettling. The story, which is based on John Lutz's novel called SWF Seeks Same, is intriguing right from the start and builds up the tension so effectively that it becomes totally engrossing. It's suspenseful, edgy and visually strong and features a couple of characters whose interaction ultimately puts both their lives in danger.Allie Jones (Bridget Fonda) is a young New York City software designer who throws her live-in lover called Sam (Steven Weber) out of their apartment when she discovers that he recently cheated on her with his ex-wife. Allie doesn't relish the idea of living alone and so advertises for a roommate to share the cost of her large Manhattan apartment. After receiving numerous expressions of interest, Allie spontaneously decides to invite the rather withdrawn-looking Hedy Carlson (Jennifer Jason Leigh) to move in.Hedy and Allie soon become good friends but Allie gradually starts to become unnerved by some of Hedy's behaviour. Sam then tries to reconcile with Allie but Hedy intercepts and hides his letter and erases the messages that he leaves on the telephone answering machine. Later, when Sam seems to have been accepted back by Allie, Hedy tries to discredit him by killing Allie's dog and making it appear that he was responsible. Things then get worse for Allie when Hedy copies her hairstyle and taste in clothes so closely that the two women look like doubles.The discomfort and anger that Allie experiences as a result of Hedy's changed appearance becomes even more intense when she discovers that her roommate had lied about her past and her identity and had also recently started to visit nightclubs where she adopted Allie's identity. Allie then becomes desperate to get rid of her roommate but when Hedy finds out, she becomes increasingly psychotic and degenerates into blackmail, hostage taking and murder before her rampage is finally brought to a halt.Hedy's identical twin had died in childhood and the lack of completeness that she'd felt through the rest of her life was at the root of her obsession with Allie and her need to be her twin. She carried a profound sense of guilt about her secret past and this clearly played a part in her insanity. Jennifer Jason Leigh is exceptional as this woman who not only uses three different identities but also goes through some extraordinary and extreme behavioural changes. The fact that she portrays these so convincingly is very impressive and worthy of high praise.Allie is confident and smart but also vulnerable and it was possibly Hedy's neediness that registered with Allie and made her seem to be a suitable potential roommate. Allie also has the misfortune to be badly abused by everyone around her from her unfaithful boyfriend, to a client who sexually assaults her and even a trusted neighbour who'd regularly been listening in to her most intimate conversations. Bridget Fonda is remarkably subtle and believable in the way that she conveys the various complexities of Allie's character.The quality of the acting in this movie is consistently good but the outstanding supporting performance comes from Stephen Tobolowsky who is disgustingly smug and sleazy as Allie's business client who tries to exploit her financially and sexually. "},{"Title":"ALMOST, NOT QUITE","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"60 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh, but, what are they doing here? A shameless rip off of a much better movie Apartment Zero with Colin Firth and Hart Bochner. As the journey had already been taken, the trip becomes an irritating one. I didn't care about it for a minute. The two actresses are always worth watching, they have the power to attract their audience whatever they're doing. That's partly why, I was so put off by the nonsense they were involved with in Single White Female. "},{"Title":"Fonda and Leigh Elevate This Thriller.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female (1992) Dir Barbet Schroeder / Cast Bridget Fonda, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Steven Weber, Peter Friedman, Stephen Tobolowski Engaging thriller with a title that references the relationship status of one female while symbolizing the emptiness of the other. Bridget Fonda plays successful software designer Allison Jones, who just ended a relationship when she learns of his infidelity. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays Hedra Carlson who answers the roommate ad. Predictably they begin as friends until Jones discovers things missing and Hedra gradually duplicating her lifestyle to the point of smothering. This arrives at a surprisingly effective climax where its moral tone is highlighted. Director Barbet Schroeder is aided by good locations, particularly a large apartment building that may remind viewers of Rosemary's Baby. Fonda and Leigh have great chemistry. Fonda at one point, is bound and gagged to a chair and eye expressions indicate that she must think fast to defuse Hedra. Leigh is maddening making one wrong obsessive decision after another. In supporting roles are Steven Weber as Fonda's cheating boyfriend who receives a rather erotic visit from Hedra. Peter Friedman plays Graham, Fonda's gay neighbor and close friend. Stephen Tobolowski plays Fonda's sleazy boss. Theme addresses a damaged soul caused by emptiness and the struggle to fill the void. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Different Kind of Crazy","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A woman (Bridget Fonda) advertising for a new roommate finds that something very strange is going on with the tenant (Jennifer Jason Leigh) who decides to move in.There is that old, tired cliché that describes insanity. But I think this film introduces a new sort of insanity a beautiful woman who makes herself look like a less beautiful woman in order to claim her life. Any sane person would have used their charms to exceed their nemesis, not sink to its level.Because, really, with all due respect to Bridget Fonda, Jennifer Jason Leigh is the more attractive one. And, of course, the better actress. From Fast Times to The Machinist and beyond, Leigh shines. Fonda, however, never really came into her own. "},{"Title":"A truly terrifying shocker","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was watching FearDotCom tonight (which, for at least the first 30 minutes, is nowhere NEAR as bad as some people make it out to be), but the disk was all scratched up, and it stopped working. However, I was really in the mood for a scary movie, so I put in the next best thing. I had seen Single White Female a few times before, and I thought it was a decent thriller. Tonight I was scared out of my mind.I guess I had to be in the right mood.Like the best thrillers, the story is simple. Allison Jones (Bridget Fonda) has just broken up with her boyfriend Sam Rawson (Steven Weber), and is looking for a new roommate. She picks Hedra Hedy Carlson (Jennifer Jason Leigh), who seems like the perfect roommate. She's shy, but sweet. Things go great, but when Allison and Sam get back together, things start to go wrong.Single White Female is like Roman Polanski crossed with Alfred Hitchcock. Director Barbet Schroeder takes the styles of both filmmakers and mixes them into a style that is both a homage and something original. It's hard to explain, but whatever it is, it works. Schroeder makes good use of the space he is given. About 90% of the film takes place in an apartment, and Schroeder takes advantage of it. At times, particularly toward the beginning, the apartment seems huge and daunting. But as the movie goes on, the apartment seems small and claustrophobic.Schroeder clearly knows how to make a thriller. Everything plays out like clockwork; things start out slow and calm as we get introduced to the characters, but little by little, things start changing, and the tension begins to grow.In a movie like this, acting is the most important part of the film. According to IMDb, Bridget Fonda was given the opportunity to play either Allison or Hedy, but chose to play the former because it was harder. I can hardly imagine her playing Hedy, but who knows? However, she is solid as the heroine. While the part isn't the most interesting in the film, Fonda does what she can. Her best scenes are when she's selling her fashion designing program. In these scenes she is very compelling as a professional New Yorker. Other noteworthy scenes are when she's acting sort of like a big sister and a mother at the same time (I won't get more detailed than that).Most surprising is Stephen Tobolowsky as the man who buys Allie's program. Known mainly for playing terminally geeky guys, Tobolowsky does a complete 180 and plays a complete jerk. His performance is a complete blindside because it's so effective. Less impressive is Steven Weber as Sam, though admittedly he doesn't have much to work with, and he does get better as the movie goes on. Peter Friedman is good as the gay neighbor upstairs, but again, he's not around much.The real scene stealer is Jennifer Jason Leigh. She's about as creepy as Anthony Hopkins in The Silence of the Lambs, if not more so (on that note, if he won an Oscar for that role, then why wasn't Leigh even NOMINATED for this one?). A role like that of Hedra Carlson is an actor's dream job (or if they're only in movies because of tabloid saturation, it would probably be their worst nightmare). It's a well-developed role, but it leaves a lot open to the interpretation of the actor. Mannerisms, facial expressions, vocalizations, and all the little subtleties can make this role unique and effective, and Leigh clearly had a ball developing her character. It isn't so much what she says or does that makes Hedra so frightening, it's how she says or does it.The film doesn't do everything right. For most of the movie, the rise in tension goes steadily, but at one point it makes a huge leap, and it sticks out like a sore thumb (though this was done probably in the interests of keeping the film's time short enough, so one can't entirely find the film at fault, though Schroeder could have made it seem less jarring). Additionally, one of the twists at the end doesn't work, but you'll be so scared anyway that it really doesn't matter (that and Schroeder doesn't do anything with it). Finally, the final moment of the climax is hopelessly over-the-top.Still, if you want a good thriller, Single White Female is the way to go. "},{"Title":"Back When Psycho-Thrillers Was At Its Peak","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female is about a software designer named Allison Jones (Bridget Fonda) who kicks her boyfriend Sam Lawson (Steven Weber) to the curve after having discovered he's been having secret affairs with his ex-wife. Desperate into finding a roommate to help her out financially, she brings in a frumpy bookstore employee named Hedy Carlson (Jennifer Jason Leigh) to fill the voids and before you know it, they become the best of friends. But when Sam tries to reconcile with Allison, Hedy's sanity becomes dead as vengeance becomes her priority by trying to keep them apart even if it leads to murder as a way to protect her from getting her heart broken again. Ever since the 1990 Stephen King adaptation Oscar-winning thriller Misery, many of these psycho-thrillers were cropping up at the time. From The Hand That Rocks the Cradle, to The Good Son, to Pacific Heights and my personal favourite Unlawful Entry. The common thread of these stories focuses on the realms of middle-class suburbanites putting their trust in someone at first and then before you know it, the person who you've trusted becomes not who he/she is cut out to be. Before you know, it when you least expected, the trusted ones have plots to go as far as to get what they want, even if it means to kill someone along the way with no remorse of conscious of what they're doing. To me these kinds of thrillers are more fun to watch than the slasher films that Jason and Freddy had done in the 1980's. In Single White Female, the message is that what you may see in the papers may look good in writing, only to realize that you were better off without what you just purchased.As a psychological thriller, Single White Female was not as good as the ones Alfred Hitchcock directed, but it's still a fun movie to enjoy and succeeds in this sub-genre. Where it went wrong was that it was too by-the-numbers in terms of its delivery. Director Barbet Schroeder provides the shock value too early in the film that we never get the time to savour the moments. The dog's unfortunate demise, the subliminal messages about the broken iron grille and voices culminating from the apartment vents. The more diabolical scenes stem from when Hedy cuts her hair, dyes it from brunette to ginger and starts wearing Allison's clothes. It was strange, erotic, but quite effective especially when she performs oral sex towards Sam who's oblivious that it's not Allison that's seducing him. But then there are moments where it can be quite surreal when the stab in the head via stiletto shoe displays an awkward scene which feels very cartoon like and seems out of place in a thriller like this. The Victorian apartment set-up is actually effective for a film of this genre. Even though she comes from a long list of A-list movie performers in her family which includes Peter, Henry and Jane Fonda, Bridget Fonda never was able to reach that pinnacle. Her character was quite cold and not entirely that effective. Jennifer Jason Leigh fares much better as the evil roommate Hedy (especially when she dresses like Allison and becomes her evil duplicate), and when her insanity explodes, we are all anticipating as to what menace she's going to commit to next. It's her twitch and nervous delivery lines is what gets grating at times. Single White Female to this day stands out as a good psycho- thriller. Not necessarily the best, but has an angle toward this genre that is original and stands out better than the mindless slasher films that were popular in the 1980's. The acting was not the best, but not the worst either and even though there were some engaging scenes, its formula was still by-the-numbers in its delivery. In 2002, Schroeder would direct another psycho-thriller Murder By Numbers, which fared better as an homage to the actual Leopold and Loeb murders. In 2005, a sequel to Single White Female came out with Single White Female 2The Psycho where Kirsten Miller and Brook Burns play similar characters to the ones Fonda and Leigh played. Who knew? "},{"Title":"A good lesson on screening your roommates.","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" CAUTION Plot spoilers present.Software designer Allison Allie Jones evicts her cheating boyfriend Sam Rawson from their rent-controlled apartment when she discovers that he had been sleeping with his ex-wife. Finding herself lonely in the massive apartment, Allie posts an ad for a roommate. After screening several unsuitable candidates, Allie finally meets Hedra Hedy Carlson, a shy bookstore clerk & the pair become good friends. But what Allie doesn't know is that Hedy had lost her twin sister in childhood & has become unstable. When Sam tries to return to Allie's life, Hedy does everything she can to break them apart, even resorting to murder.Single White Female was a thriller that became a hit during the early 1990s &#x96; one of a number of psycho-thrillers that made their name at that time. Along with Basic Instinct & the bunny-boiler Fatal Attraction, Single White Female was part of a new era of thriller, which concerned itself less with traditional boogeymen & more with dangerously unstable female characters who latch onto their prey like a lion hunting a gazelle & wreak havoc in their target's families. In this case, the antagonist is a mentally unstable woman who had lost her twin sister in childhood & has become obsessed with getting back the sisterly love that she had lost.The film was directed by Barbet Schroeder, a director who had made some highly acclaimed films over the years. Single White Female was his first genre film & he proves to have an eye for visuals, making plenty of good use out of the massive apartment building that the film takes place in &#x96; after a while you get to know the building quite well, right down to the voices that carry through the air vents & the screwdriver-assisted elevator door.As far as thrillers go, Single White Female is passable enough to entertainment although it relies far too much on the basic by-the-numbers thriller mechanics to carry the story across. Schroeder tries to get much mileage from the concept, but doesn't seem to realise that the sexual harassment subplot where the heroine is hit on by her boss needed more work. Having said all that, however, the script is okay.The acting is a bit of a mixed bag. Bridget Fonda seems a bit withdrawn judging by her performance here. On the other hand, Jennifer Jason Leigh has the skill to pull off the unstable flatmate with plenty of class &#x96; most notably the scene where she arrives in the boyfriend's hotel room & proceeds to give him a blow job before answering his rejection by stabbing him in the eye with a stiletto heel. The eventual climax tends to resemble a WWE wrestling match but the film makes for a reasonable viewing experience. "}{"Title":"Single White Female is a gripping and tense thriller that really leaves you on the edge of your seat.","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a 'Single White Female' places an ad in the press for a similar woman to rent a room (to replace the boyfriend she's just left), all the applicants seem weird. Then along comes a level headed woman who seems to be just right. The new lodger has a secret past which haunts her. Roger Ebert wrote I have long adopted a generic approach to film criticism, evaluating movies as examples of what they aspire to be. No genre is beyond redemption or beneath contempt, and here the slasher genre is given its due with strong performances and direction. Of course, you may despise movies like this, but that is another subject. Single White Female is a gripping and tense thriller that really leaves you on the edge of your seat. It kinda reminds me of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Creepy and sexy thriller","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie opens with twin girls playing with makeup. Only child Allison Jones (Bridget Fonda) is living in a big rent control apartment in NYC with her boyfriend Sam Rawson (Steven Weber). She kicks him out for sleeping with his ex-wife. Her only friend is her upstairs gay neighbor Graham. She decides to place an ad SWF and applicant Hedra Carlson (Jennifer Jason Leigh) comes in catching her crying. Hedra comforts her and they become fast friends. Hedra slowly starts to infiltrate her life and copying her style. Her only client Mitchell Myerson is a creep.This is a great creepy sexy B-thriller. It's a great example of a well made exploitation movie. There are some memorable scenes and SWF becomes ingrained into the societal lexicon. Fonda is a good sweetheart and JJL is great as the disturbed mental case. "},{"Title":"The (Scarily) Naughty Nineties ...","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Along with The Hand that Rocks the Cradle and Misery, Single White Female is one of these 90's thrillers whose ordinary setting and minimalist casting are transcended by the aura of a next-door villain, modern and feminine metaphor of the wolf on sheep's clothes, in a time where post-modernist alienation rhymed with isolation. The isolation is only psychological, the villain could be anyone's neighbor and the extents of her craze would make you wish to live as far as possible from her.And Jennifer Jason-Leigh is perfectly cast as the girl-next-door villain, Hedra, the word next- door taking all its promisingly horrific meaning since she plays the roommate, the one who shares the apartment, the titular single white female being Allison played by a lovely Bridget Fonda. Allison lives alone in one of these large, old apartments with an ominous Polanski feel, where walls have ears, and doors these old-fashioned invitations for peeping, the voyeurism induced by the apartment is clearly established in the opening sequence, but more than a simple gimmick, it will give it a subtle Hitchcockian touch.The film borrows many elements, plot-wise, from the Master of Suspense. Allison lives is a sort of 90's Marion Crane, living alone in her apartment, having an illegitimate relationship with Sam (Sam Weber), she eventually breaks up after she finds out he's still with his ex-wife, and then finds comfort in friendship with Graham, the upper neighbor, an aspiring actor. Her profession? She's a fashion designer working in freelance with Meyerson (Stephen Toblowsky), whose goofiness effectively hides some unprofessional interests on Allison. Anyway, to go through her own isolation, she posts an ad in the press for a roommate. The house is big enough to welcome two person and it's the cute Hedra who catches her eye.Basically, Hedra fits the requirements because Allison wants a woman like her, single, white&#x85; the title says it all, carrying the second Hitchcockian the dual personality, when one dominates another. And gradually, we witness a reverse of roles. Since Play Misty for Me and Misery, mental characters like Hedra can't fool anyone. She starts as a very fragile and sensitive creature, traits accentuated by Leigh's natural looks, even Fonda looks dominant compared to her. But progressively, she shows signs of possessiveness, she erases mails from Sam, she buys a little puppy to compensate Allie's loneliness, she talks about an obscure twin she lost before, of course, a survivor's guilt undermined her life. Finally, it's Allison feeling an emotional gap in Hedra's life.The only problem with this kind of film is that you see where it's getting at very quickly if you're familiar enough with psychological thrillers. I remember when I saw it the first time, at 15, I already mourned the puppy as soon as I saw him, at least he didn't suffer from boiling water and had a quick death. I knew from watching another film that when someone finds the victim tied up and get rid of the villain, he's too busy 'playing the hero' to notice what comes behind him &#x85; I must admit I felt sorrier for poor nerdy Toblowsky for dying such a straight- to-the-point death while he played his character somewhat à la Ned Ryarson from Groundhog Day, so as predictable as his death was, I was still in shock.This is the power of Single White Female, its use of clichés doesn't deprive them from so many horrific bits of unpredictability. To give you an example, you know someone's got to die in an attempt to save the heroine, or someone dear to the hero to show how evil the villain is. In Misery, it was the poor sympathetic Sheriff, who died just like that when he found Paul Sheldon, in The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, well, no spoiler, but you know who got the horrific glasses treatment. So in Single White Female, there had to be a horrific death, and I must say, I didn't saw that one coming, and neither did Sam whose last shot caught by his eye was a stiletto heel coming to it. And guess what, this is a third connection with Hitchcock, the banal object, a clothing item like scissors in Dial M for Murder or a tie like in Frenzy serving as a deadly weapon.The stiletto heel death is indeed the film's trademark, the bit everyone remembers, carefully set up by a scene of oral sex performing. Oh yeah I forgot to mention the film is an erotic thriller but never is the use of sex gratuitous. It provided an atmosphere, a texture of sin and depravity making all the players of that comedy, except 'Allie', cheaters. Barbet Scrhoeder injects some style to what could have been a one-dimensional slasher film, something like the dreadful The Good Son with Macaulay Culkin as a kid who was just bad for the sake of it, or to be a breakthrough role for his young star. While Single White Female centers on characters that are unnecessarily good or evil, Allie is sweet, comprehensive and patient with Hedra and their mutual affection never quite fade out.Some bits could have been better handled, why wouldn't Hedra kill Graham instead of keeping him in the bathroom, how wouldn't we expect him to be a last-minute savior? Maybe Hedra would only kill those who tried to hurt Allison, but she was about to kill her anyway. Still, despite some flaws, the film's descent to hellish madness is efficient and the hit-or-miss part, the climax is perfectly done because if your heart shouts hurray when the villain gets the last blow&#x85; and yet for some reason, you feel sorry for her&#x85; you know the erotic thriller served its purpose, and now, it's finally time to catch your breath.Single White Female is based on a simple premise, and provides the perfect requirements of the genre with a sumptuously designed sexy atmosphere. And yes, it's delightfully Hitchcockian. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Barbet Schroeder follows up his masterpiece Barfly and his Oscar nomination for best director for Reversal of Fortune with this soapy, trashy thriller about an obsessive roommate. The whole story is telegraphed out from the moment Jennifer Jason Leigh starts acting like a wacko, which is pretty quickly and we just wait for the inevitable cat fight. The two leads are committed to this crummy material, but this is just a sleazy bore, even with the requisite nudity. I have nothing against Barbet Schroeder making a down and dirty exploitation romp, but Single White Female doesn't even deliver in the cheap thrills department. "},{"Title":"A good thriller from the 90s.","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" SINGLE WHITE FEMALEThis is a thriller from 1992 that I liked a lot when it first came out.The movie is about a woman who has recently broken up with her fiancé decides to get a room mate to help her get over it. When Hedra moves in it all seems to be going well... until the day Hedra starts getting obsessive.This film is based on a book by John Lutz. I have never read the book, but I do have it that I will get round to.The 90s produced some amazing thrillers and this is a very good one. I remember watching this and The Hand The Rocks The Cradle a lot around the same time.The cast were very good in this, but I have not really seen either of the 2 ladies in much else. I know they have had pretty good careers, but I just have not seen them in much else. Bridget Fonda plays Allison. She plays the part well and you believe that she is a victim and very emotional. She seems quite shy and very nice. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays Hedra. She plays the part brilliantly. She is a psycho and you know pretty much straight away that this woman has issues.The story has some great moments in it... some of which make you ask questions... and at time these questions do not get answered, but you presume you know the answer.The ending of the movie is very predictable, but then most thrillers have a predictable ending.For it's time this film is a very good, and if you like thrillers I recommend you give this a watch. I will give this film 7 out of 10.I can be butch when I have to, I get it from my mother.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" New friend turned psycho films have been made before, multiple times, but this was a good one. It is hard to remember sometimes which came first. Was it Play Misty for Me or that one with Glenn Close? The stereotypical gay friend upstairs, and the fiancé who can't seem to keep himself zipped up. Yet even the less than perfect men in the movie aren't all bad. Sure the client boss enjoys a little sexual harassment, and the fiancé isn't perfectly faithful, but then in reality who is morally perfect in life? And while both are jerks in different ways, poetic justice sets in when they both get dispatched permanently, while the gay friend only suffers a concussion from which he timely revives and saves Bridget Fonda from being killed by psycho woman. The movie is true in that most people are neither all good or all bad, and that once in a long while you run into someone who is a sociopath and frankly diabolical tendencies are breathtaking. "},{"Title":"An entertaining and not entirely predictable thriller","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" New friend turned psycho films have been made before, multiple times, but this was a good one. It is hard to remember sometimes which came first. Was it Play Misty for Me or that one with Glenn Close? The stereotypical gay friend upstairs, and the fiancé who can't seem to keep himself zipped up. Yet even the less than perfect men in the movie aren't all bad. Sure the client boss enjoys a little sexual harassment, and the fiancé isn't perfectly faithful, but then in reality who is morally perfect in life? And while both are jerks in different ways, poetic justice sets in when they both get dispatched permanently, while the gay friend only suffers a concussion from which he timely revives and saves Bridget Fonda from being killed by psycho woman. The movie is true in that most people are neither all good or all bad, and that once in a long while you run into someone whose sociopathic and frankly diabolical tendencies are breathtaking. That is true too, something I know from personal experience. "},{"Title":"Largely uneventful psychological thriller.","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female is set in New York City where Allison Jones (Bridget Fonda) shares an apartment with her boyfriend Sam (Steven Weber), unfortunately Allison finds out that Sam has slept with his ex-wife & kicks him out. Feeling lonely in a large apartment Allison advertises for a flatmate eventually letting a room to a seemingly normal & pleasant young lady named Hedra (Jennifer Jason Leigh). At first things are fine but when Allison decides to take Sam back & wants Hedra to move out things take a sinister turn as Hedra turns out to be a bit of a psycho...Produced & directed Barbet Schroeder one has to say I was looking forward to watching Single White Female but ended up being disappointed with it. The script by Don Roos was based on the novel 'SWF Seeks Same' by John Lutz & is a rather slow moving & tame psychological thriller that takes absolutely ages to get to where it's going. I was sat down watching this last night & it felt like I had been watching it for hours before anything of any note had happened, I'm all for a good solid steady build up that develops the character's & story but there has to be something there to maintain ones interest, right? Also when all said & done I found Single White Female disappointing tame & very predictable, there's nothing here to get you on the edge of your seat, there's nothing here that is going to shock & the character's who you think will survive do & those you think won't don't. A lot more could have been done with the story, Hedra isn't given much background at all & we never really get inside her head to understand her motives or what she's thinking, most of the film is set in the same apartment & again I'd have liked Hedra to maybe ruin every aspect of Allison's life including her profession. As a whole Single White Female is a passable if forgettable thriller that could have been so much better if the makers had taken a few more risks & upped the pace a little.Director Schroeder does alright, he uses the large apartment set quite well but there's not much style to the film & it's largely forgettable. The makers have been rather conservative & it's not what i would call scary, there's not much tension & the violence levels are virtually zero. There a few gunshot wounds, someone is stabbed with a screwdriver & someone is killed by having the stiletto heel of a shoe stuck into their eyeball but otherwise nothing. There is some nudity though from both Fonda & Leigh including a brief masturbation scene (it's not graphic so don't get excited).Technically the film is good with high production values, it's well made without ever being spectacular in any way. The acting is fine from a decent cast but they really aren't given much to do.Single White Female could have been a great film if the makers had cranked up the tension, scares & thrills unfortunately they didn't so it isn't. Worth a watch if there isn't anything else on the other side or if your desperate but it's all rather average so don't bust a gut to see it. "},{"Title":"lurrrv this guilty pleasure","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" dang i love this movie. Most people single out Jennifer Jason Leigh's sinister, neurotic performance but Bridget Fonda had me climbing out of the sofa with anxiety. She's fragile, trying to make it work in the big city, and just this side of a nervous breakdown. Will she be strong enough to withstand her lecherous boss, two-timing boyfriend, and JJL's psychic onslaught? There is an awesome song by Vangelis/Chrissie Hynde. There is a Front 242 song, played at the appropriate volume Front 242 songs should be played at. There is a song by Enigma.Just a lot of neat touches on the edges of this very early 90's, very delicious two-character-showdown of a movie. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and Well Made Thriller","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film about 8 years ago when I was about 13. Until my parents entered the room and abruptly switched it off - at that time, Jennifer Jason Leigh was getting busy with herself. Ever since then, the fact that I was not allowed to watch this film has plagued me. So I purchased it on DVD several weeks ago, and thoroughly enjoyed watching the full film. After seeing the entire film now, it was still as good as I remembered it, and rather disturbing too. (Now I know why my parents wouldn't let me watch it).Bridget Fonda is good as Allie, though at times I thought she was a bit wimpy, though was pleased when she stood up to the guy she was working for. Jennifer Jason Leigh, as usual, was awesome, very scary as the psychotic Hedy. Steven Weber was okay as Sam, and Peter Friedman was excellent as Graham, Allie's friend and neighbor. Also look out for a cameo by the fabulous Renee Estevez.What was great about Single White Female was that it seemed really ahead of its times. By that, I mean exploring the character of Hedy and her feelings towards Allie, and that there was an openly gay character (Graham) in quite a big supporting role. He wasn't made out to be stereotypical either, just a regular guy. Pretty risqué for 1992.The finale is tense and both Jennifer Jason Leigh and Bridget Fonda give terrific, intense performances. The film also has a few sad moments too, so be warned! Overall, a highly entertaining thriller. "}{"Title":"Oh but for the pandering to Hollywood endings...","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Barbet Schroeder and especially photographer Luciano Tovoli are to be commended for attempting to bring a slick off beat thriller to mass release.  Stuck in between Last Exit to Brooklyn and The Hudsucker Proxy Jennifer Jason Leigh turns in a solid performance and saves it from the clutches of Bridget Fonda (who was on her way to the inexcusable Point of No Return and struggling to find the talent she would display in her later films.) and the woeful Steven Weber.  Unfortunately Leigh could not snatch the pen out Don Roos's hand and stop him from penning a typically ridiculous and cliche ending.  SWF works all the way through until the last ten or fifteen minutes. At that point, you can no longer forgive Roos and to that matter Schroeder for their excesses.  Unfortunately, it is the ending that reduces SWF to a level only slightly above stylized pap.  Schroeder would again have this problem with Desperate Measures, yet the man gave us Barfly so I guess we can give him some props for bringing style to the otherwise mundane. "},{"Title":"frightening look at what can happen when you have a roommate","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A young woman searches around for a replacement roommate and finally finds one that she thinks will work out. She soon realizes that her new mate has problems. Very bad problems. This was a very good, tense movie about a woman caught in a bad situation and feels helpless to do anything about it. 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A harmless thriller that alludes being memorable","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What is there to say about this film? It does exactly what it advertises and nothing more. 'Single White Female' delivers thrills. They aren't the best of thrills by any stretch of the imaginations. The film really plays like the most mundane of Lifetime thrillers. The only thing that keeps this from being completely forgettable is the performance by Jennifer Jason Leigh as Heddy.Leigh's performance is inspired. The character of Heddy isn't really all that interesting. She is built upon dime story psychoanalysis and is kind of annoying. Leigh however has really made the most out of a terribly written character. Leigh's performance I felt draws us away from Fonda's Allie. Which character is more compelling? The sad psychotic? Or the walking stereotype New York working woman? It's an easy choice to say the least. Leigh adds an interesting dimension to this character. We pity her even to the point where we realize that she is capable of awful things. There are several scenes that with a lesser actress would like pretty stupid but Leigh makes them work despite our senses. I refer to the scenes where Leigh doubles as the Fonda character. The scene where Heddy reveals her haircut is chilling in a great way. Heddy seems innocent and not insane despite the fact we know she is.Of course for a film about a 'failed friendship' to work there has to be some give and take. Fonda gives Leigh nothing to work with. In fact her performance causes problems. She plays Allie as stuck up to the point where we don't really care what happens to her. I cared more for the puppy than Allie and that is kind of disappointing that an actress like Fonda can't draw my attention away from the dog. Some of Heddy's insults actually seem valid. Fonda's Allie seems like she can't function without a man.What kind of got me also was that the film seems a little sexist. The Allie character is driven completely by sex. She goes back to her boyfriend almost immediately and this takes away from the character and the film. This whole 'strong woman' theme the film pretends to have is laughable because most of the film is about Allie being tortured by her feminine insecurity. Heddy is the stronger woman of the two and by far the more interesting. "},{"Title":"A very well-done thriller about a roommate from hell!","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There have been plenty of those movies about people from hell. The Omen was about a child from hell. The Hand That Rocks The Cradle was about a nanny from hell. And now, Single White Female, a movie about a roommate from hell. Well, what a surprise this movie was. This wound up being one of the most entertaining thrillers since The Hand That Rocks The Cradle. After her boyfriend Sam cheats on her, beautiful fashion designer Allison Jones advertises for a roommate to share her apartment with. Along comes shy Hedra Carlson, Hedy for short. For Allie, she seems like the ideal roommate. They do a lot of stuff together and have a lot of fun. But that's where things go wrong between Allie and Hedy. Hedy begins to borrow a lot of Allie's stuff, including most of her clothes, her hairstyle and color, and soon enough, her boyfriend. Something's very wrong with Allie's new roommate, and it's up to her to make her stop. But Hedy makes it quite clear that she is not going to leave Allie just like that.Single White Female is one of the sexiest, most sophisticated thrillers I've ever seen, with a great premise, a well-written script by Don Roos, very good direction by Barbet Schroeder, a believable protagonist, and a devilishly delightful villain. Hedy does some of the worst things a person can possibly do to a friend, especially trying to take over that person's personality and take over their life.Bridget Fonda is great as sweet, innocent Allison, who IMDb says originally was offered the Hedy part as well as Allie. She chose Allison because it was a harder role. Jennifer Jason Leigh is awesome when she's hostile, and she's at her best here. She shows a lot of anger that is so real, and both she and Fonda offer plenty of nudity. The others in the cast also give a job well-done, including Steven Weber as Sam.So, is Single White Female the best thriller I've ever seen? Well, it's close. It has a terrific cast, a frightening twist, and a great plot. If you're a fan of thrillers like this, this one is right up your alley.***1/2 Rated R for strong sexuality, violence and language. "},{"Title":"SWF = Stinking Worthless Film","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was such a wasted few hours of my life. The plot was absolutely terrible. An obsessive lesbian-esquire stalker girl who destroys her flatmates life? To begin with, the whole my fiancé cheated with his ex-wife beginning was terrible. You pray and pray for her to just dump him, because honestly, why would you take such scum back? and then she does? Well, I honestly had no sympathy for her after that. The back story for Leighs character was weak, and why she would choose weak and pathetic Fonda's character to obsess over, I really don't know. I cheered when Fonda's fiancé was killed, and ended up hating both Leigh and Fonda's pitiful characters. The film was far too focused on sex, and it was far too male orientated erotica. To sum up, the film was poorly executed, think made for TV movie. "},{"Title":"Well Made, Sensual Thriller","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very impressive movie that I had somehow missed over the years. It features a simple story line (which makes it very easy to enter into) in which Allison (Bridget Fonda), having broken up with her boyfriend (Sam Rawson) places an ad in the personals for a roommate, and ends up with Hedra (Jennifer Jason Leigh). Everything works well for a while and Hedra seems to be the perfect friend, until it becomes clear that she is becoming obsessed with Allison, an obsession that turns dangerous when Allison and her boyfriend reconcile, and the three of them end up living together.Hedra was an interesting character. The point of her obsession wasn't clear to me, however. On the one hand she seemed to be using Allison to fill a void for a long lost sister; on the other hand there clearly was a sexual interest for Allison as well, brought out delicately but obviously by director Barbet Schroeder. There was never anything overtly physical between the two (except for one kiss, which needs to be seen in its context to be truly understood) but it's clear that Hedra is interested. Was she looking for a sister or a lover? We see examples of Hedra's bizarre sexual desires as Allison follows her to a sex club where (virtually disguised as Allison) Hedra enjoys - well, I'm not sure; could have been anything from the looks of it. This mistaken identity theme becomes the key to the movie as the story progresses.It's at times violent, but even the violence isn't gratuitous. It's a very good movie. The only fault in my opinion is what I thought were somewhat mechanical performances from Fonda and Leigh. They were fine in their roles, but I really thought they lacked a bit of passion that could have made a very good movie even better. Still, this movie is at least a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good thriller, unnecessary nudity.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie many times and I never seem to tire of it. Bridget Fonda is good as the beautiful, confident yet totally naive heroine - why does nobody check references these days?! Jennifer Jason Leigh is frighteningly convincing as her psychotic roommate.Fonda as Allie dumps her two-timing boyfriend and is looking for a new roommate within something like a fortnight - OK, first of all this is way too soon. I agree with Hedra when she asks 'Is there any chance you guys might patch things up? Because I don't want to move in and have things change.' She had no business getting a roommate whilst she was still getting over Sam. Her neighbour Gram says after the breakup 'You can always call him, Allie.' To which she replies, 'Not if I have a roommate.'Therefore (I know it is mean of me) I sometimes find it difficult to empathise fully with Fonda's character, and find myself sympathising with Heddie at times.I blame the writers for this. Allie seemed to be annoyed with Heddie that she was around when Sam moved back in, but she was forgetting that she was responsible for putting Heddie in that situation. Three may be a crowd but Allie made that crowd. Similarly, Allie seemed to virtually ignore Heddie when her boyfriend was there, pretending she didn't exist which is really mean, whoever you are. Especially after treating Heddie like her best friend. When Allie turned her back on her roommate, Heddie didn't know where she stood.I'm not justifying Heddie's actions, nor am I saying that Allie brought it upon herself. All I'm saying is, she should have been more careful and more considerate and more thoughtful in her actions.  With this type of thriller, you pity the villainess rather than truly hate her, which I think is interesting. Although I don't see how all the nudity had any bearing on the story whatsoever! "},{"Title":"Persona Non Grata","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It had the doors wide open to become a dumbed-down slasher movie, but Barbet Schroder had other plans, of course. In showing seventy-five percent of the movie as a slow escalation into a study in vampirism, he creates with his own homage to PERSONA as SINGLE WHITE FEMALE a nauseating story that is so creepy it has to be seen to be believed. And with this in mind, it's possible to suspend some disbelief at the more rudimentary incursions into slasher films it decides to take as its resolution, and even then it does so in a dreamy way -- as if, again with a nod to Ingmar Bergman, he were trying to establish that this is only a hyperreal world, where the violence that is ensuing is on another level.SINGLE WHITE FEMALE is a study in borderline personality disorder. Its subject is one Hedra Carlson (played to the hilt by Jennifer Jason Leigh). She is the answer to any tenant's prayer calm, quiet, bookish, unassuming. It obvious she isn't there to create problems but to share a place in New York City, a city not known for cheap real estate. But she also has hints of darkness within her, and Barbet Schroder takes his blessed time in revealing just how deep it goes. Which is a fantastic thing in doing so, he is able to establish a rapport between Hedra and her tenant, Allison Cooper, a girl who is Hedra's exact opposite -- sunny, outgoing, successful. And at the same time he is able to have Hedra's true face emerge from the waters in a way no one could see coming.Allison and Hedra bond, and Schroder does it in his dreamy way, as if there were a Seventies-like innocence of two girls coming together and finding that they share so much in common. It's almost possible to hear a tune from that era in the early scenes of them together. However -- and there is always a however -- good times must come to an end, and Allison's dependence on Hedy (as Hedra calls herself, a faint echo of the I call myself Phoebe line from ALL ABOUT EVE, a film that also ends in the beginning of another predator/victim relationship about to take center stage) has to stop in order for her to move on. That, and taking a stance, because by the time Hedy comes down the stairs of the second-level of a beauty salon with her hair done exactly like Allison (in the film's most freakish scene), she is neck-deep in trouble. Because there are more surprises in store for her.Bridget Fonda has said before she has a face like a stone. Which is quite interesting, because while that may be questionable, her poise, reminiscent of Grace Kelly or Tippi Hedren, is necessary for her character to work. As Allison, she exudes success, but not strength. She is the Hitchcock heroine ready to be raped by a monster while enamored of it. Such a monster is what Jennifer Jason Leigh creates with her rendition of Hedy. Hedy could be anyone, and had her back story not been a part of her present, it would have made her the more inexplicable -- the monster that is as opposed to the monster that became because of some trauma. Jason Leigh is a fantastic actress who becomes her role she in effect could be this non-entity who is eager to please, and I'm sure everyone has met someone like her. She has a tricky part to play even though the script has her utter bad lines such as Don't make me come get you! Now, as I mentioned earlier, the slasher portion of the movie is the one that brings the more problems. Yes, it was ultimately going to be a face-off -- American audiences wouldn't have had it any other way, and anyone who's seen the cerebral PERSONA knows that for a popular audience that wouldn't work. But it's made in a way that pushes the actors to a limit and much of the violence is done in an escalating way, not with sudden jerks and crashing music. Seeing Jason Leigh softly slapping Fonda across the face is more mentally jarring than the bullets her character pumps into Stephen Toblowsky as Fonda's character shrieks. And that the sequence, Fonda's and Jason Leigh's final face-off goes on and on while remaining somehow distant is another of the colder touches Schroder gives the film.As a final mention, there has to be the inclusion of Schroder's more explicit nod to PERSONA. If he had been hinting all along at the previous film, he brings it out at the end with that shot of a photograph of both women's faces, torn down the middle, and stuck together. It's eerie, and reminiscent of that famous shot of the two actresses' faces, superimposed. In Allison's world, it's her way to bring closure to this tortured person. "},{"Title":"Psycholgical thriller or high-flown slasher movie...either way it isn't very entertaining","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Tasteless piece of Grand Guignol from Barbet Schroeder, a director who should've known better. Independent New York businesswoman Bridget Fonda, having just broken up with her fiancé, advertises for a female roommate and feels an immediate kinship with Jennifer Jason Leigh, a straggly, down-to-earth young applicant who may not be exactly what she seems. Film begins with razor-like precision, including an eerie prologue, but becomes increasingly outlandish, queasy, predictable and ridiculous as the plot thickens. By the overbaked finale, with Fonda swinging down from the rafters, the movie has all but imploded, leaving a depressing pile-up of bodies in its wake. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Good Back In '92, But Lost Its Shock Value","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here's another film I really enjoyed on the first viewing but lost its impact dramatically on subsequent viewings.This interesting story was quite a topic of conversation when it came out 15 years ago. By now, it's probably considered fairly tame, and nothing that shocking or special. Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh star with Leigh getting the juicier role as the wacko, Hedy Carlson. Character studies of people like her are usually entertaining. Leigh has made a career of playing totally immoral women. She also shows a lot of skin in this movie, something else she likes to do in her films.Fonda's character, Allie Jones, is no Mary Poppins, either, or should I say Fonda isn't anybody pure. The movie shows several scenes of her having sex with her boyfriend. This actress isn't shy, either.The movie starts building its suspense about halfway through when Leigh - the roommate and admirer of Fonda - begins to lose her girlfriend to that guy....and decides to do something about it.There really isn't a lot of violence in this movie, mainly just at the end. It's a good suspense movie, though, which builds and builds. It's good for one viewing. "}{"Title":"Another in the From Hell series, but good nonetheless","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SINGLE WHITE FEMALE belongs to a series of movies I call the From Hell films, thrillers which were popular in the late 80s and early 90s. They include FATAL ATTRACTION (1987), with Glenn Close as the adultress from hell, CAPE FEAR (1991), with Robert DeNiro as the ex-convict from hell, THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE (1992), with Rebecca DeMornay as the baby-sitter from hell, BASIC INSTINCT (1992), with Sharon Stone as the suspect from hell, and SINGLE WHITE FEMALE (1992), with Jennifer Jason Leigh as the roommate from hell, among others. But don't get me wrong, this is not a negative review. The movie has more stylish touches than you might expect from a film of this sort, and the first hour or so is terrific. Leigh and Bridget Fonda make a great pair and deliver solid performances. My only quibble is the slasher ending, but you can't really expect this type of film to end any other way; at least the killer does not wake up from the dead over and over. A box office hit back in the summer of 1992, SINGLE WHITE FEMALE is well worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"Apartment Less Than Zero","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"41 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I finally seen this with my own eyes. What a missed opportunity. If their intention was to remake Apartment Zero with two females in the lead, they failed miserably. They missed the point of the original,totally. Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh are very good but the movie isn't. I lost patience with the convoluted phony attempt to capture my attention within the first 15 minutes of the film.. I'd seen it all before. I felt treated like an idiot. There is no psychological road to follow because the characters are replicates from better movies, they don't have a life of their own and as a consequence, I didn't care. By the way, where are Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh? I haven't seen them in a long time and I think they are wonderful - in other movies that is. "},{"Title":"Hated watching this...","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought the storyline of this film was pretty awful. I say, they thought that this would definitely look like the movie 'The Shining' and win lots of awards. It really doesn't go that far to be quite honest with you.Some people say it's odd, in my opinion, it actually is rather daft and stupid. I think weirder movies are rather good then non weird. I wouldn't like to be the one who sat the rest and didn't enjoy it. I sat down looking at this for 20 minutes and skipped to minutes of the credits. I would love to get those twenty minutes back but unfortunately, it's a human error you make when you hate something!I wouldn't consider people watching this, it's crap! "},{"Title":"I love this movie, not kidding!","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There was nothing special on TV and my mom remembered this movie from her youth. For some reason she said I'm not sure you will like this one... but I called bulls'hit on that and gave the movie a shot. Wow. Much better than I could have imagined. The look of the movie is pretty cheap. It was made in the early nineties, but looks more like it's from the seventies. But that's not an issue. The story is your typical first-friends-but-then-one-of-them-goes- nuts plot, but the execution is marvelous. The suspense is built up very nicely. You feel like something is wrong, but they really don't rush with making it too clear to you why that is. You just feel like... something is odd... about Hedra Carlson. She seems to be fond of Allison in a way that borders on pretty goddamn obsessive. You can't get mad at her since he is nice, but at the same time, you don't really know whether she can be trusted or not. And the more she lives in Allison's apartment, the more suspicious she acts... What really made the movie what it is, is the acting. Bridget Fonda is great and Jennifer Jason Leigh is FANTASTIC. Must be one of her all-time best roles. God, did her character creep me out! She actually fits that role so well you forget it's only acting and not a real person. If that crazy bitch tried to be my inmate, I'd kick her out immediately! The movie's full of darkly grotesque scenes, both subtle and more evident ones. You know the typical scene where someone holds a knife against someone else's throat. Well, this was unlike every other of those scenes I've seen! Gross!!! Of course, it's not a masterpiece. There are some awkwardly out-of-place moments like Allison for no reason whatever watching Hedra masturbating (if it had been Hedra watching Allison instead, the scene would make more sense) and the ending, while pretty awesome, is still very predictable. But if you just want to watch a movie which chills you to the bone and you like a classic thriller, you will love this movie! "},{"Title":"I can be butch when I have to.....","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" So Bridget Fonda realises that her boyfriend with eighties hair is cheating on her, so she chucks him out, finds solace with her atypical camp eighties friend, and decides to get a 'roomie'.After lots of normal people fail her vetting for prefect room mate, she opts for Jennifer Jason Leigh, who is quiet, but listens, and listens, and walks around the apartment with her top off a lot of the time.But hey ho, the boyfriend comes back, so Leigh decides to watch Fatal Attraction, Unlawful Entry, Pacific Heights, and A Kiss Before Dying, in order to get ideas of getting a new apartment in a nice middle class area.Unfortunately she seems more interested in the bad guys, so opts for the psycho route.She starts to copy Fonda, dressing like her and becoming obsessed with her, and although Fonda knows something isn't right with her,she just goes with it.After all,chucking her out wouldn't make a good thriller would it?.In the late eighties and early nineties, these psycho films were everywhere. Some of them were groundbreaking (Fatal Attraction), some of them were a little bit exploitative (Basic Instinct), and some were just a load of old cobblers (Consenting Adults), but they had the same narrative structure, and they made there most, until the sub genre was bled dry.This is probably one of the last high profile psycho films we had, and despite the cast being perfectly perfunctory, you knew what was going to happen, the minute Leigh came into the scene.And this is the films problem, when you watch it, you'll have an awful sense of déjà Vu, because it was done so many times in such a short space of time.But it suffices, the ending is suitably creepy, and like all Hollywood thrillers from the early nineties, it's all about the big earrings and flashy jobs.I just wish she got threw into that washing machine come the end, the door was open for crying out loud!!... "},{"Title":"Single White Female-Tale of the Macabre ***1/2","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Jason Leigh proves in this film that she is a manipulative killer when she moves in with Bridget Fonda in this 1992 film.The problem is that Fonda has been in an on and off again relationship with her boyfriend. When the two reconcile, it's time for Leigh to move out, but instead she dyes her hair and takes on Fonda's appearance.The sweet girl that Leigh apparently is isn't that at all as she resorts to all kinds of killing, a dog included.She reveals her sordid childhood as she causes havoc with nearly just about everyone that she meets in the movie.The movie also reveals sexual harassment in the workplace regarding the Fonda character. "},{"Title":"A potentially good film spoiled by a lousy last part -- too long.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a good film this could have been - if not for the painfully drawn-out ending! Both women give good performances - and Jennifer Jason Lee, who steals Alison's (Alison, played by Bridget Fonda) identity is eerily good.The film's strength lies i its beginning and middle, where understatement is the key, and Jennife Jason Leigh's transformation into her heroine or idol is well done.However, the film spoils all this by leaning towards silly melodrama and drawn out fighting scenes (badly put together at that) which are reminiscent of B-grade movies; it's a pity because what could have been a good psychological thriller compromises itself as it appeals to the LCD at the end. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a pretty good movie but kind of unrealistic. Two things about the movie that bother me the most 1) Dogs aren't dumb. They don't just jump out from windows and commit suicide. They have their dog instincts which protect them from danger. How could Allie not suspect that Hedy threw the dog out the window? 2) So, Allie's neighbors can hear loud music (which didn't even sound that loud) from their own apartment, but they can't hear 2 gunshots and Allie's screams? Hmmm... There are a few other things that bug me about the movie, but they're insignificant. Overall, it's a good movie. Viewer discretion is advised. "},{"Title":"And I thought MY last roommate was bad...","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" She was a lying deceptive cheat who seemed to take pride in screwing up things for me when they started going well. At least she didn't try to kill me.Anyway, this movie is fun for entertainment, but far from one of the best films of all time. It's pretty much your run of the mill thriller (the puppy even dies and a former antagonist saves the heroine's life). But if you are in the mood for a run of the mill thriller and haven't seen it, you should check it out! Jennifer Jason Leigh makes a great psycho and Briget Fonda plays a great good guy.I loved the apartments, something about New York apartments are so cool. I do find it hard to believe that one was rent controlled, though, so big and awesome.Overall, I enjoyed the film as a simple thriller. I found it predictable, but it's hard not to be with the plot presented. The psychological reason for JJL's insanity is relatively clever and reminiscent of a couple Dean Koontz stories (an author who does not get fair representation).An nice, even 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Why no soundtrack???","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie twice, once in its original release in theaters and once recently again on DVD. I enjoyed seeing it again on the DVD and realize I still like this movie. But I always wanted to get the soundtrack for the closing song by Chrissie Hynde. I inquired about getting it and it is not available. I don't believe a soundtrack was ever released for this film. Maybe in the future? Aside from that, I had forgotten just how explicit this film is in some scenes with violence and/or sex. There were many scenes I did not remember. I would say JJ Leigh and Bridget Fonda were both very good, but Leigh in particular I did not even recognize when first viewing the DVD, even though I knew it was her. She looked incredibly different from other roles I knew her from. And she was genuinely scary in this one.  "}{"Title":"Single White Female (1992)","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **½ out of **** (good, above-average)Another stranger-from-hell thriller that is near excellent for the first hour or so, but in the third act it turns so average and predictable, it's hardly worth watching. Bridget Fonda is self-employed career woman Ally, whose new roommate, Heddy (Jennifer Jason Leigh) begins wearing the same clothes as Ally and even one night, pretends to be Ally and performs a sexual act on good girl's boyfriend (Steven Webber). Strong performances and good direction can't help saving the dull and once again predictable second part. Also spoiling the good intentions of this film are the erotic flagtones.Rated R for Violence, Sex and Nudity  "},{"Title":"Interesting thriller","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SINGLE WHITE FEMALE is a very strange film about obsession. It is shot in dark,moody colors which enhance the tension between the characters. The script is intelligent,and the characters are well-drawn and vivid, making the violent termination of a few of them quite palpable. Watch out for that high heel!  "},{"Title":"Majorly sick and slick psychodrama","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This horror thriller directed by Barbet Schroeder is fairly tightly wound with some interesting psychology around an apartment and a ménage à trois. Jennifer Jason Leigh is the mousy, dykey new roommate (and such a beauty she used to be! almost a clone of Elisabeth Shue) interested in Bridget Fonda and Steven Weber (Fonda's semi-cheating fiancé). What we have is women's sex/fear fantasy and titillation all the way with the obligatory 'all men are dogs' theme thoroughly worked in. Leigh actually says 'men are pigs,' which amounts to the same thing, although I guess we could say women are pigs and men are dogs and call it even.There's some male titillation as well, of course, but Schroeder is primarily interested in spilling blood and out-dyking the dykes. Fonda is kind of cute and sexy, which is why I was able to watch the whole thing. She is, by the way, another one of those children of a star, like Liza Minelli, who would never but never have made it except for the family's stardom, yet achieved a certain appeal Bridget can be striking in a gutter animal kind of way. The young stuff of her heartbreak on finding that her fiancé slept with his ex bored me, and the sickie blood and slashing by Leigh and her psychotic mind was too familiar and predictable. There were some good touches though, e.g., when Fonda kisses her when she takes off Fonda's gag, knife at Fonda's throat.The scene where Leigh gives Weber head was ridiculous, but amusing in a campy sort of way. Weber is sleeping in his apartment and Leigh sneaks in in the dead of night, takes off her trench coat to reveal her nakedness (we see her breasts a lot, but get only glimpses of Fonda's, a clue to who has the status the actress who doesn't have to show her breasts has the status), climbs into bed with the still-sleeping and unaware Weber, her hair cut and dyed just like Fonda's. She hugs his back and he turns and all he can see is her bowed carrot-topped head. Just as he's about to climax he realizes that something's different and she looks up at him and says 'No, it's me.' He moans and she brings him off. The poor guy should have known he was dead right then and there, because a really heroic guy, worthy of the heroine, would have thrown her off and saved himself for the heroine. Alas all men are dogs, even the good ones, and a few moments later Leigh buries her stiletto heal in his eyeball.There was some other corny stuff, like the knock down, drag out, blood flying fight between Leigh and Fonda at the end, etc., that made this slick psychodrama majorly sick. Another annoyance was portraying Fonda as such a wonderful career girl, fighting the good fight in the world of sexist and harassing men the woman as male Hollywood hero.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Heddie was crazy but her actions may have been justified","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seenSingle White Female at least 6 times because I have rented it and it comes on cable all the time.  The plot of the movie is that a woman allows a crazy woman become her roommate.Heddie is demented.  Heddie starts buying the same clothes as Allison wears, hating the same people that Allison hates and even tries to steal Allison's boyfriend.  What sets Heddie of THIS TIME?Heddie asked Allison specifically if she and her boyfriend planned to reconcile because she didn't want to have to move in and move right back out.  Allision assured  Heddie there was nothing to worry about.  Not a month after Heddie moves in, Allison kicks her out of the apartment.  Now, I don't know about anybody else, but moving is a b*tch.  I don't want to move once a year let along once a MONTH.   Allison was wrong to place Heddie in such a predicament, but of course Heddie was wrong to kill people and try to kill Allison.The movie was very good; watch it at home or rent it; it is worth it.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Slasher Movie","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with Roger Ebert that you have to judge movies by what the filmmakers want the movie to be, not what you would have liked for them to do.  That is, if you don't like a certain type of movie, well, then don't watch them.  If you do watch them, judge them on their own merits.  That said Single White Female does a good job in the 'slasher' genre.The protagonist is recently jilted Bridget Fonda who needs to find a new roommate now that she's dumped her two-timing fiancée.  She ends up with Jennifer Jason Leigh, a psychopath.  Of course Ms. Fonda doesn't know this right away, but as she slowly patches up her relationship with the guy, Ms. Leigh begins to go over the deep end.The movie is very formulaic in a 1980s kind of way.  The set characters are all present; the understanding gay neighbor, the not-understanding fiancée, the lecherous, predatory boss.  And the final 30 minutes are so boilerplate its almost sad.Nonetheless this is one of the better of the genre, so if this is your cup of tea, go for it.  "},{"Title":"SWF ISO better resolution","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Single White Female begins innocuously, delves into something dark and fascinating, then resorts to a typical slasher-style ending.  I was ultimately disappointed with the film, as the deaths incurred here were predictable.  But SWF is still an interesting character study about two roommates, seemingly opposite, who eventually look like twins when Hedra/Ellie desperately changes herself to become Allie's double.  She is possessive, insecure, lonely, and destructive.  I thought this was the real focus of the story, and I wish the ending would have dealt more specifically with that instead of the expected battle.  I find this movie especially disconcerting since I am soon to be in college and confined to a very small room with someone I know nothing about.  Needless to say, SWF struck a rather sinister nerve. "},{"Title":"A great 90's film...","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Done in an obvious faux style paying homage to Alfred Hitchcock, this thriller captures everything typical about the culture of the 90's.  A time when everyone is really a stranger, honesty is rare, your life and career is really what you make it, and caution is the catchword of the day, as danger lurks no matter how careful you are.The soundtrack of this movie is fantastic, especially the songs Sadness Part 1, and State of Independence (during ending credits).With terrific mood and feeling, the audience is taken from a story of a casual single lifestyle to one of gripping suspense. "},{"Title":"Predictable waste of time","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Two excellent actresses waste their talents in this creepy, claustrophobic tale whose twists can be seen a mile away.Only Bridget Fonda and the dimwitted males in this saga can't see where Jennifer Jason Leigh is heading with her psychosis.I hate movies where the audience is assumed to be as dumb as the main character!Only the super with the giant ring of keys, so large that he couldn't find the right one to get in and rescue Fonda, rang true with me - that's a classic New York City scenario...Allie wouldn't have gotten into trouble if she had possessed a little more self-knowledge and thought things through a bit.If only the filmmaker had possessed insight as well... "},{"Title":"One of the classic chic fright thrillers of the early nineties","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film did for stilettos what Jaws did for Sharks. In an interesting twist on the spate of 'jinxed, over-sexed lover turns psycho seeking revenge' films to emerge from this decade, Single White Female surprisingly lasts the tests of time to remain a grippingly well filmed and intense movie with true jump-factor.Just this week i watched it with a newbie who couldn't stand to watch as Fonda rifles through Leigh's shoe box of secrets while she's in the shower.Just by changing the light and camera angle the two central actresses are transformed from vulnerable/disturbed to sexual/confident in a flash... an understated classic to add to your 'one to watch' pile "},{"Title":"Single White Female 1 & 2","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Both predictable and for the most part boring. Dumb bimbo takes in another vacant bimbo as a room mate. The room mate is nuts. I found both movies very trite and bad acting all the way around. Not a fan of Bridget Fonda and this film proves my opinion. Going around pouting and with that one expression on her face. Jennifer Jason Leigh also bad actress and not a clue. Steve Weber was better as a gay man in JEFFREY. In this he should have remained gay. He would have been better off, believe me. Peter Friedman the guy upstairs was only character I liked in this. Oh yes, and his cat. Only one to know what was going on.As for the second WHITE FEMALE, more or less the same as the first. In fact shot in same apartment building, it looked like. Same story, same boy friend, same ending, same everything. Bad acting, bimbos without a clue. Next! "}{"Title":"A cut above","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts off as one kind of movie, but soon evolves into a slasher flick that delivers a real punch. Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance is the star of the film, as she moves from sweet, shy small-town girl in the big city to big league slasher. The fact that most of the violence is telegraphed is a plus, as the creepy dread builds and builds. Well worth your time.I just saw this movie in July of 2006; long enough after release for any memories of the movie's PR efforts to be not even a distant memory, so I had no expectations. Strong performances by all those with significant roles were still more to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Trite and obnoxious yuppie MELOdrama.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Melodramatic to the max. For those who are unsure what Melodrama means, it's drama that is full of clichés, hyper-emotional, hammy acting, overboard script contrivances, cardboard characters, and this one is all of that. There's no suspense here, it's terribly easy to see everything that happens way in advance, with the exception of the killing of the boyfriend perhaps. But everything else is an all too convenient plot contrivance to get to the excruciatingly overdone ending, past all of the false climactic moments. The dialogue is ripped right out of old TRUE ROMANCE magazines, and everyone seems myopic and just going through the motions. It would deserve a ONE, but gets a TWO because it does imply a romantic love developing within Heddy for Allie, and it is handled in an interestingly discreet way, though so covertly that many viewers think that Heddy is trying to steal Allie's boyfriend, when she's really trying to steal Allie by exposing the boyfriend as untrustworthy. Allie sees this and tries to use it to her advantage when Heddy has the knife to her throat. How come so many viewers miss it? Oh well, it's a good example of the selfish, self-absorbed, superficial aspect of the yuppie culture, and I'm NOT saying all yuppies are this way, mind you. "},{"Title":"Flashbacks","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had an interesting premise, yet was very, very slow in getting there.The movie was filmed on location at the Ansonia Building in Uptown Manhattan.  It is an historical landmark building and is perhaps one of the best known apartment buildings in the city.  The building in actuality is filled with movie stars, opera stars, the tops in their industries live in that building.I found the film interesting for certain reasons we now take for granted.  Look at her laptop computer!  It is the size of a small suitcase.  Were they ever really that big?  When she is using the internet, there it is Compuserve, circa 1992!  No color, no graphics, just plain text, and look at how they marvel that they can buy airline tickets online!  What will they think of next?! "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD PSYCHO-THRILLER","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was a very entertaining thriller. It began softly but turned dramatically from the middle of the story. Some scenes like the stairs in the house remembered me to Hitchcock films. Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh gave a great performance. No doubt that is one of the amazing thriller I have seen and congratulations to director Barbet Schröder. I will add the dvd to my best of collection and I highly recommend this movie to all psycho-thriller or Hitchcock fans. I gave 8/10. "},{"Title":"Unfortunate","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the suspense-thriller movies that caught my eye with the title itself.Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh are spectacular in this edge-of-your-seat thriller. Leigh plays Heddie/Ellen,a nut who masturbates and makes it seem like she has a partner.Allison is played by Fonda,a young woman who just broke up with her two-timing boyfriend Sam, who is played by Steven Weber,and is looking for a roommate to fill her empty room.After many applicants Heddie comes around and Allison finds her to be perfect.But later on she's proved wrong.Allison notices Heddie wearing her same type of clothes, same hairstyle, and life.It's unfortunate for Heddie. She maybe a wacko but it's not her fault. SPOILER ALERT Later on Allison finds out that Heddie murdered Sam. Aww and things were just looking up for Alli and Sam.This movie has it's enticing moments such as the brief kiss Alli and Heddie share and after Alli whispering Don't make me leave you Ellen. A distraction so Heddie won't slice Allison with the knife she has at her throat.The actresses did a superb job with their roles and made it fun.The only problem was they didn't go more into Heddie's past, that could have explained more about her.Good movie and I recommend it to whomever likes yummy thrillers. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bridget Fonda and J.J. Leigh are roommates but Jennifer is a psychotic weirdo who not only wants Bridget's tampons but her life.IT's a good movie and I enjoy watching it.If there's nothing new or good to rent get Single White Female. You'll be suprised how good Jennifer Jason Leigh and Bridget Fonda mix. "},{"Title":"Starts promising....","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Single White Female starts with a lot of promise and then slowly turns into a cliche. This film seemed long to me, longer than the actual running time of 107 minutes. I didn't care much for the acting in the film, although I did like Bridget Fonda in this film. The movie had me going for 45 minutes, then let me go to another place. I just didn't find it very interesting. "},{"Title":"A great story.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very good story line. I have enjoyed this film every time I have watched it. I recommend catching this one when it is on. It is also well worth the .99 cent weekend rental.  "},{"Title":"decent thriller","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" although this is a fairly decent psychological suspense thriller,it is predictable at times and a bit of reach in some scenes.still,anyone who's ever had a roommate who is even slightly unbalanced or worse can relate.Bridget Fonda is good as the normal roommate in the equation,but Jennifer Jason Leigh is perfectly cast as the roommate from hell.of course it helps if she has a character to work with.Steven Weber has a small roles as well.Peter Friedman and Stephen Tobolowsky also have small roles.the movie moves along pretty well most of the time but slows down occasionally,and nearly ruins the momentum at times.still,it's a good movie,as these movies go.for me,Single White female is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Unusually good, a solid addition to the genre, but not without flaws","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The stranger comes into main characters' life, screws everything up and then tries to kill them sub-genre of the thriller genre is(or was, in the early 90's) popular, and this addition to it might, at first glance, seem like it's every bit as shallow and predictable as the next one. However, it deserves a closer look, since on closer inspection, it displays a very accurate and credible psychological portrayal of the villain, some top-notch acting and some pretty good cinematography. The plot is fairly standard for the genre, as are the twists. No real surprises here. The pacing is quite good; the film is never truly boring. The visuals are nice, but not really anything exceptional. The acting is quite impressive... everyone gives in a credible performance. The real force of this film, however, is the incredibly psychologically accurate behavior and presentation of the villain. Every action of hers, every train of thought was entirely psychologically accurate, as far as I could tell(through my new-found love for and somewhat sparsely educated experience in psychology). The film has some very direct and revealing scenes of nudity and sex. They aren't exactly explicit(we're not talking soft-core here), but they don't leave that much to the imagination, either. Definitely not for the faint of heart or the easily offended(though I've never understood why someone could be offended by something as natural as nudity). Then there's of course the lesser parts of this film... notice how everything I've written up to this point has been either positive or neutral? Well, that's about to change. The death scenes are more than unusually unrealistic, and they pretty much lose any shock effect because of this. The film is littered with the same usual clichés that plague the other films of the genre. In the end, the film doesn't really hold any surprises to fans of the sub-genre. The old saying is pretty much true, even in the case of this film... If you've seen one, you've seen them all. All in all, better than most of this type of film, but still far from perfect. I recommend it to fans of the genre, the actors or skin-flicks(since there is a fair bit of skin in the film by the three leads). 7/10 "}{"Title":"Excuse me I have to go watch grass grow.....","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female is one of the early nineties, late eighties classics that continued the nudity driven, violent, suspense thrillers that kept people in the theaters. The premise is good but the delivery is boring.The film centers around Allie Jones, a sophisticated New York woman who discovers the love of her life, her fiancé cheated on her with his ex wife. In order to not be alone she advertises for a roommate and after seeing several losers, she comes across sweet, quiet, innocent Hedy who helps Allie not feel so alone. The two become fast friends and spend every waking moment together but then Allie's fiancé comes back into her life and she takes him back and suddenly Hedy has lost Allie's friendship. She becomes obsessed with Allie, buying the same clothes, going out to clubs as her and cuts her hair like hers. It takes Allie a short while to suddenly see Hedy is unbalanced but it's too late. Hedy sneaks into Sam's apartment and pretends to be Allie, after a struggle Hedy murders Sam but looking exactly like Allie. Now Allie is in a fight for her life to stop Hedy from killing her or framing her, either one.Bridget Fonda is okay in the lead role, she never struck me as a great actress and she hasn't had many great roles. But she looks the part and has the name to lead with. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays a great psycho and does a good job of looking like Fonda. The film crawls at a deadly pace and you're constantly waiting for something to happen but it doesn't until 3/4 of the way through the movie. The redeeming quality of the film is the final half hour which is your typical slasher type thriller which is almost always edge of your seat. My favorite character was Sam played by Steven Weber who I really enjoy. This movie won't rivet you, and it's typical eighties cinema with constant nude shots that are odd and pointless and a little bit of grotesque violence for good measure. It's so predictable it's annoying and although it's a classic, it's one I'll pass on in the future.5/10 "},{"Title":"A real chiller!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This horror thriller directed by Barbet Schroeder is fairly tightly wound with some interesting psychology around an apartment and a ménage à trois. Jennifer Jason Leigh is the mousy, and somewhat dykish, new roommate (and such a beauty she used to be! almost a clone of Elisabeth Shue) interested in Bridget Fonda and Steven Weber (Fonda's semi-cheating fiancé). What we have is women's sex/fear fantasy and titillation with the obligatory all men are dogs theme thoroughly worked in. Leigh actually says men are pigs, which amounts to the same thing, although I guess we could say women are pigs and men are dogs and call it even.There's some male titillation as well, of course, but Schroeder is primarily interested in spilling blood and out-dyking the dykes. Fonda is kind of cute and sexy, which is why I was able to watch the whole thing. She is, by the way, another one of those children of a star, like Liza Minelli, who would never but never have made it except for the family's stardom, yet achieved a certain appeal through hard work, minimal talent, and a certain audaciousness. She can be striking in a stark, animalistic sort of way. In some sense, her performance here anticipates her role as an America la femme Nikita in Point of No Return (1993) which came out the following year.Single White Female was considered a controversial sensation when it was released in the early nineties because of the gross sex and violence displayed, but I suspect future generations will see it as high camp and laugh out loud at how it panders to some of our baser instincts. The knock-down, drag-out, blood-flying fight between Leigh and Fonda near the end can be seen as hilarious in its absurdity, and kind of campish as a burlesque of Hollywood's increasingly desperate appeal to blood lust in order to sell tickets. The crude violence and sex was moronically combined with a politically correct portrayal of Fonda as an unsympathetic career girl, fighting the good fight in a world filled with sexist men and sexual harassment. She was in effect the woman as male Hollywood hero. The only thing about her that was all wrong was the hideous, short red hair. Fashion EMERGENCY!8/101992 107 minutes Rated R CC.  "},{"Title":"This is REALLY good.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When Allison Jones splits up with her boyfriend, Sam, she places an add in the newspaper looking for a new roommate. The ad reads 'Single White Female'. After meeting a few applicants, Allison is not to keen on them. Until, she meets Heddie Carlson, a young woman about the same age as her, who's looking for a place to stay. When Allison offers her the room, Heddie agrees and they move in together. What Allison doesn't know about is Heddies secret haunted past. Now, before Heddie moves in, she asks Allison specifically if she has any plans to get back together with Sam. Allison tells her no. After, a few weeks everything is going well, until Allison gets back together with Sam. Heddie doesn't really mind that much at first, until Allison asks Heddie to move out, so Sam can move back in. Now, didn't Allison tell Heddie that this wouldn't happen. Yes, of course she did. Well, anyway, things get even worse when Heddie starts copying Allison, by wearing the same the clothes as her and by even getting the same hairstyle as her. The final straw occurs when Heddie resorts to killing people and even trying to kill Allison.   Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh are both brilliant in there roles. They were perfectly cast here.Single White Female is a really good exciting thriller with loads of suspense. I'd recommend Single White Female to anyone who likes a good thriller. I give this movie a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Subtext","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like the subjacent philosophy in this movie. I think is is a reflection on the postmodern style of life, and the way we all think --at first I thought this was specially valid for American people, but now I tend to think we are equally prone to consider things this way.I mean, we all would be deeply terrified at knowing we are not exactly unique. What scares in this movie is not Heddie's manifest and dangerous mental disorder, but the fact she manages so easily to replace Allison in almost every aspect of her life, playing her role which she (Allison) was supposedly the only person in this world who could be able to play it.I think our society is strongly based on this kind of individualism and this movie attacks precisely that point. I found it worth. "},{"Title":"Intense thriller with 2 great actresses","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Single White Female is a great movie by Barbet Schroeder. The 2 stars, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Bridget Fonda are terrific here. Most people are familiar with the story young woman whose new roommate turns out to be a wacko. My only problem with the movie is I wish it had gone deeper into Heddie's past and shown more how she got to be like she was.Miss Leigh is a great and truly under-appreciated actress. In SWF, she continues her tradition of playing strange and unbalanced characters while showing plenty of skin. Miss Fonda, who bares her backside several times, is always fun to watch. Allison is the best role I've seen her in.   "},{"Title":"Twins","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I liked this little amusement in spite of myself.Superficially, it is an ordinary project, handled moderately well. Perhaps the strongest  thing to be said for it is that it steadily dissolves into madness. Or at least the characters  do. I prefer it when the manner of telling the story becomes equally mad. There are lots  of examples of this, but the one I saw with this film was `Videodrome.'Nevertheless, the attraction of this for me is Jennifer. She is a peculiar, interesting  actress. Ms Leigh seems to carry her own audience with her, and it is this to which she  presents her character. It is an unsettling thing to watch, and very effective when  exploited.I'm not sure who is the mind behind how she is used here; I suspect it is wholly her  doing as the director seems pretty unaware of the effect.Here's what happens. The character Hedy carries her own twin within her. It is to that  twin that she relates in all matters of her life. In the past and here, she embosses that  internal being on an external one, Allie. The story revolves around the dissonance  between what she expects and what she gets.And so with the acting. Jennifer carries around her own audience to which she directs all  her character's devices. When she acts in a film, she embosses that internality on us, the  external watchers. The joy of seeing her is in the dissonance between the two.This is amplified -- at least for me since my study of redheads in film -- by her  embossing the projection back on herself. In the story this is her becoming Allie who has  become her sister. In our film experience, it is her joining us in watching her.She isn't a particularly powerful actress. But she knows how to use what she has and is  always interesting. Good for us.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Single White Female","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am always on the lookout for a good nut-case film, like the feel and themes of Fatal Attraction and Misery, and this one from director Barbet Schroeder (Reversal of Fortune) is one of them. Basically New York city software designer Allison 'Allie' Jones (Bridget Fonda) splits with her fiancée Sam Rawson (Steven Weber) after finding out he slept with his ex-wife. Allie finds comfort with gay actor neighbour Graham Knox (Peter Friedman), but needing both company and money to keep the apartment she places an ad saying swf (single white female) seeking roommate, and after a few meetings she finds shy and friendly Hedra 'Hedy' Carlson (Road to Perdition's Jennifer Jason Leigh). She settles quite quickly and is really good company, and she even lets the puppy she buys stay as well, not being able to let it go. What she doesn't know though is that Sam wants to get back with Allie, and Hedy deletes some phone messages from him, and she also starts dressing and styling herself like her. It is only when Hedy knows that Allie and Sam are truly getting back together that her madness truly kicks in, beginning with the murder of the puppy. Allie tells her concerns to Graham, and he is Hedy's next victim, getting hit very hard on the head, while Allie finds out her real name is actually Ellen Besch, so she tracks her parents to contact her. You know the death of Hedy's nine-year-old sister Judy did something to her, and Allie knows she is truly dangerous after Sam turns up dead, and she ties her up. Hedy says you need me (the true psycho line), but Allie tries to escape a few times, to the point where Hedy sees no choice but to kill her so she doesn't talk, and at one point you think she has succeeding, but she gets her comeuppance in the end. Also starring Heroes' Stephen Tobolowsky as Mitch Myerson, Tara Karsian as Mannish Applicant, Christiana Capetillo as Exotic Applicant, Jessica Lundy as Talkative Applicant and Renée Estevez as Perfect Applicant. Fonda is very good as the unknowing nice apartment owner, Leigh of course almost steal the show as the lodger from hell, it is very gripping story based on a novel, a great thriller. Very good! "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Single White Female is a pretty good thriller. I am not going to tell what it´s about because so many people have already said it.The acting is good, the music, the camera work and the film is exciting, thrilling and fun and a bit funny as well. The two lead actresses do a fine job. However like some other people the ending was a bit dissapointing and the film is a bit predictable and sometimes silly but overall a good thriller. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Dark side...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Things happening in this movie are easy to foresee, but that doesn't make it less scary. The most frightening thing is that this could happen to anybody. You can never know for sure wether a person is nice or just pretending. And when you know for sure you're living with a maniac and there's no escape, what can you do?*Next Opinion Includes A Spoiler*It's terrible that only way to defeat a killer is to become one. You must release your inner beast and become a hunter. I felt delight mixed with bloodthirst when, in the end, Allie managed to trick Hedra and jumped from the roof to attack. "},{"Title":"One good performance in a rather bad movie","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Everyone involved in the making of Single White Female should be very grateful to Jennifer Jason Leigh. Because she is the only thing that keeps this movie from being completely terrible. As it is the movie is still quite bad but Leigh's performance is enough to keep it from going down as one of the all-time stinkers. Leigh created a very compelling character. Unfortunately nothing which surrounds her is up to her standard.The story is bare-bones in its simplicity. Allison, a young New Yorker played by Bridget Fonda, is seeking a roommate. She settles on the seemingly sweet and endearing Hedy, played by Leigh. Hedy turns out to be not so sweet at all. This young woman is actually quite deranged. Quite sinister too. Leigh captures that very well. Fonda meanwhile is a bit of a dud, turning in a startlingly flat performance. Leigh's Hedy gives Fonda's Allison plenty to react to. But there are barely any reactions at all, no emotion coming from Fonda. That leaves it to Leigh to pretty much carry the movie on her own. And Leigh gives it a game effort but she doesn't have enough to work with. There is so little in the way of plot. Far too often the movie is just biding time with nothing of any consequence happening. The only performers of any significance aside from Leigh and Fonda are Peter Friedman, Steven Weber and Stephen Tobolowsky and none of them bring anything good to the table. It's a movie labeled a thriller but the thrills are few and far between. And it all leads up to an ending which is quite laughably bad. Give Leigh some credit for doing the best she could. She's clearly the best thing the movie has to offer. Whatever good moments there are belong to her and it is only because of her that the movie is not a total failure. Maybe not a total failure but still a failure nonetheless. "}{"Title":"I just don't understand (why hate)","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was setting in the living room yesterday flipping through the channel's when I came across Single White Female. Now I've seen the movie before(when I was like thirteen) and didn't understand it then, but still remembered liking it. Now being of full age and having a better understanding of life's problem, I can truly say this is one of my all time favorites. I read some of the comments and really don't understand why people could disagree with of movie of this nature.OK FACTS1. The whole idea of Jennifer Jason Leigh being a crazed phychopath who's obsessed with Bridget Fonda is brilliant. 2. Both Jennifer and Bridget both have nude scenes reviling more then you'll see in any of there other movies. 3. Issues like these are more common now then before, so it's real easy to feel unused about the events that are taking place in the movie.I mean as for as movies go this is easily one of my all time favorites. All the actors where on key, and made the movie seem much more realer then most films of this genre. I look at it like this, one of my friends could have call me and told me that they had an crazy obsessed roommate, and normally I'd be like call me when your house is on fire. But after seeing this movie I kind of see how something of this nature can be very serious and very dangerous. Plus there's nothing more hotter then a phychopathic woman, and Jennifer Jason Leigh does and still remains more attractive then ever.So in conclusion I give this movie a 10/10 for such lines like Everyone you hated I hated and He came in my mouth and tried to be the s*** out of me when I threatened to tell you. "},{"Title":"I love Single White Female","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love Bridget Fonda, I love Jennifer Jason Leigh and I love this movie. Great premise, who can you trust? Nobody. I actually didn't know who to root for in this movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Grusome and pointless","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film did have one permanent effect on my life. It made me never want to live with anyone ever. Fortunetly the feeling was fleeting-and so was this movie. Absolutely awful from start to finish and while I concede that Jason and Fonda are both great acctresses(Rush, best little girl in the world for Jason) (Point of no return for fonda), why these fine actresses would star in a movie like this is beyond me.This movie is about 2 roomates, one of coarse becomes obsessed with the other. Really creepy but falls to the typical horror cliche in exchanging good movie making for blood and gore. Another one that COULD have been marvelous, it certainly had the right cast.This movie should have based it's fear factor on psychological horror, in the form of Silence of the Lambs which doesn't show much gore but still manages to be reeally scary! I laso think this movie rips off other good horrors such as Fatal attraction.I would never see this movie again and am sorry I saw it in the first place. Just a poor substitute for a great thriller. "},{"Title":"Well-made, tense and thoughtful psychological thriller","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Single White Female is an example of that sub-genre of the thriller which I have come to think of as the &#x85;&#x85;. from Hell film. The basic plot of such films is that a stranger comes into the life of the hero. At first this stranger seems affable and friendly, but quickly reveals himself or herself to be a dangerous criminal or psychopath, and the hero finds that he is in danger. This basic concept is an old one, but it was given a new lease of life in the late 1980s and 1990s by the success of Fatal Attraction (or One-Night Stand from Hell). Other examples include Pacific Heights (Tenant from Hell), The Hand that Rocks the Cradle (Nanny from Hell) and Bad Influence, which can be summarised as Bloke-You-Meet-In-A-Bar from Hell.Like Michael, the hero of Bad Influence, Allison Jones, the heroine of this film, is an aspiring young professional, the sort of person who at the time would have been characterised as a yuppie. Allison's life seems to be one big success story. Her career as a software designer is flourishing, she lives in a luxurious apartment in New York and is engaged to her handsome boyfriend, Sam.And then things start to go wrong. Allison and Sam split up after she discovers that he has cheated on her. She advertises in the paper for another Single White Female- it would appear that the Equal Rights Amendment does not apply to flatmates- to share her flat with her and eventually settles on a young woman named Hedy Carlson. (That, it later transpires, is not her real name, but to avoid confusion I will refer to her as Hedy throughout).At first Hedy appears to be a shy, quiet and likable girl, and she and Allison become close friends. Before long, however, we begin to see another side to Hedy's character. She becomes obsessed with Allison, starting to dress like her and even having her hair cut and dyed to match Allison's. The turning-point comes when Allison is reconciled with a penitent Sam. Hedy quickly turns on her former friend, and Allison soon realises that she is now in danger from a seriously deranged enemy.The &#x85;&#x85;.. from Hell genre has been responsible for some very derivative, second-rate movies, but Single White Female, along with Fatal Attraction and The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, is one of the better examples. What these three films have in common is that they present the villainess (in each case the murderous stranger is a woman) as an individual in her own right, unlike weaker films in the genre, such as the seriously weird Bad Influence or the egregiously bad Swimfan, where the villain is simply treated as a deranged monster. Glenn Close's Alex in Fatal Attraction and Rebecca de Mornay's Peyton in The Hand that Rocks the Cradle may commit evil deeds, but we can at least recognise that both women are driven by very understandable human emotions, sexual jealousy in the first instance and the desire for revenge in the second.In the case of Hedy, we initially suspect that she too may be motivated by jealousy, that she may have an undeclared lesbian passion for Allison and that she may have been provoked to a jealous fury by the reconciliation with Sam. The truth, however, is stranger and more complex. We learn that Hedy is mentally ill and that the roots of her illness lie in her childhood when, at the age of nine, she witnessed her twin sister drowning. Although Hedy was not to blame for the accident, she has been plagued by survivor guilt which has caused her to become mentally unbalanced. Her change of name can be seen as an attempt to blot out her past and her copying of Allison's looks and mannerisms as being rooted in her desire to recreate her identity as a twin, an identity of which she was robbed by her sister's death.In films of this nature, the most important role is that of the villain, and while Bridget Fonda is certainly good as Allison, the real star is Jennifer Jason Leigh who gives a splendidly creepy performance as Hedy, the shy girl who suddenly turns into an obsessive killer; like Close and de Mornay she is even able to create a certain amount of sympathy for her character. Barbet Schroeder handles the action well, generating the unbearable sense of tension which is so important in movies of this type. Single White Female is a well-made, tense and thoughtful psychological thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Perversely Violent","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie proves once again that actors should be required to abide by a statement of ethics code, similar to physicians or attorneys, when it comes to how they will use their professional skills, since this screenplay is, for lack of a better term, evil in it's content.The last 30 or so minutes are perversely violent, and, while some might comment that those involved are only acting, it's what they are allowing themselves to do, for very large sums of money, that is nothing more than an acceptable form of prostitution, since, after all, there are many ways to prostitute, aside from what is known in the traditional sense.It angers me that these same actors will freely politicize themselves when it comes to protecting America's children, but, at the same time, will allow themselves to earn a living for art's sake by being part of a film of this type - which is often shown in the middle of the evening, on regularly-available cable channels. "}]