[{"Title":"As Much as I Want to Hate This Film, I Love It","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A shape shifting young man (Brian Krause) and his mother (known as sleepwalkers for some reason) arrive in a new town. But the mother (Alice Krige) needs to feed, so her son Charles must find him a pure young woman. But who will he love more, his mother or the beautiful Tanya Robertson (Madchen Amick)? Sleepwalkers is a film that has a special place in my heart. I saw it repeatedly on television as a teenager watching our local horror host, Ned the Dead. And while I never thought it was great, I found it entertaining. I place it in the same category as Maximum Overdrive -- cheesy and fun, though by no means a great film. And look at the cameos in this film! Mike Mayo tears this film apart, calling it arguably King's worst film. He says the script meanders through pointless chitchat scenes. Director Mick Garris doesn't know how to photograph and throws in close-ups of knees. Wow. He has nothing nice to say about this film, giving it a dismal 0 on his one through four scale. I must beg to differ with Mike on this one.First of all, King's worst film is Langoliers. Second, I did not notice these pointless chitchat scenes he speaks of. Some of the plot is a bit loose, but nothing is completely pointless. I furthermore do not recall any shots of knees, though if the knees belonged to the beautiful Madchen Amick I think this is forgivable. Mick Garris has made many a bad film, this is true. And Sleepwalkers is by no means a masterpiece. But I think to lay down such heavy scorn is misplaced and really ignores the fun factor of this picture.Oddly enough, Howard Maxford, whom I almost never agree with, seems to get this one. He calls the film silly but quite lively and points out the nifty effects and gag cameos (Stephen King, Clive Barker, Joe Dante, Tobe Hooper and John Landis). And there you go -- recognition of the fun this film was and still is.Ron Perlman (Hellboy, Pro-Life) plays a cop and doesn't get nearly enough screen time. Not sure what else to say about that. Clearly they did not foresee the star power in Perlman. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good for a Horror Picture","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  `Sleepwalkers' is a film whose main plot thrust comes from the pre-opening credits description of what the film's title means. Just about all character backstory and motivations are given here, and we are then treated to a ninety-minute entertainment vehicle that plays out these events in a simplistic but interesting manner.The film's acting, for a horror picture, is remarkably good. Brian Krause and Alice Krige give standout performances as the titular feline troublemakers who also share a disturbing Oedipal relationship, cult favorite Madchen Amick gives a wonderfully nuanced performance as Krause's troubled love interest, and the cameos by many famous faces from the horror world will give fans something to look for and smile about. Even the supporting cast members seem to be having a good time, including Ron Perlman and Glenn Shadix in relatively small but amusing roles.The make-up effects are very good, although not top-notch. They're certainly nothing amazing, but they serve their occasionally-gruesome purposes well. The optical effects look pretty dated by today's standards, but it's still interesting to see CG effects in some of their earliest forms. The transformation sequences now look like something out of a made-for-TV movie, but they don't significantly detract from the film.Where this picture does tend to fail is in its plot and dialogue. Just about all of the mystery of the story dissipates by its halfway point, leaving the audience to predict and anticipate just about everything that happens in the rest of the film, essentially destroying the tension and suspense aspects. And since this is a horror picture written by Stephen King, one would expect these two elements to be the strongest components of the film. The dialogue is at times campy and at other times overly-serious. This has the effect of making some of the characters unbalanced in many ways, something that detracts from the film as a whole. It seems the director and/or writer was/were having difficulty deciding whether or not to play this film up as a comedy or a true horror movie, and so as it stands it awkwardly lies somewhere in between.`Sleepwalkers' is not horror at its finest, either in terms of ability to truly frighten or to provide fun campiness. It straddles the line between the two, existing somewhere equidistant from both. It is never too over-the-top for us to laugh out loud with it, nor is it ever truly scary enough to make us shiver. As it stands, it is an extremely simple and very entertaining work of filmmaking, something that horror fans will enjoy and others should probably avoid.  "},{"Title":"The Cat in the Hat Goes Splat","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director Mick Garris has commented on how Sleepwalkers was a troubled production, and one only has to watch in disbelief to see what he means. Before its 1992 theatrical release, I remember the film being heavily hyped as Stephen King's first foray into cinema with a completely original screenplay (and as was true with most adaptations of his work--with or without his involvement--at the time, the reviews were less than sympathetic). Ironically, Garris would become better known for helming TV-miniseries versions of some of King's best-known works (The Stand; The Shining; Desperation), directing right from the author's own scripts. Needless to say, these made-for-TV works outshine Sleepwalkers, which simply further proves that King's writing style (heavy with internal dialogues and detailed, unspoken perceptions) is better suited to a format that can fully develop his themes and characters. This tale of an incestuous mother/son duo who shapeshifts into bloodthirsty felines, roaming from small towns to dine on virgin prey, is fairly decent for the first 50 minutes--King's use of 'local color' (and the resulting humor) is well-rendered, and Garris does a fine job of creating an atmosphere of mystery and intrigue. But just when Sleepwalkers seems headed for the zone of good (if not truly memorable) King adaptations, its final third devolves into overblown, ridiculous action sequences (as though the producers chopped away 30 pages of King's script for explosions and shootouts) and a queasy imbalance between absurd humor and sentimental melodrama. The end result hobbles the overall experience--had King's ideas been thoroughly fleshed-out, Sleepwalkers may have been a solid entry in his filmography...but as it stands, it feels like a lament over what could have been. The cats are incredibly cute, though. "},{"Title":"Underrated among the best Stephen King films out there!","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Best Stephen King film alongside IT, though this one is more fun than scary. This one's got it all -a great cast with a Alice Krige and Brian Krause and a fun cameo from King himself;-well dosed horror in an amusing storyline;-great use of music, Santo & Johnny's Sleepwalk in particular;-likeable characters in a typical King setting middle of nowhere village;-lots of humor. You can't really get good scares here because it's too much fun and over the top;-old but really nice makeup effects like they don't make anymore!A 4,5 rating I don't get it really. When was the last time a horror film was as much fun as this one? "},{"Title":"Here kitty, kitty, kitty&#133;","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An incestuous mother and son (Krige, Krause) of preternatural origin move to a small town to find a young female virgin (Amick) the son may take the life force of and feed the mother with. It's Stephen King, who wrote the screenplay, at his not bad best. Interesting music; I've never heard Enya in a horror movie before but surprisingly it works. As with Ron Perlman, I'd pretty much sit through anything with Alice Krige in it. The down side is that although the mother and son are interesting beings the curiosity about them the movie arouses is not satisfied. What are they? A kind of feline lineage is hinted at as they can morph into variations of cat like creatures yet cats are their mortal enemies (a scratch can be fatal). Where are they from? Egypt is hinted at (the origin of the worship of Bast, perhaps). Why are they called Sleepwalkers (origins of the incubus/succubus/vampire mythologies)? Despite the questions raised and unanswered the film is still an enjoyable gore-fest horror break from reality. Worth a rent/buy used, especially for fans of Stephen King's work. "},{"Title":"not spectacular,but entertaining","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this Stephen King adaptation was entertaining but not great,by any means.it's worthwhile to pass time.it''s probably as weird as any of the King adaptation i have,and even weirder than others.this movie sort of felt like a fairy tale to me.although not a kid's fable,obviously.i did like the cast,many of whom have gone on to other things,since then.Brian Krause also appeared in the TV show Charmed,Madchen Amick (who could be Kim Delaney's twin sister)has been in several smaller budget pictures.Alice Krige was seen most notably as the Borg Queen in Star TrekFirst Contact,while Ron Perlman was previously seen in The TV series beauty and the Beast.his most notable role(In my opinion)was in Hellboy as the title character.like in most King movies,king himself appears in a cameo.at least three other modern horror masters(Jon Landis,Joe Dante,and Clive Barker also have cameos.anyway if you wanna pass 90 minutes or so,i'd say this movie is worth it.for me,Sleepwalkers is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Admit it, this was fun","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" WARNING I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this comment.Director Mick Garris brings to us a nostalgic feature from the mind of Stephen King that sets new rules to the term blood-thirsty creature, however lame they may be. All the way from dialogue such as tacky one liners like, Cop-kabob! and juicy delivers such as, This doesn't have to hurt. Just think of yourself as lunch! to scenes of mother- son incest between supernatural, flesh-eating whatever they are and murder by ear of corn, Sleepwalkers takes us on a quirky, poorly done, but overall enjoyable adventure with tons of undeniable mediocrity and shines of sheer camp brilliance along the way that gives us that icky, Why do we like this? feeling.Sleepwalkers is just so fun and it's entertaining cheesiness is ultimately rewarding in the utmost sense. The hunky Brian Krause is so likable and cute as the son who wants the flesh of a local teen girl, but Alice Krige is even more likable and amazing as the controlling, yet oddly loving mother who takes pleasure in the part time hobby of having sex with her son. I wanted Tanya to die, I'll say, so badly did I want her to die, and usually when a horror film does that it ultimately fails in being pleasing to the audience, yet that's not the case with Sleepwalkers. The characters are bland, and the actors/actresses know that, so they overact to make them more likable, which in turn does not work, which in turn works! Understand what I'm saying? Anyone? Oh, nevermind.The movie has an assorted collection of nice, memorable cameos, humorous anti-satire and cute, killer cats! What more could you want in a film?! You either love it or hate it, regardless of what you rate it, and I can understand both sides of the scale in different ways. I personally thought it was pure bliss that put smiles on my face, but here again, I enjoy most things. "},{"Title":"Based On An Unpublished Stephen King Story ....","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  .... And after seeing this pile of crap you won't be surprised that it wasn't published !!!! SPOILERS !!!!This is a terrible movie by any standards but when I point out that it's one of the worst movies that has the name Stephen King in the credits you can start to imagine how bad it is . The movie starts of with two characters staring open mouthed at a scene of horror   My god . What happened here ?   I don't know but they sure hate cats  *The camera pans to the outside of a house where hundreds of cats are strung up dead and mutilated . Boy this guy is right , someone does hate cats and with a deduction like that he should be a policeman . Oh wait a minute , he is a policeman and when a movie starts with a cop making an oh so obvious observation you just know you're going to be watching a bad movie The reason SLEEPWALKERS is bad is that it's very illogical and confused . We eventually find out the monsters of the title need the blood of virgins to survive . Would they not be better looking for a virgin in the mid west bible belt rather than an American coastal town ? Having said that at least we know of the monsters motives - That's the only thing we learn . We never learn how they're able to change shape or are able to make cars become invisible and this jars with the ending that seems to have been stolen from THE TERMINATOR . Monster mother walks around killing several cops with her bare hands or blowing them up via a police issue hand gun ( ! ) but if her monster breed is immune from police fire power then why do the creatures need the ability to change shape or become invisible ? The demise of the creatures is equally ill thought out as there killed by a mass attack of household cats . If they can be killed by cats then why did the monsters not kill all the cats that were lying around the garden ? There was a whole horde of moggies sitting around but the monsters never thought about killing them . I guess that's so the production team can come up with an ending . It was that they started the movie my complaint lies We're treated to several scenes where famous horror movie directors like John Landis , Clive Barker and even Stephen King make cameos . I think the reason for this is because whenever a struggling unknown actor read the script they instantly decided that no matter what , they weren't going to appear in a movie this bad so Stephen King had to phone up his horror buddies in order to fill out the cast . That's how bad SLEEPWALKERS is* Unbelievable as it seems that wasn't the worst line in the movie . The worst line is -  That cat saved my life   "},{"Title":"When felines attack&#x85; in human form.","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There's something about the b-grade sleeper Sleepwalkers that keeps me from liking it, but not enough to entirely hate it either. It kept me entertained, but I wasn't all that satisfied. Director Mick Garris' handling might come off stagy (which took any sense of atmosphere) with an almost TV-like feel, but remains crisp and well paced in its actions. Some imagery shows moments of creativity with the illustrative camera-work with its scopes and tilts. I just wished it had been much more darker in its visual styling. Stephen King would adapt his own book, where the premise creates a wickedly novel concept that would turn upon its sly tone with nonsensical and over-the-top dramatic lashings. This goes for its outrageous, if clumsy climax. While the jolts are grisly, they do come off quite risible with it being punctuated by sadistic heavy-handedness. The eccentric make-up FX is decently pulled off, even with some cheesy and blotchy trimmings. The script is rather ill-defined, but still has a neat touch of morbid humour and a sexual charge thanks to the seductively deranged performances by Alice Krige and Brian Krause in their mother and son relationship. Mädchen Amick is suitably appealing in the victim role. Ron Perlman makes a short, but commanding turn. Also keep a look out for some amusingly interesting cameos by Stephen King, Tobe Hooper, John Dante, John Landis, Clive Baker and Mark Hamill. "},{"Title":"no vegetables, no dessert.....","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You have to love this film. It starts with a mother and son making love, and then cuts to Amick dancing whilst cleaning a cinema, or thereabouts.Plotwise, it's about a pair of cat things called Sleepwalkers (never explained) whose kryptonite is cats, and the son has to suck glitter from virgins, and then have sex with his mom to feed her.And thats the plot.It's an awful film, but there is something about this that has car crash movie written all over it. For all it's bad acting and silly lines and unintentional laughs, one cannot help watching it right to the end, and then want to watch it again when it pops up on TV.It's not scary in the slightest and it suffers from post terminator 2 morphinitis, a term used for films released during 92-95, thinking that a bit of CGI morphing would equal a hit. The effects here are very bad, but add a little more fun to the film.There are cameos galore from big name directors, Luke Skywalker, and King himself, playing himself saying the film wasn't his fault or something like that.The three leads are okay, even if Krause is a bit wooden, the scene in the cemetery is very funny and camp.But Kridge is the best thing in the whole mess. she is very alluring and keeps a straight face when she is delivering the poor script.The deaths are funny too, and despite the gaping plot-holes and the overall badness of it all, it's a very watchable movie and far from the worst King adaption made into a film.Who could resist a woman running around screaming with a dummy cat on her back and then killing by stabbing him with an ear of corn.silly, pointless, but fun. "}{"Title":"Calling all cats...hurry, hurry to the scene of the crime...","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SLEEPWALKERS starts out promisingly enough to be a creepy tale about a mother and son vampire team--needlessly involved in an incestuous relationship--played by BRIAN KRAUSE and ALICE KRIGE. These two handle their roles extremely well and the creepy atmosphere of the story makes you believe you're in for a good Stephen King thriller about a small town about to be devastated by vampires seeking nourishment.There's even a pretty girl (MADCHEN AMICK) who flirts with the new boy in town, first at the movie theater where she works and then at high school--and these three characters carry the first part of the film nicely. You start to wonder whether the girl is going to be an easy victim of the mother and son team or whether she'll fight them off.But as the plot thickens, so does the absurdity of the whole thing, all directed in comic book style so that none of the characters have any dimension beyond being puppets in a horror story that is so grotesque and over-the-top, particularly in the last half-hour, that you'll wonder whether a sane hand had any part in these proceedings. All of the business involving a menagerie of cats that sit on the couple's front lawn becomes laughable before the story uses them in a way that lacks any credibility at all.To be fair, there are some scenes that do hold the interest, usually because a quirky supporting character, such as the black cop with his trusty traveling companion Clovis (a cat), provides some much needed humor--but those moments are few and far between. And any attempt to provide humor by having Stephen King play an obnoxious local man seeking help from a sheriff, fails utterly to do anything but convince the viewer that King should leave bit roles to professionals.Whatever potential it had as a thriller is diminished by the outlandish ending which has Alice Krige losing her marbles completely. She hasn't had an eerier role since she played the girl who came back to life to haunt men in GHOST STORY ('82). But as good as she is, she can't save a trashy horror film from looking absurd. "},{"Title":"Madchen Amick dates a cat hating, mother loving freak of a monster","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Stephen King must have been petting his cat one day while listening to Sleepwalk by Santo and Johnny when he was struck with inspiration. Cats, cats, cats. I love cats. I love this song. How can I get these two loves in one movie? Thus Sleepwalkers was born.Two freaky monsters move to a small town so that they can suck the life out of a virgin girl. They both despise cats and love each other. Yes. Mom and son getting it on like all monsters should. The son finds the last supermodel virgin on Earth. The romance is brief as life sucking takes precedence over anything sexual. Besides, he's got a hot mom aching at home. There is much blood and mayhem as super virgin tries to fight off the freaks with the help of an army of angry cats. Go Clovis!I enjoyed this simple little movie. Monsters find virgin, virgin fights back and the cats go wild. There was plenty of blood and guts to keep a smile on your face. Speaking of smiling, Madchen Amick is at her hot babe peak in this one. She has one move that lets you know she's a shy, sweet girl She bites her bottom lip and then slides her teeth slowly off. This move happens at least a dozen times. I could have watched it a dozen more. Mmmmmm...Virgin teasing. The monster was hooked at that point. So was I.One last thought, what decade is this movie supposed to be set in? The main monster loves Sleepwalk and Madchen Amick is shaking her groove thing to Do you love me?. In other scenes there will be loud modern rock blasting away. King obviously loves his 50's rock and roll but I had a hard time imagining a 90's girl doing the Twist and the Mashed Potato.  "},{"Title":"Meow","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While many adaptations of his books are mediocre, screenplays written by Stephen King himself include Rose Red, a fun haunted house tale, and the memorably creepy The Storm of the Century. Sadly, Sleepwalkers is an unwatchable film with no entertainment value whatsoever.Charles (Brian Krause) and his mother (Alice Krige) are vampire-like creatures, able to assume both monstrous and human appearance. Hilariously, they are also afraid of cats - their mortal enemies. The two monsters move to a new town and Charles befriends a classmate (Madchen Amick), planning to kill her.Not much happens, so the movie tries to stretch itself as long as possible with ludicrously gory scenes of vampires killing extras, plus endless shots of cats meowing and running around the house of the evil family.Sleepwalkers is campy but tedious; although the vampires versus cats encounters should be, in theory, hysterical, the stupidity is also partly intentional - and if you are making a really lousy horror movie, at least have the decency to play it straight, because the moment you wink at the audience (Hey, we know it's garbage!), you kill the fun.Buried behind overacting, stupidity and bad taste there is an attempt to humanize monsters and show their solitude and sadness a potentially interesting idea, but it couldn't have been executed worse. Avoid this one like a plague.2/10 "},{"Title":"Heeere kity, kity, kity","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A charming boy and his mother move to a middle of nowhere town, cats and death soon follow them. That about sums it up.I'll admit that I am a little freaked out by cats after seeing this movie. But in all seriousness in spite of the numerous things that are wrong with this film, and believe me there is plenty of that to go around, it is overall a very enjoyable viewing experience.The characters are more like caricatures here with only their basis instincts to rely on. Fear, greed, pride lust or anger seems to be all that motivate these people. Although it can be argued that that seeming failing, in actuality, serves the telling of the story. The supernatural premise and the fact that it is a Stephen King screenplay(not that I have anything specific against Mr. King) are quite nicely supported by some interesting FX work, makeup and quite suitable music. The absolute gem of this film is without a doubt Alice Krige who plays Mary Brady, the otherworldly mother.King manages to take a simple story of outsider, or people who are a little different(okay - a lot in this case), trying to fit in and twists it into a campy over the top little horror gem that has to be in the collection of any horror fan. "},{"Title":"A Complete Mess of a Film","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepwalkers (1992) * 1/2 (out of 4) When this film was released there was a lot of hype because it was the first time Stephen King had written something directly for the screen. The hype quickly faded when everyone realized that it was a dud. A son and mom (Brian Krause, Alice Krige) move to a small town where they need a virgin (Madchen Amick) to keep alive. It turns out the duo are sleepwalkers, which is a form of cat people. The entire story to SLEEPWALKERS is rather stupid and silly and I often wonder if King or director Mick Garris were taking it overly serious. I've heard that there was a lot of trouble with the production so perhaps this is the best that they could turn out but there are so many questionable and rather silly moments here that you can't help but call this a dud. The horror elements are extremely silly, never make too much sense and I wonder what King was even trying to do with this. I mean, were these creatures supposed to be something between werewolves and vampires? Did the son and mom have to have so many sex scenes together? Was this meant to be dark humor? For some strange reason when the son does start to attack the virgin girl, instead of any drama or suspense we're given really bad one-liners and attempts at humor and it just doesn't make any sense. I say no one took it serious because this is followed by a long line of horror cameos including King, Tobe Hooper, Joe Dante, John Landis, Clive Barker and Friday THE 13TH PART 2 fans will notice Stuart Charno. Both Krause and Krige are good in their parts but Amick easily steals the film as the victim. SLEEPWALKERS is a real mess of a movie and it's a shame that King's first direct screenplay was such a bust. "},{"Title":"Silly and fun","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although written by Stephen King, an overrated writer if there ever was one, this is actually quite entertaining B-movie. Vampiric, incestuous creatures who live in the candle-lit house and drain the life-force of virgins, great graveyard scenery, heroic cats and very pretty virgin. The soundtrack even has Enya's music, an idea which I found quite... nice. I'm sure King is disappointed to this little movie, although it HAS crappy dialogue and ideas, all of them from a true and tedious King potboiler. (Albeit Sleepwalkers, if I'm understood right, is a script without any novel or short story behind it). Still, those touches of sewer-odors show he DIDN'T use a ghost-writer after all... "},{"Title":"Gotta love those cats - Spoiler?","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is not a good movie but I still like it. The cat Clovis is gold in a jar as well as the premise of the cats themselves - intrinsically opposed to the evil Sleepwalkers.  I think there is more to this movie than people realize, basically it is very harsh, but this brusqueness can sometimes be good. It's got the corny lines, the abrupt ending and a comedic element conveyed by the bumbling policemen.  Did anyone find the incestuous element a bit disturbing? Ultimately this movie is casually and randomly acrimonious, which is quite effective, I liken it to Psycho - the relationship between the mother and son, the changing of protagonists. I think the abruptness works also, this is not a movie that you want them to lengthen, it only works if it's short.I'm still not sure whether the director lacked depth, or whether he did these things with purpose, we know Stephen King has ability, yet I haven't even read his books, only seen some of his movies.Anyway, I liked it. If you like harsh corny movies with 80's overtones just watch it. but don't expect too much. It really is so bad its good. "},{"Title":"The Corpse Who Loved Cat Dancing","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Two shape-shifters(mother and son) arrive in a new town. They engage in a quick incestuous roll in the hay and then son is off to school. He has his work cut out for him as he must find his mother a virgin to satiate her growing appetite. Talk about a frozen dinner! Son soon likes the girl he has found and complexities ensue. Sleepwalkers is a different film to be sure. It has horrific elements such as the opening scene of a house left by the two shape-shifters. It is eerily-shot with cats dangling on ropes from the ceiling, and one can almost feel the loathsome, dampening decay stagnating in the air. But that mood quickly changes and we have the story of incest and mediocrity begin. The script has flaws. It is trying to be an honest horror film and then veers toward comedy. The result is somewhat of an uneven blend to be sure. Notwithstanding flawed script, uninspired direction, and a series of ridiculous endings successively hurled at you, the film is entertaining. It has some genuine scares and even made me laugh a few times. Most laughs came courtesy of Glen Shadix as an English teacher and a policeman with a cat named Clovis. But that right there tells you what lies in store. How many troopers have a cat riding shotgun with them? The shape-shifting couple is played by Brian Krause and Alice Kirge(Boy, I remember when she had so much potential to be the next big star many, many years ago). Both of them are decent as is female lead Madchen Amick(?) The film also has a bunch of horror cameos with John Landis, Joe Dante, Tobe Hooper, Clive Barker and Stephen King. Again, nothing real special here, but what other film can offer what Sleepwalkers offers. The ending alone, though totally unrealistic, is worth a look as a yard full of cats and their leader Clovis get ready to rumble. What a hoot! "},{"Title":"this is the stupidest movie on earth","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this movie was so gay like its a mom and son cat that have sex, they also get scared of little kitty cats. they get set on fire by them. the mom cat alien thing kills a guy by stabbing him in the back with an ear of corn? they are bullet proof. invisible. and what not. the star of the movie, Clovis, is the cops cat, Clovis leads the cops to find the mom alien, and after the mom kills the cops, Clovis kills the mom by eating her head then she catches on fire. this movie sucks. it was way way more funny than it was scary, it wasn't even scaryt at all. the girl hits the alien on the head with a camera, it knoks him out. she then goes and hugs her. the then grabs her and begins to rape her. once again, Clovis comes to the rescue "},{"Title":"Strangely watchable Stephen","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, it's a book-to-film adaptation of another one of Stephen King's horror novels. And, if you know anything about how well his stories transfer across medium, you'll know they have a history of not really working. For every Pet Sematery and IT there's a dozen 'Sometimes They Come Backs' and 'The Dark Halfs.' However, Sleepwalkers is oddly sit-throughable.I use the word 'sit-throughable' over good, because I want to set you expectations at the right level. You'll be okay to walk in and out of the film to make a cup of tea and come back without really missing that much.It's about, er, things. They're like people during the day, but sometimes monsters. And they have powers. You don't really get much back story concerning where they're from, what they are and what they're capable of, but never mind. They're a mother and son couple. And, when I say 'couple' &#x96; I mean couple. Yes, yuk! They move from town to town sucking the life &#x96; literally &#x96; out of people &#x96; mainly teenage girls the son manages to seduce with apparent ease. And did I mention they don't like cats? And it's not a case of a mild allergy where they sniff a bit whenever Mr Tibbles walks into the room, they go a bit mental. But then cats hate them, too.Yeah, it's all a bit of a mess. They move to a town and the cycle starts all over again, but will they manage to suck the life out of Twin Peaks' Madchen Amick? Yes, this is probably her biggest role since leaving the cult TV show and she... well, she's okay, but much capable of more.Basically, if you don't mind cheesy horror that could be so much better then you'll be okay with this. It's short. That's a bonus. It doesn't drag. But don't expect anything to really make sense. Things happen just to move the plot forward and that's about it. Your expectations need to be low. In fact, in these days of remakes and prequels, this is one film I'd actually like to see a prequel to. There's so much left out of the history of the characters, a prequel might explain some of it. "}{"Title":"Overall, it is a very enjoyable Stephen King adaptation.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A mother-and-son team of strange supernatural creatures move to a small town to seek out a young virgin to feed on. Charles Brady and his mother Mary move to a small Indiana town, having recently fled Bodega Bay, California after draining and killed a young girl there. They are sleepwalkers - they can change their appearance and they need the lifeforce from young women. Charles has picked out young Tanya Robertson, whom he meets at a local high school, as his next victim. He asks her out for a date and invites her home... however, she did not suspect his real interest in her. On their first date, a picnic at a nearby cemetery, Charles attempts to drain the lifeforce from Tanya for himself and his mother. Although this story has overtones of incest which some may find unappealing it does actually play a part in the story and is therefore not just plonked in the movie for scandal's sake. Like most Stephen King stories it's based in a small town with lots of interesting characters. The acting isn't the best, nor is the special effects, however, somehow, the whole thing tends to 'gel' and is very watchable and enjoyable adaption. "},{"Title":"A Little Better Than It's Rating","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *** MAY CONTAIN A MINOR SPOILEROkay, we're not talking about academy award material here, but the film did win some minor awards. Weirdly, Alice Krige won both a best actress and a best supporting? Guess that shows how minor they were, but boy is she hot! IMO she was a supporting actress, but when she got screen time, she dominated.If you go into this for an entertaining, out of the box, horror/vampire movie you just might not be too disappointed. I don't even like most vampire/werewolf movies, but I liked this one.The cast is pretty good-looking, for the most part, which helps. Alica Krige, the boy vampire's mother could not be a lovelier monster. There are also some comic relief moments that help elevate it too.It'll also help to be a cat lover. One scene with Clovis the cat, where he climbs onto his dead law enforcement master's chest, actually brought tears to my eyes. The relationship between Clovis and his master is touching and comical. What cop would be allowed to bring his pet cat along on patrol? But Clovis saves the day time after time. You GO Clovis!Look for Stephen King's cameo as the cemetery caretaker.If you're looking for a serious film, go elsewhere. The gore makeup is pretty durn lame, but also not too disturbing because of that, which allowed me, at least, to enjoy other elements of the movie.There's a pretty good jump scare. I screamed out loud, though this is the second, maybe third viewing for me. I won't spoil that one. Like all good jump scares, that tactic isn't overused in this movie.So if you like a less than serious, not too disturbing horror flick give this one a go. It just may engage you. "},{"Title":"Liked the concept more than the execution","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A Sleepwalker is a nomadic shape-shifting creature with human and feline origins vulnerable to the deadly scratch of the cat. It feeds upon the lifeforce of the virginal human female and is probably the source of the vampire legend. The police investigates the Brodies residence in Bodega Bay, California where mother and son have gone missing. It is bloody and filled with dead cats. They find a mummified little girl. In Travis, Indiana, Charles Brady (Brian Krause) lives with his lover/mother Mary (Alice Krige). They have their hatred of cats. He has his sights set on classmate Tanya Robertson (Mädchen Amick) who works at the local movie theater.I like the Stephen King concept but director Mick Garris fails to bring enough cinematic style to the movie. The effects range from cheesy bad to competent. The monster cat looks rather uninspired. The big full costume is a little bit more appealing. The blood work looks low budget. The general tone of the movie is a simple TV production. It never elevates the tension or the scares. I do like the fire work. The special effects run the whole spectrum of old fashion with a couple of weak CG additions. The three main leads do a relatively good job especially Alice Krige. The mother son creepiness is good. The movie could held it back to be revealed around the middle and pushed it a little bit more. The cats are a fun touch. A big problem with the script is that the whole movie is revealed early on. This movie could have used a bit of mystery. "},{"Title":"Cats Are Good","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Only a month ago or so the world was treated to a home security video clip of a cat saving a little boy from the neighbor's dog. It was a sight to see. It is clear that Stephen King is a cat person (see Cat's Eye). Cats are the heroes again in the movie Sleepwalkers.Sleepwalkers is about an inhuman freaky-deaky mother and son. As the opening caption stated, they feed off of the life forces of virginal human females. Apparently the son does the hunting while the mother stays at home and awaits nourishment. They've moved to a new town and identified a new prey and so the movie goes.The movie was rife with clichés. You already know them cat jumping out of the closet, assuming the bad guys is dead, exploding cars, etc. Besides the clichés and some so-so acting the movie was alright. Sleepwalkers were a different being to explore. Vampires, zombies, slashers and werewolves have been done so much that it was cool to see some other types of beings. The effects were really good for 1992. The movie was more of a thriller than a horror with some gratuitous blood thrown in there. The movie wasn't bad, it was well worth the price I paid to watch it. Nothing. "},{"Title":"Horror movies are not what they used to be","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Nope! Horror of today is not as good as it was 20 odd years ago. Once or twice we see a couple of scary ones like Insidious and the Lady in White. But these type of horror films rely on sound and surprise.Plot teen girl gets swept away by the new boy in Town. Only he is not just a boy...What horror Movies lack today is mood and color. By mood I mean the style John Carpenter shows off in his early Movies like Halloween, the Thing, Escape from New York, They Live, Attack on Presinct 13 and Prince of Darkness. It is, of course, difficult to explain mood, but those of you who know Carpenter's work and/or are horror fans do likely know what I mean. By color I mean the tone of the print, it is kind of bleak or dull which adds so much to the mood.Mood and color is what makes Sleepwalkers so enjoyable, as well as the effects which are good and still hold.The cast is convincing, the then soon to be Twin Peaks star Mädchen Amick is Lovely, Brian Krause works both as the innocent boy and villain. Ron Perlman appears as well, he hasn't changed a bit since then, neither his acting nor looks.There are a couple of goofs, illogical moves and bad acting from some of the cast.Sleepwalker is one of the better King adaptations I have seen. Much better than the terrible the Langoliers, just as good as Salem's Lot, slightly below Pet Sematary and the Dead Zone.I give it 7 out of 10 due to mood, color, high production values and its compact storytelling, i.e. there is no dull moments slowing down the story. "},{"Title":"Kind Of Strange!","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Brian Krause, Madchen Amick, Alice Krige, Cindy Pickett and Lyman Ward star in this 1992 horror film based on Stephen King's novel. Krause (Charmed) plays Charles Brady, the new boy in school who lives with his mother/lover, Mary (Krige). They both share human and feline characteristics which allows them to shape-shift and feed on virgin blood to survive. Cats are threatening to them because their scratches are fatal. Amick (Witches of East End) plays Tracy Robertson, a girl Charles sets his sights on and soon, she discovers his and Mary's deadly secret. Pickett and Ward (Ferris Bueller's Day Off) play Tracy's parents. King has a cameo as well as Mark Hamill (Star Wars Trilogy), Ron Perlman (Hellboy) and directors, John Landis (An American Werewolf in London), Joe Dante (The Howling), Tobe Hooper (Poltergeist) and Clive Barker (Hellraiser). This is kind of strange, but the cast is decent and there's good make-up effects. I still recommend viewing this at least once if you're a horror fan. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but feels like a TV movie","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hunk Charles (Brian (Charmed) Krause), and his Mum Mary, (Alice (Borg Queen) Krige), move to a small town and Charles falls for local cutie Tanya. Unfortunately, Charles and Mary aren't so much people as cat-vampire thingies with appetites which don't go down too well with the locals. Mayhem ensues.This was the first Stephen King property written exclusively for the screen, I think, and it is not without merit. The story is a bit formulaic, but our monstery protagonists are moderately off the beaten track. There are multiple guest cameos to spot, some decent action, early (and effective) use of CGI morphing, and Alice Krige is as compelling as usual.Less pleasingly, Mick Garris' direction is as pedestrian as usual, and the whole thing has a TV movie feel to it which, what with it being a theatrical presentation, isn't really what one wants to see.It's not a bad King movie, but it certainly isn't one of the good ones. "},{"Title":"The Best Thing I Liked About this movie were the cats","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a pretty cool movie about a pair of monsters known as sleepwalkers, who move to a town in Idaho so as to hunt for prey so that they might survive. The prey that is necessary for them to survive are virgin women, which in my opinion is quite a cliché from ancient times. Still, Sleepwakers is a good movie and explores the idea of living on the fringes of society, never being able to mix with real people.The sleepwalkers are not really portrayed as being evil, rather just intelligent predators that need to survive. Unfortunately, this does not come out as much as the sleepwalkers roam around killing everybody they come across. Some of the one liners are reasonable Cop Kebab, while others are downright corny If you don't eat your vegetables you don't get any desert, right after the mother sticks a corn cob into a cops back.What gives this movie flair is its use of cats. The thing about sleepwalkers is that cats hate them and they hate cats. The reason is that cats can see through their disguises and their claws can injure them. What I found really beautiful was how the cat Clovis climbed up onto the body of a dead cop and cried.This movie could have been much better if the nature of the creatures had been explored more. It is about survival, not sadistic murder, and that is what comes out with the sleepwalkers' one liners. A creature that must do this to survive would be much less comical and jovial, and in some ways suffer much more pain, especially how every time he makes an acquaintance with a young woman, he knows that he must kill her or he will die himself.Still, I like this movie and will watch it again, namely for the nature of the creatures and its reasonable story line. "},{"Title":"An interesting spin on the vampire film, ruined by Garris' clumsy humour.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Story Synopsis Mother & son Mary & Charles Brady arrive in a small town, intending to stay there. But what the townsfolk don't know is that the pair are actually 'sleepwalkers' &#x96; human / feline hybrid polymorphs who subsist on the lifeforce of female virgins. As Charles courts Tanya Robertson, intending to feed her to his mother, the police begin to suspect their intentions. The town's cats &#x96; whose scratches are the only way to kill the creatures &#x96; mount an assault on the pair.Film Analysis Today's horror fans might know Mick Garris as the producer of the Masters of Horror TV series &#x96; a series of short films made by legendary genre directors. But Garris is also a director who had obtained a bad reputation among Stephen King's followers thanks to his consistent botching of King's novels by making subpar adaptations. The problem is that King, who seems to be a friend of Garris, doesn't seem to notice the harm that Garris is doing to his works. Sleepwalkers, one of King's original film scripts, was among the first of Garris' botch-jobs.Sleepwalkers, at least in script form, is King's attempt at reinventing the vampire film. At first glance it seems an interesting & well-thought-out story. But Garris, who seems incapable of making a decent film, ruins the story to the degree that it becomes quite unwatchable.I have always hated Garris' films, due to his ineptness. Garris' primary fault is the use of his trademark clumsy humour that he injects into his films. Not to mention that he mishandles the script badly, with his characters acting like total idiots at times. King has been known to have the occasional scripting flaw &#x96; his only directorial outing, the killer machines thriller Maximum Overdrive is a good example &#x96; but it seems that even his skills can't withstand Garris that well. When you have the monster off a police deputy by ramming a corncob into his ear, you know the film's in trouble.Having said that, Brian Krause & Alice Krige make a good team of shapeshifting monsters (even if their characters' incestuous relationship is a bit off-putting). This, along with King's original ideas & the glorious image of several film directors making cameos during the graveyard crime scene analysis makes me give the film a slightly higher rating than I would have given it otherwise. "},{"Title":"Not near as bad as it could be","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Monstrous mother-son-duo (Alice Krige and Brian Krause) sucks life-force of virgins, and their newest target is pretty but lonely Tanya (Madchen Amick). However, these monsters are allergic to cat's scratches... I have never been fan of sleazy, overrated bestsellerists like King, Koontz or Barker, but this B-movie, written by Mr Dung himself, is actually not near as bad than it could be. Yes, it is sometimes jaw-droppingly atrocious, but there is actually some surprisingly impressive touches good old-fashioned graveyard, eerie soundtrack and candlelit-Gothic-house-scene, mirror showing the monstrous form of the villains, etc. Of course, the film is polluted by Mr Dung's potty-mouthed dialogue and all-tactics-of-toilet-seat obsession to vilify fat people, leading to totally pointless subplot of rapist teacher, but there is roses among manure. "}{"Title":"I can't believe king wrote the script","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a big fan of Stephen King but when it comes to Sleepwalkers, it's a little too awkward and feels like a movie made for SyFY. The premise is a little too strange to accept. It deals with a mother and son who are sleepwalkers, weird cat people who feed off of a virgin female. So the son moves to another city and starts going to school acting like he's a normal kid named Charles Brady from Ohio. So then he decides that he's going to get a girl named Tanya Roberson and ask her out then when it was time he was going to feed her to his staving mother. The acting is pretty good but the dialog can't make up for any great acting.The dialog feels too awkward and just doesn't make up for some of the good acting. The Sleepwalkers also have some powers like turning invisible or showing there cat form. They also have a weakness cats. Wait why cats isn't that what they are. Why would Mr.King choose cats if that's pretty much what they are.There is a funny scene where a cop's cat attacks Charles Brady. And the thing that I can't get over is the scene where the son and mother make love.All I could say after this is I can't believe king wrote the script.The reason I gave this a 5 is because it's so entertaining and fun. It's one of those movies that's actually pretty hard to hate because it's so much fun. I probably would have given this a 3 or even a 2 , if it wasn't so entertaining . So that's the good of sleepwalkers. Overall If you happen to find this film , it's worth checking out. But don't expect to much or you won't be in luck.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cats United Will Never Be Defeated","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepwalkers is another empty horror flick very easy to follow with laughable moments and lots of blood to be spilled. Even with Stephen King writing the screenplay (based on a novel of his) this movie doesn't scary the viewer and only make things pointless with a few memorable moments, and none of them came from the horror side.Here Charles (Brian Krause) and his mother (Alice Krige) are the creatures of the title, originated of the felines (but they're terrified by cats and their scratch) who needs to be fed by humans to be kept alive. And when a potential victim appears in the form of a beautiful girl (Madchen Amick) Charles fall in love with her and vice-versa. But wait...there's a catch! He and his mother have a more close relationship than many parents have with their sons, they are sexually involved in some strange and bizarre way. Further the plot becomes more funnier (trying to get frightening) when Charles rebel ways makes him to get noticed in town as a strange creature by a policeman and his beautiful cat Clovis during a car chase (here comes the funny stuff Charles can make his car invisible just making a brain effort). Also by some of his victims such as cats (in the beginning of the movie there's a lot of them dead) and his gay teacher (Glenn Shadix) who used his hands improperly on the boy and got it ripped off. The possible good reason for watch this is the fact that the cats are the real heroes and there are lot of them. In the end they're gonna show that they're more than just cute little animals and take a stand against the mother creature. A excellent revenge in memory of all their brothers and sisters killed in action. Another good thing is the cameos in the film, cameos by directors John Landis, Joe Dante, Tobe Hopper and writers Stephen King and Cliver Barker and one by Mark Hamill playing a police officer. Except the good stuff Sleepwalkers was too risky on dealing with the incest subject and it didn't add nothing so shocking to the plot as it was intended to be. The whole plot was absurd, funny, senseless. Just an excuse to make a movie. Girls will be delighted with the presence of Brian Krause, boys will like Madchen Amick dancing to the sound of Do You Love Me? and that's it. And Ron Perlman one day might regret being in this dirty little picture where his fingers were eaten by the sleepwalking creature. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad a critics say!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film has its fun moments. It IS silly, but if you take the whole thing as a bit of fun then it will give you some enjoyment. It is probably best watched when drunk with some friends. Madchen Amick is the best thing in it, being adorable and so good to look at (just her face alone) that you may feel the need to cry yourself to sleep at the mere thought of her. Stephen King said that he had a blast writing the script for this, but it is obvious that he didn't spend much time on it. The music in this film is pretty good (it was originally by Enya, but has since been sampled on a couple of popular records by bands such as the Fugees). Just watch it for Madchen's wonderful face if nothing else. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked.","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Everything about this movie was awful. The girl's high-pitched screams made it worse. I never want to watch a movie this bad ever again... My energy was completely gone after having to sit through this movie. I thought there would be a twist at the end (such as the girl and her parents being sleepwalkers too) but I was disappointed. Stephen King, you have truly disappointed me... I had expected so much more. Could the reason for this movie being so horrible have to do with it being made in the 90's? Otherwise, I can't find a reason why this movie is the worst movie that has probably ever been made. Horror films at its worst. It sucked more than any of the worst movies since the inception of movie making. Don't ever watch this movie on free-will. I would only watch this movie ever again if I were given a reasonable amount of money to sit through this garbage. "},{"Title":"Sleepwalkers","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There's a legion of Mick Garris haters out there who feel he couldn't direct a horror film of quality if he had to. And, SLEEPWALKERS(..screenplay written by Stephen King)is often used as an example of this. I like SLEEPWALKERS, though I fully am aware that Garris just says F#ck it and lets all hell break loose about fifteen or so minutes into the movie. Forget character or plot development, who needs them anyway. It's about violent mayhem and bloody carnage as a mother and son pair of sleepwalkers(..feline-human shapeshifting creatures who suck the lifeforce from virginal female innocents, moving from town to town, living a nomadic existence, truly powerful)set their sights on a teenager who doesn't surrender without a fight. Before all is said and done, many will be slaughtered as a mother shan't tolerate the possible death of her beloved son.Garris wastes little time setting up those to be executed, as a teacher(Glenn Shadix), suspecting handsome, All American charmer Charles Brady(Brian Krause)to be someone entirely different from who he claims, gets his hand ripped off and his neck torn into. Charles lures pretty virgins into his arms, drawing their energy, in turn feeding his hungry mama, Mary(Alice Krige). The fresh new target is Tanya Robertson(Mädchen Amick), and she seems to be easy pickens, but this will not be the case and when Charles is seriously injured in a struggle(..thanks to a deputy's cat, Clovis), Mary's vengeance will be reaped on all those who get her way. Mary, come hell or high water, will retrieve Tanya in the goal of refreshing her dying son.Like many teenagers, I had a crush on certain actresses I watched in movies. Such as Amy Dolenz, I was smitten with Mädchen Amick. She's simply adorable in this movie and I love how she bites her lower lip displaying an obvious attraction towards Charles, unaware of his ulterior motives. I just knew that Mädchen Amick would be destined to be a scream queen, but this would never be the case. Too bad because I would've welcomed her in the genre with open arms.Krige is yummy as the menacing, damn sexy, but vicious and mean bitch who wipes out an entire police force and poor Tanya's parents in one fail swoop, in less than ten or so minutes. She stabs one in the back with a corn cob! She bites the fingers off of poor Ron Perlman, before cracking his arm(..a bone protruding), knocking him unconscious with his own elbow! She tosses Tanya's mom through a window after breaking a rose vase over her father's face! A deputy is stabbed in his ear by Charles(Cop-kebab!), falling on the pencil for extra impact. Poor Tanya is dragged by her hair from her home by Mary, driven to the Brady home, and forced into an impromptu dance with the crippled monster! The sheriff is hurled onto a picket fence and we see how cats combat the sleepwalkers unlike humans. We see Mary and Charles' abilities to dim themselves and his car using a power of invisibility. Writer Stephen King even finds time to include himself and horror director buddies of his in a crime scene sequence with Clive Barker and Tobe Hooper as forensics officers, Joe Dante and John Landis as photograph experts.The film is shot in a tongue-in-cheek, let-it-all-hang-out manner with music appropriately hammering this technique home. It's about the ultra-violence, simple as that, with some deranged behavior and jet black humor complimenting Garris' direction and King's screenplay. The incestuous angle of the sleepwalkers is a bit jarring and in-your-face. Without a lick of complexity, this is closer in vein to King's own demented MAXIMIMUM OVERDRIVE than his more serious works. "},{"Title":"I can buy into the craziest of ideas except one...","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is absolutely impossible for me to believe that a girl who looks like Madchen Amick could be a virgin! Sorry, can't do it.The rest of the film however is decent enough I suppose, very inconsistent at times, but decent. I would have liked to find out more about the origin of the sleepwalker species though.I'm a sucker for Madchen Amick, her impossibly gorgeous face just wins me over every time and i'll see anything with her in it. 'Charmed' star Brian Krause does a good job, although his shift from nice guy to evil jerk in the 'Homeland' scene is a bit jarring, very jarring actually. I guess in the end I was applying my own set of ideals...how can someone/something be so mean to someone so sweet and innocent. Madchen's performance here is world's away from her role in 'Dream Lover' that's for damn sure.The kills were inventive, i'll say that much, I don't think i've ever seen a guy get stabbed in the back with a corn-on-the-Cobb before and I don't expect I will again. The one character that I wish had lived was the cop, the owner of the cat 'Clovis', it sucked when he bought it.Overall, if the video store has nothing A-list left and your stuck with what to rent, this one will do just fine. "},{"Title":"entertaining as hell","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i just watched this today it is very corny but entertaining as hell with some actually very good acting and some very bloody deaths by corn?????????? the humor worked very well in this and there are lots of genre cameos which was kinda cool  the ending is a bit silly but at least it is fun silly see it and your in for one hell of a fun time ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Stay away from screen writing Mr. King","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In his work, Steven King is usually good at making nastiness into scariness. It works well in 'The Shining' and 'Misery', but not with Sleepwalkers, which is just pain vicious as well as cheap and gory. If this was written as a novel, Sleepwalkers might have worked. As a novelist, King is good at pacing, fleshing out characters, and making a story frighteningly subjective. As a screenwriter however, he is reduced from a genius to a cheap Hollywood story teller. Such a shame.Charles Brady and his mother are new residents in a small Indiana town, coming from Ohio. They are the last of a dying breed of monsters, known as Sleepwalkers. Wherever they go, Charles is always forced to feed his mother. This time, his selected victim is Tanya, a girl in his class who likes artistic photography (and him). After a failed attempt on her life which leaves Charles mortally injured, Mrs. Brady (who is subject to the worst acting in the genre) goes crazy and lots of blood and guts follow. The shallow story ends in a lame showdown between her and the sheriff's department along with all the cats in town. Like so many similar films, Sleepwalkers amounts, to little more than a gory, dumb, and even perverted piece of B-movie making, and is too grizzly to be fun. With Stephan King in the writer's chair, I had some hope, but that was a mistake. In the end, I suppose there is a little fun to be had with here (like seeing King act) but not enough to make it worth your time. Skip these vampires and try 'The Lost Boys' or 'From Dusk Till Dawn' instead. "},{"Title":"Cat Scratch Fever","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film begins with a helpful definition of Stephen King's Sleepwalkers Nomadic shape-shifting creatures with human and feline origins. Vulnerable to the deadly scratch of the cat, the sleepwalker feeds upon the life-force of virginal human females&#133; Then, in Bodega Bay, California (an obvious reference to Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds), officer Mark Hamill (in a cameo appearance) discovers a home populated by hanging dead cats. From there, director Mick Garris moves the action to Travis, Indiana...We are introduced to shirtless hunk Brian Krause (as Charles Brady) and his still hot mother Alice Krige (as Mary Brady). They are obviously a nostalgic duo, evidenced by their slow dancing to Santo & Johnny's 1959 hit Sleep Walk. A likely choice. Anyway, the son and mother are also lovers. But, Mr. Krause needs to suck the life force out of a virgin female to satisfy Ms. Krige, who is famished. Krause is too old for high school, but he attends anyway; and, after rebuffing his gay teacher, he decides to hook up with implausible virgin Mädchen Amick (as Tanya Robertson).Horror novelist King and some others appear in small roles. Together, Ms. Amick and Krause look a little like older versions of Brook Shields and Christopher Atkins. Hmmm. In Bodega Bay, with The Birds and the cats. It all must mean something, but what? ***** Sleepwalkers (1992) Mick Garris ~ Brian Krause, Mädchen Amick, Alice Krige "},{"Title":"Why don't you just think of yourself as lunch. Watchable enough horror film but nothing special.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepwalkers starts with a little bit of explanatory on screen text that goes something like this sleepwalker, Nomadic shape-shifting creatures with human and feline origins. Vulnerable to the deadly scratch of the cat, the sleepwalker feeds upon the life-force of virginal human females. Probable source of the Vampire legend - Chillicoathe Encyclopaedia of Arcane Knowledge 1st Edition, 1884. I guess that was the easiest & laziest way for the filmmakers to establish what sleepwalkers are without lots of boring exposition. For most of it's running time Sleepwalkers is set in 'Travis, Indiana' where the last two remaining sleepwalkers Mary Brady (Alice Krige) & her son Charles (Brian Krause) live in a farmhouse, the same one used in the classic T.V. series The Waltons (1972 - 1981) believe it or not. They recently moved there from Ohio & Charles is showing an interest in one of his new classmate's, the rather fine looking Tanya Robertson (Madchen Amick). Tanya starts to fall for his handsome boyish looks & charm but not everyone is as easily convinced including one of Charles teachers, Mr Fallows (Glenn Shadix) who discovers that his transfer papers are frauds & Charles isn't who he says he is & definitely didn't relocate from Ohio. After taking care of Mr. Fallows & having a run in with a cop named Andy Simpson (Dan Martin) Charles decides to make his move for Tanya as both time for himself & his Mother is running out & they have to feed soon, but Tanya doesn't intend on letting two sleepwalkers suck her life-force dry & plans on giving as good as she gets...Co-produced & directed by Mick Garris I thought Sleepwalkers was an average horror film at best. The script written by Stephen King & not based on any of his previous works is silly, very vague & doesn't make much sense. The entire set-up of Sleepwalkers is achieved in that opening paragraph of text & no other explanation for the existence of sleepwalkers is given, neither why they need the life-force of virgins to live or why they are so vulnerable to cats. We, the viewer that is, have to accept what happens during the film with virtually no reasoning to back anything up. The word underdeveloped comes to mind. The script also chucks in an incestuous relationship between Charles & Mary but this amounts to one scene of them supposedly having sex together in bed & is neither mentioned again or elaborated on at all. The sleepwalkers also seem able to magically make things invisible which is a neat trick to have but hardly plausible, this ability ends up feeling out of place in a film about cat like creatures & as a whole the script seems to take itself very seriously which considering what I just said wasn't the way to go, was it? Talking of taking itself seriously what's all the jokey one-liners by Charles & Mary all about? The biggest single plot point which I just can't get over is if Tanya was so important to the sleepwalkers survival why did they just not kill her when they had the perfect opportunity to? Why did Mary let Charles take her to the cemetery? Why not just keep her at the farmhouse? Why does Charles attract so much attention to himself by playing around with the police when I'd have thought he would want to keep a low profile? Sleepwalkers isn't all bad though, it moves along at a fairly good pace & when all said & done it's an entertaining enough way to waste 90 odd minutes as long as you can suspend your disbelief & not ask too many question's. The special effects are OK & there is some decent gore in Sleepwalkers like a severed hand, bitten off fingers, a corkscrew in an eye, an impalement, a pencil stuck in someones ear & someone is stabbed with some corn, don't ask. The sleepwalkers themselves when finally revealed look alright if a little cheap. The acting is OK & Sleepwalkers features a number of cameo's by various horror icons like Stephen King himself who plays the cemetery caretaker, John Landis as a lab technician & Joe Dante as his assistant, Clive Barker & Tobe Hooper as forensic officers & Luke Skywalker himself Mark Hamill as a cop in the opening sequence. Ron Perlman also turns up in a small role. Technically Sleepwalkers is above average for a low budget horror with nice production values throughout, it does look a bit bland at times though & director Garris fails to generate or sustain much atmosphere or tension. Sometimes Sleepwalkers looks & feels a bit too much like a bland & forgettable T.V. film. A quick word about the music & specifically the main theme, Boadicea by Enya which sounded very familiar because The Fugees used it as backing for their song Ready Or Not & it sounded strange to hear it pop up on occasion during Sleepwalkers. Overall I didn't hate Sleepwalkers but neither did I love it, I found it very middle of the road. There's nothing particularly wrong with it but there's nothing particularly good either. Sleepwalkers is a reasonable way to pass 90 odd minutes if you are able to forget about the plot holes & just accept what Garris & King are telling you without too many question's... "}{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHA!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh dear me! Rarely has a horror film bored me, or made me laugh, as much as this one. After a spirited start with an intriguing premise, it descends into not much more than a slasher flick, with some supernatural and sexual asides. The usually excellent Alice Krige is wasted in this one, and the plot twists are ludicrous. Don't bother unless you're really desperate. Rating 3/10. "},{"Title":"Wow... this was disappointing","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepwalkers is the first film which Stephen King has written a script for. Given this, and the excellent Santo & Johnny song that they used as the theme of the movie, you would be expecting a odd, and ultimately fulfilling viewing experience. Unfortunately, that's not what you'd be getting. The thing is, they could have probably made it a good movie. The beginning is intriguing what with it's small town spooky atmosphere. But something strange happens about 20 minutes into the film. The film turns funny for no apparent reason!  From that moment on the whole atmosphere of Sleepwalkers is ruined.For those of you who have seen it, who can ever forget good old Johnny screaming out COP KABOB!! after jabbing the pencil into that one cop's ear?!? But don't get me wrong, the humor has no redeemiing quality. I just rented it again to see if mabye I was wrong the first time around, given how original the plot sounded, but I was right. Man, what a waste. I can't believe they got the rights to that Santo & Johnny song.  I gave this a 2. "},{"Title":"Well-cast, but inappropriately bright and snappy","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have nothing against a fast-paced fright-flick, but this Stephen King-derived nonsense is too freshly-scrubbed, too bright and modern. The plot, about a new teenage boy in a small town who is a Sleepwalker--sort of a cross between a vampire and a werewolf--and who feeds on the blood of female virgins, begs for a more mysterious, ambiguous treatment. This thriller is given an inappropriately colorful look and feel, with hardly any atmosphere. The kids are predictably pretty and energetic, but the big plus is Alice Kridge as the boy's mother; Kridge, from Ghost Story, never broke out of the filler-female mold, and it's a huge loss that she hasn't been used more. Her performance is creepy and intense, and gives hint that Sleepwalkers might've been a much better film with a different focus and tighter direction. It's too over-the-top and commercially-driven, with an uneven tone that swings wildly from thriller to comedy to drama. Stephen King pops up in a cameo, as do real-life directors John Landis and Tobe Hooper. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Lost Opportunity","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It Could Have Been A Marvelous Story Based On The Ancient Races Of Cat People, but it wasn't.This work could have been just that; marvelous and replete with mythological references which kept my fascination fueled. The lead characters (Charles Brady played by Brian Krause; and his mother Mary, played by Alice Krige) were shallowly done, had no depth of personality and were hardly likable or drawing. Not even Mädchen Amick (who played Tanya Robertson)'s character fit into that description. However, as I've said many times before, when you adapt a Stephen King novel for TV, you simply must take into account the fact that his books aren't written for TV, and his screenplay talent sadly lacks the fire and depth he exhibits as a novelist. This is another botched attempt to take the magick of Stephen King writing, whether that is of his novels or an original screenplay. To simply cut and paste his work onto the small screen. His novels get completely bastardized in the process and all you end up creating is a nice movie; nothing less but certainly nothing more. His screenplays are hit and miss. Unfortunately, this screenplay translation was a miss. Sorry, Sorry, Sorry movie.This movie gets a 1.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"You'll need a shower after this one...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you're the kind of movie-goer who enjoys original content and intelligent suspense...then look elsewhere, kids, cause Sleepwalkers really sucks.  Usually I'm more eloquent than that, but...wow...this was bad.  I especially love it when Charles offers Tanya a ride home, she declines, and then he is seen WALKING HOME.  Where's his car??  Anyway, just don't see it, folks.  I really want to be more specific, but words escape me.  Cats jumping on people.  A guy getting stabbed by corn.  Cheesey lines up the proverbial wazoo.  Just don't see it.  Wait, I take that back!  See it for writer Stephen King's cameo as the guy who owns the graveyard.  He's actually pretty good.  Even with guest appearances by Mark Hamill and Ron Perlman, King gives the best performance of the film.  But, other than that...wow...BAD. "},{"Title":"What a joke...","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I have ever seen without a doubt. The only thing interesting in this film is the cameo appearances from some great genre directors and King himself. The film has a great premise, but falls apart about 15 minutes into the story. I did like Madchen Amick in this film and think she could have a very good career in film.  "},{"Title":"Very weird story","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, I taped this off TV and missed the very start. The film was about 10 or so seconds into the titles (I assume) so if anything happened before that I missed it.Lots of people say Mark Hammill is in this, I didn't see him. I did recognise Clive Barker, John Landis and obviously Stephen King doing some really awful acting as the graveyard attendant.Alice Krige looks lovely apart from the scenes where she has the cat face or is in full alien make-up.Even with the opening titles it's never really explained very well exactly what Sleepwalkers are or where they come from. From the title sequence I assume they are catlike bipeds who live by extracting life-force from humans. I assume they live a long time and these particular 2 are possibly the last of their kind.Add to this a very large dose of incest (Yes! I thought it was a bit suspect too), shapeshifting, killer cats and invisibility and you have Sleepwalkers.It's a very bad story that has no real explanations behind the main 2 characters and far too many cameo's to try and distract from the simple fact that not enough is explained to the viewer.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Just Plain dumb","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are no spoilers here... Because there is no plot to spoil. Madchen Amick is living proof a face can make a living acting-- no talent required. The only bright spot are a few really good one-liners delivered very nicely by Alice Krige, but then again, she IS Alice Krige. Her soft dreamy voice gives the only hint at just how seductively dangerous these odd creatures can be. She is believably creepy in this otherwise unbelievable plot. How they got her to agree to this project remains a mystery. The screenplay writers must have been medicated when they submitted this script. It has major continuity problems, superficial stereotypical characters, horror formula writing, and simply falls short of making any sense what-so-ever. The creatures, while they have neat skills like going dim, the question of where they come from and what they are is never so much explored. Don't waste any time on this one. "},{"Title":"Good Fun From the 90's","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While I can't say that Stephen King's Sleepwalkers is a great film, it certainly is not the worst one either. In this movie Stephen King actually does try to do something original, in that he creates a race of supernatural beings who for some unknown reason call themselves sleepwalkers. These beings are psychic vampires (meaning they feed off of psychic energy as opposed to blood) who can transform themselves into bipedal were-cats. In addition, they also possess powers of telekinesis and invisibility, which makes things more interesting. This film follows two of these creatures, Charles and his mother, Mary, who are forced to live nomadic lifestyles because it turns out that regular house cats are deadly to them and always seem to find them in their new neighborhoods. Another constraint is that they can only feed off of the life force of young, female virgins such as young Tanya Robertson, who Twin Peaks fans will recognize as Madchen Amick. She happens to meet Charles in her creative writing class, thinking that he's falling in love with her; little does she know that Charles (played decently by Brian Krause) wants to suck the life out of her. All the actors play their parts well, however the real star of the movie is the talented Alice Krige, who plays the deliciously evil matriarch who will do anything to protect her son. A number of people have expressed dismay over the film and there is some truth in that the direction by Mick Garris does not always flow right, the early CGI effects, although not terrible, seem a little dated today, and a few plot holes are present, such as what is it about cats that make them so deadly to sleepwalkers? Still, the movie never drags, the physical makeup they used for the creatures was very convincing and probably more so than some of the effects you see today, and the creatures are a pretty cool idea. One other thing that adds to the movie is the theme song, done by Enya, I think, that manages to be both beautiful and haunting. I'll admit that I'm a little biased in that I love just about anything from the 90s. Yet, give Sleepwalkers a chance. Besides, there are worse Stephen King Movies out there; just watch Rose Red' and you'll see what I mean. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very silly but somewhat endearing shape shifter schlock","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It can be a real sad thing to see, the yawn of the gap between potential and execution. Sleepwalkers has no time for sadness though, once it ditches the interest inherent in its plot it simply makes a gleeful dive for the pools of absurdity, ending up a pleasingly ludicrous romp if you don't take it remotely seriously, or have some booze on the go. The plot sees teen Charles Brady trying to make his way in a new town, with the hots for lovely classmate Tanya. However there's the small matter that he also has something hot going with his gorgeous mom Mary. And both Charles and Mary are immortal lifeforce draining shapeshifters with a thirst for blood and a mortal fear of cats (their only weakness). In the hands of a decent writer and a director with a flair for the erotic this could have been wonderful stuff, but instead this was the first Stephen King project written wholly for the screen and it isn't one of his better efforts. King seems always to have had problems with letting stories lurch out of control and this one does so around about the halfway mark, maybe earlier. Its a shame as the opening discovery of a derelict house replete with cat traps and a body in a cupboard suggest some measure of menacing potential but once the slaying starts and the film lays on the full range of Charles and Mary's abilities it gets very silly very quickly. Not that I minded too much, as as far as silly films go its done with a good deal of gusto. The leads are fortunately game, Brian Krause has a good youthful mix of the awkward, arrogant and aggressive whilst Madchen Amick does a good job of frightenedly reacting to situations as Tanya. Alice Krige is the standout as Mary though, radiant with dreamlike seductive elegance she is a treat for eyes and ears and really throws herself into the part, making for some good chuckles at the increasingly idiotic dialogue she spouts (seriously, one or two of her one liners are horrific). There are also for no good reason a rash of blink or you'll miss 'em cameos for various horror luminaries such as Tobe Hooper and Clive Barker, I guess they were all in on the joke. The pace is smart too, and once the film builds to a head it sustains a sense of lunatic fun till the end, with a bit of good time bloodshed, some nicely shonky visual effects and even a cool monster. All in all this isn't a terribly good film, as many others have noted. I enjoyed it though, I guess I'm more disposed to this era of junk than most. Not especially recommended unless this sort of thing is really up your street, but a fair 6/10 from me. "}{"Title":"At The Drive-In","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King was raised on flicks like this. -Flicks NOT films.Movies like this and 'Jeepers Creepers' are throwbacks to the good 'ol day drive-in horror flicks. They are meant to be fun, cheaply made and hopefully a few good scares.Anyone looking for a theory on the human condition should pass on this creature feature because that's all this is... all it ever will be.Stop trashing what has already deemed itself as trash. -Good, fun, trash!If you enjoyed this I recommend 'Jeepers Creepers' 'Jeepers Creepers 2' '30 Days of Night' 'Scarecrows'('88) 'They Live' 'Planet Terror' 'Death Proof' and 'Halloween III Season of the Witch' "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but it had its moments.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not all that good or bad this film suffers from a plot that could have went somewhere, but instead gets rather stale. The story of a mother and son who have a strange secret (they are some sort of monster) come to a new town where they must find someone to feed upon. This mother and son do have a nemesis though, a rather strange nemesis considering what the mother and son look like in their more natural form. Well the son soon finds a girl and he sort of falls for her as she seems to understand his plight. This leads to this and that and a confrontation with a police officer and another at a cemetery. Then the final confrontation and you will notice not really all that much is developed during this time. Sure you get an interesting kill or two, but for the most part the only thing keeping the movie afloat is Alice Krige's acting ability. She does the psycho loving creature very well here. So the movie does go by fast, but for a new monster to be introduced it isn't really fleshed out all that much except of course for the very bizarre weakness. "},{"Title":"Grade-A Cheese The most fun I've had in a while.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A woman who hates cats (Alice Krige) and her son (Brian Krause) have moved into a small town, and must deal with a mean teacher (Glenn Shadix), their incestuous relationship, a lovely girl (Mädchen Amick) and one hell of a big secret.Okay, so technically, this is a bad film. But, who cares? It's so very fun! Impossible things (involving corn) happen, people freak out about kitty cats, there's bad one-liners, there's too much cheese to handle!So, yes. You will enjoy this. A lot. It won't move you, touch you, scare you, or thrill you in any way, but it will keep you entertained and laughing! "},{"Title":"The real problem is that it can't make up its mind...","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Like a lot of films caught up in the absurd American censorship system, Sleepwalkers is a film that cannot make up its mind which audience it is aiming for. The premise had the potential to appeal to an adult audience and possibly even sit alongside such great films as Basic Instict or The Thing, but instead it gets confused halfway through the story and tries to extend itself to the average 15-year-old audience. Or at least what the rotten scum who perpetuate this family values crap call the average 15-year-old audience.A good example of this is the graveyard scene. This could have been made into a very tense, erotic moment before also being quite the horror scene. Unfortunately, the coy nature of the screenplay and the pantomime feel of the acting scuttle both sides of what could have been a very memorable cinematic moment. This is not helped by the scene in which Glenn Shadix's character attempts to have his way with the male lead, which is one of the most irritating examples of attempting to dance around a hot topic without actually mentioning it at all. At least this scene features a rare moment when the level of gore is truly adequate for the story point. Is it just me, or does the MPAA encourage the refusal of many directors to show the consequences of violent actions, rather than discourage the violent actions themselves? Does anyone else find this morally reprehensible?Madchen Amick does the best she can with what is really quite a terrible role. The character is so insipid and vain that it is hard to feel any sympathy at all for her until after the graveyard scene, and even then it is quite detached because of the coyness of the whole affair. Alice Krige is just annoying. I don't know where other people get this idea that she is a good thing in this film, because I found her character and the speeches she gives to be quite irritating. Granted, I usually instantly hate any matriarch character, but this one got so far up my nose that my head ached every time she was on the screen. Brian Krause is not a lot better, either. He is the most insipid example of the blonde-haired, blue-eyed Good Christian Boy stereotype that Pat Robertson et al would like to have populating films. However, this works a little in the film's favour, because when he gets it, the audience tends to feel he is getting his just desserts. Thankfully, Madchen Amick and the numerous cameos do something to save the film, but it could have used another twenty minutes to develop the characters into something with a third dimension.Basically, this film is the confused sort of mess you would expect from a death-worshipping society that can't understand the concept of adults making up their own mind. It is worth a look to play how I would have done this scene differently, and there is ONE actor in it who doesn't annoy the hell out of me, but the whole affair has such an assembly-line feel to it that it just makes the film seem more like an accident than a career move for King. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A mother and son (Brian Krause, Alice Krige) team of shape shifting monsters called Sleepwalkers must feed on the life force of female virgins. Fast paced, exciting original Stephen King screenplay with a fun premise features some downright sexy moments and an excellent rock solid performance by Alice Krige. The special effects are unusually good too. Just remember to check your brain at the door. Rated R; Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence, and Profanity.  "},{"Title":"I love Sleepwalkers","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King movies are a funny thing with me. I either really love them or I loathe them. Some of the fancier productions (such as Desperation and Storm of the Century) I didn't enjoy. Some of the smaller ones, I really loved. Sleepwalkers is one that I really do enjoy and watch it regularly.The story revolves around Charles Brady and his mother Mary. They are Sleepwalkers, shape shifting creatures who although human like in appearance shift into a feline like creature. They are immune to the scratch of cats and whenever they move to a new town, lay out traps to catch and kill the animals. When they move to their latest town, they need to seek out a virgin and when Charles finds one, he actually falls for her,but his mother needs to feed from her to keep up her strength. The story revolves around what will happen with the girl. Will Charles spare her or use her to save his mother.Although this story has overtones of incest which some may find unappealing it does actually play a part in the story and is therefore not just plonked in the movie for scandal's sake. Like most Stephen King stories it's based in a small town with lots of interesting characters. The acting isn't the best, nor are the special effects, however, somehow, the whole thing tends to 'gel' and is very watchable and enjoyable adaption.For UK readers This production has most recently been shown on BBC1, Sci-Fi and Sky Thriller/Horror channels. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to me; I don't like horror movies","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ordinarily I avoid Stephen King. But I did see the original Carrie, its sequel, and the remake. And a few months ago I tried another Stephen King movie and it wasn't really so unpleasant. What appealed to me about this movie was the commercial I saw several times earlier in the day. I had to see this. Then I found out it was Stephen King, and realized it might be far worse (by this I mean scary and violent) than I had been led to believe.But for the most part, at the movie's start it is like the Carrie TV-movie--it seems fairly normal. A new, charming teen at a high school trying to date a gorgeous girl in one of his classes. I enjoyed this as long as it was normal. Of course, that couldn't last.The fact is, this was quite funny at times. I know that's not what a lot of horror movie fans like, but I enjoy comedy most of all. One of my favorite scenes had Tanya dancing to Do You Love Me by The Contours. Another favorite for me was the chase scene involving the cop who rode with his cat Clovis. Brain Krause and Dan Martin both did a great job here.Alice Krige did an amazing job. A little creepy for my taste, but I could tell this was good acting.I didn't know Stephen King appeared in any of his movies. In a brief scene, he definitely came across as an ubergeek, exactly the kind of man who would come up with something like this.The cats were so cute. The actors, not the characters. The characters were kind of creepy. I read somewhere that there were numerous scenes with mutilated cats, but this movie was apparently edited enough where I saw it to remove nearly all of that. Despite whatever editing there was, someone did give the version an MA V-chip rating. Probably deserved. I could really have done without the gore, though it may not have been all that bad.Sleepwalk is a pleasant enough song, but I worried I would always associate it with the gore in this film. I may have gotten over that association. Do You Love Me is a little loud for my taste. On the other hand, I could do without the likes of Boadicea by Enya, used with the closing credits. I have a feeling a lot of people will like that one.Don't listen to me if you really like horror movies, though. "},{"Title":"Cool for cats","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a true so-bad-it's-good movie. It's right up there with Death Race 2000 and Nine Songs (only joking, I think) as one of the great after-pub films. To its credit it doesn't try to be meaningful or intelligent, but concentrates on the more important business of killing off the characters (mainly the rural cops) in imaginative ways. There's a longer-than-usual cameo by Stephen King, and Clive Barker and Tobe Hooper also make appearances. The real heroes, though, are the cats. They are consistently more resourceful than the human characters and, unlike the cops, have mastered the important skill of entering and leaving buildings. The climax is a riot of silliness. Great fun! "},{"Title":"VERY frustrating movie","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepwalkers are creatures who drain the life force completely out of humans to survive...but they can only use virgins (it's not explained why). Charles Brady (Brian Krause) is one such who needs to feed his mother Mary (Alice Krige). He goes after likable Tanya (Madchen Amick). Will she escape?On one hand this is a GREAT horror film. Fast-paced, plenty of blood and gore and a nice, twisted sense of humor. There are plenty of in joke references for horror buffs (Castle Rock is mentioned once). Also Krause is excellent (who would have thought he could act after Return to the Blue Lagoon) as is Kirge and Amick. But I find this film annoying.It was written for the screen by Stephen King and it's maddeningly vague. The sleepwalkers are never fully explained. Where are they from? Why are they called that? Why does the son have to feed the mother? Why do cats hate them and can kill them? What are their powers after all (at one point Krause makes a car disappear AND change color and style!)? Why do they need to feed off peoples' life force? Why does it have to be only virgins? Why is the son having sex with his mom? None of these are explained leaving the story confusing. It's really too bad because, those questions aside, this is an excellent horror film. Excellent makeup and special effects too.Fast, gory and lots of fun. If only the script were better. Also a fairly explicit sex scene between Krause and Krige was edited (you can tell) to get an R rating. I can only give this a 7. "},{"Title":"Good Movie. Why is there so many bad reviews?","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  King had a great year in 1992. First there was Children of the corn 2 The final Sacrafice which was one of the best horror movies of the 90's. Then there was sleepwalkers. Not really scary but still good and worth watching. Best part was when the cop got corn on the cob stuck to his back and there was blood everywhere. worth watching. But not King's best.  "}{"Title":"A couple of brief musings","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King is a decent writer. Why do so many of his novels/screenplays/treatments with few exceptions suck the meat missile? For every Green Mile you get a Sometimes They Come Back and Sleepwalkers. I don't get it. Why would he greenlight dreck like this? Did he really need the money, back in 1992, one of his most lucrative years? Could somebody explain this to me?Ron Perlman is a decent character actor. Why does he end up in so many stink bombs? For every Enemy at the Gates and Last Supper, there's a Police Academy Mission to Moscow and a Sleepwalkers. Why does Ron appear in these kinds of movies? Does he really need the money?Oh, Sleepwalkers doesn't completely stink, it's just the kind of generic teenie slasher film I outgrew in grade school, and the kind that seems awfully trite in the post Scream era.  "},{"Title":"sucked, sucked, and sucked. Did I mention sucked?","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, I first saw this movie like at 900 on Cinemax a few weeks ago and thought it would be award winning, boy was I 180d on that. This movie bit the big one. I mean, the mother of the monsters shows her true form only at the end of the movie. I'm going  That's it? Why doesn't she show it briefly a little bit more earlier in the movie. The plot being the mother and son feast on the blood of young women. Wouldn't it be better if they just went on, you know, a killing spree killing like a couple of young women each, then having the sheriff or a cop find out about and get into the old find a way to kill the monsters,save the young woman/women, and have 1 or 2 more people killed in the process? I think it would be a hell of a lot better that way. It also sucks because the son is the main character and he gets killed first. Why not get rid of the mother first? Plus, how does she have that strength at the end of the movie when she starts killing people? She said it herself she was too weak. What the heck was wrong with Stephen this time? I can never, ever dis the acting on any movie by any actor, after all, they try their best. If it weren't for good acting, I'd have given this movie a 1/10. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Purrrfect trash","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I hated this film when i saw it at the theater, but years later on dvd its actually quite an enjoyable campy horror film and Alice Krige is great in her role as the mother. The rest of the actors are bad to moderate in their ability to perform but this does not take away from the film.The plot is about a pair of Shapeshifters, mother and son, who are also lovers. They can be killed by cats, so they avoid them like the plague. The effects range from poor(the effect when he transforms with the cop) to excellent(all the dead cat corpses at the first house). It could have been written better sure, if it was supposed to be taken seriously.The gore effects could have been more explicit, and it could have been much scarier, but then it would be Sante Sangre or Track 29 and it would not be this movie, and that would be a shame cuz this flick is purrrrfect the way it is.   "},{"Title":"Appalling, but with TWO classic moments *SPOILERS*","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've just watched this again recently and it reaffirmed how poor the film actually is. I first saw it when I was about 13 and didn't think much of it then. HOWEVER, there are two classic bits in it.1. The Cameos by Joe Dante, John Landis, Clive Barker and Steven King. I bet all of them are thinking now (with the exception of King) What was I thinking!??!?!?!?!2. 1 hour and 28 minutes through the film. The mother sleepwalker has a cat attached to her back. Cop fires a shotgun at her chest. The blast opens a hole in her front, and proceeds to blow the cat off her back and across the room with a wreeeow soud effect. Mother sleepwalker is now free to attack cop.It sounds goofy, looks goofy and is possibly the silliest sequence I've seen outside of Brain Dead. A classic comedy moment (and yes, I do love cats ) ) "},{"Title":"Bizarre movie, a big letdown","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepwalkers starts off as if it had a much better movie attached to it.  The police are investigating a recently abandoned house surrounded by the corpses of dozens of cats when they find the mummified body of a young woman.  Turns out the owners, a mother and son, are something called Sleepwalkers, catlike creatures who suck the life out of young virgin girls to stay alive.  They have now fled to another small town in search of a new victim.  This movie suffers from a strange and disturbing incest plot, numerous plot holes (such as why the cats are after the Sleepwalkers, where did they come from, and why would Charles go out of his way to draw attention to himself by taunting the police) Also, the idea we should feel sorry for the Sleepwalkers is tossed around, but never really developed.  Performance wise, the actors do a decent job, but it takes more than decent acting to save a poor script.  A small bit of trivia in this movie is that the actors that play Tanya's parents also played parents to Matthew Broderick in Ferris Bueller's Day Off. "},{"Title":"Smiling faces sometimes change.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Written by Stephen King, but this treatment is not as solid as most of his stories on film. A mother and son move into a small Indiana town with a secret. They are Sleepwalkers, feline type creatures that feed on young virgins. This little story has its share of gore and special effects; plus hints of incest.Alice Krige is outstanding as the mother. Others appearing are Madchen Amick, Brian Krause and Cindy Pickett. Look for very small roles for John Landis and Clive Barker. Stephen King cameos as the caretaker of the cemetery. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an incredibly stupid film. I mean, how can anyone take this seriously? A mother son incestous shape shifting cat monster people who prey on virgins? This is one stupid movie that has to be seen to be believed. It starts off well, its first frame being a (fake) dictionary meaning of what a sleepwalker actually is, and from then on it's just stupid, stupid fun. The death scenes were so unbelievable (A cop is stabbed to death by a corn cob!), and the climax (featuring hundreds of cats scratching a woman to death is laughable. Good special effects and reasonable acting save it from being completely so bad it's good. If you're in the mood for a bit of stupid fun, check this one out. 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not that bad at all.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Because of all the negative reviews of this film I almost didn't watch it.  However, I was pleasantly surprised that it was a fairly enjoyable horror movie.  The acting wasn't great - apart from the wonderful Alice Krige - but some of the dialogue (Just consider yourself lunch.) was quite amusing.On the whole an above average Stephen King effort - 7/10.  "},{"Title":"now this one was just ridiculous","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sometimes, I wonder why Stephen King allows Hollywood to make certain movies from his books. For instance, Sleepwalkers features a scene where a woman stabs a man to death with an ear of corn! I admit that I haven't read King's novel so I don't know whether or not it included that scene, but was that really supposed to look anything other than completely silly?! Not to mention some fairly stupid lines (Cop kebab!).Other than that, the movie's pretty fun. While some may wonder how a potentially great actress like Alice Krige ended up in something so absurd, I actually found her role quite fascinating (I consider Chariots of Fire a perfidious movie, so I refuse to recognize her role from that one). Also starring Cindy Pickett, Lyman Ward and Ron Perlman, plus small appearances by Stephen King, Mark Hamill, Joe Dante, John Landis and Clive Barker. "},{"Title":"when exactly did I lose your trust?","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Creative and underrated Stephen King horror was the first King flick to be directed by Mick Garris.Young man and his mother are actually mythical cat-like creatures that are seeking a teenage virgin to feed upon.With an inventive premise, sharp direction, and a twisted sense of humor, Sleepwalkers is a truly entertaining supernatural shocker. Garris shows his great flair for direction, giving the movie plenty of well-done action sequences and plenty of horrific moments all of which are set against a seemingly safe, Norman Rockwell small town. The cemetery and attack at the Robertson house sequences are especially great. The special makeup FX are excellent and nicely graphic!The film's sexy star Brian Krause does a terrific performance as the charming, yet deadly teen (where has this actor gone?). Madchen Amick of Twin Peaks fame does well in her victim role. Actress Alice Krige is perhaps the best of all though in her powerful role.Overall, it's an under appreciated film that's great fun for those who are game for some strong horror.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"A Good Film","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Alright, so I have seen way better. I have also seen WAY WORSE. When you hear the name Stephen King, you already know that your going to be at least somewhat entertained. This film is actually better then somewhat entertaining. I was very satisfied.The film is about a mother, and a son. They look like humans, but they're not. They are part of a rare, and evil species called SLEEPWALKERS. They feast on the souls of humans, and now they are in a new town looking for the right one to feast upon.The film had great special effects, and the acting was very believable. I was very surprised to find that this DVD only costs six bucks at wal-mart.Check it out. You will like it. "},{"Title":"Handsome Sexy Man of her dream turns out to be a killer and a cat hater","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Woah!  Is one thing I can say about this movie.  Personally I'm one of those people who loves cats so that would have been a big down side to the movie, but I loved it how cats from every were got their revenge at the end.I liked the movie, but I have to admit it was because I found Brian Krause who played Charles Brady very very irresistible, I guess lust got the better of me while watching this movie.There was one thing that I was disappointed over.  I've watched Charmed before and Brian Krause is married to Holly Marie Combs, his kissing scene was O.K. in Sleepwalkers, but really bad compare to his kissing scenes with Holly Marie Combs,  I don't know if it is because Krause and Combs have great chemistry or maybe more it a bit more, that was the only disappointment in the movie but I guess it was made up for with Brian Krause in those tight ass jeans he was wearing in the movie.If you are use to seeing Brian Krause as Holly Marie Combs heavenly husband and the father of her son your in for a big surprise with this movie, he was nothing like angle boy.  Although now that I think about it, it would be great to see Krause's character on Charmed taken over by evil making him something like his was in Sleepwalkers.I also have to say the music was GREAT in this movie too! "},{"Title":"Silly ,but not without its moments","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepwalkers comes under the category of one of Stephen Kings poorer adaptations but by no means the worst. This is about a mother and son who move from town to town living on the blood of young virgin women. They are monster like shapeshifters that are incestious and charming when trying to lure their victims. The only way they can die is if they are scratched by a cat! i know it's hardly a steak through the heart but thats the story. The first 45 minutes is quite good and does have it's scary moments but the longer the film goes on the sillier it gets. Stephen King makes his obligitory cameo appearance as the caretaker of a graveyard. 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"kind of reminds me of Cats Eye","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is one of my favorites. I pretty much enjoy all of S king's films. The incest part here throws me off a bit , and is unlike any other S King film in that sense. But I still like this film for everything else it brings to horror table. The effects are also fairly decent considering these creatures that the mother and son morph into look more like aliens then they do vamps. Watching the star cat in this film , I almost think it's the same cat from S King's Cats Eye. It could be and then again , maybe not. Then again , that may even be Stephen King's pet! Got me. All and all , fairly good film - It's Stephen King! PEACE ) "},{"Title":"A shame, but it's rather shameful.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This isn't a very good movie. I remember watching it on the big screen in '92 and being satisfied back then. I watched it on video recently and thought it rather embarrassing. It's main points of interest are the recurring Enya track and the incredibly committed Alice Krige whose intense presence I suspect was the reason this film came to be made at all. She's far too classy for this, her performance is from a movie for grown-ups while everybody else plays pantomime. Interesting for completists who have an urge to see for themselves cameo appearances by the likes of Stephen King and Clive Barker but in 1999 these things merely add to the embarrassment. Alice Krige 10/10, Sleepwalkers 3/10. "},{"Title":"Why don't you see yourself as lunch?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie has haunted me since the day I saw it.I had never and still today have been scared to death by any horror flick until I watched this one.The part in this film that scared me the most was when the girl was relaxing in the bath and covered her face with a face cloth and suddenly a dark shadow cast over her and she immediately whipped off her face cloth and there was her sleepwalking boy friend grinning at her revealing his wicked teeth. After that, I was too afraid to put a face cloth over my face when I was soaking in the bath because I was worried a similar incident would happen, just like in the movie.It is a good thing I have cats because, every time I think sleepwalkers have entered my residence, they would scare them away or shred them to pieces!Thank goodness I am saved from one of my worst nightmares.10/10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievably horrible","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film has its share of negative comments and I have to agree with those who consider it one of the worst movies ever made. True, most of the films based on the works of King are pretty bad, but this one goes beyond bad into the realm of horrible. There is not one scary moment in it unless you consider stupidity scary. It is typical King garbage -- myths twisted around that made no sense in the first place, mixed with obvious and belabored so-called scares that are about as shocking as PeeWee's Playhouse (which, at least, is entertaining). It is full of ridiculous moments, not the least of which is Alice Krige's character. When she goes on a rampage and starts quipping like the villain in an old Batman TV show, it is so absurd as to be sickening. All the people who had cameos in this (including John Landis)are lucky they still have careers. But the most absurd part has to be the cat costumes towards the end, which look like cheap rubber outfits someone bought at K-mart. The best part of the movie is the appearance of some real cats who actually out-act the people in the movie. "},{"Title":"sub-par, could have been a better movie","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Based on the average short story by horror writer Stephen King about so called 'Sleepwalkers' ancient and immortal cat-like creatures that suck the life out of virgins in order that this energy may sustain them They have supernatural abilities- they can make themselves 'dim' which means they become invisible and can create subliminal mirages to fool people.They have been fleeing humans for century's we are told and have one by one been picked off till there are only two left.The film starts when a beautiful mother and her son arrive in a sleepy town, they are the last of the sleepwalkers and they are on the prowl for virgins to feed on. The mother sends her son out to enrol at the local high school so he can find a virgin, he does (Madchen Amick) and proceeds to try to get her alone so he can suck her dry. It is not made clear why the mother cannot seek out virgins herself- it would make things easier one would imagine as teenage boys are much more apt to follow a older beautiful woman to a secluded area than a teen girl follow a teen boy. However his plans are thwarted as the girl fights back, jabbing a pencil in to his ear. The police are called and the hunt is on!. The son is sick from his injuries and so the mother goes on the rampage killing cops left and right in her hunt for the girl who hurt her son and spouting some painfully unfunny one liners amidst the gore. Finally the girl kills the mother- end of movie. This movie is rubbish!. The acting is variable, from the average Brian Krause to the excellent Alice Krige. The special effects are average,and showcase some early computer effects which is mildly interesting as it shows how far such things have progressed in such a short time. The direction is muddled and the film falls in to camp in places. The director seems unsure whether we are supposed to fear the sleepwalkers or sympathise with them and when in doubt allows the film to become hysterical. Stephen King makes a mildly amusing cameo as an annoying gardener as does Mark Hamill, as a puzzled cop. Alice Krige seems to shoulder the film, her character is given depth and she gives an indication of what the film could have been with a better screenplay and better direction. "},{"Title":"One of the worst Stephen King adaptations","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong I do like Stephen King a lot, his writing is growing on me all the time, and I do like a vast majority of the adaptations based off his work. Sleepwalkers, alongside TommyKnockers and Thinner is one of the worst King adaptations for me.Although most of the effects are corny, some of the transformation sequences are surprisingly neat and some of the cameos from King himself, Clive Barker and John Landis are fun to spot, even if they pointlessly come and go.On the other hand, that's it. The film starts off shaky with a daft prologue and right up to the equally daft ending it never recovers. The pace is disappointingly dull, the dialogue is underdeveloped and reeks of cheese, the plot is thin and idiotic and there is no genuine atmosphere and jolts as a result. Apart from the fun to spot cameos, the acting unable to do anything with sloppily written characters is dire. Director Mark Garriss does try his best, but he is hampered by the mess that are the script, pace and story, so all the flashy gyrating camera work seems like a wasted effort in the end.In conclusion, a mess and one of the worst films based on the work of Stephen King. 2/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Campy vampire-like Stephen King movie...","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 1st watched 4/29/2007 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Mick Garris) Campy vampire-like Stephen King movie has so many strange and goofy elements that you start laughing over the extreme weirdness about 3/4 the way into the movie and you wonder if this movie might have a cult following for King fans. It's the story of a mother and son who are sleepwalkers(a shape-shifting feline-like, flesh eating, life needing, near extinct breed of humanoid) who move from town to town searching for virgins to feed on to keep themselves alive. They come across as pretty normal upper-class folk except they are secret lovers and cats hang around the outside of their home, day and night. Cats are deadly to them, so they set traps in their yard to try and keep the population down. We get to see them break a couple of their necks when they attack(which is also a first in my movie-going experience) --- hopefully no real cats were harmed in the making of the film. The boy is after a sweet girl that he has a crush on until he turns into a sleepwalker and then he just wants her body. There is so much campy uniqueness to this movie that it might have been better if it was an all-out satirical comedy on suburban life, but the director instead tries to scare you every couple minutes until you wish he'd just get over it and bring out the gore. Eventually that happens and the movie winds down to it's typical Stephen King downbeat ending. The movie is interesting because King's humor comes thru more than usual but his weirdness is also very present and what you have is a movie that his fans will probably like and should have in their collection, but as a worthwhile movie experience it really doesn't cut it. "}{"Title":"A dark and enjoyable movie.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This jewel of a movie really had what it takes to make a terrific movie to be watched late at night, while it's raining outside. While eating a bowl of popcorn, you and your gal come across the movie Sleepwalkers and decide to watch. What you're in for is a movie that follows the tragic plight of the last two surviving members of a species of humanoid cat-like people. They do whatever they can to survive, including feeding off the energy of humans (not blood, they are NOT vampires!). Of course, in the end, humans destroy them. Their race becomes extinct. Sad, though not entirely undeserved. Watch the movie and take it for what it is. P.S. - The parents of Ferris Bueler are parents in this one two! "},{"Title":"Somewhat of a disappointment, but still alright","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King's Sleepwalkers is pretty mediocre Stephen King adaption.**SPOILERS**In the small town of Travis, Indiana, Mother-and-son Charles, (Brian Krause) and Mary Brady, (Alice Krige) move in, and Charles immediately sets his sets on Tanya Robertson, (Madchen Amick) a girl from school. Tanya seems just as smitten with him as he is with her, and they spend an increasing amount of time together. However, no one in town believes their story about being relocated from another state and the police get involved in the matter. When Charles turns on Tanya, showing himself and his mother to be a form of cat creature, it becomes an all-out search to stop them.The Good News With Stephen King, you can never really tell what he's going to make with his films. Either he makes some of the best horror in the genre, or he makes ones that are pretty mind-numbingly bad. Sadly, this falls into the later category quite often, but that doesn't mean it doesn't have anything worthwhile. This is pretty much a special effects movie through-and-through, and it does look pretty nice. The cat creatures look really nice, with a sort of feline look with a sort of demonic twist that makes them truly benevolent. The transformations into them look quite believable, and are a far cry better than more recent transformations. The fact that these creatures are pretty violent and ruthless isn't a bad thing either. There is plenty of blood-loss in here with some violent set-ups and gags. In here are some really impressive moments, including having a hand ripped off, a corn-on-the-cob as a an impaling device, and a really brutal slamming onto a white-picket fence, which is the bloodiest kill in the film. It's got a fine collection of other kills as well, so they're never dull. Once things pick up in the third act and the momentum gets going, it's actually not that bad, and features a little bit of action in it that it normally doesn't.The Bad News As I said above, there's more bad than good. It has a rather interesting premise and that goes a long way, but it has an oddball approach to working through it. Instead of setting up a series of incidents and coincidences that set up a feeling of unease concerning the situation, it dives right in and makes the audience aware of what's going on, ruining what suspense it could've had. Then by introducing a radical shift in tone, the difference becomes to the point of distracting. By becoming a low-rate horror-comedy that isn't all that funny to begin with, it clashes with the hardcore horror the plot and the actions clearly want it to be. There is also a big feeling of the film being a little underwritten, and there are so many questions still unanswered and motives in the film. Why the cats? What is the myth about the sleepwalkers? What is the deal between the mother and son? There are a couple more real big questions in here, but these are the ones that really stick out. There action in the film is also non-existent, consisting mainly of flimsy-done chases and a couple scenes at the end, but none of them are all that spectacular. All of it is rather dully played out, and doesn't really capture much interest or excitement in the proceedings. However, the biggest point against the film is the repeated cat killing and scenes featuring dead cats. Even though this is a horror film and that kind of stuff doesn't affect me all that much, I still don't like to see it. It's a personal thing, but I don't like to watch something that looks like the cat I have at home getting killed. However hokey the effects are done doesn't matter, and the fact that it features these kinds of scenes is one that I find a little troubling and it lowers a point because of it.The Final Verdict The biggest gripe I have with the film is a personal issue more than anything, but that still doesn't excuse it from being all that good of a film. It's more of a disappointment than anything from it's source, so advance with caution. You could find stuff of importance in here, but it'll be pretty hard to find.Rated R Continuous scenes of dead and mangled cats, on-screen animal deaths, Graphic Violence, some Language and themes of incestuousness "},{"Title":"Another Could-have-been movie","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is another one of those movies that could have been great. The basic premise is good - immortal cat people who kill to live, etc. - sort of a variation on the vampire concept.The thing that makes it all fall apart is the total recklessness of the main characters. Even sociopaths know that you need to keep a low profile if you want to survive - look how long it took to catch the Unibomber, and that was because a family member figured it out.By contrast, the kid (and to a lesser extent, the mom) behave as though they're untouchable. The kid kills without a thought for not leaving evidence or a trail or a living witness. How these people managed to stay alive and undiscovered for a month is unbelievable, let alone decades or centuries.It's really a shame - this could have been so much more if it had been written plausibly, i.e., giving the main characters the level of common sense they would have needed to get by for so long.Other than that, not a bad showing. I loved the bit at the end where every cat in town converges on the house - every time I put out food on the porch and see our cats suddenly rush in from wherever they were before, I think of that scene. "},{"Title":"abstract derivation of death","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although Sleepwalkers is definitely not a good movie, it has something special that other films (including really good flicks) haven't. Until the half of the film, it's a weak monster-slasher-horror, nothing original or memorable. But approximately after the scene in the cemetery the film begins to work on a different level then borns the spellbound of Sleepwalkers. This spellbound, I admit, is very bizarre or morbid - it's upon the power of the mother, which demonstrates the variability of death. I mean, when the film focuses on the mother's rage and desperate, the whole world of the film transforms into an abstract derivation of destroying, agony and death. This aspect of Sleepwalkers doesn't turns it into a great film but turns into a great experience - if someone can accept it. The worth of Sleepwalkers is upon this level, not the success of direction, cinematography etc. Anyway, the women are beautiful - not just Madchen Amick, but the elder Alice Krige as well; they both produces some erotic tension not only in the provocative scenes. The dance of Madchen Amick nearly the beginning, is very charming. So, if someone doesn't interested at all in horror movies, better to avoid this picture; otherwise, if someone would see a film which not necessarily good, but very interesting (even with its stupidities), I would recommend this. "},{"Title":"Not worth the time or money...","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a terrible film - not worth the time to watch it, even if it is free. I thought Stephen King was a good writer of scary novels, but this film is pathetic. It has all the usual rubbish - like cars that explode when a single bullet is fired into them, cars that won't start when a monster is about to get the girl. It's just so bad I'm annoyed that I wasted my time hoping it would get better. The first 30 minutes was not so bad, but it seems that the director ran out of ideas during the next 30 minutes, and then gave up even trying for the last 30 minutes! To Stephen King if your novel was good, you should sue the producer of this film.  "},{"Title":"Cop-kebob!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  IMDb mark 7This guy sure knows how to write them! His novels and short stories are just perfect for being turned into movies and, even if the respective screen adaptation doesn't have a lot of gore in it, it sure is easy to watch. That about summarizes 'Stephen King's Sleepwalkers', which is not a gore-fest by any means, but it still is a very enjoyable horror flick.-Gore Just like I said, there isn't a whole lot of gore in this. Even the faces of the sleepwalkers kind of look like they were taken from Sega Genesis games. ('Altered Beast', anyone?) There is more gore towards the end, but still not enough for the devoted fan. 14/30-Suspense Practically no suspense is to be encountered until the middle of the film. It gets better after that. 8/15-Ending The ending was very good, in my opinion. Of course, taste varies. 14/15-Death Scenes I liked the sheriff's death. But all death scenes are just as good. 11/11-Atmosphere Now, this is a high school horror movie that works! The atmosphere in the small town is great, the students don't get on your nerves, and the story unveils very well. 10/10-Nudity There is no nudity in this film. 0/10-Cast There are some well-known names here Brian Krause, from 'Return to the Blue Lagoon', Madchen Amick, from 'Twin Peaks' and Alice Krige, all three playing the main characters. Also, Ron Perlman, from 'Hellboy', plays a cop; and there are cameos by John Landis, Joe Dante, Clive Barker, Tobe Hooper and Stephen King himself, as well as, apparently, Mark Hamill. 5/5-Genre This is a horror film. 4/4-->Overall 66/100People don't give this film the credit it deserves. I can't understand why. In my opinion, it is better than 'Carrie', 'Christine', 'The Langoliers', and probably even more Stephen King movies; it's not better than 'The Shining' or 'Salem's Lot', though. From Swordlord, 2 swords up! "},{"Title":"I Am Sleeping. I Am Walking.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The unspectacular novel by Stephen King comes to life (well sort of) in this small horror film. Two supernatural creatures (teenager Brian Krause and his mother Alice Krige) come to a small town in the Midwest to find a virgin to feed on. Local theater worker/classmate Madchen Amick appears to be the one Krause has his eyes on here. Oh did I mention that the creatures have an intense fear of cats? Sleepwalkers also goes to a strange place as it is made apparent that Krause and Krige are actually lovers as well. Once again King has an interesting concept, but his novels rarely ever make much sense on the silver screen. In the end the production is pretty obscure and only average at best. 2 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"I'd rather see a movie with real sleepwalkers... *yaaawwwwn***","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One word that perfectly describes this movie baaaddddddddddd. Very baddddd!!!! Again, another great Stephen King story receives an undeserved movie. The opening credits were great and promising, but that's it. Oh no, I forgot the end credits which were a relief and had a great song from Enya in it, which was sampled in Fugees' Ready Or Not. And now we have proof Madchen Amick is a terrible actress and it's a pity that she doesn't get chewed up by her loverboy/cat. Further more there's no explanation whatsoever why mummy and her son are incestuous,how they can change theirselves into yucky giant cats without fur... It's as if the only thing the makers of the movie were happy with, was the buick car which we get to see too often. Stupid scenes that don't make sense or any progress in the story, if we can even say there is a story! Well there was a great concept, taken from King, but... and this is a big BUT again they made a terrible movie out of it! Why King has performed in this movie I really don't know, but I think it's due to his great ironic sense of humour. One lesson from this movie never trust a ferocious looking woman with a corncob in her hands, she's dangerous. 1 out of 10, next!  "},{"Title":" Where are you taking me?","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Madchen Amick is fabulous as Tanya in this spooky horror movie. The supporting cast is enthusiastic. The costumes are appealing. One of the good films in the genre, Sleepwalkers will keep the viewer sleeping with nightmares. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"if only they'd thrown out the second half...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was totally in love with Madchen Amick after this film.  She's coy, sexy, alluring, and perfectly girl-next-door-ish all at the same time.  Not to mention absolutely, stunningly beautiful.  She and Krause throw off some real sparks in their scenes together.  The pinnacle is the scene in the graveyard, where Amick suggests that her virgin is ready for deflowering by Krause's garden sheer.  Unfortunately, their romance is not what the film is about.  The above moments only make up about fifteen minutes of the flick. It actually concerns a truly silly plot involving weirdo transformer creatures that jaunt from town to town looking for virgins.  Apparently they suck out the chick's lifeforce which feeds them, thus being able to live another week, move to another town, pull the same crap, etc.  The two sleepwalkers (hence the title) in question are a pervert mother and son who bang each other to the tune of the famous oldie.  Things go awry when Krause is unable to carry out the sucking of Amick's inner goodness (he'd rather do that than get laid and say to hell with the mother.  Whatever, dude!) which leads to her thrashing the hell out of him with various items (camera, corkscrew, to name two).  This piffs off mom big time, so she heads to Amick's house and lays waste to Ferris Bueller's parents (playing Amick's folks here as well), not to mention an army of cops, one of whoms fingers she nibbles off.  Which leads to an action climax involving cop cars, crashes, and frisky felines.  Which is one of the movie's big mis-steps; the sight of actors flailing about with obvious stuffed cats hanging off them nets huge laughs.  Plus the foul-mouthed, idiotic song singing cop, glad he took a no. 2 pencil to the head.  Sadly, the filmmakers didn't know they had something really cooking with the two young leads and the romance angle. What stuns me the most was that this girl (Amick) who I was falling for big time who doesn't even exist was created by....STEPHEN KING???  Yep, he penned this, with the tagline hyping His first movie written especially for the screen!.  Be it a book or movie, Steve would've bombed either way with this material.  But, again, for us guys (or select ladies, hehe), Madchen Amick was the ONLY thing that kept this watchable. "}{"Title":"Tongue Firmly in Cheek","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you can't tell that King is teasing you with this screenplay, you're gonna think it's a pretty poor excuse for a horror/monster flick.  But I think ole Steve is having some fun with us.  Of COURSE nobody can get killed with a corn cob.  The whole movie is designed by a bored popular fiction mega-author and not intended for the Palmes d'Or.Look at it this way you get some neat ideas, some gruesome special effects (eyeballs removed via pencil? where's a good corn cob when you need one?), cats are heroes for a change (I liked that), and we glimpse Alice Krige in a pre-Borg Queen dry run.  Nor is Brian Krause originally hard to look at. So?  Enjoy!  But I don't disagree that except for the memorable scenes one might want to review (I have my favorites, do you?), once is probably enough. "},{"Title":"Not Stephen King's best work","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  See, this is an original movie. The creatures are KIND of like vampires, but they look more like lions or something. Alice Krige is her usual regal self, and Madchen Amick isn't totally annoying as the girl in peril. If you're an Alice or MA or Brian Krause completist, check it out. Otherwise, skip it. "},{"Title":"hehe","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can you say about this film other than you really have to suspend disbelief?  Highlights include man being backstabbed by a corn cob, monster having the back of its head caught in a steel trap thrown across a yard, and a herd of ferocious kitties.  I'm not sure if the movie took itself seriously or not but I sure got a few good belly laughs out of it.  Alice Krige is sexy as ever as the mother to a bratty little monster.  Pull my finger*    "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've never read the story but this movie is ok with an unusual plot in which shapeshifting cat-like monsters who are also incestuous (mother and son) feed on the blood of young women.  It's a quite different premise for a movie, but i thought that the girl who played Tanya was effective.  I really felt sorry for her, i don't know whether it was the helplessness in her voice or the way she acted.  She is quite a beautiful actress i think, even moreso than some A-list actresses that i have seen.  I am really biased in my opinion because of this girl since she struck a cord within me.  If you don't agree with me upon seeing this than i apologize for making you watch and otherwise ok movie. "},{"Title":"Good premise, bad movie.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love the whole 'idea' of the movie, but the actual movie itself leaves a lot to be desired. The only thing that makes it bearable, to me, is Alice Krige. Her performance as Mary Brady, Charles's maniacally protective mother, is one of the very few bright spots in the film. She says the name 'Charles' in a way that makes it sound exotic & foreign. I love it. Unfortunately, the film never actually gets scary, and when it tries to be, it's just embarrassing. Not the worst to watch if it's already on TV, but not worth the rental price, either. "},{"Title":"wonderful actress and concept drowned","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this in the theaters and was reasonably satisfied. It did have some of the best early (much emphasized in the tv ads of the time) computer morphing effects. But effects can't save a movie. Sadly, Alice Krige's excellent performance and basically good story premise can't save a movie that's fighting itself (read as other actors, direction, story implementation and editing.) Alice Krige is wonderful, music is good and the effects were good for the times but everything else is well below average. That's why this one broke my heart. Some aspects hit home runs, but most strike out every time. One or two great players can't make a majority of weak players a winning team( My Vote 4/10 "},{"Title":"A barely watchable 'B' movie","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is the type of thing you would have liked to have seen at the drive-ins on a date, a little bit scary and certainly not too demanding. Unfortunately, that's about all there is to it - it appears to have been made for the late night cheesy horror slot. That said, it is not the worst movie in the world. For some, Kreig's performance will hold some interest apparently, for me, it was the lovely Madchen Amick that made it tolerable. In all, wait for this to come on t.v. My vote 5/10  "},{"Title":"Cat got my tongue. No, really, I'm not kidding...","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So on the Chills Network on cable they are having Vampire Month, I'm such a dork, but I love vampires. So after a few duds that they showed I was pretty disappointed, but then I noticed Sleepwalkers was written by Stephen King. So I decided to go ahead and check it out, well much to my surprise, this movie was really bad. Most Stephen King films are entertaining and some are very scary. While Sleepwalkers was bad, it was a beautiful kind of bad. I had a good time laughing at this movie and just taking it for what it was. I've never read Sleepwalkers, from what I understand this is the only real vampire story by King, so I can't really compare book to film. I don't know if it was just my TV, but Sleepwalkers looked like it was made for TV. The special effects were corny and the story was a bit far fetched, even if it is fantasy, it had a lot of problems. Charles Brady and his mother Mary are vampires who feed off the life force of virgin women. They are considerably more resilient than humans and have powers of both telekinesis and illusion. Their one weakness is cats, who are not only able to see through their illusions but whose claws are capable of inflicting severe to fatal wounds upon them. They also maintain an incestuous relationship. Charles and Mary have taken up residence in a small Indiana town. Charles attends the local high school, and there he meets Tanya Robertson in his creative writing class. Tanya does not suspect the real reason why Charles wants her so much; to take her life force for his mother, who is starving. At first, it seems that Charles has fallen in love with Tanya. On their first date, however, a picnic at the nearby cemetery, Charles attempts to drain the life force from Tanya while kissing her. As it happens, Deputy Sheriff Andy Simpson who had earlier tried to pull Charles over for speeding, drives by the cemetery and notices Charles' car. When Tanya runs to him for help, Charles tracks Andy down and kills him. When Charles then turns to resume his life force-depleting make out session with Tanya, the deputy's cat, Clovis, rises to the occasion and nearly kills Charles by scratching him in the face and chest. Mortally wounded by Clovis, Charles staggers back home to Mary. Mary then seeks vengeance on Tanya's family.So to sum this movie up basically you should expect the cheese to overflow. The scene where Charles attacks Tanya for the first time is very cliché and you almost vote for Charles to win just because Tanya is one of the dumbest female leads in horror movies. Then you gotta love the scene where Mary has a gun and shoots it at a cop car and somehow the whole thing explodes, God bless Hollywood explosions and exaggerations. I'm taking the movie for what it is, it's just so deliciously bad that it turns into a dark comedy for me that I could just enjoy making fun of. I'm not sure if this is what Stephen King wanted to see for his story, but he does have his typical cameo in the film. So my suggestion if you watch this movie, just take it for what it is and don't over think it, it's mindless entertainment with corny effects, bad casting, a silly story and enough cats to make the crazy cat lady from The Simpson's say Wow, that's a lot of cats.4/10 "},{"Title":"A silly, strange horror premise is actually fun to watch.","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Charles Brady (Brian Krause) is a seemingly charming young man, who been forced to kill young virgins to feed his sexy incestuous mother (Alice Krige). They moved to every small town to keep finding ways to survive. Which they are Sleepwalkers, a shape changing creatures that they are able to stay alive by feeding on the life force of young female virgins. Charles has an crush on a beautiful girl named Tanya (Madchen Amick). When the two just start a relationship, his mother selected Tanya as Charles's next victim but Tanya is actually tougher than expected.Directed by Mick Garris (Psycho 4The Beginning, Desperation, Riding the Bullet) made an entertaining if thinly plotted horror film that is fast-paced and filled with a twisted sense of humour. Garris, who went on to make several adaptations from Stephen King's novels for television. Which King wrote an original screenplay for this movie, based on a unpublished short story. The incestuous relationship between the mother and son will turn off some viewers. Die Hard fans of King's work might enjoy this much more.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an terrific-Dolby Digital 2.0 Surround Sound. The DVD would've been great if it had a commentary track by the director and King or at least an Interview with King. Since this film did quite well, when it came out back in 1992. There's no doubt, this unusual movie has a cult following. Especially when the director included filmmaker cameos like Clive Barker, Tobe Hooper, Joe Dante and John Landis. King appears in a hilarious bit part as a Cemetery Caretaker. Mark Hamill appears in the opening sequences, which he's uncredited. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Stephen King... BIG TIME HOMOPHOBE!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As much as I have loved horror in general and several of King's movies, I am SO sick of his continual homophobic portrayals of gays in his books and films... In Sleepwalkers, Brian Krause's high school English teacher makes a pass at him during an ill fated attempt at blackmail... come on Stephen, spank your inner moppet and get over whatever icky queer fear you got going and GROW UP...and while I'm in a pissy mood, I'll follow up with the observation that since Stephen King fired his editor back in the late 80's, the quality of his writing has gone way downhill. His ideas are wonderful, but since he has forgone his previous editor, his novels have become run on, slow in pacing, and hardly worth the reading... but back to the movie. For such an interesting take on the vampire legend, the dialog sucks and the only redeeming feature of this movie has to be the lovely and amazing Alice Krige.. "}{"Title":"cats + people = death","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **spoiler warning**This film which is based on a Stephen King story is a great and interesting view on SLEEPWALKERS. the opening scene is when to cops go into a house which they where supposed to live in, only all the come across is a dead body (scene is simliar to spookies). then you see BRIAN KRAUSE cut open his arm and write something with the blood. the story then turns to his love interest which his mother wants Charles (BRIAN KRAUSE) to kill, what happens next you will have to watch for yourself. this film was great to watch - 8/10 = it is scary on first viewing. even Stephen King stars in it, along with other great horror directors. "},{"Title":"A good example of why Stephen King rarely writes directly for the screen.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King writes such a wide variety of fiction and comes out with so many totally different movies that they seem to span almost all genres (although it's not likely that he is going to come out with a children's movie anytime soon). Sleepwalkers is one of the lesser known Stephen King films, and for good reason. For the most part, King, like Steven Spielberg, comes out with two radically different kinds of movies. Spielberg does fun fantasy films like Jurassic Park and Minority Report, and then he does shockingly relevant films like Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan.Similarly, King makes two main genres of films, although not quite the same genres as Spielberg's. He does the hugely successful and well-made films like Hearts In Atlantis, The Green Mile, Stand By Me, and The Shawshank Redemption, but in the tradition of what he is best known for, he also does (not as much anymore, but almost constantly earlier in his career) hardcore horror films, which are straight horror and, in many cases, cheesy to the point of being bad (Graveyard Shift, The Silver Bullet, Creepshow, etc.). There are exceptions in both cases, but for the most part, those are the kinds of things that we can expect from them.Sleepwalkers is one of the last sort. A mother and her son move to a small New England town and try to fit in, only to have things go horribly wrong almost from the start. The son, Charles, meets Tanya at a movie theater that doesn't seem to have a single other customer or very good electricity. The blatant attempt to make the set look spooky has resulted only in making it look cheap and fake. It is revealed very early in the film that Charles and his mother Mary are not much interested in following in the footsteps of the Biblical figure after which she was named. They have sex regularly, and she becomes insanely jealous when he meets Tanya, even though we know from the opening credits that they are creatures that feed on virginal human females.While this bit of text at the opening of the film leads you to believe that, at the very least, you are about to watch a movie with a lot of gratuitous and generally unnecessary nudity, the film does not deliver any at all. Instead, we see Charles and Mary move to this town, Charles get involved with the very first girl he meets, and everything falls apart from there. There are so many more things that needed to have been done in this movie. When you look back at it after watching it, it becomes clear how empty the story really is because of how little it told. There are some great cameos in the film, including one from Stephen King himself (who appears in many of his own films), and the police officer with the cat steals every scene that he's in. The horror is bad, the blood excessive and unconvincing, and the comic relief some of the worst I've seen in a horror movie in years. Sleepwalkers is not a complete failure as a horror film, because despite everything counting against it, it manages to entertain, but if you are in the mood for a Stephen King night, you can't really do much worse than this (note stay away from Creepshow, too).Sleepwalkers is a mildly entertaining but pretty badly made horror film and not much else, but at the very least, it does have an important moral to teach the world &#150; Anyone who hates cats is obviously a shape-shifting beast that is more monster than human. Please make a note of it.  "},{"Title":"Sleep Walkers","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought the movie was all right, I mean I personally think that Stephen King could do so much better. The graphics were a little off and I think that the sleep walkers could have looked so much better. They looked very plastic with a water rubbed all over them. I thought the scene with the face changing and the disappearing parts were very creative and was well put together. The story was good, I thought the cats being the sworn enemy of the sleep walkers was extremely creative. "},{"Title":"One of Kings most different movies, but still brilliant.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Mary Brady and her son Charles move out from there old town into a new town. Mary and Charles are not your normal mother and son though, as they are both Sleepwalkers. (They are not human and can change their appearance.) They are warring away though and to keep her strength up, they need the life force from a young women. So, Charles decides to go in search of one and he finds a nice young girl named Tanya. When Charles asks Tanya out, Tanya agrees, but soon she realises what he and his mother really are, she tries to escape from Brian on one of there dates, not before getting past the evil Sleepwalkers though.    I really enjoyed Sleepwalkers. It's a great Stephen King movie and one of his most different ones. King is also has a cameo role here. Brian Krause and Alice Krige who play Charles and Mary give interesting performances here too.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a truly wondrous movie. Possibly one of the worst films ever made, and yet... and yet... It's simply gripping.Why is it gripping? Simply because, like such classics as Zoltan Hound of Dracula, this film manages to enthral and engross by the simple virtue of horrendously bad direction, acting, plotting, characterisation, production... Need I go on? Some major spoilers Any movie which includes Luke Skywalker (uncredited) before the opening credits; incorporates a scene which explicitly has *nothing* to do with the plot (such as it is) but is there purely to provide Stephen King and Clive Barker with cameos; has somebody stabbed to death with a *cooked* corn on the cob (uncooked I could just about believe, but cooked? That'd be like stabbing someone with a banana); has the central villain go out of his way - yes, actually go out of his way - to call attention to himself, speeding past a police car and trying to run down small children *for no reason whatsoever*. This being the same character who preserves his secret identity by writing a story about it and reading that story in his school classroom. Any such movie can't be all bad.All this would be wonderful enough, but it all pales into insignificance beside the grandeur of the true star of the film Clovis this Super Cat.A cat who can sprint up a tree and break into a house by smashing a window with his paw.I can't recommend this movie highly enough. "},{"Title":"Rubbish, but in an entertaining way","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" By 1992, pretty much everything that Stephen King had ever even breathed on had been adapted to the screen already, so filmmakers had to start raiding King's catalogue of unpublished stories. One of them came across a story called 'Sleepwalkers', and obviously thought it would be a good one to adapt. I don't really know if it was a good idea or not; as while the story itself does have massive potential, this film doesn't realise it. Having not read the unpublished work, I cant say whether this is the fault of the author or the filmmakers; but given the lack of quality in most King films that doesn't translate to the books - I don't think I'm being unfair in blaming the filmmakers. The story has all the elements to make a great horror, and follows the incestuous relationship between a mother and son. There's more, however, as they're both 'sleepwalkers'. The last of their kind, these sleepwalkers are like vampires only more feline. They're afraid of cats for some reason, and they need to suck the life from humans in order to survive...and mother hasn't eaten in a while.To be fair, this film isn't a complete dead loss. It is entertaining, and although many opportunities are missed; some aren't, and they make the film better. Personally, I just can't get over how great this film could have been. We have an incestuous relationship at the centre, which is as disgusting as it is intriguing. Furthermore, these two have only one fear; the normal domestic feline, and these animals surround their home. Add the pessimism of the fact that they may be the last of their kind, and a whole new breed of monster into the mix and you've got a film that should be garnering universal praise. The makers of this film were clearly more bothered about making a quick buck than a good movie, and that is shown by the fact that the movie is resoundingly low quality, and it features a large number of genre cameos - which serves as an obvious draw for horror fans. I really can't find a single good reason to recommend this film. I won't lie; I did enjoy it, but that was more because of my strange love for rubbish films. If you're a King completist, you can get away with seeing this by using the it was unpublished! excuse...but I suppose there's worse films about if you do want to waste your time. "},{"Title":"Commits the cardinal sins for a horror movie","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  No spoilers here -- all I can say is that this movie commits all the cardinal sins for a horror movie. It is tedious, boring, predictable & just plain uninspired. Everyone involved in this production must have been on Qaaludes, and was sleepwalking from start to finish. To paraphrase an old nursery rhyme & apply it to E.A. Poe & Stephen King, you could say that when they were good, they were very, very good; and when they were bad, they just sucked. Everything about this film was mediocre. The writing, direction, acting, special effects, etc. In 40 years of watching horror movies, from the silents to Bubba Ho-Tep, I have seen a lot of stinkers. Some are so plain terrible that you just have to look at them, like a bad highway accident. This movie is like a gigantic injection of Novocaine. It does introduce an element of incest (in case you had fallen asleep in the meantime), but I don't think that it would interest anyone other than forensic psychiatrists or sexual perverts to witness the several gratuitous and wholly unattractive scenes of the alleged mother & son vampire-werewolf-(whatever) sucking face. I suppose that necrophilia's might get off on the fact that the mother looks like a bulimic, red-haired Karen Carpenter. Immediately after I watched this spew, I put on Kiss the Girls, with Morgan Freeman & Ashley Judd. It was like night & day -- there are good movies & lousy movies. Put Sleepwalkers in the latter category.  "},{"Title":"Easily transcends any flaws","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As we discover from an opening title card, The Bradys--Charles (Brian Krause) and Mary (Alice Krige), are sleepwalkers--shape-shifting, leonine, proto-vampiric and lycanthropic humanoids who must feed on the essence of a virgin to rejuvenate themselves. Because of the nature of their sustenance, they are usually quickly found out and must move from town to town like gypsies. As the film starts, they've just moved to a small town in Indiana.Sleepwalkers has a lot going for it, most strongly its attitude. This was writer Stephen King's first script written exclusively for the screen, and director Mick Garris' first King project, so they both have something to prove. They did so by creating a balls to the wall horror film that's just as daring and disturbing in its dramatic material as it is in its more traditional horror material. At least in retrospect, it may be a bit rough around the edges, both technically and artistically, and its final moments are slightly clichéd, but its spirit easily makes up for that.The beautiful Santo & Johnny song Sleepwalk, the B.J. Cole version of which was also used to great effect in 12 Monkeys (1995), may have been the catalyst for the whole affair. I can just picture King listening to the song, his imagination going to work on a twisted demonic family slinking through the night seeking the élan vital of a virgin. The song occurs a number of times throughout the film, always during intimate moments between Charles and Mary (whose very names have countless historical connections, not the least of which was a skewed-by-today's-mores engagement between Queen Bloody Mary Tudor and Holy Roman Emperor Charles V), whose relationship is sure to shock some viewers. Given my artistic/philosophical dispositions, motivations, and views, I'm always a great fan of taboo breaking, so putting this material at the beginning of the film already had me strongly on King and Garris' side.The performances in the film are delightfully curious. Partially due to King's writing, the characters all have distinct quirks, and the cast plays them with a subtle exaggeration that almost threatens to become camp, but remains more in the realm of surreal weirdness. Many of the supporting roles stand out just as strongly as the principles, especially Jim Haynie as the sheriff who loves sing-songy adolescent dirty rhymes, limericks and the like, and Ron Perlman as the police captain who is comically gruff and cynical, as only Perlman can be. There are also a number of cameos that are extremely fun for genre fans--King, Clive Barker, Tobe Hooper, John Landis, Joe Dante and Mark Hamill.The gore and special makeup effects are excellent for the film's era. Sleepwalkers is also one of the earlier horror films to use computer-morphing, ala Terminator 2 (1991), for special makeup transitions. Genre fans will take note that the early stages of the sleepwalker transformation strongly resemble the vampire makeup in the Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1997) and Angel (1999) television series. It's difficult to imagine that this was not one of the influences on the Buffy development team.Shot in an oddly bucolic area of Los Angeles near Beverly Hills, Sleepwalkers also features terrific locations, sets and cinematography. The Brady house is intriguing in that it looks a bit dumpy from the outside, but the interior is almost gothically lush. There are also a lot of cats throughout Sleepwalkers, and it's the first time I can remember the mere presence of domestic pets doing so much to create an overall eerie atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Look Charles...mommy brought you a virgin!","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, put aside the vampires, werewolves, Godzillas and masked serial killers for a while&#133;. What we have here is an entirely new breed of horror species. The Sleepwalkers, as based on Stephen King's unpublished story, are reptile-like creatures that feed on the vitality of young virgins. Charles Brady and his foxy mother are the last of their kind and have a torrid incestuous relationship. But in order not to become extinct, Charles needs to seduce the cute Mädchen Amick so he can suck her dry and pass the energy on to his mum. Pretty far-fetched, isn't it? That's exactly the problem with the whole movie. It tries to be something completely new and inventive but the story fails to give a proper background to these &#150; basically interesting &#150; creatures. Why are they called Sleepwalkers? Why virgins exclusively? What's their origin and how come they're as good as extinct? How come they have the ability to appear invisible and &#150; most importantly &#150; why are ordinary cats their biggest threat? If you don't bother about the constant illogicalness and major plot holes, you'll sure be entertained. 'Sleepwalkers' contains tons of gore (especially near the end when it's a total cop-massacre) and the silly humor. It's pretty amusing to see a chubby cop getting stabbed by a corncob! 'Cop-Kebab!!!!!' Yet, it has to be said, in between the badness, Sleepwalkers does feature some terrific elements and a few highly entertaining trivia-aspects. The beautiful songs 'Boadiccea' by Enya is one of the best sounds ever featuring in a horror movie. And the film is stuffed with fun cameos of other horror directors like Clive Barker, Tobe Hooper, Joe Dante and John Landis. Stephen King himself shortly appears as the cemetery caretaker. The best advice I can give you when watching this film Switch your brain to 'off' and have fun.  "},{"Title":"Strange, yet interesting movie!","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This Stephen King novel Sleepwalkers was something worth reading about. A team of mother-and-son vampires who stalks virgins, hey even Dracula would be proud. Unlike most vampires, sleepwalkers are being kept at bay by cats. Why's that? A cat scratch can weaken these creatures. Charles Brady(Brian Krause) and Mary Brady(Alice Krige) dance to the same song, but they get their groove when they hunt for fresh virgins. The hunter is her son, and when he goes to school he meets a very lovely woman named Tanya(Machen Amick). He would carve the letter T into his arm. In one scene, Tanya took the picture of Charles and makes a frightening discovery of him. The body count piles up, and the the hunt for Tanya assures. The mother's hunger was so great, she couldn't take it anymore. Now it's up to Tanya to take out the scary duo, and get help from the feline allies as well. If you got allergies, don't watch this movie. If you're a Sleepwalker, you're in big trouble! 4 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I still can't believe I paid full ticket price to see this dung bomb. An incestuous mother and son move from town to town, picking out virgins and sucking them dry...literally. Mother and son are members of some bizarre race of feline-people, yet they fear cats because cats can destroy them. Whatever. This movie is so stupid it hurts. The acting is atrocious, bordering on unbearable and unwatchable. The script is filled with unfunny jokes and even lamer attempts at seriousness. The plot makes no sense whatsoever and none of the characters are very likable at all...not even the virgin heroine, whose sole facial expression consists of bulging her eyes at the camera until they threaten to pop out on their stalks. I give this movie one star, and that one star is for all the poor feline extras who did not ask to be in this film. I hope they were paid enough catnip to keep the memory of this horrid excuse for a movie out of their little kitty minds for the rest of their nine lives. "},{"Title":"the creatures sucked","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie in some parts. Alice Krige is really creepy in this movie. I liked the plot and stuff but the thing is the monsters looked so fake. Thats the only thing I didnt like about this movie. But you have to remember is a Stephen King BOOK IS ALWAYS BETTER THEN THE MOVIE! But I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a King movie or a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"Clearly not a good movie, but not entirely void of entertainment value","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've never really been a fan of Stephen King. He always seems to write basically the same story, the same characters... and use the same scares. The movies based on his films are not always bad... but for the most part, they are even worse than his books. Mick Garris is the man who typically directs films of the books King writes. Usually these films are made-for-TV... and after/if you see this exception, you'll know exactly why that is. You'll also realize that it's for the best. The film is about vampire creatures who are deathly afraid of cats, apparently because of the animals importance and symbolism in ancient Egypt(!). The creatures look quite a lot like cats themselves... when not in human form, of course. They have the ability to cloak themselves and the things around them... except, of course, from the sharp senses of their natural enemy, the cats. The ridiculousness of this film doesn't stop there... but I wouldn't want to spoil anything. The film is quite entertaining, if only for the fact that it's so incredibly poorly made and corny. The one-liners, the effects, the situations... oh the humanity! It needs to be experienced to be believed. The plot is decent, however unbelievable. The pacing is fairly bad; for being so short, the film is boring a lot of the time. The acting is barely passable. The characters are mostly stereotypes. The dialog has its moments, but they're few and far between. I'm not certain if the film was supposed to be corny and cheesy, or if King just gave up half-way through the script and started making a stronger emphasis on the humor. There an idea in the film that the audience should feel sorry for the sleepwalkers, but it's so vague and underdeveloped that it doesn't work. Then there's the incestuous mother-son relationship between the sleepwalkers, which I'm sure has turned many viewers(potential as well as actual) off(pardon the pun), as well as disgust them to the point of turning it off or deciding against watching it altogether. Something that will probably be a kick to the horror-fans out there(it was for me, anyway) is that five known names in horror have cameos in the film; Tobe Hooper, Joe Dante, John Landis, Clive Barker and Stephen King himself. In conclusion, this film is really only worthwhile for die-hard fans of cheesy horror flicks. I recommend it to fans of the genre and/or of corny horror films, as well as anyone who's willing to sit through it to spot one or more of the five aforementioned horror persona's. 5/10 "}]