[{"Title":"Standard story but great martial arts action","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jake Lo lives in America having seen his father killed in Tiananmen Square during protests.  He is embittered about taking a stand for anything and believes his father died for nothing.  However while at a fund raiser he sees mobster Serrano kill a Chinese drug dealer and finds himself in the witness protection programme with the FBI.  However when `FBI' agents try to kill him he finds himself on the run not knowing who to trust.  He eventually finds himself with a Chicago cop Ryan who will do anything to get to Serrano's boss Tau.This is an excellent little martial arts film mainly due to the involvement of the late Brandon Lee.  The story never really gets above the usual B-movie fare of guns and gangsters.  There is some clever stuff with occasions where we and Lee never know who to trust, but for most of the way the story is simply an excuse for a huge amount of fight scenes.  Lee has plenty of skills, he doesn't rely on wire work for spectacle but here he has a mix of his father's style and Chan's ability to use everyday items.  The fights are well handled and all his moves are clear to see, making it all the more interesting to watch.Lee is excellent here, he's really fit and has movie star looks.  His performance is perhaps more thoughtful than you'd expect, but the real skill is his fight scenes which he handles well.  Of the rest of the cast Powers Booth and Tzi Ma stand out.A great little martial arts film.  Not a fantastic story but the fight scenes are really well handled. "},{"Title":"Brandon's star rises","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was Brandon Lee's second american made movie (Showdown In Little Tokyo was the first) and the film where you could see Brandon was starting his ascent up the action hero ladder. With each film Brandon's martial arts skills improved and in this movie he really shines. Not to mention his acting ability as well.  He proved in this movie that he had what it takes to be a star. He incorporated some Hong Kong style action similar to Jackie Chan's films into this movie. An example is a terrific sequence in a small apartment where Lee takes on several bad guys armed with guns and he takes them out with his hands, feet, kitchen utensils, refrigerator doors, etc. Powers Boothe also does a great job as tired cop and Nick Mancuso plays the main villain very superb.  The Crow was Brandon Lee's best movie but Rapid Fire displays his fighting skills the best. Definitely a must for action fans! "},{"Title":"Showcase","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We'll never know what Brandon Lee, who was the son of the late martial arts legend Bruce Lee, would be capable of in Hollywood since he, like his father, died before the peek of his fame, and subsequently a mass following has been built in his memory.Bruce Lee died just weeks before the American premiere of his last completed film Enter the Dragon in 1973.  Consequently, Lee had also been working on the Game of Death before his passing, which we would later see, meticulously reconstructed (as Lee had intended), in John Little's touching and poignant documentary Bruce Lee A Warrior's Journey.Brandon was slain by a stunt gun while filming a scene in his last movie, 1994's The Crow.  Using careful CGI techniques, the filmmakers were able to successfully gather enough footage of Lee's performance to complete the film.  Lee haunted every frame of Alex Proyas' dark and deeply affecting film, which was the adaptation of James O'Barr's popular comic book character.Brandon, like his father, was also a talented performer - actor and martial artist.  However, if one were looking for Brandon's acting talents, look at The Crow, as you will not see much of him using martial arts.  If one were looking to see him using those martial arts talents, and the best showcase for those talents, look no further than 1992's Rapid Fire.Rapid Fire, from the beginning, has a very flimsy plot, as Lee plays a Chicago art student who witnesses the gangland murder of a South Asian drug lord by Italian mobsters.  Lee can't trust anyone, as he's forced to go on the run from gangsters (Asian and Italian), cops, and other corrupt law enforcement officials.  It seems that he can only find comfort and protection through his martial arts skills and an independent Chicago police unit headed by a grizzled cop (Powers Boothe).As stated before, you should only watch Rapid Fire for Brandon Lee's martial arts skills, as this is really the best place to see them; you're not going to find them in The Crow.  Brandon did the best that he could with this role and just went with it.Brandon, like his father, passed on before true success would reign in on him.  Like Bruce and Enter the Dragon, Brandon and his last film The Crow, will be forever remembered by fans and cinema-goers alike in years to come.I'm not really sure where Rapid Fire would stand in Brandon's short-lived career, other than it was a showcase for his fighting talents.  Rapid Fire is decent, certainly not perfect, but very fun to watch nonetheless.7/10 "},{"Title":"Brandon Lee Arse-kicking under-grad","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Rapid Fire' goes down as one of my favourite Brandon Lee movies, joining 'Showdown in Little Tokyo', 'Laser Mission', and 'The Crow'. Oh wait. Yeah, I'm just a Brandon Lee fan boy. Brandon was awesome. 'Rapid Fire' is awesome.Brandon plays Jake Lo, a college student majoring in arse-kicking. Jake witnesses the murder of a drug-lord by mafia boss Antonio Serrano (Nick Mancuso). Jake is put under the Witness Protection Program for a whole of five minutes before discovering that the agents supposed to protect him are, in fact, on Serrano's payroll. Jake has no choice but to team up with Chicago cop Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe) and kick some gangster arse. Awesome.Right from the start, 'Rapid Fire' is pretty much a showcase for Brandon Lee's martial-arts abilities. He was awesome on-screen in this, as in his other movies, and could pull off some really cool action scenes. Apparently Brandon was a fan of Jackie Chan, and it shows in this Brandon uses easily recognizable stunts and fights from 'Police Story' (among other movies) and does them just as well as Jackie Chan did originally.You won't find any semblance of a plot in this. 'Rapid Fire' is an action movie, the only difference between this and any other action movie is that Brandon played a college student instead of any usual action hero type. Naturally, this college student also knows how to kick butt, so there goes any developed plot, in favour of Brandon Lee kicking arse. Awesome.Simply, 'Rapid Fire' is an awesome action movie. Brandon Lee rocked, may he rest in peace - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brandon's best martial arts picture","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce's son gets the Hollywood B-movie treatment in this all-out action fest that stands as one of his better pictures, featuring a roguish yet charming Brandon fighting like his father in scenes that frankly appear out of place in an American action picture of its time. Thankfully, Brandon neglects the deadly stares and patriotic words of his father and offers us a totally different image altogether Brandon is hip-talking, cool, equipped with an attractive physique and razor-sharp kung fu. He plays Jake Lo, a bike-riding Chinese-American who gets himself caught up in a plight to bring to justice a mighty drug trafficker after he witnesses him murder a client. Soon Jake is enlisted to be used as bait in the police's attempts to root out the drug lord. Throw in a load of gunfights and fisticuffs and we have quite a meaty actioner on our hands, complete with Hong Kong-style choreography supervised by Brandon himself (the best example being a classy little battle with midget-stuntman Al Leong). Rapid Fire did prove to be Brandon's big break, and it's through his uniquely charismatic and exciting performance here that makes us acknowledge his early death with an even greater tinge of sadness.  "},{"Title":"Fast Kung Fu Action","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jake (Brandon Lee) gets caught up between feuding drug lords and witnesses a killing, making him Mace Ryan's (Powers Boothe's) new best friend.While helping the cops with their investigations, he becomes more than a witness, he becomes the man to save the day.Packed with Gunfights and Great Kung Fu, this movie is a must for fans of the genre. After Showdown in little Tokyo and preceding the Crow, this was sadly Brandons pen-ultimate movie and he is, like his father a big loss to the movie world.For Brandon Lee fans, or indeed Kung Fu Movie Fans, this is a must see.Rest in peace Brandon, your public misses you.7/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie with great action!","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of Brandon Lee's best films is Rapid Fire! Powers Boothe, Nick Mancuso, Tony Longo, Tzi Ma, Kate Hodge, Al Leong also star! The action is very good in this movie and in fact in My opinion its some of the neatest fighting action in a movie! The music is by composer Christopher Young which it is a very different score! The acting in the film is solid. Brandon Lee did a lot in this film and his fights with Tony Long and Al Leong were very good! I think that Lee had a potential to be a huge star because this film proves it! If you like big time action in a film with martial arts and are a fan of Bruce Lee, Chuck Norris, Steven Seagal, Jean Claude Van-Damme, Bolo Yeung, Michel Qissi, and Jet Li and want to see Brandon Lee and Powers Boothe in different performances then Rapid Fire is a good one to watch!  "},{"Title":"An amazing action movie","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this once when I was about 10 years old and ever since that I have been a huge Brandon Lee fan, and since the first time I watched it I have seen this movie over and over again and I never seem to get bored of it. Everything about this film is good, especially the seemingly non-stop action and Brandon Lee's amazing martial arts skills which he displays very well. Another part of this movie is the incredible acting.....both from Brandon Lee and the supporting actor Powers Boothe(Mace Ryans) . This is one of those films that stick out and it's one of those films which you can just watch over and over again and never get bored of. When you see a normal action film you notice that the acting and the plot are rather weak however in Rapid Fire everything is strong and enjoyable....the plot, the acting and of course the action. Many people have said that Rapid Fire is slightly tacky and corny, well all I can say is what do you expect from an action movie made in 1992?This is an amazing film which really sticks out and leaves a mark, and Brandon Lee is excellent and not to mention funny and his sarcasm and strange sense of humor is a fresh change from the usual wooden and hollow action heroes. This is one of my favorite movies of all time and if you're a Brandon Lee fan such as myself this is truly unmissable.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An Example Of Lee's Potential Exemplified Here","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was a huge blow when the news of Brandon Lee's death made headlines in the mid 1990s. The fact that the guy never managed to fulfil his opportunities as a successful action movie star and follow in the footsteps of his dad in that particular sense was tragic, considering just how good he was on screen. Showdown In Little Tokyo was a C-list martial arts epic, whilst The Crow- Brandon's very last movie he had starred in, was a horror movie, which whilst his martial arts skills were relatively limited, he still manage to display his acting graft as well as to show that he can act, in addition to kicking arse.Rapid Fire came out in 1992 amidst his previous effort, his collaboration with Dolph Lundgren entitled 'Showdown in Little Tokyo', which was released the year before. In this movie, Brandon plays art student Jake Lo, who witnesses a murder and afterwards, finds himself on the run from a gang of evil drug lords, as well as a bunch of two-faced, backstabbing cops, of whom are enlisted and supposed to protect Jake but who turn out to be doing the dirty work for the bad guys. Thankfully, he has a good cop on his side and together, the pair, despite their dislike for one another, work together to bring them to justice.American martial arts films tend to be rather forgettable, run-of-the mill type of movies compared to the Hong Kong, Kung Fu-based flicks, but Rapid Fire in contrast is one of the much better efforts. It is action-packed, explosive and Brandon is not that bad of a fighter. He is exceedingly good and manages to combine his late father's trademark moves and aggression with Jackie Chan's athleticism, and his fast and frenetic movements. Another leaf he has taken out of his text book is when he takes an object and smashes it on his opponents head, for example.This is a good martial arts movie; alas, it is a glimpse of how great Brandon was and how great could have been and how far his career might have gone- had he still been alive today "},{"Title":"THE SON ALSO RISES.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brandon Lee is nothing short of electric in this movie and I suspect that had he lived he would have alternated movies like this with more esoteric fare like THE CROW. He had the potential to be a bigger star than his father as he was a better actor and was more vulnerable in his portrayal of a fighting hero therefore making him appeal to both sexes.Women tend not to be great Bruce Lee fans. The action in this movie is explosive and well choreographed and for this credit should go to Lee's friend Jeff Imada whose name you will find on the credits of most movies and t.v.shows that feature martial arts action.Powers Boothe is his usual reliable self in his cop role and if faults are to be found with RAPID FIRE they are that the villains are not memorable nor do they offer a great threat to Lee and the leading lady is just used as window dressing.However,Dwight Little as director delivers the goods here and the film is an good companion piece to his exhilarating Steven Seagal actioner MARKED FOR DEATH. made the previous year. "}{"Title":"Recognizable techniques - POSSIBLE SPOILER","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good movie. Brandon Lee shows a beautiful adult character role, that seems to sometimes reflect certain characteristics about himself. The story is a nice one, basically about catching some bad guys, and has all the features an entertaining movie should have. Action, romance, sadness, and fighting. A nice, proper amount of good kung fu fighting. The nice thing to me about it is that I seem to recognize certain techniques in some moves that Brandon makes. Of course his father, Bruce, has studied Wing Chun kung fu extensively, which then culminated in his Jeet Kune Do. Brandon naturally must have learned this all also very extensively from him. When I was learning Wing Chun, some moves I learned I also see in this movie. Especially when he is fighting in that house with the gangsters, and at a certain point a guy stands before him. Then very quickly he makes a move, pushing the guys hands down and delivering a blow to his face. When I saw this I was mostly amused, because I recognized this move from many times that I used it during sparring matches. It is a legal Wing Chun move. Well, to me I guess this must mean that a lot of fighting moves by Brandon Lee are very realistic. Not, like in many movies when you see people do things, and you think either Bullshit! This is not possible, or Damn, that guy is good! Similar feelings of recognition occurred to me in the movie Fist of Legend, the remake with Jet Li. About Brandon Lee I think he could have shown us a lot of viewing pleasure, in spite of not having pursued a career emphasizing on him being a martial artist. Maybe that's why it would have been even better. God have his soul.  "},{"Title":"Honorable and precise!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Another movie for Bradon Lee is great. Bruce would be proud. However, some of his antics would make him roll over in his grave. In Rapid Fire Bradon plays a art student, who uncovers a war between two crime lords. The beginning of the movie is always amazing, the shadow effects of the fight choreography is the one thing I can't get off my mind. I like the part where he draws the picture of a dragon behind the nude model. After the shootout, I remember the cranial kick he performed on the baddie. In Showdown in Little Tokyo he missed, this time he got him. Then when he goes out to Chicago, he stays with the Feds when one of them is offed by the double-crosser and his associates. So what now? he gets help with some cops who are after the one fed who got paid-off by the mob. The scene that would make Bruce Lee roll over is when Jake(Lee) grabs himself. The kung fu in the movie is outstanding, and the stunts are out of this world/ In the subway scene, Jake took a lot of pummeling, and Tau(Tzi Ma) who thought he could fight Jake off, gets the shocking truth which railroaded him to his doom. Bet it would be tougher in L.A. This is amazing, the kung fu, the choreographs, and the plot makes this movie what it is. High flying, high kicking, and always hitting the right mark, Rapid Fire is the one! 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A tremendous, but sadly neglected ace thriller with impressive action scenes and a cool performance by Brandon Lee.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first glance, RAPID FIRE may only look like the undistinguished martial arts motion picture.  However, once you view this illustriously grand action flick, you will be pleasantly amazed.  Believe me, you will have discovered pure gold! Jake Lo (Brandon Lee) is a young art student caught in the middle of a violent crime scene.  After inadvertently witnessing the execution of a businessman, Carl Chang (Michael Paul Chan), Lo eventually finds himself to be a moving target.  With no one to turn to for help, he can only rely on his instincts if he wants to stay alive... Chang just happens to be an associate of a heinous drug kingpin named Kinman Tau (Tzi Ma).  Understandably, Tau is ticked off at this very moment.  Tau decides to go to war against his Mafia counterpart, Antonio Serrano (Nick Mancuso), who was the guy that ordered Chang's murder.  A ferocious drug war is soon to erupt between the Chinese and Italian mobs.  Guess who is caught in the middle?  Jake Lo will imminently find himself fighting against both sides...    With corrupt cops and crooked FBI agents on his trail, plus the expected Chinese and Italian gangs who both want his head, the `kid' Jake Lo seems to be unfairly outnumbered.  However, there are three people that Lo may be able to trust.  One, he knows that he can trust himself, that's for sure.  The other two `allies' are Mace Ryan (Power Booths), and his assistant, Intelligence Officer Karla Withers (Kate Hodge).  Even with help on his side, the kid must keep fighting...for the sake of clearing his own name and saving his own life...   Jake Lo may be unarmed...but watch out, he is viably a one-man army. RAPID FIRE is far from being a perfected masterpiece, but it does try.  Yes, the movie has its liabilities. Admittedly, the film's major foible is its plot.  Some elements are cliché ridden and the people in this movie behave in a volatile manner.  These villainous henchmen obviously need target practice too.  Also, an intriguing sub-plot about Lo's family participating in the Tiananmen Square massacre is well-intentioned but never fully developed.  If the script focused a little bit more about Jake's family background and their involvement in the massacre, then perhaps this film could have a substantial amount of insight about the horrors of Tiananmen and how it has affected the lives of many Chinese people. Unfortunately, another problem prevailing in this movie is the common use of typical Oriental stereotypes.  On the bright side though, the Asians are portrayed more often as heroes rather then sadistic villains.  Meanwhile, the Mafioso also gets the *Hollywood* treatment...    Frankly, the film may have its many cheesy moments, but I am willing to let most of them slide.  The plot itself lacks the needed twists, but who cares, the action, which is essentially directed with flair, is what counts...   If action is what is important to you, then action is what you get.  RAPID FIRE certainly rates high on the entertainment scale. The action is as explosive as dynamite.  From the noteworthy stick fight in the beginning to the intense shoot-out inside a museum, RAPID FIRE strikes with highlighted, exceptional action sequences.  The best action scene has to be the meticulously crafted fists-and-guns battle inside a Chicago restaurant.  RAPID FIRE is an out-and-out thriller.  It contains nonstop thrills with adrenaline pumping, glass shattering action.  This film rushes at a breakneck pace.  The explosive action will knock you out of your seat! As well, the cast is accomplished, with fine performances by Tzi Ma and Nick Mancuso as the despicable villains.  Powers Boothe is good as a hard-line yet compassionate undercover police officer.  It is also interesting to see how this brave but irrational cop reminds the main character of his own father and how he behaved.  Kate Hodge is cute but always persistently dedicated to her duties as Ryan's crackerjack partner. Tony Longo (THE ART OF DYING) is also adequate as Serrano's colossal right-hand man. Without a doubt, the motion picture's star, the late Brandon Lee is a natural talent.  He has some really cool techniques.  Like his father Bruce, Brandon Lee is one of the finest martial artists to have graced the screens. Brandon Lee is an appropriately strong action hero. The director, Dwight H. Little (MURDER AT 1600, MARKED FOR DEATH) wisely keeps the film moving while allowing Brandon Lee to demonstrate his martial arts prowess.  As for his acting ability, though Lee is not an adept actor, he is a refined, suave character who conveys many emotions including firm cynicism (i.e. when the hero refuses to join a politically motivated organization), requisite charisma, and occasional light-hearted humor.  On screen, he may look tough on the surface, but he is inherently soft.  He even has a charming sense of humor (like his father).  The director continuously focuses the spotlight on Lee as the star.  Lee is a deft, skillful martial artist primed to follow in his father's footsteps...     Thanks to a solid lead and some wild action sequences, RAPID FIRE is better than the customary martial arts adventure. The hand-to-hand combat is magnificent and the movie is just brimming with technical bravura.  I cannot praise this movie enough.  If you enjoy high-octane fun (and who does not), then prepare for RAPID FIRE excitement.  It is a swift, professionally made movie that never fails to entertain.   RAPID FIRE is awesome.  It is a surefire bet for enthusiasts of sleek and smooth cinema. As for the great Brandon Lee, it is too tragic that an auspicious young actor has passed on.  He definitely would have been as great as his legendary father.  Though Brandon Lee may be gone, his spirit will live on in everyone's hearts and memories.  RATING *** out of ****.     "},{"Title":"An immensely enjoyable martial arts action winner","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nice guy college art student and ace martial artist Jake Lo (an extremely likable and charismatic performance by Brandon Lee) finds his life in considerable jeopardy after he witnesses ruthless and flamboyant Mafia kingpin Antonio Serrano (deliciously played with lip-smacking hammy aplomb by Nick Mancuso) bump off a Chinese rival. Tough renegade cop Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe in peak brooding and rugged form) and his feisty partner Karla Withers (a wonderfully spunky turn by the lovely Kate Hodge) use Jake as bait so they can nab Serrano. Ably directed by Dwight H. Little, with a nonstop snappy pace, fluid, glossy cinematography by Ric Waite, gritty urban Chicago locations, plenty of exciting and well-staged fights and shoot-outs (Lee's fierce chopsocky confrontation with the ubiquitous Al Leong rates as a definite thrilling highlight), a smidgen of tasty female nudity, a roaring trashy rock soundtrack, some steamy soft-core sex, a rattling, rousing score by Christopher Young, an amusing line in welcome sarcastic humor, and loads of gloriously excessive bloody violence, this gleefully ridiculous actionfest may be wildly far-fetched and implausible from the get-go, but it's still a great deal of over-the-top loony fun all the same. Best of all, Lee not only displays real charm and appeal in the lead role, but also shows remarkable skill and agility in his numerous rough'n'tumble fight set pieces. The supporting cast likewise impresses, with especially praiseworthy work from Mancuso (his blithely evil villain almost steals the whole show), Boothe, Hodge, Raymond J. Barry as crooked fed Agent Frank Stewart, Tzi Ma as vicious drug lord Kinman Tau, and Tony Longo as Serrano's brutish bodyguard Brunner. A real bang-up flick. "},{"Title":"Silly but enjoyable action movie is worth seeing for the late Brandon Lee.","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jake Lo (Brandon Lee) is a college student, who unexpectedly finds himself between in a drug war. When he sees a gangster Antonio Serrano (Nick Mancuso) guns down a corrupted Chinese business (Michael Paul Chan) at a small event. After protecting himself, now Jake is forced to help the FBI (Lead by Raymond J. Barry) to testified against Serrano. But Jake himself betrayed by the FBI, which they are trying to kill him. Since the mob has payed them to kill him. Now a dedicated police detective (Powers Boothe) and his intelligence officer (Kate Hodge) tries to protect him before the Mob and the FBI gets to him. Which Jake has no other choice to bring these drug lords down himself in the process to get his life back.Directed by Dwight H. Little (Halloween 4The Return of the Michael Myers, Murder at 1600, The Phantom of the Opera 1989) made an extremely typical but entertaining action-thrill ride. It was also amusing to see Lee in a action here, who has an refreshing sense of humour. Which he has plenty of star quality before his breakthrough role on The Crow. Which sadly it was his last starring role. The cast members seems to be having a great time with this movie. Especially Mancuso is fun to watch as the heavy bad guy. This wasn't quite success in theaters but it's the kind of picture that plays well on video. If you are an fan of action movies, you will find good entertainment here. It's worth seeing. Screenplay by Alan B. McElroy (The Marine, Spawn, Wrong Turn). From a story by Cindy Cirile and McElroy. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Familiar But An Above Avergae Action Film That's Pretty Entertaining, With Great Performances!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a familiar but an above average action film, that's entertaining, with great performances. It's action packed, and Brandon lee is simply amazing in this, plus the finale was great!. Yes it's very familiar and has been done before, however it's very good brainless entertainment, with lots of gunfire and exciting martial arts action to keep you entertained!. Brandon lee and Powers Boothe are great as the 2 main leads, and have very good chemistry together, plus the ending was good. Yes it's predictable, however i am a sucker for action movies and can be entertained easily by them, this movie is no different!. The character development isn't bad, and i did enjoy it very much, but as i said it's familiar, however it's well worth a watch, and i will be watching it again!/ This is a familiar but above average Action film, that's entertaining, with great performances!. The Direction is good. Dwight H. Little does a good job here keeping the film fast and furious good camera work, and just doing a good job overall. There is a bit of blood and violence. We get lots of extremely bloody gunshot wounds, exploding body, bloody broken nose, and some stabbings. The Acting is great. Brandon Lee is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, hilarious had great chemistry with Powers Boothe, kicked that ass, and really had a lot of charisma! (Brandon Ruled!). Powers Boothe is very good here, he had great chemistry with Brandon, and really did a good job!. Nick Mancuso does what he has to do well as one of the main villains. Raymond J. Barry is good in his role. Kate Hodge is pretty and does fine with what she had to do, and had okay chemistry with Lee. Tzi Ma is okay as the other main villain, but wasn't that menacing. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall well worth a watch, worth buying if you get it cheap!. ***1/2 out of 5(barely) "},{"Title":"**** out of *****","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brandon Lee, late son of legendary martial arts king Bruce Lee is Jake Lo, a college student fighting for his life against the forces of good and evil!    The last thing Jake for was trouble. So trouble found him. After witnessing a bloody gangland murder he finds himself on the run and caught in the blazing crossfire between the Chicago police force and mafia butchers.     With an inferno of terror all around him Jake has only one chance of survival- to fight back with the only weapon he has left.... his lethal bare hands.     Brandon Lee isn't the greatest of actors and this film doesn't have to much of a story line but if your looking for a film with excellent action scenes and thats a good watch then choose this. **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"My FAVORITE action flick","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seeing as how this is my favorite action flick ever I thought it best to tell everyone that it is the best.I watched this movie first with my brother when it came out and I enjoyed it but I did not really enjoy it.  I then took about a year of watching other crummy action movies with my friend to realize how good Rapid Fire was.After this revelation where we learned of the mighty grandeur of this amazing movie we probably watched it once a week for months.  We had every single kick, punch down that Brandon did. Although the plot and acting isn't exactly high quality, the fridge in the face makes up for it all. Ouch!If you don't want to take a lot of time watching sub par action movies just go straight for the best one out there!  "},{"Title":"Lee Is Fine, But It's Still Grade-B Marital Arts Fare","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not into a lot of these martial-arts pictures pre-Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon years, but Brandon Lee was a cool guy to watch. What a shame this son of the famous Bruce Lee died so young.This picture was good....for the first 15 minutes. Then it descended into the Rambo- mentality mode in which the good guys don't get harmed but all the bad guys do, despite 1,000-1 odds on that happening. In other words, this had no credibility. For example, six people are firing machine guns at Lee while our hero has no weapons.....yet he escapes unharmed. Some of the action scenes look hokey, too. They are so much better these days. No disrespect for Mr. Lee, but it is this kind of movie that gave martial arts films a bad name in the general public for a long time. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This underrated martial arts vehicle stars Brandon Lee as Jake Lo, a college student who becomes the targets of drug lords after being a witness to a murder.The action scenes are very well handled. The highlight of the movie would have to be the warehouse scene about 20 minutes or so into the movie. However, some of the other fight scenes are also very entertaining to watch.Brandon Lee gives a pretty good performance in this movie, better than most martial arts movies made in this era. Overall, this movie is worth your time, and unfairly overlooked. "}{"Title":"great fight sequences and screen presence of Brandon Lee elevate this movie","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i watched this movie years ago,and thought it was nothing short of astonishing.i guess our tastes change as we grow older.don't get me wrong,i still think it's a fairly decent movie.the problem is,many movies of this genre could be considered fairly decent.(and many would not be)there are 2 things which set this movie apart from some in the genre.1 is the fantastic and spectacular fight scenes.the other is the screen presence and charisma of the late Brandon Lee.without these 2 elements,i think this movie would be slightly above average.as a matter of fact,i was bored at times and thought the movie dragged.as it is,howeverRapid Fire gets 3.5 stars from me. "},{"Title":"Damn, I love this movie","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the first movie I saw with Brandon Lee in it, and despite the hackneyed plot, cheesy dialogue and pedestrian performances from the supporting cast, I still love it. Simply put, Brandon Lee kicks ass.Even compared to '90s kung fu stars like Jet Li and Donnie Yen, Brandon had some excellent moves. The fight scenes, choreographed by Lee and Jeff Imada, are well-paced and exciting, with Lee demonstrating his amazing skill. In particular, his big fight with Al Leong features some impressive use of father Bruce's one-inch punch. I wish it was out on DVD! "},{"Title":"yeah this was good","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brandon Lee was awesome in this movie, when ever i hear the name Brandon Lee The Crow comes to mind, but then Rapid Fire does because he does a remarkable job as Jake Lo. He uses great martial arts in this film and the most rememberable scene to me is the train station fight between Brandon Lee and the drugs lord.It is a truly great film and it`s a shame that Brandon Lee died, because he could have made some more top dollar films like this one......and his all time greatest film...The Crow.Powers Booth was a kind of character that reminded me of Quint in Jaws. But underneath all that bitterness he did kind of care for Jake Lo and did not want anything to happen to him.This is a very good film and Brandon Lee`s 2nd best film, so I will give this a 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of Brandon Lee's best movies.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brandon Lee hasn't acted in too many movies, due to his tragic, unexpected death.  But when he comes to mind, the movie Rapid Fire settles in my mind second, because The Crow always comes first to mind. )   Rapid Fire is a good action flick.  The acting may be of low quality, the story may not be the best, but Brandon Lee does some good butt kickin', not like he did in The Crow, not like his father, but he manages to be the only one who shines in this movie.  If you're an action movie fan who doesn't care too much except for butt kickin' action, rent this movie!  "},{"Title":"A great movie for Brandon Lee fans","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge Brandon Lee fan and I love this movie. His style of acting is so realistic and sincere you get a real sense that he is living this situation before your eyes. His expressions, the look in his eyes, his acting is very honest. In the scene when he is in the apartment with the corrupt cops, the deer caught in the headlights look he has when he realizes he is in trouble is priceless. He has a quirky sense of humor which he shows in many of his movies. I always laugh during the apartment scene when he searches for food and discovers nothing but Pop-Tarts. Although the love scene seems tacked on, the movie is still one of my favourites.  "},{"Title":"Fast and furious, but also brainless","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dwight H. Little directed this action thriller, RAPID FIRE, starring the late great Brandon Lee in 1992. The plot involves Brandon as an art student who witnesses one violent mob event and gets the criminals chasing him. Soon he gets to work with police in order to catch the criminals, but there are many more criminals (and violent mob events) coming than they could have expected..The plot and its turns are nothing special here and there's just one thing this film concentrates on action, and very kinetic action. The film rarely has any slow moments and there's always a gun fight or traditional kung fu fight going on screen and Brandon is as smooth and talented with his martial art as his father Bruce was. The photography and editing are also fine and this film really looks little like the action miracles of Hong Kong, which is a great and pretty rare thing. The gun fights are fierce and violent and the film doesn't bother to develop any characters or motivations for the bone crushing and bullet spitting mayhem, it just wants to give the audience action and fire power. Of course this film would be much greater if it had even some point and deeper meaning but fortunately at least the action is there and more importantly, it's fine and shows the talent of film maker Little, who has also done films like THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA, HALLOWEEN 4 and MARKED FOR DEATH.I think RAPID FIRE is among the more interesting and succeeded Hollywood action films of the nineties. It is fast and furious film but it could have been so much more especially when I don't appreciate too much empty films and films which just concentrate to deliver thrills and violence and lighten serious things. I give RAPID FIRE 4/10 and check some HK film soon. "},{"Title":"Solid gold action classic","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Along with the classic The Crow, Brandon Lee made few other films before his heartbreaking accidental death. His natural charisma and likability he brought to action hero roles, accenting the tough guy qualities with an angelic vulnerability, was tragically cut short by the incident. However, Rapid Fire is a gift to fans of both Lee and the action genre alike. It's a little further away from the notoriety of The Crow, but packs a fuming punch of martial arts, gunplay and tough talking character actors strutting their stuff to a tune that any fan of the genre can hum along to. Lee plays Jake, a young college student with turmoil in his past, haunted by an incident involving a loved one in the Tienemen Square disaster. During a visit to Chicago, he inadvertently witnesses a brutal gangland murder perpetrated by drug kingpin Tony Serrano (Nick Mancuso). This immediately puts him in the hot seat and pretty much on his own after the federal agent assigned to him (Raymond J. Barry) betrays him. His only hope lies with grouchy, paternal Chicago Detective Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe) who is on his own rampaging crusade to bring down the drug trade. Jake merely wants to survive and get out of the mess he's found himself in. Together they punch, kick, shoot and strategize their way out of getting offed by the mafia, and kick some serious scumbag ass along the way. Lee is ultimate protagonist material his strong points arise out of the soft touch, never being brash or hogging the screen, always serving up a helping of humble that make the ass kicking resonate tenfold. Boothe is pricelessly grumpy as the haggard detective, showing brief but unmistakable glimpses of the bruised warrior's heart beneath, rekindled by his bond with Jake. Mancuso is like a rabid pit bull let off the chain as Serrano, a truly untethered piece of genuine psychopathic anarchy. But that's him, always the under sung wild card who lights up his scenes with wild eyed tenacity. Chinese acting legend Tzi Ma also clocks in as a heroin dealer with a short temper, looking very young which is even made into a meta joke itself. It's pure uncut action, somehow feeling like more thanks to Lee's incredible presence, as well as Boothe and Mancuso adding their own lively brand of spice to an already simmering stew. Essential viewing for any action disciple. "},{"Title":"Rapid Fire is classic 90's-style action all the way.","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jake Lo (Lee) is a sensitive art student who exorcises his demons from his father dying in the Tiananmen Square massacre by drawing nude women with imaginary dragons floating behind them. All seems well for Jake until he witnesses arch-baddie Antonio Serrano (Mancuso) killing some of his rivals at an art opening. Soon, the Italian mob and the Chinese triads are both after Jake's head. Thankfully, with the same hands he uses to paint and draw, he can also use to pain and draw blood from the baddies! When he's shipped temporarily from his native L.A. to Chicago to help badass cop Mace Ryan (Boothe) fight the drug lords, at first he's reluctant, but, Lo and behold, he eventually throws himself into the role of hero. Will Jake Lo come out of this mob war alive? Find out today! Rapid Fire is classic 90's-style action all the way, and thank God. It's movies like this that keep us energized and coming back for more. The more Rapid Fire-like movies we see, the more we grow to despise the quick-cut/CGI garbage being churned out today. This is all Lee, baby! His fight scene with Al Leong is a killer, as are Lee's other beat-em-up scenes, which feature awesome stuntwork and ace Martial Arts. Looking at the credits, a veritable town of people worked as the stunt crew, and as far as we can tell, they all acquitted themselves admirably. The whole outing has a glossy, theater-quality look and feel that reminds you of the good old days when winners of action movies like this came to the theater, were big hits on video and cable, and leave you wanting more. So many movies are agonizing slogs - with Rapid Fire, the time melts away. Why can't it be the other way around? Why can't it be that movies you enjoy seem to last a long time and the bad ones go quickly? Ah well, such is life.It even starts with an old-school opening that they just don't do anymore. It's the main hero, in this case Brandon Lee, executing his moves against a black screen, in an independently-shot sequence that has nothing to do with the plot, it's just a cool visual exercise to get us ready for the proceedings. It has a perfectly simple plot that never flags, and the humble charm of Brandon Lee carries a lot of what we see, and he's counterbalanced by the grizzled Powers Boothe as the awesomely-named Mace Ryan. You'd think a Chicago cop named Mace Ryan would be worthy of his own movie. Sadly, it never materialized. But in a weird coincidence, Boothe co-stars with Raymond J. Barry, and the two were both in Sudden Death (1995) together. It truly is a small action movie world.Brandon Lee, as Jake, is a classic 90's coolguy with his motorcycle and leather jacket/vest, we called him Mr. Awesome throughout most of the film. Nick Mancuso is always great, and he plays the stark-raving baddie with aplomb, executing some classic lighthearted racism you just can't do anymore. Add some time-honored sax on the soundtrack, as well as some songs by the band Hardline (they get TWO songs, one of which appears in the trailer. You'd think this dedication to Hardline would have given them better visibility, even back then), and you have an unqualified winner. Director Little also did Getting Even (1986) of 'Tag Taggar' fame. Too bad he didn't do more movies like these. But we should be happy with what we have. And Rapid Fire has become a staple movie from the golden age of modern-day action. Now that it's available as an inexpensive DVD, there's no excuse not to own it. "},{"Title":"Barely average","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love cheesy 80s action cinema. But even with my heavy bias, this movie sucked. First off, there isn't a single charismatic character. Brandon Lee lacks anything remotely qualifying as a personality as he dully recites badly written lines. His partner, a father-figure cop who fails to convince anybody of that, spends the entire movie telling cliché' you can do it lines. And the two main bad guys are boring as stale turds.They could have saved this movie by cranking up the bad acting--it's worked for countless actors who can't act Van Damme, Schwarzenegger, Lundgren, etc. But the audience can forgive their lack of Oscar winning performances if they are at the very least memorable. After the credits roll, everyone in Rapid Fire is rapidly forgotten.According to IMDb, John Woo was Brandon's first choice for director. It's truly sad that a potentially awesome movie was butchered into mediocrity by an incompetent director.The fight scenes and shot outs are fairly decent. Don't expect any spectacular stunts or awesomely choreographed battles. Some of the fights were outright disappointing considering they play up Brandon as a martial arts bad ass. The gun play is enjoyable at best.The story was total garbage and Brandon couldn't pull off a single convincing emotion or joke. The dude was a mannequin with six-pack abs. And don't get me started on that godawful love story they tried to shove up our asses at the last second (face palm). With so many awesome 80s movies to watch, take my advice Look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The fight stuff...","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think politics is bulls---, says Brandon Lee as Jake Lo in RAPID FIRE. Can't argue with THAT... He is tricked into attending a fund raiser in remembrance of the Tiananmen Square massacre (where his father died during the protests), and witnesses the murder of heroin dealer Carl Chang (Michael Chan, an underrated actor seen far too little in movies) by scumbag Tony Serrano (Nick Mancuso- ANOTHER under-utilized player). I'm an American, Serrano brags And we know how to take things. In the ensuing chaos, done with a decidedly John Woo sensibility, Jake must fight his way out- only to be arrested once he's clear of the building. He's blackmailed into going into witness protection so he can testify to what he saw, but the safe house turns out not to be so safe, after all. Again, he finds himself fighting for his life. He meets Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe) and his team of undercover agents, who are holed up in an abandoned bowling alley. Listen, kid, Ryan tells our still-reluctant hero Sooner or later, you gotta take a stand in life. Jake agrees to become the bait to trap Serrano. Ryan eventually becomes something of a father figure to the younger man. The action throughout RAPID FIRE is beautifully choreographed and directed, especially the hand-to-hand scenes (which all have a credibility and logic to them often missing from Big Screen brawls); and it's these often brutal but realistic fight scenes that make RAPID FIRE a must-see for Action fans. Brandon Lee's performance is just icing on the cake. "}{"Title":"Splendid urban action with all the trimmings","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" They just don't make them like this anymore, do they? Rapid Fire is an action movie that thrives on how old-fashioned and clichéd it is, it fully embraces all the joys that come with making a B-movie. There's somewhat of a coherent plot, but obviously it's just an excuse to put in gun fights and explosions wherever they have the chance. And boy, do they see chances. This movie is chock full of people that have to die, you even get two lead antagonists for the price of one. There's almost no build-up, which normally is a bad thing but not when build-up is replaced by guys doing kendo. It also helps that Brandon Lee was a pretty good actor (to action movie standards), breathing life into his character and even totally selling the unavoidable love interest subplot. Director Dwight H. Little also does a fine job of making the movie look as dark and sordid as he possibly can, but that shouldn't be a surprise if you remember he made Out For Justice. Rapid Fire is everything the title suggests, which should be enough for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Review for very solid action movie","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this film after several people recommended it to me, and i must say, i enjoyed it quite a lot. Action scenes are very good, specially fight scenes. Brandon Lee is not only good fighter, but good actor as well. His roles in Rapid Fire and The Crow are his best and my personal favorites when it comes to his movies, even if there is only few of them. I wasn't fan of his acting in movies such as Showdown In Little Tokyo, but i would't call him a bad actor and still he had good sense of humor in that movie. I'm sure that he would be even better if he didn't die, which is quite sad cause he really did have potential. After watching workprints of The Crow, i could see that there were few takes of his scenes that were originally quite bad acting wise, but watching the movie again it's obvious that he was just getting started at this point of his career and that he would be better as long as he had good directors to give him some advices. As for his role in Rapid Fire,instead of being one of those unstoppable heroes that his father often portrayed in his movies, Brandon's character Jake Lo is normal human who is put into dangerous situations and has to use all of his skills to survive. By the end of the movie he really is pretty beat up and tired after all that he's been through, which is not something that you normally see happening with heroes of some average action movies. Powers Boothe and Kate Hodge were also good, but at the same time not usual cliché cop characters. Soundtrack is solid as a rock, Hardline songs really fit the film and they are used in right scenes. Score works in action scenes, specially in fight scene between Brandon and Al Leong. Script and story might be cliché, but it's nothing worth of ranting. In the end,very good action movie, and with Halloween 4 and Marked For Death one of my fave movies from director Dwight H. Little, and i think that it should have some better DVD/Blu-Ray release cause it has it's fans, and there is enough interesting behind the scenes stuff and deleted footage that should be included. "},{"Title":"Brandon Lee displays multiple martial arts talents and miraculous escapes","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rapid Fire as a movie is a good action picture for 10-15 year olds who just want to see action that vicariously satisfies their deepest aggressive feelings and desires to be heroes themselves.Brandon Lee provides nearly all the fighting action, displaying martial arts talents and dodging the bullets of machine guns. The fights are staged meticulously to have some resemblance to reality, and this almost succeeds in having us suspend disbelief. Youngsters will likely soak it in and not think about it, labeling it cool.The story is your usual cops versus drug dealers, with dirty Feds thrown in to make it interesting. The dealers are always scum. Powers Boothe almost makes the picture credible, but he too is lost in a clichéd script. He's spent 10 years of his life trying to get one drug lord. Why? Who knows? The war on drugs, futile and senseless as it is, is always assumed to be beyond reproach in movies in which cops go up against drug dealers. Hollywood accepts this good guys vs. bad guys approach. It's a convenient fiction that provides the framework for lots of dumb shooting and fighting.Rapid Fire is not a big-budget action picture, but it holds its own. It's no worse than many of the big-budget types. "},{"Title":"Forgettable 90's action thriller.","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rapid Fire starts in Los Angeles where Chinese student Jake Lo (Brandon Lee) is invited to a fun raising party in aid of helping those in his own country, while at the party a drug trafficker named Carl Chang (Michael Paul Chan) is murdered by Californian drug lord & mobster Antonio Serrano (Nick Mancuso) which Jake is witness to. Jake manages to survive Serrano's attempts to kill him at the party & is placed in protective custody as the only living eye-witness, various Government agencies have been after Serrano for years & it is felt that Jake's testimony could put him away for life but after being handed over to the FED's in Chicago another attempt on his life is made but again using his wits & martial art skills Jake manages to survive. Unable to trust anyone & with nowhere to go a cop named Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe) manages to convince Jake to trust him. Ryan has been after Serrano for ten years & sees Jake as the key to nailing him & together they team up to being Serrano down & those who grow & supply the heroin...Directed by Dwight H. Little this incredibly formulaic action thriller is perhaps most notable for featuring Brandon Lee the ill fated son of martial arts legend Bruce Lee in his final completed film as he would be accidentally killed while shooting his next film The Crow (1993), to be honest Rapid Fire is completely unremarkable in every aspect & while it's not terrible it's pretty forgettable & far from special. Rapid Fire just feels like it has been thrown together using every action thriller cliché going, the fish out of water hero, betrayal, one good honest cop willing to do what's right while those around him are corrupt, an American mobster, drug deals gone bad, Chinese gangsters & lots of men in grey suits who walk around trying to look tough. The whole script feels like it has been cobbled together trying to use just about every action thriller cliché & stereotype that it all became a bit of a blur & it was all too familiar. On it's own the familiarity wouldn't have been so bad if the action made up for it but even this is routine & predictable. The dialogue is pretty bland, the bland character's do little to life Rapid Fire above average either, there are many better action films out there with even the generic sounding title Rapid Fire not inspiring much interest. The script does try to inject a little human tragedy & give it's main character a little bit of background as the massacre in Tienanmen Square is featured but this angle is quickly dropped as is Lee's quest to find out the truth about his dead father.I suppose the biggest disappointment with Rapid Fire was that the action scenes are so dull, virtually every one is not much more than people shooting at each other & no-one seems able to hit Brandon Lee obviously even though they are a few feet away. When Brandon Lee does get to show off his martial art skills the film livens up a bit but they aren't used enough & over too quickly. There's not much other action, a car blow's up, a truck overturns & there's a fire at the end but not much else. The best sequence is at the end as Brandon Lee fights the Chinese drug lord on train tracks which leads to an obvious death for the bad guy but it's as good as the film gets really. The film looks alright but has no great visual style or substance.With a supposed budget of about $10,000,000 this has decent production values but even back then that wasn't a lot of money for a big action flick. The acting is alright, Brandon Lee is watchable enough while Powers Boothe doesn't seem that interested.Rapid Fire is as routine & forgettable a 90's action thriller as there is, Rapid Fire is the type of film that you think you have seen before & you definitely have except with different actor's as there really isn't an original moment in the entire 95 minute duration. "},{"Title":"It works well when it comes to action, but not so much when it goes for story","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being the son of a legend isn't easy, especially when you're the son of Martial Artist Bruce Lee. That was the predicament that Brandon Lee was put in, and soon comparisons to his dad were hard to avoid. Even with his first film in Showdown in Little Tokyo, Lee was clearly going to get some kind of comparison to his dad. Of course Brandon never was as great of a martial artist as his dad, but to me he was a better actor despite being dealt with bad one liners in his debut. For his second effort he goes solo, though he doesn't do so with the most convincing act.Clearly a star vehicle for Lee, Rapid Fire delivers what it needs to and no more. The action does enough to be entertaining due to decent production values, but the story is mostly third rate at best. Jake Lo (Lee) is a college student who is good at drawing, especially a model that takes an interest in him. After being dragged to a party, he witnesses a murder by drug kingpin Antonio Serrano (Nick Mancuso) and somehow escapes his clutches.Of course he doesn't get away clean and ends up being arrested. That is until he tells the cops the story, and he is transported to Chicago to testify against Serrano. But when a few dirty agents want to take him out, Lo goes all out and has to team up with local cop Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe) if he wants to live another week. Eventually Ryan uses Jake as bait to lure Serrano into giving details about a drug deal, but all hell breaks loose again and soon another drug dealer comes into play that Jake will have to take down as well.Rapid Fire is not without merit, but one cannot help that it should have had more action and less story. Story can only take an action movie so far, and perhaps it takes Rapid Fire too far to the point of near boredom. Of course with Brandon Lee as the star he never makes Rapid Fire boring, but he sure as hell doesn't make it as worthwhile as The Crow. When Rapid Fire sticks to the action, it generally entertains. When it goes for dramatics, they seem to bog down Rapid Fire's fast pace approach.The basic story of Rapid Fire is adequate, though not the most intelligent story you could get out of an action film. When Lee kicks ass despite being a pacifist, it creates unexpected thrills and actually keep us in the movie. When he flashes back to his past, it gets a little too sappy and adds little depth to a movie that should contain more action. As the film progresses, the story seems to run out of energy and never quite knows where to end. The main problem is that Rapid Fire gets tangled into too many subplots that feel rather irrelevant, and they seem to restrict what Rapid Fire could have been.Lee was capable as an action star, but as a leading man he wasn't quite ready to make the leap. He looks the part and seems to fit the leading role, but he doesn't take charge the way his dad did. He feels more like an afterthought in Rapid Fire despite being the lead attraction, and it's not just the story that makes him forgettable. It's the lack of truly impressive action pieces that make Lee barely better than Chuck Norris or Jean Claude Van Damme here, even with a few glass shattering sequences that occasionally entertain.The villain, or villains, are mostly just nameless presences that don't add much to the story other than characters that get their asses kicked by Brandon Lee. The cops that help Lee are somewhat amusing, but they're played out typecast roles at best here. Only Boothe gets some kind of background story, but even then we don't feel all that much emotion for a cop who gets too greedy in trying to nab a drug kingpin. In giving us another villain, Rapid Fire gets desperate at creating more thrills when it should have stuck to a better story.Some of the action pieces in Rapid Fire work, but not many of them seem to work well. They sustain our attention just enough to get some joy out of Brandon Lee kicking ass in his first lead role, but to be honest they don't make us cheer enough for the good guys. When the story is at its most basic, the action actually can be entertaining. But with layers of story there comes a price, and the price that Rapid Fire pays is thrilling action. Rapid Fire isn't weak, but it never seems to be better than the best Jean Claude Van Damme effort.Grade C "},{"Title":"How do I get off this ride?","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Typical, frenetic b-grade action vehicle starring the son of Bruce Lee; the late Brandon Lee. With Lee in the lead, we knew there would be a range of martial arts and director Dwight H Little does a credibly smooth job (agile camera-work) showcasing those abilities. So when he wasn't handing out a thrashing or running about his black tank top. Lee's witty charisma came to show, which seemed to come natural when delivering quick witted responses. Student Jake Lo accidentally witnesses a murder, which sees him caught up in a war between two drug lords and his only allied is a gruff Chicago cop. The standard plot (cops v drug lords) is rather clichéd and ridiculous (as there are some corny or unintentional humorous interludes -- like soundtrack choices and slow motion heartache), but the lethal action pumps along (with stylish verve) and there are some good solid support in the likes of Powers Booth, Nick Muncuso and Tzi Ma. The latter two made decent use of their chewy bad guy roles. An entertainingly, high-energy low-budget action fare. "},{"Title":"Ryan  You killed a cop! Do you know what that means! Jake I won't be invited to the departments next Christmas party?","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Rapid fire and non-stop action with Brandon Lee-the late Buce Lee's #1 son- as art student and martial arts expert Jake Lo. Jake takes on the Chicago crime Syndicate and it's drug suppliers who, as Jake is battling both of them, are at war with each other over how to split the drug profits and who's to get the lion's share of them.Jake's a survivor of the Tienanmen Square massacre back in 1989-when he was a US exchange student in China- where his dad, who worked for the US State Department, ended up getting crushed by a Red Chinese tank. Since then Jake has been suffering from deep guilt feelings in that he wasn't able to save his dad when he really needed saving. Back in L.A while attending a fund raiser for Tienanmen Square victims, like his dad, Jake ends up witnessing out of out town Chicago's mob boss Tony Serrano, Nick Mancuso, murder one of L.A's top drug dealers Carl Chang, Michael Paul Chan. This happened when a defiant Chang refused to cut Serrano in on his very profitable illegal drug business.Serrano determined to keep Jake from talking sends his hit-men to track down and shut up, by putting a bullet in his head, Jake permanently. Put under around the clock federal protection Jake ends up in a Chicago safe-house only to get his cover blown by the very people, the FBI Agent, who were assigned to protect him. As things turned out, when they looked like they were about to turn on him, Jake was rescued by, in fighting the city's police corruption, Chicago Dirty Harry-like cop Det. Mace Ryan, Powers Boothe. It's Ryan who's been trying to get the goods on Serrano for the last ten years and now with Jake's as an eye-witness to him murdering Chang he feels he finally got them or him.***SPOILER ALERT*** The movie Rapid Fire takes a sudden U-turn in what later was to be an even more formative hood then Sarrano for Jake & Ryan to tangle with who turned out to be Tommy Tau, Kinman Ta. Tau by having him knocked off ended up taking over Sarrano's city drug operations that he was, back in the Far East, the main supplier of. Both Jake & Ryan together with Chicago lady cop Karla Winters, Kate Hodge, find out just how, with Jake working on the inside, Tau is smuggling his drugs into the city right under the Chicago Police Department and FBI's noses! Tau has them hidden inside the clean and sparkling white sheets that are washed and dry cleaned at his downtown Chicago laundry factory! It's when the bullets, as well as fists and feet, start flying Jake by going solo, with both Ryan and Karla neutralized by Tau's henchmen, ends up putting and end to Tau's drug operations. Jake does that by putting and end, together with his army of hoodlums, to Tau himself in the movies electrifying final sequence! Jake also puts an end to the guilt he's been having over his father's tragic death by preventing-in fate giving him a second chance- the same thing from happening to his friend and what seems like adopted father figure Det. Mace Ryan. "},{"Title":"Brandon Lee's best movie","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rapid Fire is without a doubt Brandon Lee's best movie. I know that if he were alive now he would have exceeded this with ease and improved himself as an actor! He was on his way to stardom, I am sure of that. In Showdown in little Tokio he already showed that he was a good actor. In my opinion it was an insult that they gave the lead role to Dolph Lundgren. Brandon Lee was more charismatic than him and he was the reason for me to watch that movie. In that movie is also apparent that he is the better martial artist. But anyway in Rapid Fire he has the lead role and literally explodes. His presentation of martial arts skills was wonderful. I knew that he had learned jeet kun do (bruce lee's invented style) but I never realized that he was this good. The things he does is just a tour of force. His skill as a martial artist combined with his skill as an actor made him a serious threat to other actors in this genre. He would have been one of the greatest action stars. Due to his tragic death we are denied to witness this. Other reviewers complain about this being an average story with good action. Well hello,isn't that the point. The plot is not important. It is all about the action and it is a plus if the story is exciting! The acting (Powers Boothe,Nick Mancuso) is more than great and gives this action movie an extra flavor. This movie is a marvelous action movie which you will enjoy! "},{"Title":"i loved it","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie on cable and haven't got to see the beginning of it but the parts I have seen I thought were great. They are not as good as the crow but definitely second in line I loved Brandon Lee and was devastated in what happened to him such a tragedy. I feel he would have been a contender with some of the other action and martial artist of today. He was progressing as an actor as do all other actors do and could have been in many more movies that could have been better than possibly the crow. I feel rapid fire is better than some of his early work where he was still raw and learning and this movie opened him up to be able play in the crow as well as he did. If you are a Brandon Lee fan watch this movie and if your a crow fan and want to see where this man came from watch this movie. No matter what anyone says you won't fall asleep watching it thats for sure. "},{"Title":"Looks lightweight, but satisfies","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A regular staple on the late movie round, I always find myself drawn to this film. It's okay as a story, thriller, whatever, and Powers Boothe never gets enough exposure. But you watch it for Brandon Lee.It's a charming performance, which scores highly because there's no dependence on wires, SFX or 'splosions. Just an extremely graceful, talented fighter putting the art into martial arts, and he was a joy to watch. Frankly, much as I like the Matrix, I'd rather have Brandon back for one more film than the whole damn trilogy. "}{"Title":"Flat starring debut for Brandon Lee.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best thing that can be said for Rapid Fire is that it's better than Showdown In Little Tokyo but still Rapid Fire is an undistinguished action flick that falls flat.Rapid Fire stars Brandon Lee as a college student who is hunted by mobsters when he witnesses an execution of a chinese triad.Rapid Fire's main problem is it's actionscenes. they feel very by the numbers and the movie feels like you have watched already. And in the end everything blows up and so did Rapid Fire,And you won't remember it. Brandon Lee did much better with The Crow.*1/2 (Out of four) "},{"Title":"Good For Brandon Lee's Fans","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But this movie isn't good for much else.  If you enjoy watching Lee in action, either in martial arts or in more Western shootout-type things, you'll probably like this movie.  He's very good and quite entertaining, and therefore might be a good reason to keep watching.  But everything around Lee--the plot or lack thereof, the secondaries, the dialogue (it's truly terrible)--falls something short of interesting.  There's a bizarre section involving a love scene (out of nowhere) meshed in with footage of a drug bust gone sour which is just Whatever.  I also can't understand how Lee was cast and might have continued to be typecast (though The Crow would indicate otherwise) as an Asian character (nevermind having Bruce Lee as his father) when the man had blue eyes and, at least as far as I can see, didn't look terribly Asian at all.  In the end, however, there are films much worse than Rapid Fire, and this film can fit your bill if you're looking for 90 minutes of somewhat mindless action entertainment--and you might also come to agree with those who reflect upon Brandon Lee and regret that his acting career was cut short. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to say that this is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. To tell you the truth, I haven't see much of the few movies that Brandon Lee had a chance to make. I saw Showdown in Little Tokyo, which was impressive, but Dolph Lundgren played a huge role as well. Brandon Lee does this one by himself. This is not to say that he does not have an excellent supporting cast. Tzi Ma, and Al Leong are two of the all time greatest villains of all time. The only man missing was James Lew. The fighting in this movie was superbly done; definitely the most creative and fluent fight scenes I have seen in a long time. The plot was a little odd, choosing to take on the serious issue of human rights in China. Perhaps they went for a little too much, but nevertheless the plot was interesting, and did not lag on. And I do very much appreciate the attempt this movie makes at voicing the message that we all have to make a stand at some point in our life, and fight what might seem an impossible battle against crime and corruption.    "},{"Title":"Stunning action thriller. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like the Brian Bosworth actioner STONE COLD, RAPID FIRE is a movie that thrives on some first-rate action sequences and some excellently staged fight choreography.The plot - student caught in crime lord conflict - is flimsy, but the action sequences were amazing to witness, surpassing some of those in ENTER THE DRAGON and Seagal's NICO.A great cult classic. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brandon Lee stars as Jake Lo a college student who becomes a pawn in Chicago FBI agent's plan to nail a Asian druglord in this well made but ultimately bland martial arts actioner. Brandon Lee gives an okay performance but mainly Rapid Fire doesn't come alive unless there is a fightscene. Nick Mancuso as a mobster is a definite plus. "},{"Title":"OK action flick","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only saw this because the late Brandon Lee was in it.  His acting was so good in The Crow, I wondered how he was before that.  Sadly, not that good.  He was a very handsome man with a beautiful body (nice butt too), but his acting is pretty stiff.  He's not horrible just not good.  I guess between this and The Crow he learned a lot.  The film itself is OK--typical fare.  The scenes where Lee uses martial arts are impressive and the acting is pretty good by everybody else.  So an OK action flick--it'll probably only be remembered as the second to last film Lee made before his tragic death.  "},{"Title":"Formulaic but painless.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Highly formulaic  action picture, Brandon Lee's last fully completed film. It's far inferior to the stylish, almost poetic Crow, and Lee's fighting skills aren't quite in the class of those that his father presented in his movies, but it's not too bad if you're looking for a childish, painless actioner, where a shootout breaks out every three minutes. "},{"Title":"Exciting, Rapid-Fire Action Flick!","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Designed and constructed as nothing more than a kick-'em-up action vehicle for Brandon Lee (son of Bruce Lee), Rapid Fire is satisfying patchwork genre film-making. It's a highly entertaining, albeit painfully generic pastiche of Mafioso politics, crooked FBI machinations, perpetual mayhem and an array of awesome action sequences. No elements are incorporated into Rapid Fire to hoist it above the territory of the strictly ordinary, but it remains fulfilling as a mindless action flick.The plot, naturally, has a clichéd ring to it in a typically contrived way, Jake Lo (Lee) witnesses a mob execution. Jake agrees to testify against the Big Powerful Bad Guy No-One Has The Guts To Mess With, and the FBI places him in the witness protection program. Since it's an unwritten law in the world of action flicks, this witness protection program proves rife with corruption, and Jake - once framed by the FBI - is forced to take matters into his own hands. On the run from the law and caught in the middle of a battle between two feuding drug lords, the Jake is faced with only one way to clear his name team up with a renegade cop (Boothe). Nothing new here, folks.Alan McElroy's screenplay (from a plot conceived by himself and Cindy Cirile) seems culled from about 15 television movies concerning witness relocation, unjustly-accused heroes, and cops so devious it's impossible to tell who to root for. The plot twists are all quite predictable, the love interest (in the form of a female cop played by Kate Hodge...is there any other kind?) seems rudimentary, and the villains are comprised of stock B-movie bad guy clichés. Point is, there's no narrative innovation, and characterisations are nothing unprecedented. But why watch such a motion picture on the basis of anything other than action? You shouldn't. Rapid Fire is an action movie; plain and simple. Sure, the world already has enough action movies, but Rapid Fire manages to do something that other action movies failed to achieve showcase the amazing fighting skills and general agility of Bruce Lee's son. The film never breaks out of the B-movie mould, but Brandon Lee (who helped choreograph the fighting) is given multiple action scenes to work with, ensuring the movie is worth sitting through despite the recycled plot and characters.As for Brandon Lee, he's not as wooden as one might expect. It was to his advantage that his acting didn't suffer from the exasperating eccentricities of his action star peers - such as Steven Seagal's egocentric mumbling or the preening style of Jean-Claude Van Damme. Or, for that matter, he wasn't marred by any of their accents either. Lee could act; he emitted a charming screen presence of good looks and genuine cool. His fisticuffs are fluid and exhilarating, and boast an inventiveness rarely witnessed outside of Hong Kong kung-fu cinema - not only does Lee use his hands and feet as lethal weapons, but he also defends himself by improvising with nearby objects. Lee's sudden death (due to an on-set accident during production of his next movie, The Crow) is a true tragedy - the young lad had a promising career ahead of him. As for the rest of the cast, there's a solid, if routine performance courtesy of Powers Boothe playing the grizzled, single-track cop, in addition to Nick Mancuso who's passable as the villain, and Kate Hodge who's likable but nothing special as the love interest. Al Leong makes a brief appearance to battle Lee at one stage, too. During the '80s, Leong's played background henchmen in several action films (like Die Hard and Action Jackson), and it's terrific to see him here.As far as standard, mindless cookie-cutter action movies (with little redeeming values) go, you could certainly do far worse than Rapid Fire, though that's hardly a ringing endorsement. Those who enjoy balls-to-the-wall action movies will find enough to enjoy within these fast-paced 90 minutes, but others need not apply. "},{"Title":"Rapid Fire-No Desire- Woe is Me for Brandon Lee **","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disappointing film that is somewhat saved by some excellent action scenes. The shootings, wreck scenes, car chases and other excitement are about the best of what this weak film has to offer.Having survived the uprising in China's square in 1989, Lee is to be honored only to witness a rub-out of someone by a mafia type person dealing in heroin.The film becomes one of who shall be trusted. Cops really aren't cops and this can become confusing at times.Lee is taken in charge of by veteran cop Powers Boothe and the two team up to thwart the drug ring. Of course, when Boothe catches a bullet at the end of the film, Lee rushes in to save him from a raging fire. The film might have been better had they further emphasized the rapport that had been building between the two. "},{"Title":"Good popcorn- actioner","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why people go bitching about this flick. What are you expecting from a movie called Rapid fire, anyway?? If you're not an action fan then you should know better and go watch Piano or some other high-brow stuff. Rapid Fire is just great, that is, in the light-hearted, action-packed whupass-flick-category. Better than any Van Damme (although Hard Target and Universal Soldier come close) or S.Seagal (respectively, Under Siege and Marked for Death come close) flick, I'd even compare this with Lethal Weapons 1-2! Don't mind the story - all you need to now is that it features Brandon Lee in a very relaxed role, as a sympathetic college student well capable of handling himself around, getting cornered by a drug-smuggling ring. The villains have been given the comic-book/cartoon treat, but in the very best of ways. Nick Mancuso as the henchman is just over the top- think Alan Rickman in Robin Hood - the Prince of Thieves! So fix yourself a cup of popcorn and go rent this. Won't get bored, won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Doesn't stint on the action sequences","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rapid Fire is pretty much wall to wall action with very occasional breathers for plot development and one perfunctory sex scene. It all comes across as a glorified music video with a large body count. Nothing special. "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of chop socki movies.  I love Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee and even Steven Seagal's early efforts.  But what is so great about them is exactly what is wrong with this picture.  When you have a talent as great a Brandon Lee, please have him show off his talent.  This movie was just okay in the choreography department and perhaps if someone like Chan would have been the choreographer then it would have been better.  But I was waiting for that big breakout fight scene that would have me on the edge of my seat. It just didn't happen.  A disappointment. "},{"Title":"Running on empty...","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brandon Lee stars as Jake Lo a college student who witnesses a mobster kill an Asian hood however when put into protective custody the crooked cops take shots at him and overall it's up to Powers Boothe and his team of not-corrupt cops to protect Lo from the mobster. Brandon Lee despite what anyone else will say, while talented was never the over imposing type. Brandon Lee (Aside from The Crow) always seemed too much of a nice guy to really engage in fight sequences which led the less intelligent grasping for their last gasp of blood curdled air. Brandon Lee was kind of like Sasha Mitchell from the Kickboxer movies, in that he was always more of an actor than an ass-kicker and like Mitchell, Lee can certainly fight but he just seems too much of a nice guy. I should point out that yes Brandon Lee is fun to watch in action sequences but he seemed better used in a more complex story. Lee however is one of the best things about the movie and although there are times when Rapid Fire comes to fleeting life due to Brandon's penchant for kicking life into the movie, generally the plot is tired and the bad guys are the usual goons who basically try in earnest to kill our hero. We get all the hallmarks and clichés one would expect from the genre but there isn't enough goofiness and Lee seems ultimately wasted on a rather unsympathetic character. Don't get me wrong I like Brandon Lee but I was never a fan of this movie and although i'm well aware this movie has it's fans, I just didn't care for it.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the sort of film that gets shown on TV at 130am on a Saturday night. Don't rent it, but if you happen to be coming home from the pub to find it on TV, watch it for one reason only the single most unintentionally hilarious sex scene in the history of cinema.  "},{"Title":"Really, really bad","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was Brandon Lee's second-to-last movie and it shows he was developing a sense of what it takes to star in an action movie. The problem is that the film itself is a total waste. According to IMDb, Lee wanted John Woo to direct the film but they cast someone else because they feared American audiences wouldn't go see a John Woo movie. I wonder whose butt they kicked when Mission Impossible 2 became one of the highest grossing films of all time and Rapid Fire not only flopped back in '92, but to this day is almost entirely forgotten.Yeah, the direction is bad. At least Woo might have made it more stylish and exciting. Here it's dry and the dialogue is jilted and corny. The script plays like How to Write an Action Movie 101 everything that happens, we have already anticipated far ahead of time.Brandon Lee isn't a bad actor but he's probably been overrated slightly due to his tragic death. As with many film stars such as Belushi, Farley et al, the dead gain reputations despite whether they really deserved them or not. (In the case of Belushi, yes. In the case of Farley, no.) Rapid Fire is a poor action movie with only so-so acting and a rather boring plot line and really weak dialogue. I wouldn't recommend it unless you enjoy drilling a hammer through your temple, because it might make you want to do that to stop the pain of viewing. "}]