[{"Title":"An intimate and nuanced film","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Sayles gives the viewer a two-second break at the end of every scene in this small, perfectly-acted film.  The conversations slow or stop, the action halts, sometimes the screen goes blank.  The viewer has a chance to appreciate the scene, think about what just happened, savor the moment.  Not every pause happens after something significant -- or was that scene important?  Everyone who watches this movie will appreciate something else, I think.Passion Fish is so detailed that there is a wealth of emotional content for the audience.  Watch for Alfre Woodard's excitement when she is reunited with her daughter.  Was that tiny squeal in her voice just good acting or did we just witness the manifestation of a mother's spontaneous, overwhelming love that happened to take place in front of a rolling camera? And what about the hilarious monologue a soap-opera actress speaks when she related the worst role she ever played, the victim of alien medical experiments in a low-budget sci-fi picture?  It has nothing to do with the plot of Passion Fish, or does it?  Maybe it tells of the indignities we all go through to achieve success, love, self-respect.Can you tell that I really liked this movie? "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Sayles is a truly brilliant filmmaker. This film combines great story writing with precise interpersonal direction. Both Mary McDonnel and Alfre Woodard deliver characters who develop clearly throughout the story. Mr. Sayles' depiction of Cajun culture as it crosses with Yankee cultures is really quite impressive. Although the screenplay leans towards sentimentality, it never becomes trite as so many interpersonal dramas have a tendency to do. Sayle's scathing commentary on the self-centeredness of mainstream American culture through his depiction of people associated with daytime drama while avoiding any negative commentary on southern culture is refreshing and a pleasure to watch.  "},{"Title":"John Sayles a genius?  Look no further.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's regularly noted that director John Sayles is a master at creating detailed characters; this film (like especially his earlier MATEWAN) proves his genius at capturing the oft-overlooked variety of American life dialects, and the smallest (but most meaningful) moments of work, anger, tragedy, or sweetness. This skill was surely refined during his earlier years as a novelist, and - in maturity - makes his work (and this film in particular) far more human and gimmick-free than Amer-indie contemporaries like David Lynch or Jim Jarmusch.I first saw this when it was released, and was very impressed (it was the first Sayles film I'd seen), and after a much-belated second viewing, I'd say it's one of the great American films of the 90s. Sayles' feel for detail shows continually - the small, but continual bits of personal history revealed about all of the characters throughout; the intricacy of even incidental encounters (an afternoon of zydeco music, or the COOLEY HIGH reference that slips quickly between Angela Bassett and Alfre Woodard) is stunning. Evoking Robert Flaherty's LOUISIANA STORY, the boat-trip-to-Misere scene is particularly memorable, with well-deployed Cajun lore blending with very memorable cinematography (courtesy Roger Deakins, cinematographer for FARGO, KUNDUN, SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION & SID AND NANCY, among other recent classics) to create one of the most unforgettable moments of Sayles' career.As most of the primary characters are either outsiders, or are returning after long absences, the common problem of show-biz fake accents is avoided nicely - Sayles (and Deakins) manage to capture an image of rural Louisiana that is enveloping and authentic, while never forgetting the reality that accents will vary widely even in local areas. Thus the fact that many characters refuse to lay on the drawl - even as many others in the film nail the sound of rural Louisiana perfectly - only makes PASSION FISH stronger.Overall this is a tale of growth and friendship that moves with the speed and emotions of life - none of it feels fake or forced, and though slow-to-start (another strength, though only seen as one by the film's end), PASSION FISH quietly develops into something unique and great. At every moment where this could've degenerated into movie-of-the-week sap, Sayles instead elegantly and confidently steers the film into DeSica (or Woody Guthrie and Steinbeck) territory there's not a sour note to be seen here. "},{"Title":"Sayles' best film.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Sayles is one of the finest film makers around, and Passion Fish ranks as his most human, funny, and provoking film.  Fueled by tremendous performances by the always reliable Mary McDonnell and the extraordinary Alfre Woodard, Passion Fish takes a slow, easy pace through the Louisiana bayous and through difficult adjustments with life.  David Strathairn, Vondie Curtis Hall, are McDonnell and Woodard's love interests, respectively, and add wonderful colors of both subtle and flamboyant hues.  We find ourselves laughing at McDonnell's crude humor as paralyzed soap opera actress May Alice, especially in an amusing segment in which she drives away a number of interestingly characteristic nurses.  Then, May Alice meets Woodard's Chantelle, a Chicago woman looking to rectify her own life.  Their friendship is stunning, the ride is a pure joy.  Passion Fish is a quiet film, and meant for those who enjoy those voyages through life with patience, humor, and camaraderie through the most difficult of circumstances, ultimately finding the true gifts of life. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film With Substance","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In an era of special effects and media hype, it is rare and refreshing to find a movie where only the passion of the actors and the strength of the script carries the weight. This film about a Hollywood star who needs to accept and transform her former self after a debilitating accident is not for action fans, but will appeal to those who understand that celluloid is often a tool for enlightening those who are willing to think & feel for themselves. Slow-paced doesn't always mean tedious. I was not bored a for minute. "},{"Title":"See it again!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie as much today as I did when I first viewed it. The performances by the actors were wonderful, the soundtrack is really fantastic, and John Sayles' script was funny and thought provoking. I loved the whole May Alice-Rennie angle, the May Alice-Chantelle, and the Chantelle-Sugar story lines, all woven together masterfully. One of the things I love best about John Sayles' movies is his ability to add supporting characters in such a fun and useful way. And he chooses REAL actors for those parts (note Angela Bassett). I thought he really captured the feel of bayou land, LA. and friction? boy! was there ever friction! "},{"Title":"Kudos to McDonnell, Woodward, and cast","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film surprised me a lot. I liked it very much. It was well-written, acted, and worth watching Mary McDonnell who received her second Oscar nomination for this performance. Alfre Woodard should be nominated for best supporting actress. I was surprised to find two equally challenging roles for women in an almost extinct era. The relationship between the two women grows slowly. It is nice to see friendship between these two very different characters. May Alice becomes a likable person after awhile. Angela Bassett has a small role as her friend from New York City. David Straitharn plays an old flame who has since married and remain local in the Louisiana swamps of their hometown. It's a great story overall with characters that you grow to like over the time we spend with them. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Writer/Director John Sayles' 1992 outing tells the tale of a soap opera star (Mary McDonell), who's been in a car accident, and is now wheelchair bound, and her unlikely friendship with her live-in nurse (Alfre Woodard). Excellent supporting roles from the great David Strathairn (A Sayles fave, star of Limbo), Vondie Curtis-Hall (who went on to direct Gridlock'd), and Angela Bassett. I gotta say this. Sayles always writes believable characters, and his dialogue is amongst the best in filmdom. I knew my wife would like this, which was my main motivation for renting it. I'd seen it before, but had forgotten just how good it is. McDonell garnered a well-deserved Oscar nomination for her role in this largely overlooked gem. 4 (of 5) stars on this one. "},{"Title":"BEAUTIFUL BAYOU","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this current era of moviemaking, it's rare than an idea as soft, as pure as Passion Fish, will be given an opportunity to be made. Thankfully John Sayles has the ability to circumvent the &#145;by-committee' filmmaking which would have ultimately turned this wonderful little film into God know's what.Mary McDonnell will never be better-she is brilliant, than in her portrayal of May-Alice Culhane (for which she was Oscar-nominated), the once-on-top Soap Opera star to whom tragedy has taken the use of her legs, and forced a re-evaluation of her life.Alfre Woodard, as the hired home-care worker/nurse Chantelle provides the perfect complement as both these women find more of themselves through each other, then they might ever have found otherwise. Again, Ms. Woodard has rarely disappointed.The early montage of health-care applicants is clever and funny. And John Sayles always is able to find brilliance in his supporting cast notably Vondie Curtis-Hall, Leo Burmester, and David Strathairn, as well as a small role early in the career  of Angela Bassett.Sayles' script was also nominated for an Academy Award.  "},{"Title":"Impressive but not as good as Sayles' Limbo","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have only caught up with two of Sayles' directorial works Limbo and Passion Fish. Though the subjects of the two films are quite dissimilar, Sayles penchant for building interesting character profiles is unmistakable in both. Both films have an interesting screenplay, developing anecdotes that seem to be strung together like beads on a necklace. In Passion Fish, a somewhat successful actress watches TV soaps and makes comments. Zoom out of the situation and you realize that situation itself is close to a TV soap opera. Now directors like Robert Altman and Paul Mazursky have done similar themes with considerable success. European cinema (Claude Sautet for one) has numerous examples of what Sayles did in the US a decade before in Europe. Yet Sayles like Mazursky (An Unmarried Woman,Harry and Tonto, etc.) is able to instill humor and pathos into his celluloid essays with considerable felicity.What makes Passion Fish tick? At a very obvious level there is a remarkable performance by Mary MacDonnell. You need to be a stage actress to have done justice to the demanding role of a paraplegic--perhaps Billie Whitelaw or Anne Bancroft or Joanne Woodward would have fared as well as Mary. Much of Mary's acting is limited to voice modulation and restricted body movements.Two other performers stand out Alfre Woodard and David Strathairn. I have watched Strathairn perform in other movies but he is just superb when working for Sayles.Passion Fish like Limbo has a strong musical selection. Sayles, like Michael Mann and Peter Weir, has a good ear for music and sound editing. Yet Limbo outclasses Passion Fish by a mile in this department, thanks mainly to the song sung by lead actress herself.  Finally the film Passion Fish survives on a strong screenplay and above average direction. The screenplay is loaded with social comments expressed in a documentary style comments on a business manager who never appears, race relationships, religion (she took to it after the second child..), etc. The film expects us to follow the obvious childhood sweethearts-meet-again route but interestingly does not.This is the stamp of Sayles--a filmmaker who makes a sudden twist towards the end that makes all what preceded look better than it did. He did this in Limbo with aplomb, but Passion fish seems to anticipate the more accomplished storytelling of Limbo--the dark swamp metaphor of Passion Fish seems to be heralding the cloudy sky of Limbo. One thing is certain--Sayles is an important screenplay writer comparable to David Mamet and Terrence Malick. As a director one could argue that his work is not new in style (Limbo harks back to The Oxbow Incident) yet he cannot be dismissed--his work stands out amongst contemporary American movies, especially independent cinema.     "}{"Title":"Profound and Understated","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For people dealing with a sudden life change, this portrayal is eloquent. Not only is every facet of human adaptability explored, but common hurdles in major adjustments seethe. The casting was perfect, the perspective well-rounded, and the satire in the writing was classic. Both women were so comfortable in their roles that everything they did seemed natural. David Strathairn was equally good. The music was impossible for sitting still, and the overall feeling when it ended was a warmth hard to find.This is a movie easily warranting recommendation as an exemplar for audiences facing a rough road. The outrage of starting over and sacrificing is beautifully shown by both women. The adjustments they are both making together are formidable, and as they clench down on where they find themselves, your admiration for how they handle the grim circumstances steadily grows. "},{"Title":"Exceptional dialogues and beautiful render of main characters without instant formulations,  both time and genre would assume.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can write the best scripts, pronounce their promise with great dialogues, but without direction, you will never extract lifelike realism, sensibility and made those qualities accessible in superb performance presented here.This movie has it all. One of the things I treasure the most and mind you, I know I keep repeating myself again and again - that be a great atmosphere. Atmosphere in this movie is ravishing. Locations are not overused for any other purpose but to remain the stage of this charming story.Relationship between May-Alice and Chantelle has relaxed and profound feeling about finer things of life. Shear simplicity of this approach is risky for mass audience, but for the connoisseur of finer realism, it is a pure joy. One thing is for certain If you can't detect those virtues, you will at least fulfill your boredom early in the movie and look elsewhere. Preparation of actors is excellent from beginning toward the end. To tell you the truth, nitpicking wont do you any good here, because I really can't find anything wrong with this movie. I would simply, again and again, soak the lifelike presence of the main characters and enjoy this movie. My utmost respect goes to John Sayles for outstanding results with Passion Fish. "},{"Title":"An All Time Great Film","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I finally bought this film because I kept renting it. The slow pace is just right, never boring, and puts one endearing and individual character after another before us. Sugar is one of my favorites. David Straitharn is a brilliant actor and his characterization of Rennie has not one false note. I have lived in South Louisiana for 30 years and this movie made the area another character; the sense of place is flawless. The two leading ladies never upstage either each other or any of the other actors; this movie is a true ensemble piece. All of this keeps me coming back to this very redemptive film, a real work of art. Particularly well done is the contrast between the artificial world of New York theater, and the real world of ordinary people facing very difficult problems. The viewer is deliberately made comfortable in that real world, with no sense of being patronized. This reviewer gave up a professional theater career for the real world, and I am very glad to see a film that doesn't just tell the truth but shows it in every nuance, in every note of music, and in the wonderful pauses between scenes. May-Alice gives me a jolt of hope and humor every time I see this film. Bravo. "},{"Title":"passion all the way","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Sayles never disappoints as a director, and Passion Fish affirms that. After a car accident paralyzes soap opera star May-Alice Culhane (Mary McDonnell), she returns to her childhood home in Louisiana, bitter about everything. After rejecting several caretakers, she befriends Chantelle (Alfre Woodard, happy birthday!). From there, we see how their lives and experiences help them form a bond.I know that it sounds like the average Hollywood crap, but remember, this is John Sayles so he knows how to do it right. The title refers to a legend told to May by local man Rennie (David Strathairn). The legend is likely to blow your mind. With zydeco music to keep things going, this is definitely a movie that I recommend. Also starring Vondie Curtis-Hall and Angela Bassett. "},{"Title":"Sayles - much like Cajun cooking - an acquired taste","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Sayles works so independently of the Hollywood mainstream and follows his own voice so meticulously that he often leaves his fans just a little short-changed with each successive work. As brilliant a filmmaker as he remains, every one of his films has its own shortcomings that leave it in the near-perfect category. In a way it feels as though he purposely leaves something unnecessary in each time out. For this reason among others, Sayles' films are an acquired taste. His 1992 film Passion Fish struts along at a very self-assured, yet slow paced gait, much like the population of its Southern Gothic location.The main focus of the film is put on two women, one who returns to the place she left to dwell upon her current challenges and another who comes there for refuge from her troubles elsewhere. The women's paths intersect at a precarious point in their lives, leading to some very interesting results. Mary McDonnell stars as May-Alice, a feisty, soap actress forced into early retirement by a car accident. It's a challenging role and she brings a certain bravado that hasn't been shown by her previously. Alfre Woodard gives a highly nuanced performance as the nurse who has been hired to help the reluctant May-Alice.Like in many of Sayles' films, given his immense prowess as a writer, the true pleasure comes not from watching the main storyline but the local and supporting flavor chewing up scenery throughout. One such gem involves an outdoor luncheon with McDonnell's character attempting to keep her composure and a tactful face with two Southern Belle types she hates. It's moments like this that add texture to Sayles' films, but also tend to keep them loosely edited and occasionally overwrought. "},{"Title":"not just another chick flick","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was my turn to pick the film and I picked this one because I like John Sayles and David Strathairn movies.  Lone Star, Matewan, and Limbo are some that I really liked.  After the first 10 minutes, I thought it was just another chick flick.  My wife was going to owe me one. I hung in there and got caught up in the story.  It's a 7 but I gave it an 8 since I liked the critter scenes.  (Note to continuity people Rennie's bass turned into a catfish when he opened it up for the passion fish).   "},{"Title":"So much serious personal human stuff so clumsy and unconvincing! Odd and too bad.","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Passion Fish (1992)I wish I could like John Sayles films more. They want to be so important and serious, about exceptional people in normal working America. Characters are dying to be felt for and understood, and the turns of events are poignant in simple ways we can relate to.So it is with Passion Fish, with a couple changes. For the first long part of the movie the main character, an ex-soap opera star recently made paraplegic, is completely unlikable. But eventually we come to appreciate her attitude, and other characters arrive, namely a nurse who can stick it out with her.So if all this sounds good, it is. But the writing is a little off, a little wrong, all the way through. Occasionally it's just a strain (I laughed out loud a couple times at it, not with it). There's not problem with the subjects and what they do, but what they say, a hair off key from what such real people would say. Or that's the sense you get. And the filming is adequate without being magical, or emphatic, or whatever it is that great movies pull off. The camera-work, the editing, the clunky addition of sounds, it's all a little crude, as if it didn't matter that it was just functional and used a few cheap devices (like a little montage sequence with snippets dissolving one into another like a sentimental ad). In fact, it has a television quality even though Sayles has never done t.v. as far as I know.If you are really into content, though, and real people with real problems, none of this will matter as much. And the compensations include gritty acting, which makes the most of the dialog. If this lack of style is your style, you'll like it. If you want formal intentions of any kind you might think it's slow and unartful. "},{"Title":"C'est vrai!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The kudos here go to David Strathairn (a wonderful, overlooked performer in Matewan, L.A. Confidential and numerous other films). He comes the closest I've seen on film to an actual Cajun, from the accent down to details such as the white shrimp boots. When will this actor get the Oscar he deserves (as Jim Broadbent finally did this year)?  "},{"Title":"HOME HELP","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film could have been made in Hollywood with a similar cast and similar setting, and it would have been awful.But in the hand's of Sayles it's another gem. All his usual characteristics are there in a slow, well-written story. Not overly sentimental, despite the feel-good ending. This is good stuff. "},{"Title":"Chantelle, you are going to learn to cook","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cajuns have always squeezed the passion fish, some swallow the passion fish, thinking hard of the one they want to be liked off. The successful soap star May-Alice Culhane is after a taxi accident a paraplegic, bound to her wheelchair. She returns to her childhood home in Louisiana. To cope with the sudden chock of the totally new situation (like this starts the movie, May-Alice not understanding where she is and what happened. Finally at home in her childhoods home she starts drinking and watching television as the only thing to do. For the ever changing help she is the unbearable 'bitch on wheels'. Until Chantelle enters the scene. We know all about the bitter, white mistress. What she was, what happened to her and how it is now for her. But Chantelle? Parts and bits of the black recovering cocaine addicts background emerges slowly in bits and pieces. When Lucas shows up. When her father with her daughter pays a visit. Her father is the legal guardian for her daughter as long I think it is necessary he tells Chantelle, his daughter. The white mistress and her black servant seem to be far apart white and black. Two different worlds. But not they sit in the same boat (shown metaphoric when the movie ends. Chantelle We are stuck with each other and answered by May-Alice For the time being. May-Alice is visited twice by her former work, hardly hiding their pity for May-Alice and her black servant. When nothing is left to hide behind the white bitterness and the black stubbornness the afford to pretend is with no meaning. The possibility emerges not to recognize but to see the other. Each other. Both in need of help. Helping each other. With no-way-out-option. Instead pity respect. They are assisted by Rennie, the childhood crush, the Cajun handyman (Chantelle mouthes silent to her He likes you. And Sugar LeDoux, the local cowboy with children around every corner. He seduces Chantelle with smiling charm and dances with her daughter at the local festivity. Watched by the critical eyes of Chantelles father. Does the cowboy want Chantelles heart he must behave. The womens forced-up respect transforms to friendship. Behind their private disaster as crippled successful soap star and the recovering cocaine addict eds last chance for a job. This job. Both on their way to accept again life. Mirroring each others needs. Both crippled a white body and a black soul. "}{"Title":"An engaging inter-play of wills, innoncent moments & no caricatures","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Passion Fish, showcases its 2 principal characters' (May-Alice and Chantelle) hopefulness and hopelessness in a light which I had never realized previously. Where May-Alice relapses into a daze of misery and alcohol-induced mist of self-centeredness, Chantelle struggles alone towards her self-rehabilitation - two unlikely individuals who are connected at a very obvious level, by the conflict of their motivations for existence but at a deeper plane, related not by conflict but by identification of a shared identity.Named after a Cajun superstition about finding love, the movie opens with a close-up of May-Alice's eyes as she lays on a hospital bed, victim of a freak accident and now, very mean-tempered inheritor of a crippled body. Her soap acting rendered futile and raging at the seeming dithering uselessness of all hospice personnel in uniform (nurses, physical therapists, doctors, psychiatrists), May-Alice moves back to the family home by a Louisiana bayou in a clear attempt at drinking herself into oblivion. Bound to a wheelchair and perennially in front of the television with a wine bottle as an unshakeable appendage, she has an attendant nurse in the form of a feisty black nurse (Chantelle &#x96; who takes up this work for far more substantial reasons than what initially appear.May-Alice's curmudgeonly self-indulgence in wine and TV collide with the blunt denials and admonitions of Chantelle, with decidedly un-nursey approaches. This conflict of wills between two strong and set women lies at the heart of this film; a conflict which does not get manifested in typical conventionally hoarse and piquant scenes. What interested me immensely are the numerous tiny battles which emerge in the course of this war of wills &#x96; a tug here, a pull there followed by a push. Several times in the movie, I expected the dam of unresolved and unsatisfied emotions to burst into a torrent of screams and the inevitable firing of the nurse. It never came.Passion Fish intensely resists the easy transition of such a story into a likely tale of maudlin sentimentalism and spiritual upliftment. When I think of it, the movie is less of a motif for human tragedy or that of people who have suffered mentally or physically coming out of the ordeal as veritable angels. Then there is the Louisiana landscape and the comic portraits of an assortment of Alice-May's visitors, and a repressed but tender romance which materializes with an old acquaintance. To the back of the house, there are verdant and soothing wetlands teeming with herons, alligators and snakes while towards the front, the track which leads to it is dusty and decidedly un-photogenic with what I can only presume to be factories, pumping affluents into this seemingly serene lake. This two-tinged sepia is present everywhere in the movie. This many-layered portrayal of a story of two women is marked by engaging performances all-round and a screenplay which does not veer into the realm of the tear-jerker. One more thing, I love the I didn't ask for the anal probe monologue for its intensity and the sheer range of emotions it seeks to explore &#x96; from thrill to determination to anticipation to frustration to dismay and finally, resignation. "},{"Title":"Good but Could've Been Better","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Passion Fish, directed and written by John Sayles, is a sturdy very good watch on the whole. I thought there was obviously a lot of thought that had gone into the lead characters plights and what each were struggling through. However, sometimes knit-picking isn't too fun but must be done, and there were 2 different things that brought the movie down from great to good. One was about a 5 minute diatribe that a side-character blathers about anal-probes. My wife and I were sitting there watching and both looked at each other saying wth was that, the editor completely asleep at the wheel. And secondly, the ending sort of fizzled. Correct these 2 inconsistencies, and I think the movie was an 8/10. Great job by leads McDownell and Woodard nonetheless, especially McDownell. "},{"Title":"A Beautifully Written and Well-Crafted Film","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film about a woman struggling to live with herself after a life changing accident. She is paralyzed from the waist down and drinks by the hour. She goes through a slew of nurses at her Louisiana home until she finally comes to terms with one played by Alfre Woodard. The film is supported by strong character moments and superb dialog. Overall, it is a beautifully written and well crafted film. John Sayles does an amazing job directing, writing and editing. He extracts memorable performances from Mary McDonnell and Alfre Woodard, and never once shows an unnecessary scene or line. Look out for a supporting role from David Straithairn and the subtle yet poignant cinematography that drives the film to its end. (The Louisiana Bayous never looked so good!) "},{"Title":"John Sayles at the top of his game","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A crippled TV soap opera star (Mary McDonnell) retreats, with undisguised bitterness, to her neglected childhood home in Louisiana, where she proceeds to make life hell for a series of nurses, until the arrival of Alfre Woodard. The balance of the movie follows McDonnell's slow emotional recovery and her reluctant friendship with Woodard, but despite the similarity to so many other Hollywood rehab dramas there isn't a wasted word or image, and not a cliché in sight. The film marks a return to the intimate scale of director John Sayles' earlier efforts, and it's a pleasure to finally see a mainstream American movie with the novelty of real characters speaking believable dialogue, written by a filmmaker with enough patience to allow his story to develop at a natural pace. The result is a leisurely but powerful drama, with more than its share of humor and with plenty of lively local Cajun culture. Trivia note both McDonnell and Woodard were previously featured in Lawrence Kasdan's Yuppie wish-fulfillment fantasy 'The Grand Canyon' where, ironically, they never shared a single scene. "},{"Title":"Sad Story That Isn't Depressing","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is about a soap star, who is barely middle-aged, yet finds here self permanently disabled. She returns to her childhood home in Louisiana's Bayou. The soap star is very credibly played. She is a pain-in-the-neck. She is mad at the World. She turns to alcohol as her way of coping. Any nurse's aides that come by find that she is impossible to deal with. Finally a black woman, played by Alfrey Woodard, comes by. She is unconventional. Unlike the other aides, she doesn't pretend to be the orderly. She is honesty and down-to-earth. She says that 'she can't leave. It is a job that she must have'. The 'must have' turns out to be due to the fact that she is really looking for a place of refuge from her destructive life up North. This movie is very original. It may be one of Sayles' best. The bayou is beautiful. The actors and actresses who play the locals are very convincing. I especially like the prima donna ladies who pretend to be sophisticated, but really are opinionated bigots. Of course, Sayles' regular shows up as a local fisherman. Straitharn plays a very believable cajun. I also like the way that the local blacks were portrayed. They were cajun blacks. They had their own style, but also were culturally similar to the local cajun whites. The cajun music, of course, was very good. The beau of Woodard's character was entertaining. He was a man of lots of experiences. He had a boyish charm, but also had a lot of responsibilities. He was very forward and positive thinking. This movie was very charming. It is strange that a movie about a pain-in-the neck wheelchair-bound woman, could actually be entertaining and positive. Somehow, Sayles accomplished this. "},{"Title":"See for the Lovely Performances of McDonnell and Woodard","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mary McDonnell had a brief spate of success in films in the early 1990s before disappearing from the scene and reemerging recently on the television series Battlestar Galactica. First she came to major attention in Dances with Wolves, for which she received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress, and then she graduated to the lead category in 1992 for her performance in Passion Fish. McDonnell gives a lovely performance as a bratty soap opera actress who's confined to a wheelchair after an accident, and who must rely on a no-nonsense nurse (Alfre Woodard, lovely as well) for help. The film follows all of the requisite trajectories you'd expect from a movie like this, and the fish that give the film its name serve a heavy-handed symbolic purpose that seemed too much for me even at the time (and I was only seventeen). But the film does have a relaxed indie vibe to it, and I can see why people like it.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Yes. Sweet. Endearing endurance (with flaws of living).","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is what I appreciate of john Sayles. Friendship is as tough as the limitations of not even being able to live without legs, let alone living with legs, let alone living without addiction. Let alone living through addiction. Friendship is rawly beautiful. Friendship is enduring ugliness until the endurance becomes beautiful. Friendship is enduring theater. I didn't ask for the anal probe. It's the one thing I did well (which I can no longer do). So, the thing is, I appreciate mason daring's music; but it always (actually, simply too oftenly) seems so disjointed from the story; and not the good kind of disjointed (like the genius of Paul Thomas Anderson's Magnolia). But, then again, all in all, a sweet story a two foot mud snake in his mouth). But, then again, acting in this story is a part of the art, as in the actor is my friend. The actors are my friends Mary, Alfre, and David. And I want Mary's beautiful dream to be true. And I'm not afraid to repeat myself for emphasis the acting is beautifully moving. "},{"Title":"Genius scaffolding meets disability of the week TV plot","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Sayles directs Passion Fish. The plot? Soap star May Alice (played by Mary McDonnell) is rendered a paraplegic after a freak automobile accident. She soon finds herself housebound and cared for by Chantelle, a live in nurse played by Alfre Woodard.Like most films in this genre &#x96; Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?, Driving Miss Daisy, The Waterdance, My Left Foot, The Whales of August, Persona, Cries and Whispers, The Defiant Ones etc &#x96; Passion Fish revolves around shifting power relationships. Here, May is a wealthy but crippled white woman and Chantelle is (or seems to be) an impoverished black woman who nevertheless has the full use of her body. Each depends on the other. What Sayles does is trick us into making parallels between privilege, race and servitude &#x96; even though the film's power dynamics work perfectly well as a literal, social comment &#x96; only to then later reveal that Chantelle is herself a wealthy woman, with a father who is a doctor.Our double take, our need to reassess our typecasting, is mirrored to the very reappraisals our stars are forced to make throughout the film. And so May reverses her snobbish attitude toward her home town, blacks, her art and locals, whilst striking up a relationship with a man called Rennie (played by Sayles regular David Strathairn). In a similar fashion, Chantelle reassess her role as an assistant, a woman of servitude, and her own racial prejudices.Late in the film it is revealed that Chantelle is struggling to overcome a drug addiction. The film then draws broad parallels between both women's debilitations, the point being that struggles cross all divides and that recovery is made easier in a world in which we all hold hands. This aspect of the film &#x96; and Sayles' ending &#x96; is very hokey, very maudlin. But most films which deal with racial issues in such a manner risk a condescending, trite, self congratulatory tone. Sayles' filmography is littered with such naive, on-the-nose preaching. Better to tackle similar issues indirectly, invisibly, and at off kilter angles. Still, the film is packed with good stuff. On the outskirts of the film's worn-out melodrama are numerous beautifully subtle or unconventional scenes. Mary McDonnell's performance is itself interesting &#x96; watch how she lets her accent reassert itself at several key points &#x96; and the film's Louisiana's backdrops are suitably moody (Sayles aesthetic is amateurish, but his scripting makes up for this).The film's title is conjured up best during one scene in which an actress invests considerable time and energy into elevating a trashy movie scene about aliens administering anal probes. The point don't violate yourself by seeking fulfilment in hollow, vile pursuits and don't turn your back to genuine passions. Case in point May, who eschews small town life in favour for what she now realises is a grubby movie world populated by ditsy idiots, and Chantelle, who likewise turns her back to the people she loved and grew up amidst. But doesn't Sayles' somewhat patronising view of them big city folk undermine the very message of his film?7.9/10 &#x96; Like most of Sayles' best films, the actual narrative framework is more intelligent than the film's content (see Sayles' Limbo). The way the act of watching the film is interwoven with the way the character's themselves watch and transform is genius. The film's actual content, though, is pure Hollywood big issue cheese, typical of a Paul Haggis, Steven Spielberg or Stanley Kramer. "},{"Title":"Cajun flavored drama for the masses","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apparently Sayles never sat around a table with a bunch of women gabbing. In Passion Fish, which tells of a NYC soap opera actress who becomes a paraplegic and begins a long rehab in her Louisiana home town, the women at the table never talk over each other and only one talks at a time. Such histrionics are an example of the good and the bad of this very palatable, spoon fed Sayles product which strikes a nice safe middle ground on all the issues it plumbs. If good films follow the rules and great films break the rules, this flick is dead on good. Not risky fare but very well received, Passion Fish is one for the masses....especially the distaff. (B) "}]