[{"Title":"Not for everyone, but what is???","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"54 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's amusing to see people getting so upset at not getting a film others call great that they'll denigrate not only the film, but the people who made it and anyone who does like it. There seems to be a lot of that with Woody Allen. Stand-up comics aren't supposed to make great films. Fortunately, Woody doesn't care what people think he's supposed to do.And make no mistake, Shadows and Fog is a great film. Not merely an homage to the German expressionists, it abounds in the philosophies Woody has discussed in all his films god, love, death, sanity and craziness, honesty, cruelty, tyranny, humanity. The characters in this, one of the best of his screenplays, are all individuals, all facets of Woody's immense understanding of the common man. The scene in the brothel is stunning in its casual ordinariness. Kleinman (translation, little man,) is all of us, in the shadow and fog of confusing times. Consider the line he delivers just before he blows pepper in the crowd's face I never did anything to deserve getting in trouble. The irony here is that much of the fascism that overtook Europe came because too many good people did nothing. The lesson was as significant when Woody made the film as during the time depicted, and just as significant today. A great film, 10/10. "},{"Title":"Vintage Woody (either you love him or hate him there is no inbetween)","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This excellent black and white, set perhaps in Berlin in the 20's has no conclusion, only vignettes in the period from midnight to dawn. The city is engulfed in fear. A serial killer is at large..The camera shots illicit tension. All is shrouded in dark and murky unusual camera angles. The outdoor scenes are always somewhat blurred and slightly out of focus adding to the climate of fear.There is no plot per se, only chance meetings between participants. Of note is the conversation in the whorehouse, stimulating and extremely thought provoking. Woody's use of a revolving camera in the shot from face around to face around to face while the girls talk and the conversation is heard no matter on whom the camera is focused, -- this is a first. The viewer needs to pay extreme attention. Moreover the background music of Kurt Weill adds so much to the ambience.Seeing this now makes me wish wholeheartedly that Woody and Mia never had that horrible unpleasantness between them. Now the future forebodes there never being such a pairing. We all do suffer, including them.I say this film deserves a 10 out of 10 and the critics be damned.  So many critics are prone to criticize every theatrical offering of Woody just because of his personal behavior. "},{"Title":"It would kill you to be confused by a film?","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw `Shadows and Fog' for the first time this weekend, and while I can't say that it immediately became my favorite Woody Allen film, I did find it a very thoughtful and interesting film (not really a comedy), and an exceptionally beautiful film to look at.I know this is frowned upon at the IMDb, but a lengthy and very negative review on this page of `Shadows and Fog,' along with a critique of Woody Allen in general, has gotten my dander up, and I felt like putting in my two cents.  Why on earth should I, or any film lover, care about how successful a film is financially?  Why should I care if a majority of movie patrons like a director's films or not?  From my perspective, some of the stupidest trash makes the most money and sells the most tickets.  Sure, I liked Jurassic Park -- saw it several times at the cinema, bought the video -- but not because of how much money it made, or how many other people were going to see it.  It was because it was fun, and I liked it.  Does that mean I should damn more esoteric directors (like Woody Allen) to oblivion?  There are directors whose work I don't always understand, but God bless them, if they have the opportunity and the drive to get their cinematic vision realized, more power to them.  I don't necessarily have to like their work, or go to see it.  But on the whole, I'd rather be talked-up-to then talked-down-to, and being a little confused by a film has never permanently damaged anyone, so far as I know.So calm down out there, you art-house-haters!  It's just entertainment.  Read your 20th century history.  Limiting entertainment to its lowest common denominator has been tried and tried.  No good has ever come of it, to my knowledge.And incidentally, if you have a predilection for Woody Allen films, and like the look of old black and white expressionist cinema, give `Shadows and Fog' a look.  It would maybe kill you?  "},{"Title":"Style Over Substance","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's tribute to German expressionism is better than most critics would have you believe. Sure there is very little plot to speak of, it's more a series of vignettes and gags than a cohesive narrative. Sure, it ends rather abruptly, never solving the mystery, but none of this stopped my thorough enjoyment of this film.As the title suggests the entire movie is designed in shadows and fog. Shot with beautiful black and white photography, Allen and cinematographer Carlo Di Palma create the look and feel of an unnamed East European city as seen in such films as M and Nosferatu. The lighting is set up so that in nearly every shot underlying shadows engulf the scene. In the exteriors a vicious fog rolls across the night sky obscuring most details. Through the fog bumbles Kleinman (Allen is his typical neurotic schmuck role) trying to find his role in a vigilante mob's plan to stop a serial killer roaming the streets. From dark night until dawn, Kleinman wanders from place to place meeting a wide variety of curious characters (played by an even more curious group of celebrities), the most endearing of which is a desperate sword swallower (Mia Farrow)who is has wandered into a brothel after fleeing her cheating boyfriend/clown (John Malcovich).It is a little unsettling to watch Allen do his normal schtick while the characters around him are murdered, subjected to racial prejudice, beaten by the police and discuss such subjects as love, sex, and meaning. There is a subtext involving the plight of the Jews between the World Wars, foreshadowing the Nazis. Yet the gags remain as solid as any Woody Allen film. Amongst the seriousness of his subtext and the films he is paying homage to, Allen finds away to bring full bellied laughter. Though his quirky neurosis isn't as resolutely hilarious as it is in such films as Annie Hall, it is still enough to fill the film with mirth.The film ends rather abruptly with Kleinman having never learned his role in the plan, nor the killer having been caught. Yet as the credits role we realize the mystery was not so much the reason behind the story as method in creating it. "},{"Title":"Shadows and Fog (1992) ***","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I made the big mistake of avoiding this for years based on all the garbage I'd heard slammed against it, and as a result it was one of the last Woody Allen movies I got around to seeing. Well, it was worth waiting for, as it turned out to be a real treat. This is one of Allen's strangest works, probably his signature stab at a horror spoof. The black and white moody photography is compelling, modeled after the dark German expressionistic films of Murnau and Fritz Lang, as well as a hearkening back to those delightful old horror and Sherlock Holmes films from Universal Studios.The action is set in an un-named village in an unknown time and place, but it's patterned after the early 20th Century, with a hint of Germany or even London. True to form, Allen plays a dweeb who is awoken at midnight by an angry mob demanding that he assist them in tracking down a Jack-the-Ripper-like serial murderer who's prowling the streets. He half-heartedly gets dressed and ventures out into the moonlit fog, unsure of just what's expected from him while he manages a few good one-liner's in his apprehension (they say the killer has the strength of 10 men; I have the strength of one small boy -- with polio).There are guest stars galore, some of whom have very small parts but are fun to watch anyway. A traveling circus in town consists of a female sword swallower (Mia Farrow) and her clown husband (John Malkovich) who is having an affair with the Strongman's pretty wife (Madonna). When Farrow catches the two of them in a caravan together, she storms out alone into the dark and is taken in by a street walker (Lily Tomlin) who lets her unwind inside her brothel with the rest of the whores (two of which are played by Kathy Bates and Jodie Foster). Some of the finest moments in the film come within the whorehouse, complimented by philosophical discussion and interesting camera-work. It's there that a wealthy young patron (John Cusack) fancies Mia and coaxes her into bed for one night. Her ultimate guilt over the encounter leads her back into the dense fog, until she meets up (predictably) with Woody. Also in small roles are Donald Pleasence in good form as a mad coroner who wants to analyze the essence of the killer's evil (possibly playing on his involvement in the HALLOWEEN films) and a wasted turn by Fred Gwynne (don't blink or you'll miss him) as one of the villagers.SHADOWS AND FOG is flawed to be sure (there are a lot of loose ends remaining untied for one thing) but it's visually appealing and rich in atmosphere and the language of the night. I enjoyed it. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Allen at his Finest","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Shadows & Fog' is, for me, all that which makes a perfect picture. I've seen all Woody Allen's pictures, and none affects me in the same way that 'S&F' does.The film is set in the early part of the 20th century somewhere in Eastern Europe. The opening scenes set up what will become the basic plot (and believe me, it is basic) of the film. Allen plays Klieinman, a simple clerk who is awaken by a lynch mob hell-bent on catching a killer who has taken to strangling (or slitting the throats, nobody seems sure) of the townsfolk.As Kleinman leaves his flat in reluctant search of the killer, we are introduced to the fog swept streets of the village. It is here that we find the real character of this film. Allen uses the simple story of the hunt as a means to introduce us to us to true beauty in the night. He uses lighting and canted angles to produce a surreal setting unlike any film produced in the last half-century. Note the way light filtering through the spokes of the circus wagons reflects of the fog in a way so beautiful and haunting that it's easy to forget we're watching an 88min comedy shot on sound stages in New York.Setting the mood as such, Allen walks us through the streets and offers a brief glimpse of the characters who inhabit the night. It seems as if the whole town is up searching for the killer, and each of them is given a short moment to offer a bit of insight and then move on. However brief, each character brings us further into the shadows and we soon feel a chill as the night air seems to fill the room.The scene eventually shifts to a whore house where we are privy to a spectacular scene. Five women sit at a table discussing relationships, fascinating stories given that most of them are whores. Instead of cuts, Allen simply places a camera in the center of the table and revolves as the ladies converse. It's a scene reminiscent of the opening sequence of 'A Touch of Evil' of the Copacabana scene in 'Goodfellas'. Amazing.There's so much more to say. Brecht's score is wonderful, the cast is literally one of the best of the 1990's (Cusack, Malkovitch, Foster, Macy, Riley, Shaw, Bates, Tomilin, Kavner, Pleasence), and the jokes are hilarious.Above everything, see this film for it's namesake ... Shadows and Fog. If ever there was a homage to night and all its mystery and beauty, it's 'Shadows and Fog'. "},{"Title":"Visualy Entertaing and very interesting.","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Shadows and Fogstarring Woody Allen, Michale Kirby, Mia Farrow, and John MalkovichIn a small european like town, lives a very nervous clerk, who out of nowhere is awaken by a group of Vigilantes who are after a serial killer in the town who strikes in the fog at night. Klienman on the way meets a dark adventure with twists, turns, suspenseful encounters with the killer himself, a few lusty whores, a female sword swallower wanting a family, a Gifted investagator using primitive techniques, and a drunk but effective magician.Coments I feel that this film is very UNDERrated. It is a very good film in my opinoin. Here Woody Allen creates a totally new type of meaning to the words Adventure and Nostalgia. With a whole ensemble of celebrites, and a dark mood and setting, this is one of Allens greatest films. **** "},{"Title":"Woody. Kafka. German Expressionism. What Went Wrong with this Experiment?","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Allen is not a stranger to the black and white formula. One look at MANHATTAN, for example, and you have a fantastic, classic film with first-rate performances and a focused story.The story is typical Allen, with overlapping plots, people who in some way or other are interrelated to one another by the six-degrees-of-separation rule and only serves to somehow have Mia Farrow and Woody Allen converge in what seems to be a turning point, which later on, somehow fails to resolve itself satisfactorily. It's never known what European city this is, but the idea comes clear Allen evokes the moody black and whites of German Expressionism (I kept thinking of M and its urban decay) and throws in some healthy amounts of Franz Kafka's THE PROCESS where a paranoia is the main theme and a man is to be convicted without knowing why.Where SHADOWS AND FOG falters is not in the story per se Allen packs this movie with so many big-name actors in barely there parts, there's no room to focus on the story which meanders as it is a little too much. There's a message to be expressed, but with so much satirical humor during the brothel sequence turning progressively dark once the focus goes back to the killer at large, it would have been better had there not been so much of the former and more of the latter. It remains something of a stand-alone oddity in a career filled with urban angst of the upper crust white intellectuals from his New York based movies. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated and highly entertaining.","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't help but wonder what everyone finds so confusing about this film. It doesn't take a tremendous amount of knowledge to enjoy this well crafted ode to (and let's face it spoof of) German Expressionism a little Nosferatu here, a dash of Caligari there, a couple of slightly less obvious flourishes (the Sniffer with a divine gift, the Circus, the mobs and the general atmosphere) and you've got all you need. Of course, this is the most basic level in the film (I won't dig into Philosophy and message in a commentary but by all means it's there and worth musing over) but it's already enough to justify seeing it.The idea of the confusing shadows and fog of Expressionist cinema filtered through Allen's off-kilter character world view is exactly what makes the film so hysterical. The entire film is done in a beautiful black and white recalling the source material and the city's mob are all played perfectly deadpan... except for Allen who manages to bumble his way through obstacle after obstacle trying to at least get a grip on the situation. If this pile of nerves moving through a dark sordid city doesn't make you laugh, I don't know what to say.The film DOES falter in some aspects however. Mia Farrow is passable as the necessary sympathetic female lead, but in the end her presence doesn't fit in with the rest of the film's ambiance and one would have rather seen more of femme Fatale Lily Tomlin. Likewise, John Malchovich's Clown (while obviously referential) sticks out like a sore thumb. It's a shame that Allen had to add these elements which end up detracting from the overall film, but one couldn't hold the film alone and Farrow manages to at least be a proper target to bounce lines.In the end, a very strong film and one that entertains properly, but obviously not one made for the uninitiated. However, for those who're on the inside of the plan (and furthermore, on the inside of the philosophies) it's a tremendous bit of fun.Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Clever, if (intentionally) derivative satire with great performances.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A stellar cast, lovely B&W cinematography, funny dialogue (mostly taken from Allen's play Death), a wonderful score of the music of Kurt Weill, a mild satire of Kafka, etc. Reviled by many -- I loved it. "}{"Title":"nice addition to the collection","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Shadows and fog are everywhere in Shadows and Fog, one of Woody's most visually impressive pieces. One of his better chosen casts as well. (Check out William H Macy in a brief bit as a cop) Full of big ideas and classic comic bits, including all the great scenes at the brothel. Once again Woody's love of magic plays a part in the story. Some of his best zingers, too ( They say a deranged killer has the strength of 10 men... I have the strength of a very small boy... with polio -now that's funny.)Each character, main or brief, has a nice moment on screen, especially Julie Kavner in her best Marge Simpson voice playing Kleinman's bitter ex fiancee. She's hilarious. Loathe him or admire him Allen always makes you think.  "},{"Title":"Dream of the Dog","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers hereinWoody is a journalist, recording IN film what he learns ABOUT film in his noodling  around. The style is conversational. This time he walks through the German mind. We have five or six main notions of film  this one is rooted in the notion of the power of illusion to raise dark forces that  otherwise don't exist. Along the way, he notes that Nazism is to some degree a result of  these forces of film.His attentions are divided in three parts (1) the metanarrative about the German model  of film, spoofing that model all the way; (2) a satire on how he thinks that magic disturbs  our dreams and settles in our illusions about one another. The factions, the lists, the  $700 fee and Cusak's commentary all come from this; and (3) the requisite jokes almost  all involving Allen. To my mind, all of these fall flat, especially the bit about the bride left  at the altar. But I suppose he didn't have much to work with.His lighting isn't up to what he attempts here, it is less stark than the originals. He really  needed Sacha Vierny. But his camera motion is great, because it goes beyond the  originals so  far we cannot escape the joke. This is minor Allen, working his way from the relatively  simple mastery of narrative style in Annie Hall to the more complex control of the  medium itself in Sweet and Lowdown.Along the way here, we encounter a few actors, all except Cusak wasted. Jodie Foster is  expected to grin and little else. Wallace Shawn, one of our greats when it comes to this  sort of irony, has a brief role that could be seen as an homage Shawn gets the  promotion from the voyeur.Ted's evaluation 2 of 3, Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen, running on fumes","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This so-called comedy is a rethinking of Woody Allen's own short play 'Death' (published in his 1976 collection 'Without Feathers'), transplanted to a weird, Kafka-like Middle European setting and mercilessly padded (at the expense of the humor) to allow room for several high profile guest stars, most of them in roles too small to be noticed. The effect is not unlike a student film parody of a Woody Allen comedy, following a hapless nebbish (who could only have been played by Allen himself) pressed into service by urban vigilantes hunting a shadowy killer. The familiar one-liners and stale meditations on God, sex, and death are all camouflaged behind some beautiful (if hokey) black and white photography, with transparent references to more than one film school idol Bergman, Murnau, Fellini, and so forth. What's left is the novelty of seeing Kathy Bates playing a prostitute alongside Lilly Tomlin and Jodie Foster, and John Malkovich cast as a circus clown opposite Madonna. It wasn't meant this way, but the casting is the funniest thing about the movie. "},{"Title":"Open to interpretation.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A title as descriptive as it is oblique, Shadows and Fog is Allen's playful ode to German expressionism, Franz Kafka, and Kurt Weil. Though not as successful as other films of his from the same era, particularly Husbands and Wives and Manhattan Murder Mystery, it regardless remains something of a sadly neglected curio in his directorial cannon, with Allen creating a film that is visually stunning and thematically quite fascinating, despite the occasional lapses in terms of script and overall performance. The film draws heavily on the dual influences of Kafka's novel the Trial and the Fritz Lang film M, as Allen - here cast as the neurotic existentialist Max Kleinmann - finds himself embroiled in the search for a vicious serial killer stalking the nocturnal streets of an unnamed amalgamation of archaic Eastern-European cities. Ultimately, the nervy and intellectual Kleinmann becomes the number one suspect in the case, hounded by both police and lynch mobs alike, and forced to escape into the dangerous night with a beautiful sword-swallower named Irmy, who has left the circus to get away from her adulterous and patronising boyfriend. The two characters form the dual arc of the story, with their paths crossing throughout... whilst simultaneously, acting as links back and forth between the various subplots and supporting characters.Allen's ultimate failing with the film is that he casts his net a little too wide, introducing characters for no real reason and then forgetting about them before we even get to know them. It also doesn't help matters much that he decides to fill every single role, no matter how short or insubstantial, with an A-list actor. The stars really get in the way of the central drama between Kleinmann and Irmy, and the interesting atmosphere and tension created by the mysteriously plot. I suppose, essentially, the film should be seen as an art-house mystery, drawing certain parallels with Steven Soderbergh's greatly underrated film Kafka from the year before, in the sense that both films use a loosely expressionistic style (actually closer to post-war noir... but who's really nit-picking with a film this visually stunning?) and the idea of a hapless central character being plunged head-long into a plot that he has no control over. However, having said that, it's also a Woody Allen film, so we have the neurotic central character, the unrequited love and the comic vignettes to act as a sort of padding.It seems that Allen really wanted the best of both worlds here, attempting to create a serious expressionist piece, with a dark plot involving murder, corruption, prostitution and the idea of suspicion, but feeling the need to compromise, with the inclusion of witty one-liners, a vague ending and a galaxy of stars, to, I suppose, justify the lavish $20 million budget. In this respect, Shadows and Fog is a flawed film... one that seems unsure of what it wants to be or where it wants to go. However, if we scratch a little beneath the surface we find that the film, like many of the director's other projects, works on a deeper level than the central narrative. I've read reviews and analysis elsewhere on the Internet that talk much more eloquently than I ever could about Allen's use of subtext, particularly in the idea of mob-mentality, especially when it comes to the Jewish characters here. Is Allen making some kind of comment on the action leading up to and beyond Hitler's reign of tyranny during the Second World War? It's possible, particularly if we think about the scene in which Kleinmann is immediately greeted with suspicion by the priest and the chief of police as he attempts to hand over a $700 donation to the local church. There's also the scene in which Kleinmann watches in horror as the Jewish family - a family he knows to be honest and good - are violently thrown out of their house and arrested by the heavy-handed lynch mob, which recalls certain scenes from Schindler's List.There's also the notion of madness, most pronounced during the conversation between Kleinmann and the eccentric physician... a scene that really pushes the ambient, highly expressionistic style to breaking point, with it's rigid black and white composition, use of shadows and framed distortions and constant soundtrack hum of distant industrial noise bringing to mind films like The Elephant Man by David Lynch or Lars von Trier's The Element of Crime. Or is the whole film a dream... with that first murder happening at the start of the film before Kleinmann is suddenly awoken from a deep-sleep by his angry neighbours (certainly this would suggest the dreamlike shifts in tone - from moments of light comedy to the deeper ruminations on god and death - and that strange and elusive climax). Naturally, taking all of these factors (which, at the end of the day, are just my personal interpretations) into consideration, one would be best advised to give the film a few viewings before passing judgement on it. I'm not going to try and talk it up like it's one of Allen's greatest masterpieces because at the end of the day it's really not... the script could have perhaps done with a little work and I really could have done without all the A-list cameos (I think the film would have worked better with unknowns, like Zelig).However, I think it's a good film regardless of these flaws; one that employs an evocative and highly atmospheric visual style, has some nicely observed moments and delicate switches between humour and something much more sinister, and has a story that rewards repeated viewings and gives way to a plethora of different interpretations. It's certainly not the best place to start for those new to Allen's cinema - though I prefer it to the universally acclaimed Hannah and Her Sisters - though it's sure to delight long term devotees, or anyone with a passing interest in German expressionism, Kafka, or surreal European cinema. "},{"Title":"Little Man's Night Out","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like Woody Allen's Shadows and Fog and I think it is seriously underrated. Shot in a beautiful B/W this surreal Comedy / Mystery / Drama / Thriller takes place in a small town somewhere in the Eastern Europe between two World Wars where a mysterious maniac stranglers the people all over the town. Since the local police proved to be helpless, the citizens form vigilance committees and a small timid insignificant bookkeeper Kleinman (his name is translated as Little Man) is recruited to search for a murderer in the dark night full of shadows and fog. Allen parodies German Expressionists (Fritz Lang), Franz Kafka, and Ingmar Bergman (Magician) in this funny, scary, warm, dark, surreal, and dramatic film that he saw as a metaphor for humanity, as we all muddle through the murk and attempt to find meaning. The cast is all brilliant and includes Mia Farrow, John Malkovich, Madonna, David Ogden Stiers, Michael Kirby, John Cusack, John C. Reilly. Lily Tomlin, Jodie Foster, and Kathy Bates appeared in the cameos playing prostitutes in the local brothel. I was especially impressed by John Malkovich - never expected him be as tender as in the final scene. "},{"Title":"A different kind of film from Woody Allen","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows and Fog is Woody Allen's tribute to German Expressionism, and it's very interesting, often funny, and at times downright strange. He gives no indication of the setting or time, and as is often true with Allen, there's a serious undertone. His nebishy character, Kleinman, is woken up in the middle of the night in his home for reasons having to do with a serial killer at large. Poor Kleinman doesn't know exactly what he has to do with anything, but as he puts it, everything seems to know what he's supposed to be doing but him. Across town, Mia Farrow is the circus performer Irmy, who finds out her boyfriend (John Malkovich) is cheating on her, so she leaves him. She winds up in a brothel with some real characters played by Lily Tomlin, Kathy Bates, and Jodie Foster. A client (John Cusack) declares himself in love with Mia and offers her money to sleep with him. When it gets up to $700, she accepts. Later she meets Kleinman and sends him to the church to donate all but $50. The priest is impressed, and the police cross Kleinman's name off the list of suspects. Then they meet a beggar, and she sends Kleinman back for half the money. Kleinman's name goes back on the list of suspects.Yes, it's an odd but fascinating film. The atmosphere is bizarre, very German - dark, bleak, and foggy, with a scary serial killer out of M. Big stars float in and out of the film, like Madonna, some with tiny roles. The funniest scene is when Kleinman tries to hide out at his ex-girlfriend's (Julie Kavner) who calls him every name in the book and then tries to turn him in.Kleinman is an innocent man caught in confusing circumstances and times, not sure which side he should be on - there are two factions trying to catch this killer, and both attempt to recruit him - and all the poor guy wants is a promotion at his job. Though his reactions are often amusing, imagine being awoken by the police in the middle of the night and having no idea what it's about. It's happened, though, as it happens in the film. As Kleinman wanders the streets, unsure of where he's going, we can relate. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen blends comedy & Kafka with an all-star cast","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       This film is obviously not for everyone, not even for everyone who likes Woody Allen. I like it a lot, partly for the awesome all-star cast, partly for the blending of comedy (i.e., Woody's usual schlemiel self) with drama (a deranged killer loose on the streets of a fog-shrouded town at night). I'm not going to go into a lot of details on the film, anyone can pick them up between the other user comments, external and newsgroup reviews. The main reason I'm adding my two cents worth is no one seems to have noticed, or commented on one of the film's underlying themes that of anti-semitism in Europe apparently between world wars. For instance, the Mintz family is picked up by the police as a convenient scapegoat for the recent murders despite Kleinman's (Woody Allen) assertion that they are lovely people. Shortly afterwards, Kleinman goes to the local church to make a donation on behalf of Irmy (Mia Farrow) and finds the priest and a policeman making up a list of people that also includes himself. I can't quite put my finger on it, but he seems to be referring to the start of Hitler's persecution of Jews in Germany prior to WW II. Of course this theme is woven in with several others regarding marital fidelity, prostitution, insanity and the nature of mob- mentality; but it does seem interesting that everyone motivated enough to write something about this film pro or con seems to have overlooked, or intentionally ignored. "},{"Title":"As cinema of the surreal, its perfection.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen's Kleinman is the one island of reason  in this unnamed nighttime city, pleading for  cooperation amongst the members of the lynchmob out  to get a vicious killer.  Without any explanations,  they can't even agree on how to do that, and they  break off into separate factions, with intramural  anger that grows and festers throughout their long  night, even to the point of overshadowing their  goal.  Woody actually makes this process an exercise  in hilarity, a tribute to his genius.  It's film  surrealism with a point, to let us relish unreality  by letting there be just enough reality to get a  fingerhold, before we slide back into delicious  absurdity.  The concept of using nearly-miscast  actors in near-cameo roles is part of that premise.   This is a great film (for me, it's a 10), and   recommended to all who do not require pat answers  and ongoing explanations.  "},{"Title":"One man getting lost amidst the smoke and mirrors.","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows And Fog is one of my favourite Woody Allen movies (which puts it beside quite a few others because when he's good . . . . . . he's very good) and yet it can also be viewed as nothing more than a slight, mood piece.Allen, who wrote and directed the thing as usual, stars as a man who keeps getting drawn into the plans of a local lynch mob as they wander the streets, hunting for a strangler. Meanwhile, Mia Farrow plays a woman who runs out on her husband (John Malkovich), after a major row, and ends up at a whorehouse whereupon she is admired by John Cusack's character. Will Allen ever escape the lynch mob? Will Farrow leave the safety of the whorehouse to risk fleeing further into the fog while the strangler remains at large? Mixing the Kafka-esque elements of an innocent man drawn into a bizarre, sticky web of events with the style of German Expressionism (I was certainly reminded of the classic movie, M, on more than one occasion), Shadows And Fog is a real treat for film lovers.The acting is all solid. Allen is as he usually is and Farrow plays a character similar to many others she has played for him but John Cusack is a delight to watch and you have credits for Jodie Foster, Lily Tomlin, Kathy Bates, Kurtwood Smith, Donald Pleasence, Daniel Von Bargen, William H. Macy, Fred Gwynne, John C. Reilly, Wallace Shawn and even Madonna. Some of these people have blink-and-you'll-miss-'em moments but the selection of names still makes for a very impressive cast list.The style though, it's all about the style and the mood and Woody the director nails this perfectly. Everything feels slightly off-kilter and you can almost feel the damp fog clinging to your skin whenever the characters are wandering around the streets and worrying about everyone they pass by.One of Allen's top tier movies. "},{"Title":"Good Enough Movie.","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One foggy night. A killer on the loose. A circus in town. A clueless man involved in a plot to catch the killer, but what is the plot? Not one of Woody Allen's most well-known movies but it's definitely worth a look. First of all, the cinematography is brilliant, the use of black & white gives this movie a very 40's look.Woody Allen playing, well, Woody Allen, never fails to amuse and co-starring Mia Farrow, John Malkovich, John Cusack, Madonna, Jodie Foster among others, Shadows And Fog is a highly entertaining film.In terms of quality, it lacks essence to be one of Woody's best or most memorable but it's by no means a bad movie.Interesting nonetheless, especially for Woody Allen fans. "}{"Title":"A Nazi code phrase","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Written and directed by Woody Allen, starring himself, and Mia Farrow, Julie Kavner, Kathy Bates, John Cusack, Willam Macy, Jodie Foster, Fred Gwynne, Madonna, John Malkovich, Kate Nelligan, Donald Pleasance, Lily Tomlin&#133; and yet it STILL makes sense! Comedic moments of neurotic Allen nervousness disguise what I now further appreciate as serious undertones which I did not quite catch upon my last viewing (a few years ago). Shadows and Fog was a Nazi code phrase for their operations of arresting & vanishing any undesirables during the early stages of their campaign. You'll find equivalent characters and groups to represent the factions in Germany during the 1930's in this film. A sinister atmosphere is punctured by moments of organizational incompetence and paranoia, then once again made sinister with the regular rhythm of murders occurring right under everyone's noses. There is also a Fellini-esque tone of craziness built into this film. I really have come to a better understanding of the symbols, metaphors, and parallels in this beautifully lighted and photographed b/w work. The silvery gray tones are velvet. Pure perfection. "},{"Title":"An self-consious attempt at an art movie.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Easily one of the worst films by a major talent in the history of Cinema. To Allens credit it must have been a difficult subject to get the cash for and how or why Orion agreed to pay for it god alone knows. Filmed in black and white without any grain at all. An expressionist movie with a realist hand-held camera. A film set in a non-existant unspecified country of which, as Orson Welles once said a movie set nowhere must be really bad. The cliches pile up thick and thin, only made worse by the presence of Fred Gwyn and Donald Pleasence. The jokes are thin, the philosophical content is low and Malkovich does his usual anti-acting routine. Even the music by Kurt Weil fails to make the borring images come to life. This film was based on a one act play called, I think, Death writen around 1975. The play is a gem, very funny and far more profound than the movie, it's just a shame Allen left out all the decent jokes and made up the diffirence with trash. Perhaps this movie is best seen as the peak and merciful end of Allens late 1980's indulgent & pretensious serious period. "},{"Title":"Authentically soupy","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is Woody Allen's attempt at a German Expressionist film, shot in authentically soupy black and white. The star-studded cast includes Mia Farrow, John Malkovich, Madonna, Donald Pleasance, Lilly Tomlin, Jodie Foster, Kathy Bates, John Cusack, Kate Nelligan and the inevitable Wallace Shawn. It was a flop at the cinema and received its British television premiere in the middle of the night on Channel 5 eight years later. It is mildly amusing, without being funny and it is also inconsequential. The murderer remains on the loose. If it is symbolic, the symbolism escapes me.There is suitable music by Kurt Weill and a tacky theme by Jack Hilton.  "},{"Title":"Allen's Flawed Gem","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can see why a lot of people disliked this film, but I think that reaction was a result of taking it the wrong way.  This seems to me, while sloppy at times,to be a semi-satire of Kafka (particulary The Trial) and Beckett. Woody deals with familiar themes, which are not always particulary compelling (Oh God! What's the meaning of life?), but the existential angst and concern with illusion are amusing, and the ending is quite clever.If Allen had chose not to use so many well-known actors, I think the film would have been more received.  The Mia Farrow role may have been unneeded, but the Prostitutes tie in well to the theme (though somewhat repetitious of Allen's other work).  The actors that were wasted were used enough, if not too much.  If Allen would have dispensed with some of the dialogue (particularly at the table in the whorehouse, and some of the ill-suited humor, this could have been a more compelling film. But even as it stands, it is entertaining, intriguing, and intelligent.. "},{"Title":"2nd time is the Charmer","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this, I was a little disappointed in it.  I saw it again last night and enjoyed it tremendously with only a few reservations. The trick is not to approach this movie as a comedy- it's not, though it has many funny moments.  My fault, which was all my own the first time, is that I expected more laughs- sit back and enjoy it as a thought-provoking and freely structured mood piece- when the humor does come, and it will in several places, welcome it but don't blame Woody that there's not another joke two seconds later.It helps to be familiar with Kafka and early German cinema, it will increase your enjoyment.  My only criticism is in the scene where John Cusack offers Mia Farrow $700 for a trick-  I think Woody the director could have staged the moments of Cusack first  seeing Farrow and desiring her in a way it could have been more believable.  It rang false and Mia has the charm and beauty to make me believe it- but it was rushed and forced- every other scene in the movie is wonderful, though- the ending has a magical feel to it and the cast is great- and that includes the ones you don't instantly recognize- yes, there's more to the cast than the celebrities.  The movie is a treat- very literary- it has my all-time favorite Woody line- it refers to dancing it-I'll say no more.NOW FOR MY BIGGEST GRIPE WHICH IS PERSONAL-Lily Tomlin is wasted in the movie- she does a good job but is a minor character.  Hello, Woody?  Lily Tomlin is a comic genius- she is absolutely astonishing- there's no one like her- and to see your chance to share screen time with her and use her like she is just an actress saddens me-Tomlin is not just an actress- she is a force of nature- every bit and every inch, she is your equal- I'd rather not see her than see the missed opportunity between two greats.  That said, the movie is solid and entertaining, don't dismiss it.NOW  "},{"Title":"One of my very favorite Woody Allen comedies.","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved it!  Woody is wonderful, as usual.  His script is  hysterical, as usual.  The black and white cinematography, directing and editing create very interesting visual effects that leave you wanting to watch it over and over again.  (The slew of well-known actors are more noticeable the second go round, anyway). In a sense, the movie is a visual portrayal of those frustrating dreams we've all had in which we can't quite see; you know, where you wake up exhausted and nervous wondering, what was that all about?  The entire movie can be watched from that perspective as you, once again, see yourself all over the place in Woody's movies and characters.  At least I do.  "},{"Title":"Vigilantes, hookers, circus folks, and a killer","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An inept man is coerced into joining a band of vigilantes who are stalking a murderous psycho. As he goes through the motions of vigilantism he falls in with a circus girl, meets a group of jaded prostitutes, becomes a murder suspect, and finally comes face to face with the killer himself. Like most of Allen's films, this one came in from left field. Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen goes Expressionist","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although I still had plenty of unseen Woody Allen films to choose from, I really wanted for Shadows and Fog to be the next one in line. Why? Because, quite honestly, I never really liked Allen's style and humor and it's only since recently that I developed a new interest in his repertoire (since the discovery of the near-brilliant Sleeper). So, since I'm still quite skeptical towards his films, I specifically looked for the titles that feature as many of my personal favorite themes and topics as possible. The one and practically only option in that case was Shadows and Fog. I'm a big fan of horror movies and Shadows and Fog deals with a serial strangler prowling the streets of a terrified city. I'm a sucker for old classics and Shadows and Fog just happens to be a downright tribute to the earliest years of cinema; particularly German Expressionist films and Gothic stories. I'm all into weird and taboo sub plots and Shadows and Fog features traveling circus freaks, shameless prostitutes and deranged vigilantes. I have tremendous respect for underrated genre actors and Shadows and Fog stars a whole bunch of them, like Donald Pleasance, Fred Gwynne, Kathy Bates, Daniel Von Bargen and many more. Basically, on paper Shadows and Fog could easily become my new favorite movie, but sadly Woody Allen only delivered a half- finished product. Kleinman, an insignificant office clerk, is rudely woken up in the middle of the night by a bunch of overly obsessive neighbors. They formed a vigilante squad to hunt down a serial strangler and they insist Kleinman to also fulfill his part of the plan. Only &#x85; Kleinman never has a clue what the plan is all about. Meanwhile, Irmy the cherubic female sword swallower of the traveling circus, which just happens to be in town, flees from her cheating husband and ends up wandering around in the dark and foggy streets of the city. The two encounter bizarre figures separately (like prostitutes, horny students, spooky doctors and lazy cops), before they meet each other &#x85; and the killer. The atmosphere of the film is exact right. Shadows and Fog amazingly echoes the most vintage years of cinema, with clear references towards milestones like M, Freaks and even Alfred Hitchcock's silent interpretation of the Jack the Ripper saga The Lodger. The dialogs and humor are also quite subtle and witty, but the problem is that &#x96; at least in my humble opinion &#x96; the script doesn't fit the tone. Now, I know to expect comedy instead of frights with Woody Allen, but I can't erase the impression a better amalgamation was possible. Also, especially near the ending, the film feels rushed and becomes quite incoherent. All the beautiful and professional building up, including the re-creation of fog-enshrouded Gothic streets which allegedly cost nearly $20 million, all of a sudden feels so &#x85; purposeless! A real shame. "},{"Title":"Woody does mystery-comedy. . .Wonderfully!","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an absolutely greatly entertaining mystery comedy. One of Woody's finest efforts for humor, and a complete aesthetic mixture of all that goes into great film-making. The performances are uniformly fantastic from one of the strongest ensemble cast I have ever seen on the screen. The cinematography and graphic night-time-fogged black and white imagery are nearly translucent and wonderfully mixed in shades that re-enforce the plot and set. All of this together with an unbelievable musical score, a fast paced beautifully written script, brilliant camera work, and one of Woody's best ever direction efforts. The cast. . . .how could anything go wrong? Allen, Mia Farrow, John Malkovich (who fits well asthe clown), John Cusack (a great performance as student Jack), Lily Tomlin, Jodie Foster, Kathy Bates, Donald Pleasence, Madonna (steamy and perfect), Julie Kavner (pre-Marge Marge) and on and on, many of whom have gone on to iconic star status since this film, and many of whom have appeared in other Woody Allen ensembles. The picture may be something of a stylized art-piece, and for some film watchers will fail to reach them since some film watchers, in general, tend to be unreachable media slaves of the corporate world, and therefor. . .make for a rather lame model. But, and that said, anyone with half a sense of humor and an ability to appreciate great art comedy will love this picture. "},{"Title":"Pretentious But Entertaining","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was having chemotherapy when this came out and don't actually remember its even existing. And, to be honest, it barely does exist. It has lots of superb actors. It's shot with great atmosphere. But it is a little of this and a little of that and not much of anything in the end.Mia Farrow is charming as a waif. Allen as the central character is annoying. He wrote and directed it so who am I to criticize? But, though the plot doesn't make much sense, it appears to be a very serious movie. And here he is, doing his usual shtick as a (supposedly) lovable nebbish.The brothel scenes are the movie's highlights. The prostitutes -- Lily Tomlin, Kathy Bates -- are cast against type but are very funny and believable. John Cusak is also cast against type as a bookish but sexually ravenous student. He seems to have independent means and pays Farrow, who has been given refuge by the girls, a large sum even by today's standards.Allen writes very well and is a superb director. None of his movies are uninteresting. This one is somewhat amorphous but has many fine sequences. "}{"Title":"meandering Woody","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bookkeeper Kleinman (Woody Allen) is awakened by a vigilante mob with a plan to catch a serial strangler who always strikes during foggy nights. He goes to the morgue to ask the doctor (Donald Pleasence) about the plan. After he leaves, the doctor is killed by the strangler and he fears a glass will point to him.In a traveling circus, sword swallower Irmy (Mia Farrow) discusses leaving with her clown boyfriend Paul (John Malkovich). She catches him cheating on her with tightrope artist Marie (Madonna). Irmy runs away and is taken in by prostitutes (Lily Tomlin, Jodie Foster, Kathy Bates). Jack (John Cusack) pay her $700, an outrageous sum, to sleep with her. The police raids the whorehouse and they are brought to the station where Kleinman steals the glass.This is a meandering tale. Its black-and-white style points to the old German silent movies. It's stock full of big actors in small roles. It has bits of funny moments, mostly Woody with Mia. Woody is playing around with the style. There is no murder mystery since the killer's face is shown. It doesn't make for a compelling story but it's an interesting exercise nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Some of that Fun Woody Allen","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With a serial strangler on the loose, a bookkeeper wanders around town searching for the vigilante group intent on catching the killer.For Woody Allen, this film was intended to work off of the German expressionism of such 1920s greats as Murnau and Pabst. Although he chose not to make a silent film, he definitely made every effort to keep the shadows and fog in black and white. One scene of the Strangler coming out of the fog is a clear homage to Nosferatu.The casting is fantastic, with some Woody regulars (Mia Farrow) and some unexpected performances from the likes of John Cusack. Although it seems blasphemous to say so, Cusack far outshines many of his co-stars, and yet this is not considered one of his best roles.Gene Siskel apparently named this one of the worst films of the year. Well, one hopes he lived to regret that choice, as he seems to be in the minority. Ebert, for his part, seemed to go along with Siskel to a point, suggesting that viewers could just rent M or Nosferatu instead. "},{"Title":"Waste of a good cast. 3/10","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Review After seeing who was starring in this movie, I was really looking forward to it, but once again, Woody Allen's constant babbling and silly humour just didn't work for me. The whole town is scared to leave there homes because there is a serial killer on the lose and they gather together to try and capture him. They form different gangs, who don't get along and all the way through the film, Woody Allen is completely left out of the loop. With such an intense situation, Allen's character is going around spurting out these annoying one liners which gets on everyone's nerves, including mine. On top of that, you've got the squeaky Mia Farrow whose in a troubled relationship and ends up sleeping with Cusack for loads of money. I liked the banter with the prostitutes, played by Kathy Bates, Jodie Foster and Lily Tomlin, but the storyline gets a bit weak after a while. It would have been much better if it was a whodunit because you see who the killer is, way to early in the movie. Anyway, I think it was a waste of a great cast and I personally thought that Allen and Farrow spoilt the movie. Disappointing!Round-Up I was expecting Madonna to have a big part in this film, after seeing her face all over the poster, but she's only in one scene. You do see a few famous people along the way, like John C. Reilly and William H. Macy, but I doubt that you will notice them. Judging by the box office takings, I wasn't the only one that thought that this movie was a bit weak. Basically, for a suspense thriller, there really wasn't that much suspense or thrilling happening, so it has to get the thumbs down from me.Budget $14million Domestic Gross $3million (Terrible!)I recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a town of people trying to capture a serial killer. 3/10 "},{"Title":"A very love-it-or-hate-it film and middling Allen, but actually a good film and one of his most under-appreciated","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" On first viewing I wasn't crazy about Shadows and Fog, while the film looked fantastic and was well-directed the characters left me cold, the film didn't seem to know what tone it wanted and the story seemed meandering and dull. On re-watch however Shadows and Fog fared much better(as was with almost all the Allen films that didn't impress at first apart from Anything Else), it is nowhere near among Woody Allen's best and is around the lower middle of his filmography but I found it a good film and not among Allen's worst that it's often said to be. Visually, Shadows and Fog looks fantastic with brilliant black and white cinematography and Expressionistic images that are as striking as they are haunting. Allen's films are always well-made, but Shadows and Fog visually like Zelig is quite unique from a visual standpoint. The music is very eerie and fits the atmosphere perfectly, in fact if anything it adds to it. While it was confusing of what tone the film was trying to go with on first viewing, on re-watch it was much clearer and that criticism seems unfair now. The dialogue is both subtle and hilarious(love the brothel scenes) with sharp homages and insight in characteristic Woody Allen vein, but even more impressive was the murder-mystery element while a really chilling atmosphere is created, helped by the visuals and music. Allen's directing is as always adept and his performance, the most memorable, is a lot of fun. John Cusack does nervous and angsty very nicely and Jodie Foster and Kathy Bates are remarkably good in against-type roles. Shadows and Fog has imperfections, Mia Farrow for me overdoes it and comes across as shrill, John Malkovich deserved much more to do and is a little wasted and Madonna is rather out of place. The story does have its drawn out and aimless patches with an ending that felt convoluted and hurried, and the characters are not very interesting, a lot of them barely in the film. To conclude however, a good film but considering how well the best assets come off it could have been more than good. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"absurd and vivid","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Life is illusion. Shadows and Fog is a delightfully bizarre and absurd tale, with vivid theatrical images, the visual atmosphere perfectly complemented by the background music mostly by Kurt Weill. For once Allen's schmuck is merely the perfect contrast to the rest. Allen's presentation and philosophy work far better in this indirect and enigmatic setting than in the more direct New York settings he uses too often. This film is why I keep watching Allen's movies despite the many which are generously described as missteps -- this one is right up there with The Purple Rose of Cairo, Alice, Vicky Cristina Barcelona, Sweet and Lowdown, Hannah and her Sisters, and Manhattan. "},{"Title":"The Circus in Life We Need","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A warning before I begin So far, in my quest to see all Woody Allen films, I have only seen the following Annie Hall, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Manhattan, Vicky Christina Barcelona, Whatever Works, and Hannah and Her Sisters. I felt that I should have stated that before I went any further. While I enjoyed this film, it was not my favorite that I have seen of his. There were some great moments, but it did not feel like an instant Allen classic. The plot is very simple, yet very complex at the same time. Woody's character has been woken up in the middle of the night and is told that he is a part of a plan which he knows nothing about. The viewers do not know anything more than he does, and so we constantly learn with him. From what we do know there is a killer on the loose, the killer only attacks when there is fog on the island, and there is currently fog on the island. Woody is then thrown into the adventure, completely unsure of what will happen next. It is very much a circus film, in which anything can happen. Not all films are able to maintain that spontaneity, yet&#x97;in this film&#x97;it works. The supporting cast is wonderful. There are a ridiculous amount of cameos. Because of the spontaneity described above, however, I did not feel that WA was trying to star up his film in the hopes that more people would go see it. Madonna as a curly-haired adulterer? Kathy Bates, Jodie Foster, and Lily Tomlin as hookers? Mia Farrow as the wife of a sword swallower? Whatever. It works. There were, however, some elements which did not fit as easily together. The tone changed several times throughout the film. Because of the fact that the film was about a killer on the loose, it would have made more sense for the paranoia and fear aspect to travel throughout the entire course. Instead, it seemed that there were interruptions of philosophical moments. While this great in films like Crimes and Misdemeanors, they felt like Woody Allen was reading philosophy books during the writing of the script and became temporarily distracted. I was hoping for the moments in which characters question reality to fit more with the plot. They did not, and the film suffered because of it. Mind you, the rest of the film was created in a fashion where these small slips were forgivable. This film was not a mess in any way and is still better than much of the material that is being released today. In the film, we are introduced (or have we already been introduced) to what WA has said is his personal belief that we are destroyed by the absence of illusions in life. To those who have not read that much on WA, this may be a very great concept. For those who have heard it before, however, it feels a little...ordinary. Though what do I know? "},{"Title":"Somehow It Never Quite Gets There","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Many reviewer invoke The Trial when talking about this film. It also has a little bit of The Lady Vanishes, Hitchcock's film. Suffice it to say, it's about an everyman (as much as Woody Allen's mensch can be an everyman) who finds himself in the middle of a series of serial killings. He is expected to do something about them, but no-one can tell him what to do. They don't even show up in the places they are supposed to and he is left holding the bag. There are encounters with circus people and prostitutes (Fellini) and a host of locals who are determined to punish the unknown killer. Of course, the protagonist eventually falls under suspicion. In these absurdist, existential motifs, Allen works pretty well. The criticism I have of it is that it doesn't have the tautness of the Anthony Perkins film. It wanders about so much and, hence, we lose an identification with Allen's character. When it was over, it left me cold and unfulfilled. "},{"Title":"A Tale Of A Sword Swallower and an Amateur Vigilant","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Shadows and Fog' has a very German/French cinema feel to it. Shot in black and white, set in one night, the story follows Kleinman (Woody Allen) and Irmy (Mia Farrow). Clueless Kleinmen is assigned to guard the streets and watch out for a serial killer. In a moment of rage, Irmy, after catching her boyfriend Clown (John Malkovich) red handed with seductress Marie (Madonna) decides to leave the circus. While she wanders the streets, she bumps into Prostitute (Lily Tomlin) who shelters her in her brothel. Soon after Irmy leaves the brothel, she meets Kleinman. Together they wander the streets experiencing odd encounters. Unfortunately 'Shadows and Fog' hasn't received as much recognition as Allen's other works. It has the usual Allen style with a series of conversations, quirky characters and a whimsical feel to it. The execution is very good especially the lighting, cinematography, editing and score. Allen has gathered an enviable ensemble that further includes Kathy Bates, William Macy, Jodie Foster, John Cusack and many more. Everyone performs superbly but if I had to pick the best it would be Mia Farrow. Her spontaneity makes her performance come across as very natural. For me, 'Shadows and Fog' is just as good as any other great Allen movie. It may be a little more awkward than his other movies but enjoyable nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated Allen","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another mid-career Allen film unfairly dismissed both by critics and (I must admit) myself at the time of it's release. Sometimes with great filmmakers, we get spoiled and anything flawed or less than pure genius gets maligned for being weaker than that filmmaker's very best work instead of being appreciated for being miles ahead of most of the films that get made.I was shocked at how much better I liked this on a recent re-viewing almost 20 years after seeing it in the theater. Yes, the super-star cameos still seem a bit distracting and self-serving, but nowhere near as much as in 1992. Yes, some plot elements work better than others, the ending is kind of clunky, etc. But this is still a great-looking, visually dense film, that manages to tread (most of the time) a very difficult tightrope of being funny and playful, while still exploring disturbing themes of paranoia, guilt, crowd mentality, religion, etc. Certainly not a great film, but a brave one more worthy of being enjoyed for it's strengths than attacked for its admitted shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Too Hypnotic and Cryptic To Be Just an Exercise","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows and Fog belongs with the Woody Allen canon of endeavors in other vanguards, along with Interiors, Stardust Memories, Zelig, The Purple Rose of Cairo, Another Woman and Alice by the time he made this film. It is another base he's covering, seeing how well he can make it come off, and moving on. It follows the aesthetic conventions and classic set design and lighting techniques of German Expressionist horror films from the silent era and pre-WWII German cinema. He reminds us of Fritz Lang's intense social crime dramas and Robert Wiede and F.W. Murnau's Gothic silent classics. It is a fascinating lost genre of movies, one of the most evocative film movements so far seen. It provides Allen and present DP Carlo DiPalma with a dark, antiquated European atmosphere and the expectation of sharp angles, great heights, long shadows and lots of symbolism using geometry and symmetry. It fulfills most of them and otherwise goes in its own direction. Nevertheless, it still remains his very darkest film.Allen draws from his own one-act play Death, and defines it and landscapes it into a wandering mystery, much more than any prior film save Stardust Memories, interweaving some expected intermittent Woody gags, romance with Mia Farrow and Kafka-esquire philosophizing with a story about a meek employee named Kleinman, played by Allen of course, being awakened from a deep sleep and coerced by a vigilante mob. They claim to be looking for a killer who strangles his victims. In the ghostly town's arbitrary commotion, he is then left wandering without knowledge of his function in their plan, and has little luck in the way of anybody telling him. It is a metaphorical and symbolic journey that becomes not only his but that in which he is not involved, and thus out of his control, such as Irmy, the Mia Farrow character, a circus sword swallower whose love entanglements with her egotistical boyfriend, the circus clown, played by a rather underused John Malkovich, preoccupy her mind as she searches the city after packing her bags and running away in anger, or an unexpected and considerably eery scene where the killer shares a brief dialogue with his next victim before killing him; both characters' faces are obscured by the incidental placement of certain objects.It is, indeed, enormously affected, and pretentious. That's a given no matter how one approaches this project. Essentially, it is a kind of movie Woody had never made before, and it's unlikely he will ever again. That in itself makes it a gem, because it is a rare treat. As many films as he has made, and in such a consistent time, and as often as he seems to repeat or parody himself, which he has often done, each film is wholly its own story with its own characters, visual approach and mood. Shadows of Fog is proof of that. If not that it just has a mind-blowing, immaculate cast---John Cusack, Madonna, in case you ever wondered if Woody would ever work with her for any reason whatsoever, Donald Pleasance, Lily Tomlin, Kathy Bates, Jodie Foster and Daniel Von Bargen appear indefinitely throughout in purely odd roles---it is too hypnotic and cryptic to be just an exercise. "}{"Title":"Woody At HIs Most Experimental, But If He Didn't Do It, Who Would?","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm performing an unusual amount of autopsies these days, says the cool, rational doctor played by Donald Pleasence in his laboratory filled with cadavers. That's probably what accounts for so many of those human fingers laying around, you don't generally see that replies a frightened Woody Allen in perhaps his most misunderstood film; the abstract, experimental Shadows And Fog.While that might not read like a humorous exchange, believe me, in context it's quite funny.The story for Shadows And Fog is based on Woody Allen's one act play titled Death, published in his 1975 short story collection Without Feathers and takes place in an unnamed city over the course of one foggy night.There is a psychotic killer loose and he's been strangling any citizen unlucky enough to cross his path. He murders with a stunning callousness and so far has left no clue to his identity or motives, which has baffled the authorities and sent the general populace into a frenzy of fear.In their frustration, some have formed a vigilante group with a clever plan to catch this murderer on their own and they have just awoken Kleinman (Woody Allen) from a deep sleep to help them.But, even though he asks numerous times, Kleinman can never get clear instructions on exactly what he is supposed to do to help with the plan. All the other vigilantes seem to know their parts, but Kleinman hasn't a clue about his and no one will tell him.However, as the night rolls on, despite nearly being murdered by the maniac himself, Kleinman will also become the prime suspect hunted by the police and will almost get lynched by the vigilante mob as well. He will also lose his job, his home, his fianc, his freedom, most of his friends and in a final moment of abject humiliation; he will even lose his ability to perform sexually. And you think you've got troubles!Woody Allen wants to show us how quickly a civilized man can lose everything meaningful in his life through no fault of his own. Did I mention that Shadows And Fog is a comedy? I remember when I first saw this film in 1992, it seemed like I was the only person in the theater laughing. That's mostly because I was the only person in the theater.Aside from the murder angle, there are other subplots mixed in that connect to the main story with varying degrees of success, including a story about a clown and a sword swallower in traveling circus, a lost mother and an abandoned infant, some undesirables (read Jewish) getting rounded up to be shipped off to camps and a whorehouse full of lusty women who engage in philosophical discussions with over-educated university students.Yes, Shadows And Fog meanders like someone lost on a foggy night and the film tries to hang too many incidents onto a light narrative frame, but if being overly ambitious is a fault, then it is a good one to have for a movie. Think about all the movies you have seen that didn't try to do anything at all and barely succeeded at that! But if this film were in say German, subtitled in English and directed under a nom de plume, it probably would have gotten the critical praise it deserved instead of the critical silence it received.Stylistically, the look of Shadows And Fog is patterned after old German Expressionist films like The Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari and M (interestingly, both of them deal with crazed killers who strike at night). But you don't need to understand German Expressionism to understand Shadows And Fog.Whether you like the story or not, the Black and White cinematography by Italian cameraman Carlo Di Palma and the massive city set designed by Allen regular Santo Loquasto deserves praise. This was the largest interior set ever built in New York and they used every inch of the Kaufman Astoria Studios to create this Kafkaesque world. With it's many deceptive levels, perspectivized alleyways, bridges and foggy docks, Shadows And Fog is amazingly good looking and held my visual interest even when I tuned out a bit with some of the sub plots.One of the great glories of Shadows And Fog however, is its cast. Along with Allen and his regulars, Mia Farrow, Wallace Shawn, David Ogden Steirs and Julie Kavner, we also have Kathy Bates, Lily Tomlin, Jodie Foster, John Malkovich, Donald Pleasence, Josef Sommer, Kenneth Mars, William H. Macy, John C. Reilly, Fred Gwynne, Kurtwood Smith, Robert Joy and in an inspired piece of casting, Madonna plays a slutty circus tramp.Although Woody Allen performs in Shadows And Fog, he still has cast John Cusack in a younger Woody surrogate role. But while the older Woody gets the snappy one-liners, John Cusack is saddled with lines asking ontological questions about life and musing aloud about love, sex and death. What are your views on divine matters? he has to ask one character.That John Cusack can make these heady lines sound natural says a lot about his talent. Remember what Walter Huston said about the job of an actor; an actor isn't paid to make good dialog sound good, he's paid to make bad dialog sound good.Finally, as a filmmaker, Woody Allen is in that unenviable category of having been so good for so long, he is no longer compared to other filmmakers, but is compared to his own previous great works. On that scale, Shadows And Fog is only mid-level Allen, but mid-level Woody Allen is better than most other directors' best efforts. "},{"Title":"fun to watch for some of the actors and the 'character' of the fog, but lesser Woody in my book","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I could enjoy Woody Allen's Shadows and Fog without really taking it in as being as superior a work as his other 1992 film, Husbands and Wives. Both are a bit like cinematic experiments, H&W being a very loose and improvisational-feeling take on couples in the style of something like Cassavetes or Bergman, and S&F being an all-out homage to expressionism in Germany, with touches of Kafka, horror and film-noir (hell, that's all the film is, the latter I mean) thrown in for good measure. But watching Shadows and Fog becomes a little more tedious as it goes, and a laugh or two and the usual heaping pile of Woody wit doesn't compensate for there being only the ingredients for a story, not a connection of one. We get Woody Allen as Kleinman (or is it Klienman), who gets woken up in the middle of an ultra-foggy night to find a killer, but then finds himself on the other side of the investigation after the murder of a doctor (Donald Pleasance). Meanwhile sexual liaisons go on with John Malkovich and Mia Farrow's characters, just not with one another (one with Madonna and one with John Cusack).All the while scenes go in and out, and Allen is without a doubt very much in love with the period, actually the period put to film, and uses style to its excesses. One example of this is Farrow's visit to a whorehouse, where Allen's camera repeatedly goes around and around in a circular move around the women in profile. There's no real reason to do it just for the sake of having a 360 shot, and this is part of what's good but unfulfilling about the picture. The style is laid as thick as the fog, where motivation is totally lost for the sake of a more 'moving' change for the characters, like Malkovich and Farrow finding the baby. There's a nice lot of whimsy with magic towards the end too. But seeing Allen in his usual nervous talky mode doesn't match up as well as he thinks it might, or that his intention might have been. It's not spoofing, because there aren't good enough jokes out of the atmosphere. I liked the Kafka side to it, and its all-star cast gets some points for sticking to the material, but it doesn't stir up much thought, or act that memorable in the way that other comedies by the filmmaker work. It's neither boring or dour, yet a trifle compared to Allen's other 'experiment' that year, which aims for much more within its limits. "},{"Title":"A underrated Allen film.","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is a great Woody Allen movie, and it has one of the best casts he has ever had in any of his movies.It is short and enjoyable with some very cool comedy, and i just love how he made it black and white.The movie starts off very good and stay's strong for most of the movie, but it kinda had some parts that were not needed, Shadows and Fog could of been a 75 min film.I still like it a lot and think it is very funny and very well done, it has Woody Allen being funny as usual with cast members that i was amazed to see.Like Jodie Foster and John Cusack, these people being in it made the movie really good because they all played there characters perfect.I do not think other people could have played these roles as good, Shadows and Fog is a classic film i think and it's score of a 6.4 is a too low.It should have at least a 7.4, i like Woody and i like this movie very much. "},{"Title":"One of the better Allen flicks... another gem","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a brilliantly done comedy about a bookkeeper who is caught in a scandal involving vigilante groups trying to catch a killer. Woody Allen is brilliant in this role, hilarious in both the dialogues and his acting and expressions. He is great a coward, lol, a very funny one. The rest of the cast is impressive as well, Mia Farrow was solid as circus worker who leaves her artistic husband who takes her for granted (portrayed decently by John Malkovich). The whole film takes place in shadows and fog as the name says and i thought the set helped the story, gave it suspense which balanced out with great humor. John Cusack was especially good as a rich man who goes to brothels. It was also nice to see Jodie Foster and Kathy Bates in their prostitute roles, both were good. The cast was great in this Woody flick, and screenplay was awesome as well, cant see why it doesn't have a higher IMDb rating, very entertaining to me. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Much better the second time around.","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw this at the cinema, I was very disappointed. Woody based it on an old Kafkaesque play he had written in the '60's that I had read in one of his books. I think it was called Death- A Play. It seemed to be a weak revisiting of material that was so-so in the first place, and I believe Steven Soderberg's film Kafka had been released not too long before, which I felt was a quite good vision of Kafka's writing compared to Shadows.... Seeing Shadows... again (with very low expectations), I was surprised how much I quite enjoyed it. There is a lot of good dialogue, some fine performances, and some great camera shots. I'm not saying it's one of his best films, but in my opinion, it has gone from being a dud to one I can gladly revisit every once in a while. "},{"Title":"Mixed Reviews must mean it's an inspiring film...","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh yes, Woody Allen can do a lot better than this SHADOWS & FOG.Oh no, there is no need to trash this film !!Granted, there are some flaws, specially when judged against other Allen films. After the cinematography of Nykvist & Willis, this Black & White attempt isn't quite up to par... But the bittersweet wit & fun of a true Allen is there !! And the cast is, as always, SUPERB !!Sure, everyone is entitled to his or her opinion. To trash this lovely little gem because it made less money at the box-office than Jurassic Park or other megalomanic nonsense-stuff, is rather below the belt though.Please everybody, get in cue for the blockbusters, but let's hope also that Woody Allen is going to make at least another 56 films !! "},{"Title":"probably not for everyone but for some, great.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie needs to be watched with the idea of taking each scene alone and all by itself. Don't worry about the overall plot and you won't mind that it's so odd. Like so many Woody Allen movies it needs to be viewed twice before you decide about it. Personally I hated it on first viewing now it's one of my favorite Woody's. It's worth a try. Make that two tries.  "},{"Title":"Woody's curio","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Probably one of the strangest movies on Woody Allen's resume, this is another one of his fantastic (as in fantasy, not excellent) films. Like Stardust Memories and A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy, this film is more for his diehard fans than general audiences, who will find it to be a snoozefest (although a stylishly photographed snoozefest).  Even diehard fans (myself included) will find themselves squirming in their seats, which is probably what Allen intended--the film mimics German classics like M, in regards to photography and suspense.  And this film has suspense, but not the type of suspense found in Crimes and Misdemeanors or even Manhattan Murder Mystery.  Actually, the most successful thing about the film is the way Woody conjures suspense from the atmosphere alone.  Nothing really exciting or traditionally thrilling happens here.  And the end of the film asks audiences to surrender to the mysticism in the movie (another element of his 1990 film Alice).  Shadows and Fog is certainly a different type of Woody Allen film (and another one of his '90s releases to employ a large, all-star cast in cameo appearances).  However relative to his other classics (of the '70s, '80s and later in the '90s), it is a minor entry. "},{"Title":"Odd little film with a simply wonderful cast","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being initiated as a Woody Allen fan only in the last 6 years, it's taken me a while to catch up on his seeing all of his films (which I do intend to do). The era between Hannah & Her Sisters and Deconstructing Harry has always remained the most elusive as it has always been hard trying to find so many of these films on dvd and vhs (I live in a somewhat rural area, so specialty video shops are out of the question). I greeted the new Woody dvd box set with excitement and made it a point to view Shadows And Fog first; partly out of excitement at seeing such a wonderful and diverse cast, but equally because this has always been one of the artists most panned productions. As I expected, it's not bad at all. But it's a long way from the glorious neurosis of Annie Hall or the surreal wit of Stardust Memories. Actually, it's somewhere in between. Woody rarely blends an equal amount of form and content in his films, and Shadows is defined by the former. Gorgeously shot and giddily atmospheric, it tells the story of absolutely nothing and does it beautifully. The basic premise involves a killer on the loose in a small European town in the 40's with a lynch mob in pursuit and the various characters that fall under the veil of the night and cross each other's paths. The performances are all wonderful with highlight moments provided by Lily Tomlin as a prostitute, John Cusack as a horny intellectual, and Donald Pleasence as the town physician. Woody's his usual nebbish self of course, and Mia Farrow reprises her role frmo Hannah as a lovable if not almost gratingly nice character. The production is tasteful and carries a classic feel thanks to the gorgeous b&w cinematography and camera work & the beautiful use of Kurt Weill's music. I must say, I was really only initially disappointed with the climax and ending. It seemed a bit of a copout to what could have led to the resolution of a good murder mystery or, at the very least, some good dramatic revelations. But after doing some considering, I decided the ending was not only gratifying but endearingly sweet. Shadows & Fog is classic Woody Allen a treat to look at it and listen to, and while it's shamelessly self-indulgent, you can't help but like it. "},{"Title":"Good Cinematography; aimless plot","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This wasn't such a bad movie, if you enjoy good scenery in black and white film. It's also hilarious watching Kleinman (Woody's character) wander around and get harangued by practically every character in the film (except for the university student and Irmy). However, the plot was sort of listless. Aside from the killer stalking the streets and scaring everyone senseless, the movie basically consisted of people wandering around and falling into conversation. It probably would've worked if the circumstances were different. (**)  "}{"Title":"Expressionist filmmaking satirized (weakly) by Woody Allen...","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An interesting attempt at sending-up Kafka and German Expressionism (and 1930s filmmakers such as Fritz Lang) by writer-director-star Woody Allen, a patchwork paranoia comedy in black-and-white about a schnook in a small village who is nonsensically drawn into the search for a marauding strangler. Ultimately, however, the picture plays more like a rehashing of After Hours from Martin Scorsese--right down to the gimmick of having big-name stars in cameo roles. This hamlet milquetoast roams the gloomy streets, crossing paths with a number of eccentric characters, carnies and whores, few of whom have been really thought out by the writer. Madonna puts off some heat as a circus performer, but a prostitute ensemble featuring Kathy Bates, Lily Tomlin, Anne Lange and Jodie Foster falls flat. Mia Farrow is stuck once again with her Hannah-like impulses to nurture against all obstacles, but John Cusack brings some nervous angst and passion playing a customer at the bordello. As an actor, Allen is affable as usual (he's a mild neurotic, talkative yet flexible), but cast members John Malkovich, Kate Nelligan and Fred Gwynne--among others--are lost in the shuffle. Too many shadows and too much fog turns the movie into an experiment from the filmmaker, a holding-pattern release; a curious, misfired effort. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Shadows and Illusion","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is far from a typical Woody Allen film. It's shot in black and white and it all takes place in one night; a night in which a group of citizens are searching for a serial killer. The streets of the nameless city in which it takes place evoke Fritz Lang's M and German Expressionism. Allen plays the Kafkaesque Kleinman; a man who is not sure what's going on but is desperate to be a part of it.The film is primarily about the illusory nature of society. During the day, it seems that human societies are completely in control. In the night, this illusion cannot hold up. The leaders of society (priests, the chief of police, Kleinman's boss) are shown to be power abusing villains with no redeemable qualities. Those marginalized by society are really the best people; the whores and the circus folk are the only relatable characters other than Kleinman.In spite of all this, Kleinman clings to the illusion of the safety society seems to offer. He is sure that those in charge have a plan; he just needs to find his place in it to help it work. Even when he is told that the group of citizens has split into several rival groups and one of the leaders has been murdered by another he is unable to understand that the power of the society represented by the group is imaginary.Although the end of the film may seem abrupt and saccharine at first, on further reflection it is anything but. Kleinman is confronted by the murderer in the circus camp and he seemingly manages to capture the killer with the help of a magician. Following this, the circus people come to collect him only to find he has disappeared. Someone has been deceived, but who? This is quite an ambiguous ending in spite of its seeming straightforwardness. All is not what it seems. "},{"Title":"possibly Allen's most interesting movie ever","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It seems that often, Shadows and Fog has been regarded as one of Woody Allen's lesser movies. I can't understand why, as I found it very interesting; surely anyone would have to agree that a murder mystery is infinitely more watchable than a story about neurotic rich New Yorkers.The movie blends Allen's personal neurosis with the look of a Franz Kafka novel (possibly taking place in 1920s Germany or Prague). It portrays nebbish Kleinman (Allen) getting woken up one night by his neighbors to help them find a strangler. But then they disappear and Kleinman has to fend for himself. Meanwhile, circus performer Irmy (Mia Farrow) has a spat with a clown (John Malkovich) and runs away...but is the strangler stalking her? The movie creates a dreamlike setting the same way that The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari does, and shows that Woody Allen can make interesting movies when he tries. That whole end sequence was especially cool. I seriously wish to assert that Shadows and Fog may have been his most interesting movie ever. Probably the only unrealistic scene is when a baby apparently wants to be with a father figure more than a mother figure. But other than that, this is a movie that you can't afford to miss. It might just save your life one day.As for the cast, now that's something else. Aside from the aforementioned people, there's also Madonna, David Ogden Stiers, James Rebhorn, Daniel von Bargen (Commandant Spengler on Malcolm in the Middle), Donald Pleasance, Jodie Foster, Lily Tomlin, Kathy Bates, John Cusack, Julie Kavner (the voice of Marge Simpson), Kate Nelligan, Fred Gwynne, Wallace Shawn, William H. Macy, Kurtwood Smith (Red Foreman on That '70s Show) and Kenneth Mars (Otto on Malcolm in the Middle). This is probably the only Woody Allen movie that stars two people from Malcolm in the Middle. "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The title describes us perfectly the setting. As far as the plot is concerned, there's to say that Allen portrays a small community scared by a terrible murder, and the personal growth and change of two characters played by Malkovich and Farrow they understand how deep is their love while the community has to deal with the killer. Allen plays an unbearable, shy character that upsets the watchers. Surely the story of these two lovers is fascinating, but it isn't enough to make of this movie a good one. Even the excellent appearances of a lot of stars including the Academy Awards fresh winner Jodie Foster ( who say only two words ), Kate Bathes and Madonna seem to be meaningless. "},{"Title":"Woody meets Kafka meets Murnau","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful semi-humorous homage to Expressionistic black and white films of folks like FW Murnau, Fritz Lang, Carl Dreyer, Marcel Carn and others. Allen plays a character caught in a Kafkaesque nightmare, at first thinking he is part of a vigilante group trying to catch a killer and slowly realizing that he might be a suspect. The writing is a little forced (this is, after all, Woody Allen trying to be a coy Kafka), but the point is made, and no harm done. The cinematography is interesting, about 100 shades of gray, but make sure you watch in a very dark room with a good screen, or details will get swallowed in the fog. This is an amusing little movie with a few laughs that are actually snorts of uh-huh. The acting is fine, considering the odd vehicle, and it's worth watching if you are big Woody Allen fan. Also of interest to those knowledgeable about Expressionistic films. I'd give this a 6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Rather flawed, but entertaining","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen's Shadows and Fog is just play. It's a comic take on German Expressionist filmmaking, like Fritz Lang's M, and other German art, especially Kafka's The Trial. Woody Allen plays a K-like character who is woken up by a lynch mob who want his help in capturing a serial killer, but they never tell him exactly what they want him to do. Mia Farrow plays a circus sword swallower who's fed up with her husband (John Malkovich). The story is kind of random, half of it following Allen, who ends up being suspected of the murders, and the other half following Farrow, who ends up sleeping with a man (John Cusack) for the extravagant sum of $700. The story ends up being disappointing, but it's fun. It's worth a watch. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Inchoate and listless - disappointing despite the cast.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen sometimes has ideas for parts of his films that excite him so much he neglects that the rest of the film is wilting and untendered.  Such was the case with Mighty Aphrodite, Mira Sorvino excepted, and the same happens even more gravely to Shadows and Fog, which has no inspiration or liveliness outside of the Woodman's enthusiasm for paying homage to black & white Weimar-style photography.  The plot barely exists, the cast is shuttled ungraciously in and out, and worse than all, he makes the almost unheard-of error of going lazy on the ideas.  A must-not-see, especially for Allen fans, who will just be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Could this be the worst Woody Allen movie?","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It may be, although there are still two or three I've missed. This film constructs an interesting nocturnal cityscape, reminiscent of so many foggy scenes from Sherlock Holmes movies, and populates it with sinister, Kafka-esque characters. Into their midst, the movie drops Mia Farrow, who sounds like she's still playing Hannah, and Woody Allen, who seems to be reprising his nebbish role from Play It Again Sam. Are we supposed to laugh at his stammering and hand-wringing? I suppose I would, if the rest of the movie were clearly a comedy, but it's not. At least I don't think it is. "},{"Title":"Shadowed and Foggy","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How can an expert film maker like Woody Allen screw up a black and white film about a town's struggles with a serial killer? Here is how.There is not so much of a plot as there is a series of weak vignettes. Allen is a nebbish bookkeeper who is recruited by a band of men to help them catch a mad strangler who is terrorizing an unnamed but seemingly European city. The problem is, and the only laughs come from, the fact that Allen is not told what his role is in the plan, and he wanders around for the rest of the film trying to find his place in the capture.Mia Farrow is a sword swallower from the local traveling circus who leaves boyfriend John Malkovich and ends up in a brothel sleeping with John Cusack. She later meets up with Allen, and they stroll around the streets as Allen is eventually suspected of the growing numbers of murders. He frequently runs into people from his life, and they all have little scenes with him, before the final stupid capture of the killer back at the circus, which does not go as planned.I would have given this film a one except for two things the running gag involving Allen's role in the vigilante plot, and Carlo DiPalma's cinematography. The film is beautiful black and white, with great set design, and every shot is a photograph. This will remind you of those old films from the twenties and thirties, where the bizarre sets and art direction put you in a world you have never experienced before.Allen gives himself the more funnier lines. The rest of his cast talks like they just stepped out of one of his modern day New York films. Immediately, you dislike Farrow and her constant whining.Ditto for Cusack, who is wasted as the john who thought he found true love. On top of all of this, Allen tries to tackle deep issues like the existence of God and the meaning of life, but he does it in such a surface way, you care about the answers as much as you care about the characters- zilch. An anal retentive viewing of this might glean deeper meaning, but who wants to sit through this again and again? Instead, you just sit watching this and spotting the stars, and there are plenty of them.A special note about Madonna. The rest of the cast overacts a little during this, maybe to make the Woodman happy as a director.However, Madonna, in her brief role as the woman who comes between Malkovich and Farrow, delivers her lines so flatly, I thought she might be talking in her sleep. Please, Hollywood, city of dreams and full of people who think they know what we want, stop putting this woman in films and making us suffer through her acting. I am a fan of a few of Allen's films, his best two are Manhattan and Radio Days, but this indulgent failure just serves as an example of why so many people out there just cannot stand him anymore. I cannot recommend this film unless you watch it for the aesthetic beauty, with the sound down.This is rated (PG13) for some physical violence, some profanity, and sexual references. "},{"Title":"Unique, clever homage to German expressionism.","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows and Fog is funny and, at times, atmospheric homage to German expressionism. This was probably the best tribute made to the era made by somebody other then Tim Burton.Woody Allen does a good job recreating the chilling atmosphere of early horror movies. Like the title suggests, he makes good use of shadows and fog, with atmospheric black and white cinematography. He combines this with his trademark witty dialogue, making for an unique movie experience. Although the movie had a creepy atmosphere, it wasn't as suspenseful as Woody Allen wanted it to be. You know who the killer is very early in the movie so that takes away any possible mystery surrounding the murders. And it even though it was funny, it wasn't quite as funny as it could've been.If you're a Woody Allen fan, or enjoy old horror film noir, you might enjoy this film. "}{"Title":"An interesting, but very uneven journey through ideas and themes Woody Allen handles better elsewhere.","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows and Fog is a movie that I really want to like. Its in black and white, the cast is fantastic, and the initial conceit of bumbling Woody Allen being tasked with tracking down a murderer and not being told what he's supposed to do make it seem quite compelling. I also get that this is a homage to German Expressionism. The problem is that the whole thing just gets bogged down under too many characters, shallow explorations of love, infidelity, murder, 19th century antisemitism, and lots of other ideas that sort of get brought up and then forgotten. If you like Woody Allen, then you may just enjoy this movie as an exercise in how Woody Allen's mind works, but its just too rough to be recommended. "},{"Title":"Shadows and Fog","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen Annie Hall and thought it was really good, and this is second film I have seen from the great actor/director/writer. Basically woken up in the night by his neighbours as a vigilante group, Kleinman (Woody Allen) is wanted to help track down a strangler who has been killing people all over town. The town is pretty deserted as it is really late at night, and the vigilante group has disappeared. Meanwhile, Irmy (Mia Farrow) has walked away from her career at the circus in town, and her Clown boyfriend, Paul (John Malkovich). Eventually, after going to a brothel, and sleeping with Student Jack (John Cusack) for $700, she meets Kleinman, and is almost the only person that he can rely on or get some sort of help from. Also starring Madonna as Marie, Lilo & Stitch's David Ogden Stiers as Hacker, Michael Kirby as Killer, Independence Day's James Rebhorn as Vigilante, Donald Pleasence as Doctor, Jodie Foster as Prostitute, Kathy Bates as Prostitute, The River Wild's John C. Reilly as Cop at Police Station, Deep Impact's Kurtwood Smith as Vogel's Follower, William H. Macy as Cop with Spiro, The Simpsons' Julie Kavner as Alma and Toy Story's Wallace Shawn as Simon Carr. Some pretty funny moments, but it's always the nerd-like, wining voice and I, I, I from Allen that is the highlight. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Philosophies in the dark","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Set at unspecified time at time, in an unspecified year and in an unspecified European city, 'Shadows and Fog' has an interesting air to it. Late night, most people are asleep, yet some wander the streets. There is a serial killer on the loose, and there is much paranoia over it. Most of the wanderers are members of rival vigilante factions, each with different plots to catch the killer and each full of wild accusations. Kleinman, played by Woody Allen, is stuck in the midst of it, being told that he has a role to play in a vigilante movement, but not being told what role exactly.Allen uses a variety of non-original music tracks effectively, for moments such as when the killer first strikes and when the accusations are building up with Kleinman in the centre of it all. The cinematography by Carlo Di Palma is superb how the camera moves around to see the first murder being committed, the angles used when Farrow starts to get drunk and Cusack starts to court her, the complete 360 degree shots used when discussing philosophy at the table in the brothel, and so forth. The music and camera-work are the film's two strongest points.Some have flawed 'Shadows and Fog' for having little plot, however the themes of the film are more important here than any definite storyline. It is a multi-themed film, with the themes of paranoia, madness and fear evident from the events we are shown, as well as ideas in terms of sexuality presented by what the characters discuss. Two points raised by the characters in their sexuality discussion are that men will risk murder for sex and that being tied up is arousing and more comfortable than complete freedom is - which are both interesting in light of the events of the film.While it is fascinating to watch these sleep deprived, fearful characters wander the dark streets, and listen to their philosophies on all different things in life, the film does however fall into a trap of just flinging philosophy around. The ideas are interesting, but at times they seem like a flimsy exercise to add something meaningful to the characters meandering around the place. The film's tone is also a bit all over the place, as Allen's style of comedy jars with his style of atmosphere. Still, it is a fascinating film with great visuals and audio, and it is probably one of Allen's strongest post-1980s films. "},{"Title":"Personal turmoil right up there on screen","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This came out about the time of the Woody/Soon-Yi scandal and it shows.  I hesitate to call this Woody's worst because it is in a toss up with Celebrity and Curse of Jade Scorpion, but this is just woeful, dour and confused.  Yes, I think this wins as his worst. "},{"Title":"If Carol Reed filmed the Threepenny Opera with a script by  Marquez","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie looks great. If you're a fan of well-crafted B&W imagery you should give it a viewing, but like an Orson Welles dud, it doesn't work; due to the difficulty of finding a decent story that won't collapse under the weight of all the self-conscious technique he can't wait to try. Instead of trying on Ingmar Bergman, here he's mostly trying on '30's directors like Josef von Sternberg, with a dash of Fellini and playwright Brecht (Mack the Knife is included as background music). It may remind you of Soderbergh's technique-laden dud, 'Kafka.' There's a moment where a bunch of hookers chat at a table while a camera in the middle rotates; a limp gimmick that hasn't worked anywhere I've seen it. (DePalma, Spike Lee... That 70s Show).It's not a bomb worthy of contempt like others have suggested, but it doesn't work. You're never involved in Woody's predicament or the outcome of this plot. These actors inhabit a large (not quite large enough) unit-set, whose limitations have been well hidden by the fog and the camera work, but it's limited to artful compositions and pans; two very nice tools indeed, but the long-take/tracking-shot, is completely missing. The fog ends up being a clunky metaphor for chaos and confusion. Mia Farrow in ding-y mode just has never engaged me. The all-star cast is nothing but a distraction. And Allen is so committed to his half-hearted, un-nourishing formula (another verbose Woody nebbish, a put-upon, addled female lead, 7 minutes of meditation on metaphysics, 12 Woody one-liners...) that it's gone from your mind as soon as the credits roll. Is it gorgeous? Yes. Do all these borrowing ever come into focus? No. It's just a string of conceits, the film equivalent of name-dropping. If you're an aesthetician who can only detect surface beauty and high production values... and love tossing around the word 'masterpiece' w/o being able to talk about ideas, you'll enjoy it. If you don't believe Welles ever made a dud, you will be in heaven. It's pretty. So's wallpaper. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's Worst","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows and Fog is surely one of Woody Allen's weakest films, right up there with September and Hollywood Ending (though nothing Allen has done equals the awfulness of Anything Else).Shadows and Fog is Allen's homage to the German Expressionist style of film-making, all stark and stylized light and shadow and...you guessed it.....lots of fog. But you can tell Allen got caught up in the technique and the parody and forgot to make a movie that anyone would care about.Luckily, he made Husbands and Wives the same year, so things weren't a total wash for him.Grade D "},{"Title":"Witless fargo set in never-never-land","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Allen plays a Jew living in a mysterious European country (circa 1930?) who foolishly gets personally involved in the chase for a killer on the lose.Once again Allen shows that he can get anything he wants made, even if it has all the potential of a documentary about a day in the life of ball bearing maker from New Jersey. This is really back-of-an-envelope cinema at its worst and seems designed (b&w, silly location, drawn out plot, art house look and feel) to actually keep people away.This is a total mishmash of styles and content with so much vagary and stupidity that you quickly become as  lost as Allen himself. Why would a coward go out chasing a madman down spooky streets in the middle of the night?  Crazy! He follows the movie making convention of saying he regrets it straight away (and then again and again and again!) - but this doesn't explain anything Woody!In this world of smoke and mirrors he meets a few bizarre characters and the world is put to rights (while making amusing asides), but is this really enough? Naturally he has enough clout to bring in talent in minor roles and we do get a few jumps and bumps (ALA Bob Hope), but hardly enough to warrant the ticket price.The film was a major box office flop, but I feel Allen was making the thing to make sure that people stayed away and kept away in any case... "},{"Title":"The Flatness of the Landscape","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The very thing that makes a good Woody Allen movie is the same thing that makes a bad Allen movie--the constant angst of the characters. People (I'm talking about the masses here)living prior to the 1950s did little psychological ruminating. These same people (my parents, relatives) found psychology and emotional upset distasteful. They were generations of people so affected by poverty, the depression, and war that they became people who didn't question much. The questioning was done by the upper classes and the educated. Most people quit school, got jobs and raised families without ever really figuring out who they were. Their dreams were rather simplistic rooted in the fact that their parents told them more about what they couldn't do than what they could. The thing that made men of the previous generations so tough, rough, scary was their animal behavior and their silence. Dirty jokes were the tonic they drank. Violence was always possible. When you take modern actors with their jaded blase attitudes and try to inject them into the past, it never works. If Woody truly wanted to reflect a period of time, he ought to not have acted in this one and not to have used his script. All the characters are infected by his voice. They are essentially all Woody. They become unsure, frightened kvetchers who stumble around telling everyone everything going on in their minds all the time. This does not make a drama. It's Annie Hall meets a lot of Woodies who pretend to be cops, clowns, murderers. It's like the Three Stooges playing Oedipus Rex. It doesn't ring true. Perhaps he needs a new stable of unknown actors who aren't in awe of him. His actors always appear burdened by their roles as though they are trying to just get through the lines. The whole film is a fog. "},{"Title":"not Woody's best effort","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shadows and Fog is nothing more than a mash up of Fellini's familiar circus environs and 1920s German Expressionism with a bit of Kafka's nightmarish circular world in which nothing is ever evident other than the insane rules that must be obeyed, enforced by mob strength. I saw this Woody Allen movie when it first came out years ago and I don't remember my reaction. But I know more about movies now than I did then. The dark shadows masks the film set being made on indoor soundstages, not that it matters, but I could have seen this being made in Prague or Budapest. The fog does not allow a deep focus in the frame and the perfect lighting gives away the idea that this is a real world. That nebbish character that Woody always plays is in full effect with the witty comebacks and bon mot insights. That was about the only entertainment. This was not by far his best effort, even when he's channeling Robert Altman's overlapping dialogue. "},{"Title":"What's this?","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Is there a longer version of this somewhere? 80 or so minutes of Woody Allen and/or Mia Farrow encountering one star after another, some with one line, some with half a line. What is this? A good idea (combining the worlds of Woody Allen, Fritz Lang and Kurt Weill) with stunning photography and excellent art direction. However, like an overwrought student film, it has no plot or intrigue or humor to sustain even it's brief length. It has a lot of fog! It's almost unfair to even criticize the supporting cast as they appear so briefly...John Malkovich and Madonna pop up as part of a traveling circus, Lily Tomlin, Kathy Bates, and Jodie Foster appear as prostitutes (no type-casting there!), John Cusack is one of their johns. Julie Kavner, Fred Gwynne, Kate Nelligan and a few others are in there somewhere as well. Oddly, the film gets a bit of a jolt when Donald Pleasance shows up a coroner. "}{"Title":"Everything that's wrong, and everything that's right about Woody Allen","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What's right? The cinematography, the music, the casting that allows screen familiars to play against type, the sheer value for money that Woody Allen usually delivers, and the recreation of style that works in its own right. There are plenty of good, if not great, lines.What's wrong? Mainly Woody Allen's one-note performance, and the way that all the actors in (presumably semi-improvised) scenes with him start to mimic that unconvincing stuttering whine - especially Mia Farrow. The way that when you lose engagement with the main character after ten minutes you just feel you're watching a meticulous pastiche rather than a film that stands by itself.The problem is Woody Allen playing Kleinmann. He overacts like he's never overacted before, among seasoned thespians doing it right (except Madge, of course, when she was the queen of stunt castings. God, the woman makes Liz Hurley look like Bette Davis). Kleinmann ('little man' - we get it, already; the whole film's a metaphor for life) is neither likable nor unlikeable, and we don't share his mystification, we just think no wonder nobody told him what's going on - he's an annoying idiot. It's as though a bit player got hold of the script and altered it to give himself the starring role. The more I remember, the more annoyed I get with Allen for hijacking his own movie with such a self-indulgent performance. Never forget this man named a child Satchel. Mind you, I suppose the Soon Yi was just about to hit the fan.Parts of it work beautifully, and they're mostly the parts without Kleinmann. "},{"Title":"yeah, I get it, so what?","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" two years after making this film, Allen did a knock-down/drag-out hilarious rendition of his old play Don't Drink the Water with Michael Fox. The juxtaposition of the two films couldn't be more revealing.In Don't Drink, Allen effectively played his father, and revealed what we all suspected long ago, that his comic interest has always been about his family.Shadows is Allen's ultimate tribute to Bergman, Fritz Lang, Bertholt Brecht, Kafka - the whole German Expressionist gestalt.It's a mess. One wonders - 'eh? why?' - but in true Expressionist fashion, the images play out before us with little rationale.Here's the sad news - German Expressionism really sucks the big one - no wonder they allowed Hitler into power! We are so much more interested in the neurotic American Jews of don't Drink the Water - they have their feet on the ground and mean something to us, which is why we not only laugh at them, but with them.Here we don't laugh.The beginning of the end for Woody Allen, who should have retired after the Don't Drink TV film. "},{"Title":"I don't get the appeal of Woody Allen","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where did it come from?  How did it start?  Was it Annie Hall?  Did this get the ball rolling for him?  Do actors enjoy being in a Woody Allen film because he is a recluse that chooses to play in his band on Monday nights instead of going to the Oscar party when he is nominated?  How does a man that has the same themes in almost every one of his movies get so many great actors to play in his films?  Where is the greatness and the acceptance from the public?  Has he ever had a box office success?  I don't really think he has.  I think Crimes and Misdemeaners and Husbands and Wives were his best work and his only work that is even somewhat good.  Zelig, Annie Hall, Celebrity, Manhatten Murder Mystery, all garbage.  And this one?  What a load of excretement.  And again, what is it about this script or the idea of working with Woody Allen that enables him to get people like Kathy Bates and Jodi Foster and John Cusack to work with him?  I really don't understand.  Shadows and Fog is a mess.  It is made for people that like to think of themselves as intelligent.  The clever use of shadows and the important use of black and white film and the imminent feel of film noir are all here to disguise a film that is boring, silly, uninteresting, self indulgent, a carbon copy of themes covered previously and at a later date by other films by Allen, aggravating and pretencious.  As I watched this film I couldn't figure out what it was about and how it was that I was possibly supposed to be entertained by it.  I don't mind films that are heavy with dialogue, as a matter a fact, when they are smart and funny and INTERESTING they are great films to sit through.  Take any Tarantino film or Kevin Smith film.  They are always very very wordy.  But they have a point and they are not the personification of aggravation.  Woody Allen always plays the same character in his movies and when he isn't in it he gets other people to play him, complete with the stuttering, the incomplete sentences, the broken thoughts and the perpetual winy childlike persona that he has always been famous for.  Shadows and Fog should just be called Annie Hall part XXV.  Although they are different in some ways, the central them is always the same with him.  I don't like this film, I don't like how it was directed, I don't like how it written and I hate the fact that there are people that actually think that all the quirks in here are done so for a purpose.  Well maybe you are right, maybe all the subtle strange things in this film are done so they disguise the fact that it is a very weak film.  Don't you think that after 30 years of making films that never turn in a profit that maybe people don't like Woody Allen films?  When will studios stop funding garbage like this?  I realize that is a rhetorical question but it just gets on my nerves.  Shadows and Fog is no better than a film that is trashed by the critics, like Armageddon.  But for the general ticket paying customers, and that includes me, I think we would rather see a film that gives an honest effort to entertain its audience as opposed to putting it to sleep.  I will gladly take a film like Jurassic Park over Shadows and Fog any day.  You want the best of both worlds, intelligence, great film making and entertainment?  Try films like Jaws, The Sixth Sense, Raiders of the Lost Ark, JFK, Mississippi Burning, Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction or Shawshank Redemption.  Keep Shadows and Fog as a play and nothing more.  It does not belong on the big screen.    "}]