[{"Title":"Far more over the top than the original, may be a bit too much for many","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All right...I think that many commentators hate this film for what seems like good reasons, to them at least. And I agree that PS II is definitely not for everyone, maybe even not for fans of the original film - or even for fans of Stephen King.But there are things I enjoy about this film.I enjoy watching Clancy Brown chew up the scenery in the 2nd half of the movie after his character 'comes back'. Brown has a real gift for physical comedy and black humor, and he does a great job portraying a shambling revenant...he just radiates savage, hateful glee, and very effectively comes across as a...THING masquerading as a man, an agent of chaos and misery just barely keeping it together long enough to extract his revenge. PS II is worth watching just for his performance.I enjoy the way the plot spirals out of control after the opening events, as the two boys try to fix things early on by using the Pet Semetary to cover up their, um, mistakes, only to find themselves completely over their heads.There are individual moments of mean-spirited gallows humor that are a lot of fun, and even a few good one liners - No brain, No Pain; Think About It, Won't You? was a screamingly funny line in the context it was delivered in. And the bit where Anthony Edwards staggers back into the Gilbert house and you hear 3 more shots was perfectly timed, and worth a chuckle.In fact, I feel that the entire movie seems to somehow embody the spirit and malice of whatever it is that brings the dead back from the Sematary. The director and screenwriter manage to make every scene, almost every shot, feel as if the wrongness of the Sematary has infected the very air and light of the town from the very opening shots.And in this, they may have been too successful. The glumness, the sense of oppression and airlessness and dread, the rot and gore and malice from beyond the grave are simply too much for the average film goer; if the director had backed off a little, and allowed a little more light into the mood and not rubbed our noses in the gore and blood and maggots quite so much, I think the results would have been more accessible for a lot more people. There a moments where I wish that we didn't have to see quite so many spurting wounds and decaying flesh and that not quite so many characters had gotten killed in the last 20 minutes.So...I think the movie was what the creators intended to make, but they may have misjudged the reaction most people would have to their creation. I can still watch this on occasion and admire the energy and effort put into bringing this feeling to, er, life. "},{"Title":"Not bad, despite its reputation","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many will lump this into the sequels of Stephen King based movies, which is correct. This one was not written by King, but despite this lack of originality it is a fairly good sequel to an excellent movie.The mood is dark, just not as dark as the first film. We have Geoff and his veterinarian dad relocating to rural Maine (and the location of the Pet Sematary) after Geoff's mom is accidentally killed in front of him while shooting a movie. In their new small town, Geoff's dad opens up his own practice while Geoff has trouble adjusting to his surroundings. He befriends another outcast, Drew, who has an abusive stepfather named Gus to deal with at home. One night, out of meanness, Gus shoots and kills Drew's loyal dog Zowie. Drew then gets Geoff to help him bury Zowie in the notorious cemetery in hopes of bringing his dog back to life. It comes back, just different, mean and nasty, like it's mad about being resurrected and now hates everything and everyone (like all things brought back to life in the cemetery act). This starts off a chain of events that leads to the destruction of the lives of everyone involved (and some who aren't involved incidentally). Now its just a matter of who can survive the supernatural terror engulfing the town. The storyline is fun and the acting is good enough. The gore and other special effects are great.I can easily look past the bad points in a film and see the good in it. This film is like that for me. The film also posses qualities that make me automatically like it. It is an underdog film (meaning it's not very popular with most people on this site). It also has that early 90s disillusioned grunge youth generation feel to it. Some may see this quality as making the film darker, even mean-spirited, but I love that era and love its influence in movies. This is just the frosting on the cake for me, and overall the cake is worth a viewing on its own merits, even if it's just so you can judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"A ghoulish tale. Evil just has trouble staying dead.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a sequel that has no connection to Stephen King. The only thing carried over from the original is the same location. Parts of this film are gory while violence over shadows the horror. This movie has been struck with a mean streak.A young widower(Anthony Edwards)moves with his young son (Edward Furlong)to an old town in Maine. After hearing the legend of the pet cemetery where sometimes the dead are revived; he wants to take his mother from her grave and place her in the special burial ground in hopes of her rejoining the family. The boy's best friend's stepfather is proof that the legend is true. Some of the strangest scenes are funnier than they are scary. But don't rest easy for there are times you will flinch.Also in the cast are Clancy Brown, Jason McGuire and Lisa Waltz. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So i sat myself down today to watch the sequel to the famous movie Pet sematary and expected a half-assed thing made only to drain a little extra money from the Pet sematary fans. I was positively surprised though as the plot was interesting(A widower vet moves to the village from the first movie together with his son to start a new life) and so was the characters. The actors was also good and performed excellent especially the guy who played Gus(cant remember his name). He manages to actually behave like a gleeful psychotic man without going so far that his performance would evoke laughter instead of shivers. His performance is without doubt the best part of the movie. This movie is more gory than the original movie and has less of the psychological terror elements that were a big part of the first movie although this is rarely taken too far, a few moments of the movie features over-the-top goriness but not enough to make it ridiculous in any way. To sum it up Pet sematary 2 is a good horror movie featuring both psychological terror as well as gore, the simple yet interesting plot as well as the performance of the actors makes this a movie well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Damn it, is this movie mediocre!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the most idiot and meaningless zombie movie I've ever seen. Pet Sematary I is a horror classic, but this is an A-bomb.The characters' depth is non-existent, the movie is boring, the kid is boring, the bully is ridiculous and the sheriff was a zombie before he was dead. You begin to hope for some postal worker to assault and destroy that town. But no, probably even the postal workers of that town are boring.The violence is gratuitous, not funny, and the final credits sequence with the faces of the people who died almost made me puke. That was the final blow I lied catatonic over the couch, in true disbelief -- DUHHH... "},{"Title":"Neither the cat's pyjamas, nor a dog's breakfast...","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's not gonna win any Oscars or even be remembered a few days after you see it, but what you have here is a good, solid horror film with lots of nice, bloody deaths and a fine performance by one Clancy Brown as a nasty sheriff... who isn't much nicer before he's resurrected. It has it's fair share of silly scenes, but makes up for it never giving us a moment's peace once things get going... and the last part is one big slice 'n dice after another. It's a better film than it's predecessor, and I was pleasantly surprised how much it gripped me. Worth a look.Two final thoughts 1 It's nice to someone who understands that when you THINK a person who tried to kill you is dead, it's better to shoot their corpse repeatedly just to make sure. And 2 What happened to the cute kitten that goes walkabout in the second half without any explanation, only to reappear for the obligatory happy ending? Get Poirot on it now... 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not Nearly As Bad a Sequel As I Expected","Date":"15 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The ancient Indian cemetery with the power to raise the dead returns and influences the lives of new residents.I must say, good or bad, I am glad director Mary Lambert returned for the sequel. As the first was her creation, it seems only fitting to let her take the characters and concepts where she wants to go with them. Had another director handled it, the film could have lost any flavor of the original that might exist. (There is some similar tone and such, which I think keeps it a strong sequel.) I love the young Edward Furlong (during his career peak) and Anthony Edwards with a beard. Great casting that keeps this film relevant even if it carried over pretty much nobody from the original. (I say pretty much because I think it has no one, but a minor character might have made it past me.)The film as a whole has received negative reviews, but the fact is that the original really is not that great. Although a modern classic, and a pop culture gem, it is not actually a critically good film. So the sequel by horror standards is not bad -- it actually maintains the level of the original. "},{"Title":"A Decent Sequel to a Fan Favorite","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems to me that everyone is too critical when it comes to this film. I never dreamed that the original would bear a sequel, and the ingenuity involved to come up with this script should be commended. Mary Lambert is a terrific horror film director and it is sad to see that she isn't getting the chance to direct more of them (excluding her recent D.T.V Urban Legends sequel). The atmosphere is well done and creepy, and all in all this is an entertaining, fun, very gory romp that fans of the genre should applaud. This film misses the like of Fred Gwynne, but Clancy Brown steals the show here as Gus, the dead is better sheriff that for the last 45 minutes really makes this script work. Anthony Edwards turns in a solid performance, the biggest drawback would have to be Edward Furlong (who has never impressed me) and Jared Rushton who are horrible in their respective roles. Great soundtrack included-all and all top notch entertainment for horror fans. "},{"Title":"The curse of Stephen King sequels continues","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After witnessing the onset death of his actress mother in a most implausible way (what movie crew would use a metal fence with their actors near electricity?), child of divorce, Jeff (Furlong), is off to live with his dad permanently and must accept the fact that his parents will never get back together. Or will they? Director Lambert makes the returned dead a bit more interesting this time by making them more intelligent and cunning. Unfortunately this was primarily used as a means to portray a lot of cheesy and cheap shocks and even unexplained motives for the Gus (Clancy Brown) character. Gone is the endearment and tragedy of the original; substituted with excessive gore f/x and spiteful characters. Furlong, who managed to impress in his early roles with characters who had similar family of origin problems (Terminator 2, American Heart, Brain Scan, A Home of Our Own), doesn't do much here outside of sullen glares, cuss and cry Mom! (literally) a number of times. Overall cheesy fun for horror fans but a flop in the character and scare departments. Hard to believe Mary Lambert, director of the first film, is responsible for this major disappointment of a sequel to the superior original. The ending suggests a setup for a sequel. I suppose we can all feel lucky this franchise remained buried after all. "},{"Title":"Dark horror enlivened by flashes of humor and good performance by Clancy Brown...","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some of the scathing reviews from those who preferred the original PET SEMATARY rather than this sequel, are misleading, no matter how well-intentioned these viewers were. This horror film, full of the kind of touches evident in any Stephen King story, is really much better than these reviews would have you believe.The premise, of course, is a silly one--that burying dead animals or human beings in a specially cursed Indian sematary will bring them back to life, deadlier than ever in evil intent. But once you get beyond that, there's enough fright and scares invoked by the script and by the clever direction of Mary Lambert, particularly in sequences involving Clancy Brown. His return from the grave is marked by some really scary and howlingly funny moments that give the film a sense of life it otherwise would have lacked.She has also directed her two youthful protagonists, Edward Furlong and Jason McGuire, in such a manner that she gets skillful performances from them. Furlong has a glowing presence that fits the material beautifully and McGuire has a naturalness that is refreshing and real.And the story actually covers a lot of ground, everything from bad parenting to bullying from one's peers and lots of revenge motifs that lead to some truly harrowing moments. Alas, it's true that much of the action has a mean-spirited slant but all of it is somewhat softened by touches of real humor.Worth a look if you enjoyed the first PET SEMATARY. "}{"Title":"OK as stand alone but not really for sequel","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film as actually not as bad as I expected. I was quite surprised.Ed Furlong fitted pretty well as Jeff Matthews and a quite good cast. Clancy Brown fitted very for the part as drew's stepfather, slimy and evil, which was good. It was good that they kept Mary Lambert as director.Nowhere near as good as the first but not a bad film to watch.Still got moments of good suspense and a few gore scenes.This would work as a stand alone film, not a sequel. It did mention a few bits from the first film into this film though, but still didn't really work as a sequel.Other than that, not a bad film. "},{"Title":"soundtrack?","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK this movie has some great music but why the hell not a soundtrack? i been trying for years to find songs i have found some like the song playing when the bullies take Jeff's cat and go on the bike chase the one right after I've got spies by drama Rama... and the song played at his moms funeral heres a list of songs i have gathered through out the yearsfading away- Jan king ( going to Barrie Zowey) I've got spies- drama Rama ( at school) shitlist- L7 Reverence- Jesus and Mary chain ( the part where Gus is chasing Amanda and drew in the car) poison heart- the Ramones ( end credits) gush forth my tears- Miranda sex garden ( the end where his mom is burning up in the bed yelling dead is better) "},{"Title":"Don't bury this movie in Pet Sematery...","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...it might come back as a sequel that is even worse than this one. For the record I actually liked the first Pet Sematary. While not being the best book-to-movie adaptation, it had its moments. This one has none.Premise A son loses his mother in a fatal accident on a movie set. The boy's father moves to the same town that the Creed family died in. things start to happen when a boy loses his dog Zowie to a gunshot would by his abusive step dad who is also a sheriff. The boy buries his dog in the same Indian burial set and things get worse from there.Opinion This was one pointless sequel. At least the characters in the first movie had a method to their madness. The characters in this movie are just plain stupid. The acting is bland and the story is backwards. The characters who die and come back to life have more personality as a reincarnated corpse than they did when they were alive. How insane is that? Plus this movie leaves questions unanswered? Why would Gus bury Clyde in the sacred burial ground after he killed him? It makes no sense as is the son who buries his abusive stepfather in the same burial site. If you saw that you dead dog came back to life more deranged wouldn't you think your spiteful step dad would come back more psychotic than he originally was? I didn't feel an ounce of sympathy for that pudgy idiot when Gus killed him and his mother. Stupid! If you want a better horror movie from Stephen King check out Misery. That was a classic. Pet Sematary Two is just a rotting, flea-infested dog of a sequel that should have never made it to the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Honestly i don't look into stories just a good movie, i'd say Clancy Brown made this movie excellent, he is just too hilarious.. this movie i like evenly with the first one, Furlong could've done a better job though, The movie itself is more graphic than the first was, showed more detailed deaths and showed something else kinda nice.. overall though this movie was a mix between funny, sad, and scary, which makes it one of my favorite sequels, i dunno why a lot of people disliked it i didn't see anything wrong with it at the least, just didn't have much to do with the main story possibly could've been it could've happened like that or this but it wasn't complete without Fred Gwynne in it, he was as awesome as Clancy Brown, whew enough blabbing, just highly recommended for people who love violence and killing movies "},{"Title":"a forgettable movie","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you want to see when it first comes out, and then once you see it, you're like, that was kind of ok, but I should have waited for video.  And then, in about a year, you completely forget what it was even about.  And then, maybe in five more years, you see it in the video store while you're looking at the horror movies and you're like, I forgot that movie even existed!  There are so many other movies that fit into this category.The only thing I really do remember about this movie, is that it had a very beautiful dog in it with blue eyes.  And of course I remember Edward Furlong being in it because I used to think he was so cute.   "},{"Title":"so what if it's in the bottom 100?","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most people didn't enjoy this movie at all. Maybe due to comparing it to Pet Sematary 1. But I actually thought this was as enjoyable as the first, and I know I'm in the minority there! Both great, both different.**SPOILERS**Jeff Matthews(Edward Furlong) and his father Chase(Anthony Edwards)move to get away from the Hollywood lifestyle after the death of Jeff's mother Renee, and meet Drew Gilbert, who's dog Zowey is shot and killed.....or is it? Jeff and Drew are told the story of the Creeds, and the Indian Burial Ground, where they buried Zowey. But then Gus(Drew's step dad) comes along and things get worse.Gus, although the bad guy for most of the movie, is a pretty cool character. Jeff gets the idea that since they brought Zowie and Gus back from the dead, he can do the same with his mother. And does so with the help of Gus. But is it a good idea?I really liked this movie, no matter how bad most others seem to think it is. But it's all a matter of opinion. I would personally give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Funny and bloody!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clancy Brown(Gus) is the man.  He was hilarious in this.  I know this movie isn't as good as the first but I don't think it was supposed to be.  The first was dark, creepy and really awesome.  This has wit and is funny not to mention enough gore to keep any horror fan satisfied.  Watch it with not many expectations and you'll find it to be a laugh riot. "},{"Title":"Good, but it is very different from the first one...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary II is an overall good movie except for two things one it doesn't explain what happened after the events of the first film. Two Its too different from the first one. Pet Sematary II does actually deliver some good chills, even though it is mostly just facial expressions. The acting was very good, considering the fact that most of the stars in Pet Sematary II were kids. The plot is a little bit different from the first one, but it still manages to impress, and the gore effects are spectacular. Here's the story Geoff has just witnessed his mother die right in front of him on the set of her new film (she is electrocuted), and him and his dad move. Out of all the places in the world, they decide to move to a neighborhood near the infamous Pet Sematary. Geoff meets Drew Gilbert, an overweight teen who is coping with an abusive stepfather. Drew's stepfather Gus shoots Drew's beloved dog Zowie, and that's when it all begins. Drew and Geoff bury Zowie up in the sacred burial ground that bring the dead back to life. Drew isnt sure about the fact that the sacred burial ground will bring Zowie back, but he tries it, not knowing that he will come back evil. When Zowie comes back, hell breaks loose. Zowie kills Gus, and then Drew buries him in the burial ground. Gus comes back, and finds more victims to bury. Meanwhile, Geoff's dad has opened up a Vet. Geoff sees that the burial ground works, so he decides to bring his dead mother back. The plot is one of the main reasons why this movie is so much different than the first. Pet Sematary II is more engaged into the basic horror genre, while Pet Sematary I is from the original horror genre. The first film had some killings in it, but Pet Sematary II has more basic killings. The gore effects come up more often in Pet Sematary II than in Pet Sematary I. I really didn't like the fact that they didn't explain what happened after the events in the first film, because they don't explain what happened to Louis Creed's daughter, and they don't explain how Rachel Creed was killed for a second time. Overall, Pet Sematary II is a tad underrated, but it still delivers some good chills, a mediocre plot, good acting, and very good atmosphere. This movie is pretty good, but the first one was better. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Forget this is a sequel and you'll like it","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like this movie. Has a few flaws though. First is; Yeah, I'll agree, a sequel to the original Pet Semetary isn't as the best of ideas. In the original, all the main characters bar one are dead so you can't use them so it will have to be a brand new story with brand new characters. As it is a brand new story, treat it as such and you will enjoy it. Like in many movies, I try to place myself in them and work out what I would do. OK I wouldn't have buried Gus nor the dog and nothing would have gone wrong but that would render the movie pointless.In making it, I would have left out the doggie dream and given Drew and his mother a better chance to survive. Said enough there.More gory, not as scary as the original but worth a look. "},{"Title":"My opinion, with a minor spoiler about the very ending.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that Pet Sematary II was the biggest load of rubbish I have ever insulted my eyes with watching. I should have been forewarned with the bizarre spelling of cemetery -- why they didn't spell it correctly in the first place... I'll never know.What the hell was up with the ending credits with all that sad music and pictures of the people who died? It's not a -documentary-, it's a pathetic excuse for a thriller/horror film. The acting was dodgy, the script was bemusing and the plot was utterly ridiculous.The psycho zombie dog was mildly amusing, but I'm not sure it was supposed to be. What was the film trying to do? Was it a spoof of a horror film? It failed at an attempt to fit into any genre of film other than trash. I found the entire movie to be contrived, boring and stupid, and I wouldn't watch it again even someone paid me!  "}{"Title":"I Have a Question---Is It All Right to Pet on a First Date?","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exactly. You have to have fun when doing movie criticism sometimes, especially when it comes to sorry films like Pet Sematary II. Believe it or not I like the film slightly more than most other people, but that is not saying much because this is a movie that has basically no following. It is early-1990s Maine, a few years after the original, and once again a new family has moved into the sleepy community. Anthony Edwards is a veterinarian that has no ideas about the titled place and son Edward Furlong (basically destroying the short celebrity status he had after Terminator 2) is still reeling emotionally after his actress mother's death during a freak studio accident. Furlong meets the chubby Jason McGuire (an adolescent disenchanted with sadistic step-father Clancy Brown) and he soon learns of the town's history and the fact that some things in life (or death) can indeed be changed. Pet Sematary II is a studio project all the way. The first was a minor box office success and it naturally spawned this one. This is not from the mind of Stephen King and thus the short series falls even further down the cinematic ladder. Director Mary Lambert (who also directed the original) once again shows her short-comings as a film-maker with an uneven pace that is not helped out by a sophomoric screenplay and sub-par performances across the board. By far not the worst horror flick I have ever seen, but still a movie that ranks real low in the American cinematic machine. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Can you make a worse sequel?","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary II tried too hard. The makers of this film tried to be like Stephen King, and failed miserably. I sat through this movie with the worst feeling. It was so unrealistic in a bad way, and the violence was inappropriate. Pet Sematary was a work of art by the master, Stephen King. Pet Sematary II was a work of trash by some wannabe. The acting was fine, but they couldn't save the movie if their lives depended on it. The nudity was in all the wrong places. The doctor has a fantasy about his dead wife, and her head turns into that of a barking dog. It was sick, disgusting, and way too many people died. Did you notice how there weren't very many deaths in Pet Sematary? Well in II, there were tons. Way too many. This movie was horrible. If you want to see a good sequel, see Scream 2 or Scream 3. I gave it a 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Solid sequel goes more hardcore","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" PS2 is a sequel I like, nastier than the first, some thanks to some really unpleasant characters, one being a teen bully, Clyde, a standout performance, while another originally bad dude who's possessed, is that of local copper, Clancy Brown. It has shocking and refreshing catalyst, where Furlong's star Mum (Fluegel) is horribly electrocuted at the start, so Furlong and Dad, (Edwards (Top Gun-Goose) a vet- what a coincidence move to the wrong town, where the story of the original is redone, but a spin has been put on it. Furlong making a new friend, tries to resurrect his cat on an Indian burial ground, and guess what happens. More violent than the first, again there's a not so happy ending, but I so like this nastier film, where Brown and Clyde, are unforgettable. For fans of the first, PS 2 is a good sequel, that really works, and should not be overlooked. "},{"Title":"weak B-movie","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jeff (Edward Furlong) loses his famed-actress mother Renee Hallow in a movie set accident. He is forced to move with his father Chase Matthews (Anthony Edwards) to their summer home away from L.A. New housekeeper Marjorie Hargrove (Sarah Trigger) is also a fan of Renee. Chase reopens the rundown animal hospital. Gus Gilbert (Clancy Brown) is the local sheriff and Renee's high school boyfriend. His stepson Drew is Jeff's only friend. Jeff gets picked on by bully Clyde Parker (Jared Rushton) and his friends who direct him to the Pet Sematary.This could easily be dismissed as ready for burial. The script is derivative. None of the characters are compelling. I like Edward Furlong but he's not enough. Jared Rushton's bully character is really one-dimensional and annoying. Same goes for the great Clancy Brown. He's capable of so much more. As a horror, it's not scary. This is a weak B-movie. "},{"Title":"At Least the  Soundtrack is Good!","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've tried to watch this movie three times (1993, 2003, and 2015) and haven't been able to finish it. I WANT to like it. But it's just disgusting and inane. I love Clancy Brown, but not enough to sit through this dreck.Nothing makes sense. The over-the-top gore and cruelty just comes across as sheer mean bloody-mindedness and isn't scary at all. Characters I care about in this film=0, so there is no horror at their deaths. There's an attempt at campiness, but it's too lame to make this a so terrible it's awesome movie. The only positive is the soundtrack. Dramarama, L7, Jesus & Mary Chain, Ramones...I suggest you skip watching this flick and spend some time listening to the artists whose music is featured in the film. "},{"Title":"Pet Sematary II (8/10)","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mary Lambert returns to directing a sequel from her classic and truly scary horror film, Pet Sematary. The first Pet Sematary is clearly the better film than this sequel but it may be surprising to some that I found this film more enjoyable to watch. It's a valid point that the first film was ultra-depressing, that the sequel had a good chance of being an easier watch. However, not only was Lambert's sequel more entertaining but the feel, pace and writing were a complete 180 degrees. The writing was lighter and often contained humorous dialogue, especially by Sheriff Gilbert. Edward Furlong, Anthony Edwards and Jason McGwire were all great but Clancy Brown stole the show as the Sheriff, Brown absolutely nailed the dinner scene and one-liners.The movie is undoubtedly a guilty pleasure for myself, since many viewers may not enjoy the quirkiness and good amount of odd disconnected scenes. Important to note too, there isn't a lot of mercy shown by Lambert and the writers towards characters in these films either. It's dark, gritty with way more humor and gore. Take a chance on Pet Sematary II, it's often overlook since Stephen King didn't write a book on the story but it's well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Not a bad little sequel, even if it's just for Edward Furlong","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes, after 'Terminator 2' it seemed that Edward Furlong was going to be the next 'big thing' in Hollywood. Unfortunately, due to his own personal demons, that never happened and he's remembered more as someone who could have had it all, rather than an A-list actor. However, before he went off the rails, he made 'Pet Sematary 2' and it's not that bad (especially for a sequel).The original 'Pet Sematary' was based on Stephen King's book of the same name and was a pretty dark and bleak little affair. The sequel's tone does its best to follow that, but does tend to succumb to a few clichés which do bring it down a bit. Edward Furlong and his dad move to the same town where an old Indian burial ground brings anything interred there back from the dead (with the only drawback being that they're borderline psychotic and largely lethal). Before long, circumstances spin out of control and every man and his dog is being buried there... and therefore coming back ready to murder anyone that stands in their path.It's no classic, but there are a few quite creepy scenes (even if you can tell it's just someone in a monster mask, it's shot well enough to be a bit disturbing). Also, Clancy Brown does stand out as pretty damn nuts as the local lawman.It's not as good as the first, as it's not as bleak, plus I mentioned the clichés &#x96; i.e. new family in a town, meets bullies at school and so on. However, based on the fact that most sequels to horror films are largely not even worth putting on, this one is actually pretty good. "},{"Title":"Far better sequel to a pretty good first film","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Moving to a small town, a doctor and his son learn that the local legend of an Indian burial ground works on more than just animals which soon turns into rather gruesome discoveries when several bodies need burying.This was an overall pretty decent if unspectacular effort that does have a few good parts about it. One of its good points is that there's some really enjoyable action scenes in the later half which is really quite fun as it really starts here with the policeman stepfather's resurrection. That brings along with it the rather enjoyable aspects such as the slow realization of his degenerative condition, the more violent and overt displays of aggression towards the rest of the family and finally the culmination of everything in the house-chase and resulting car-chase which is all really enjoyable and sets up the rest of the action later on. From the brawl in the house to the confrontation in the burning attic, these scenes are all rather fun and exciting and really make the best points for this one which is all pretty much found in the final half. Along with the blood and gore present throughout this, these are the film's good points which aren't enough to really overcome the various flaws within this. Among the more noticeable problems is the utterly ridiculous manner of accepting the locations powers and effects on everyone as the reaction to everything here is completely arbitrary. It's treated as if the reappearance of people who you have a personal hand in killing being up and acting as if nothing happened is a normal, everyday occurrence in town which doesn't generate any kind of special reaction or builds any suspense at all. That really affects the power of this pretty significantly as well as undermining the whole experience by keeping this one so relaxed about this very disturbing tactic in the film, as if it's not a big deal at all. That also shows up in the unbelievable manner of how those who interact with the resurrected as despite gaping and oozing wounds, a lack of life-like skin or eye-color and permanent cold skin no one catches on at all. The last flaw here is the actions within the finale, as the decision to resurrect the individual is quite illogical, the behavior of being supportive and on their side becomes quite troubling and then how easily this is abandoned makes this all quite confusing and flawed. These here are the film's biggest flaws which keep this down.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, Brief Nudity, a brief sex scene, attempted Rape and several scenes of intense animal violence. "},{"Title":"One of those so-so movies that isn't worth much time","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary 2 isn't exactly what I'd call bad, but it's really unnecessary. Whether or not it follows the book or the original movie is beside the point, even on its own it just doesn't have what it takes to be a captivating horror movie. The acting was okay but unmemorable, the plot was more for preteens even though the movie was aimed at adults, and the soundtrack was lame. With sequels and remakes there are always going to be duds, and this is one of 'em. At least the ending credits had a good song, by The Ramones, but if you're looking for a really good horror movie this definitely isn't the first one that would come to my mind. "},{"Title":"only a sequel","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" not very inspired, not a really horror but interesting for the admirers of Edward Furlong . because it is only an exercise to use the Stephen King novel for a movie far by book but using tools of horror for decent audience. the result - not only bad but real strange , confuse and, for many scenes, amusing. only sin - the title because it is too far by the original adaptation and the manner to use the story is not the best. but it is not an exception. only one of many adaptations who looking easy success exploring a good beginning point in chaotic manner. a film about nothing . but, maybe, that is its virtue. a young Furlong, Anthony Edwards in a sketch of role and violence. but the bitter taste remains. "}{"Title":"pure brain candy","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was one of those movies I remember as a child that was laughable because the plot was terrible and the acting was plain awful. But I gave it a 4 because overall it was a good zombie movie. My favorite scene was when Gus who killed Zoey because he tried to kill his rabbits then when he dies and comes back he kills the rabbits. Pure irony. For those who hate the movie. Come on guys this isn't a Oscar worthy film. Its a horror film and that's just what you get. Enjoy it for what it is. And enjoy the bully get killed by his dirt bike. Stupid scarf, and only horror movie where someone died by a potato truck. So go out and watch this movie. Chances are you will hate it. But who knows you may enjoy it. Still not as bad as Reindeer Games. "},{"Title":"I actually like it","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK now i know that a lot of people hated this movie but i thought it was good i prefer to watch this one compared to the original one if i am honest. Anyway acting could have been better storyline was more or less kind of the same (people and animals die are buried then come back)the movie does flaw in places but then again no movie is perfect. I also found that this one was easier to follow than the first one was so with that being said i would rate this movie a 7 out of 10. And apparently i have to write 3 more lines ummm cant really think of anything to say but i think that its pretty stupid you should just be able to write what you want then post in instead of having to drag it out for 10 lines. "},{"Title":"You heard about the place where the dead rise?","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Pet Sematary Two is perhaps one of the most unnecessary sequels ever. It adds nothing to the original film and is, quite simply, a retread of the first film. It's a shame too, because original director Mary Lamert is back on board but shows none of the creepiness that the first film had. The movie isn't all bad, however. The film definitely has a mean streak. The level of brutality displayed here is wow-inducing, even for this jaded horror fan. Mary Lambert shows her male peers that she can play rough. But that mean streak is also what turned me against the movie in the third act. The most sympathetic character in the film, Drew, is unceremoniously killed off and there is no other mention of him after that. If Drew had been the main character, and not whiny Edward Furlong, the film would have played much better. Such is not the case. Furlong, who was great in T2 and declined from there, is our main character but not someone the audience can identify with. Louis Creed in the first film was a completely grief-stricken man whose heart was in the right place, whereas Furlong's character is somewhat of a selfish punk. Anthony Edwards plays the hero while Clancy Brown gets to have all the fun. His performance is really the best part of the film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Sequel- A Fall Classic","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In my opinion this is Edward Furlong's best movie. Not only is it suspenseful, exciting and somewhat funny at the right times, Edward himself delivers a believable performance as Jeff Matthews, a 14 year old who has just lost his mother in a freak accident.He has just moved to Maine with his father into a creepy old town known infamously for it's so-called Pet Semetary.Furlong is adorable and the rest of the cast (which inlude Anthony Edwards of ER as Jeff's father and Jason McGuire as Jeff's overweight school friend) are brilliant, tying the story together to its predictable climax that you don't mind sitting through. Clancy Brown plays the ghoolish Gus, Jeff's friend's stepfather who is hilariously creepy both before and after his trip to the semetary. Although this movie doesn't connect much to the Creeds, of the original Stephen King Pet Sematary film, it makes a great new story and an enjoyable sequel. In addition, this movie has a killer soundtrack and as I see it, has already become somewhat of a Fall tradition.  "},{"Title":"Too Silly to Work","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary II (1992) ** (out of 4) This sequel to the box office hit isn't nearly as bad as its reputation would lead you to believe but it's still way too silly to be taken serious. After the death of his mother, a young boy (Edward Furlong) and his father (Anthony Edwards) move to the city of the first film. Once there he learns about the infamous Indian burial ground and his friend tries it out with his dog and when it works more people end up going there. PET SEMATARY II is a pretty stupid film from the word go and it just keeps getting dumber and dumber as it goes along. I think time has been somewhat friendly to the film because when you look back on it you realize that it's not nearly as bad as most of the horror films from this era (I know that's not a ringing endorsement). One of the biggest problems is that the film's pacing is just way too slow and at 100-minutes the film certainly drags in a lot of spots. I'm going to guess that most people watching this is going to know what happens when you bury something at the location so why the film drags everything out is beyond me. Once the horror elements do start we get some pretty silly stuff dealing with countless people being taken to the burial ground and after a while you really start to have many logical issues but that's a-whole-nother story. The performances from Furlong and Edwards are good enough but it's Clancy Brown who easily steals the film as a psycho sheriff. The gore level is fairly mild, although there's a memorable dog attack as well as a memorable scene involving a dirt bike. Mary Lambert does what she can with the story but it's clearly just meant as a way to cash in on the success of the first. "},{"Title":"Micmac, paddywhack, here we go again.","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ever dreamt of having hot sex with a slavering, dog-headed, silicone-chested woman and woken up to find a zombie dog has mounted you in your sleep?Me neither, but Anthony Edward's character in Pet Sematary Two has, and it's cheesy goodness like this that makes this sequel so much more entertaining than the first Pet Sematary. This time around, director Mary Lambert fully acknowledges the plain stupidity of her film's premise&#x97;an Indian burial ground that reanimates the dead as soul-less 'zombies'&#x97;and just has fun with it, the result being a trashy, gory and frequently quite insane movie in which logic and consistency are simply not welcome.In addition to the aforementioned big-breasted, canine-headed lady dream sequence, this film is also worth watching for Clancy Brown's hilarious performance as undead Sheriff Gus (who forces himself on his foxy wife, skins rabbits by the dozen, rips bully Clyde's face off with a motorbike, and crushes his stepson with a truck-load of potatoes), the tasty home help getting a shard of glass in her eye, a satisfyingly cruel moment in which two little girls discover a cage full of mutilated kittens, and axe wielding zombie Clyde's head exploding. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary but not that bad.","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Honestly, Pet Sematary wasn't a masterpiece. That's why I don't understand why the sequel is being bashed so much. Mary Lambert said she wanted to take the film in a new direction which would contain dark comedy. It was her goal to target younger audiences as well. The cast in PS2 performed better, except for when Edward Furlong tried to become insane towards the end. You could care more about the characters in the sequel. Although, too much time was spent on Drew and his family instead of Geoff and Chase. The gore was sometimes excessive, but it looked realistic. The deaths and confrontations might've been light-hearted with rock music playing through the scene, but they had a sick energy to them. Renee forming a Zowie head was not that laughable. It's a dream for Christ's sake. Dreams are supposed to be ridiculous. As for everyone's puzzlement to Gus's actions, it was obvious he was forming a zombie family. Renee and Clyde were the new members. No, you don't have to be related or be the owner of what was buried. If Geoff buried Zowie, the dog would come back to his house, not Drew's. Yes, it had chances to explain the mystery as to why the burial ground was evil, and ending it with angry residents constructing a barricade that would ensure no more destruction from it. I guess we were supposed to wait for Pet Sematary 3 to come along to fix that. "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The amazing thing to me is that even though this is not a Stephen King movie, they have ALL of his characters. The fat kid, the fat kid's mom with the abusive husband, the abusive step-father (a cop, of course, so he can't get in trouble). Really? he's gonna beats his kid with a wooden cross? The wimpy kid (if someone teased me about my dead mom, I think I'd try a heck of a lot harder to kick his butt). Twin girls (a tip of the hat to The Shining?) And I guess it's getting more difficult for me to suspend my disbelief. Example Zowie's blood is not coagulating even though his heart isn't beating. If he was dead internally, he'd be getting crispier, not more gooey. Zowie comes back all screwed up, but HEY, LET'S BURY A GUY WHO IS ALREADY A BIG JERK thinking that he's going to come back okay? Yeah, that'll work. Far more silly than scary. The original was far better. "},{"Title":"I have the balls to admit I LIKE THIS ONE!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary two(1992) Director Mary Lambert (Pet Sematary)***out of****The ReviewDid we really need a sequel to Pet Sematary? The answer by any serious movie buff will most likely be no, and from IMDb.com it would seem that this sequel is held in low regards. So why do I enjoy this sequel and continue to watch it? Well I'm a horror buff and hold PS1 in my top ten movies of all time (that I've ever seen). So any sequel To any horror movie I have high praise for should at least be watched. Alas I watched, and liked it. If you ask me no sequel that came after one would top it off, that story had been told and The Creed's were basically out of the picture and any attempt to continue their plight is just asking for failure, if you attempt this sequel in that light, you will probably feel less cheated.Surely anyone attempting to go into a movie with Two in the title will be expecting the likes of its proceeded companion so that is understandable. That is to say, a weakness I do admit of this movie (compared to the first) is the fact its script has no regards for anything to be groundbreaking or new. Very ho hum to say the least. We have the animal coming back (this time it's a husky), we have the main protagonist losing a loved one (this time the tables have turned and it's a child losing a parent), and indeed the deaths are even more so grisly then before (lot's of icky and disturbing bits) and the characters are all thinly sketched (unlike before). One aspect that makes the sequel a decent companion would most likely have to be the return of Mary Lambert. I admit I'm a fan of her style and she doesn't hold back this time around. I'm under the impression that Mary knew what a flimsy script she was about to helm and decided to go haywire with a slick polished look (this flicks look is so on), groovy death scenarios (some of them took me by surprise), tacky but somewhat suited rock/pop songs, and to top it all off we have a super fast pace. If she wasn't back this time around I think maybe I'd be inclined to hate this as much as others surly have. The movie has a surreal and colorful aspect about it that definitely sticks out for me.Another aspect that is in the same spirit of one is the messed up and seriously warped gore and a meaner sense of humor that came with it. The mean spiritedness that one had is back with vengeance and I have to say some scenes in here were uncomfortable but in a good horror movie way. Yes, I like being disgusted and I love it when movies push the envelope (wait till you see the demise of the token bully). Lot's of plasma, ripped throats, open wounds, dead kittens, half mutilated faces, ripped open chests, skinned rabbits, gouged out eyes, pus, scabs. The movie just reeks of death and fans of gore should enjoy. I know I did. The movie also has a mean streak that was in one as well (lots of innocent animals and kids getting killed). A very exciting kill scene involving a potato truck is also quite well done with a awesome pay off (great directing in that scene). I just have to mention the character of Gus (played by Clancy Brown). He's basically a side character whose sub plot was the most interesting aspect. Since the main protagonist's plight is telegraphed for us from the first 10 minutes (kid loses mom, moves right by the Indian burial ground right afterwards) I was grateful for eventual outcome of Gus, his fat step son and his hot wife's (basically one of the only sympathetic characters in the movie) eventual demise. No one plays crazy loon better then Mr. Brown. The movie wouldn't be half as interesting with ought him, so props. So if there's anyone to blame for this movie the only one to blame would have to be The screen writer who has no grasp on character development (no one has a second layer to them), un likely plot twists that made no sense (your telling me they carried that body that far?) and no attempt at scares. The actors are actually quite competent despite the script they work with. If you get over Edward Furlong's subdued and sedated performance you can actually see some decent actors at play. I've all ready mentioned Clancy Brown, but Anthony Edwards, Sara Trigger, Lisa Waltz, Jared Rushton, and Jared Macguire all do well taking into account most are thin sheets of paper, assholes, or easily spotted I'm here to basically die characters. Overall though, this is an effortless watch and has a high entertainment value for the likes of trashy, gory, well directed campy sequels. I'm glad it's around and feel compelled to watch it right after one. That is a compliment in itself. Bring on Pet Sematary Three. "},{"Title":"dude this is a bad ass movie!!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" well i have one thing to say if u hate movies why comment to say they suck in like an endless essay, i know i never do that and a lot of people say this shouldn't have been made well i say don't watch horror movies that are rated r for horror violence even if u want to give them a chance , this movie is so much fun cool death scenes, the cool kid from the terminator 2 is in this, and believe it or not the guy that does the voice of Mr. Krabs in Spongebob Sqaurepants plays Gus (the bad guy) and this movie is something fun that you should expect to be bloody and have fun while watching and it shows how terrible it is to have an abusive cruel stepfather and it shows the character and strength the kid holds to deal with is life. i think the best scene s the fighting scene when Jeff shows some balls and steps up to that bully that shows courage and its important for people to have courage "}{"Title":"The Second movie is as not as scary as it should have been but a lot of fun than expected from the guilty pleasure horror movie.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When 13 year old teen by the name of Jeff (Edward Furlong) witness his movie star mother (Darlanne Fluegel) accidentally died in a freak accident on her latest film. Jeff and his veterinarian father (Anthony Edwards) return to the home town of his late mother to start over. Jeff's already has a trouble with an mean spirited bully (Jared Rushton). Jeff becomes friends with another outsider Drew (Jason McGuire). Drew also has troubles of his own with his sadistic sheriff stepfather Gus (Clancy Brown). When Gus killed Drew's dog for disturbing his stepfather's rabbit cage. Gus decides to bury his dog at a local Indian grounds. A place is rumored to bring the dead back to life. Once Drew's dog is back to life, which the dog looks seemingly normal. Is where disturbances of evil really begins for Jeff and Drew.Directed by Mary Lambert (The In Crown) made an gruesome, cruel-spirited but entertaining trashy horror sequel to the original. Lambert also has her hands making the first film, which is based on a novel by Stephen King. Which King's name appears nowhere in this sequel. Although there's a few references of the first picture. This second movie is made watchable by a good cast (Especially Brown as a resurrected sheriff makes this a lot of fun to watch) and a fast paced.DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an fine-digitally remasteredDolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The DVD only extra is the original theatrical trailer. This sequel does have an cult following. Don't expect to be serious or effective as the original. But it is amusing enough for horror fans. (***/*****). "},{"Title":"Decent cheesy splatter sequel!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some people think that this was un unnecessary sequel but to the surprise of many, it's a decent one. It's obviously carried by it's gore and make up but still, the story behind the movie is very effective. You basically think about the plot from the original movie, but this time with new (likeable) characters. The 90's Horror influence is present through all the movie and you can say that it at least tried to be somehow different.A new family moves to the damned please where years before another unfortunate family experienced the demise of their youngest son who later returned from the grave. This time, we have a dysfunctional family who knows little if any about the horrible events from the past. Could it be that the infamous Pet Sematary is taking new victims? Why would someone try to go against nature and bring back the dead? Watch this worth sequel and you might surprise yourself. The movie is carried away by the performances of Edward Furlong (Geoff) and Clany Brown (Gus). Brown steals the show with a kick ass performance. He's the bad ass and you either love him or hate it, but you have to admit that he was great in his role. The rest of the cast just delivers. Lisa Waltz (Amanda)deserves special mention for being very hot, tender, and acting good. The direction is very good and is carried away by a great cinematography and excellent gore. The score is also pretty good, and plays an important role in the movie.This is the perfect B-movie for teenagers. I can't say that this is a great Horror movie because it has a high level of cheesiness and relies a lot on the slasher sub-genre. Still, it deserves a watch. With a creepy ending, this is the last of the Pet Sematary series. "},{"Title":"I Wish This Sequel Would of Stayed Buried","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When first saw Pet Cemetery II I wasn't expecting anything that would come close to the original, and I was right. First off the film isn't anything like the original the only thing remaining from the first film is the pet cemetery all other aspects of the first that made it good have been changed. The plot is basically a kid and his father move back to the town after the death of their mother/ex-wife, the kids makes friends with another kid who's dog dies and they bury it in the cemetery, well I think you know the rest. The predictability of the entire plot was just sad, I mean I could guess exactly what would happen next. The acting was average nothing horrible, nothing special. The film although directed by the person from the first was nothing like the first, whereas the first film used suspense and dark atmosphere with only very minor gore effects, The second film skips the suspense and atmosphere and goes straight for the gore, It seems like the director wanted to go in a different direction with this film in order to make it more action-packed, it really doesn't work. Overall this film ends up being everything the first wasn't, predictable, weak and just downright stupid. If your a fan of the original I wouldn't recommend this to you at all considering all the things you loved about the first have disappeared in this one. "},{"Title":"Actually, rather good","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this absorbing piece of classic horror appears on the worst 100 list. This is an excellent tale of man's struggle against zombies. The acting is terrific and I really wish they made more movies like this.Now, it's probably not quite as good as the original, but I'm not complaining. The only problem with this movie is the ridiculous teary ending when the faces of those who died are paraded on screen as if this was a war movie or the like. No, in horror movies you expect death of lead characters to occur and you don't feel sad when it happens.Great viewing 9/10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing for all the wrong reasons (spoilers!)","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gosh, this movie was a downer! You can forgive a movie for cheesy music and bad special effects, but not if it makes you generally feel sickened after you finish watching it.  And sickened as in Ew, gross, but sickened as in Gee, I feel like I never want to see a movie like this ever again,I attribute this feeling to the scene where the kid and his mom die in a horrible car crash.  Yeah, I know it's just a cheesy horror movie, but I generally felt depressed when that happened. If only one of them had died, or maybe if they had been jerks to begin with, it might have sat better with me.  Kids that age don't usually die on camera in movies, but when they do, it's usually done with a certain amount of sensitivity.  To send this secondary best friend character into a completely unnecessary fiery blaze with his mother at his side...well, that just made me sad.However, I would not have shed a tear Edward Furlong's character, who seems to have developed, by movies end, a serious Oedipus Complex (and since his mom's dead, it'd be necrophilia too, right?) that is more than just a little disgusting. But he's the main protagonist, so what sense does that make?  None, I tells ya. There's plenty to laugh at, such as the stupidity of nearly everybody in this godforsaken town who utterly fails to recognize the difference between a live dog/sheriff and a dead one.  (The dog's got glow-y eyes and a gaping wound, for god's sake!)  And what about Anthony Edwards dreaming about having sex with a naked woman with the head of a zombie hound?  The unintentional humor almost makes up for the earlier trauma, but not quite.Bottom line avoid like the black plague. "},{"Title":"OMG!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OMG! After finishing this movie, (can't believe I watched the whole thing) I sat for a while wishing for someone to put me out of my misery. This depressing sequel to the original is more than anybody can handle. The plot is a total rehash of the original, the acting is terrible, and the movie relies on gore alone to keep people watching. The ending was a total miss. And Edward Furlong can't act, just so that is said. 90 minutes of my life I could have spent doing something much more productive. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah, soon this evil graveyard is raising hell with new people!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why? One review said why do I do this to myself? Watch horror film sequels? Because we look for a good scare.Not in this one. We get a big bunch of balony, bad script, and I don't even want to talk about directing. All in all, a disgrace to Stephen King, his works, and the original Pet Cemetary. "},{"Title":"A disappointment and waste of talent","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Pet Sematary by the same director, Mary Lambert, is genuinely creepy and scary and contains couple of great shocks which stay in your mind. This sequel is much worse and was pretty hard to sit through when I watched it for the second time.Plot includes again a dead person who leads the characters to the mysterious cemetery from the first film, and soon they decide to try that wonderful idea of getting someone dead back to life with the help of that old burial ground which has been used by indians. What follows is human and animal zombies, couple of atmospheric moments and stupid gore. In other words, pretty lame a film.At times, the film is purely ridiculous and cannot be taken seriously. But the character played by the great Clancy Brown (Blue Steel, Highlander) is funny to watch and pretty effective dead man..But I can't recommend this to anyone real horror fanatic because most of the time, this is stupid and boring. And the violence tries to be more brutal than in the first film but it fails pretty miserably. I think it is stupid to make splatter films when you have to keep the R in mind..And horror film to be scary, effective and atmospheric, the use of effects is definitely not a must. See the first film and don't rush seeing this sequel.3/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me tell you one thing If you can't handle gore, DON'T SEE this movie! The film is well done for a horror movie, although it lacks surprises. Surely if you know the story it's totally predictable, but besides that, I give it a 9+ out of 10. Edward Furlong(Animal Factory, Detroit Rock City, the upcoming italian The Knights of the Quest), the amazingly talented young actor who gets alot less attention than he should be getting, plays Jeff Matthews. Along with Anthony Edwards, who plays his father, Chase Mathews, they are the only two actors who grab your attention during the film. As Jeff finds out about the Pet Sematary, (the misspelling a creepy side) he goes from depressed from his mother dying, to even more depressed with every one ELSE thats dying, you seem sorry for the poor kid thats seeing all that death.But then he goes and brings his mother back to life, and he gets all freaky. You suddenly think, Oh that stupid kid! but after you think about ityou relize that he only did it out of love, but its still weird. Only the smartest kids wouldn't bury there dead loved ones in a cematary that brought the dead back to life and made them want to come back and eat you and your flesh very, very slowly, right? Okay, after being sarcastic, I do recommend this movie to fans of horror, or Edward Furlong, because if I do say so myself, it is one of his best performances. But only if you have a strong stomach. If you are one of Furlongs fans, and want to see his performances, I recommend the following Animal Factory American History X Terminator 2 Judgment Day "},{"Title":"A Genuine Nightmare of Horror","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS Pet Semetary II is by far, one of the greatest sequels of all time, and is also one of the greatest horror movies of all time.The cast is by far incredible. That includes Clancy Brown (Starship Troopers, The Hurricane) Edward Furlong (Terminator 2) Jared Rushton (Big, Honey I Shrunk the Kids) Anthony Edwards (Top Gun, ER) Jason McGuire (Forrest Gump)When actress Rennee Mathews (Darlanne Fluegel) is killed on a movie set unexpectedly, her ex-husband Chase (Anthony Edwards) and her 13 year old son Jeff (Edward Furlong) move back to their old town in Maine to start over. Its hard for Jeff to get over the death of his mother. It gets even harder because he's being bullied by a group of gothic punks led by Clyde Parker (Jared Rushton). He ends up meeting Drew Gilbert (Jason McGuire) an outsider who lives under the rule of his abusive stepfather Gus (Clancy Brown). Drew and Jeff immediatley become friends. But, when Gus shoots Drew's dog Zowie, the two boys find out about an indian burial ground at the top of a mountain that brings dead things back to life if buried up there. So the boys end up burying Zowie up there, and a day later, Zowie comes back to life unexpectedly. On the night of Halloween, Gus catches Drew and Jeff hanging out with Clyde and the rest of the punks. Clyde and the rest of the boys get away except for Drew and Jeff. When Gus goes after Drew, Zowie comes out of the darkness and brutally kills Gus. So now, the boys take Gus to the cemetary to get him back. When it works, Gus's behavior changes. He begins eating like a pig and he starts being nice to Drew. Jeff then decides that he's going to do the same thing with his mom.In the middle of the movie, Clyde trys to kill Jeff. But Gus ends up saving Jeff from Clyde. In fact, Gus ends up grusomely slaughtering Clyde. Be prepared for a suprise at the end of the movie that is related to that scene. The rest of the movie is good fun!I must note, that this is definitley not a movie for kids. It contains strong sexuality, grusome and graphic images, and heavy language. The most suitable ages would be 18 and up due to the content, eventhough the movie is rated R. Eventhough I'm 15, I still say that.All in all, a great movie that is destined to become a classic!  "}{"Title":"should have been buried in the pet semetary","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie blows completely. I remember how the first one completely freaked me out and how even when I was 11 I thought the sequel was terrible. It shows up sometimes on cable and I am forced to remember watching it. The plot revolves around a vetrenarian and his son moving into a cool town. Eddie Furlong, the new kid, befriends a fat kid with an abusive step father. Hey guess what? The kids after the abusive b*****d croaks, bury him in the pet cemetary and he comes back from the dead to wreck havock. This is lame and couldnt scare 7 year old girls at a lumber party.Zero "},{"Title":"Sequels keeps ruining the horror-genre and this is also one of the worst movies ever made.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  BOY THIS MOVIE SUCKS!I can't put my word on it, it's just CRAP! The original was at least a bit entertaining and spooky and scary and so. This ''movie'' sickens me. D-I-S-G-U-S-T-I-N-G!Almost as bad as the worst movie ever, the sequel to THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE.Please.By the way, if you like this movie you do realize that you have no taste of art what so ever? I really hope so. Bye.BOMB 0/10 "},{"Title":"Want a stupid sequel, watch this","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After losing his mother (in a very stupid death scene) a young boy moves in with his father in a small Maine Town. There the boy and one of his friends start bringing dead people left and right. Need I say more. If they knew they were going to make a sequel they could have used some of the original characters. At least they as much as I hate to say it, could act somewhat. This movie has so much gore in it, it gives new meaning to the word slasher flick. Avoid this baby at all costs. Even if your a fan of the first one (and god knows there are a few of you out there)just make up a sequel in your own mind. I'm sure you could do a better job.  "},{"Title":"more scary shxt!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  oh man...this is basically the same movie over again, but it still keeps your eyes glued to the screen. This movie is by far more graphic and bloody. Once again, they focus more on bringing the humans back than the pets.  The dog is the scarriest part of the film because of its glowing eyes!! Ok sequel as good as the first. Pet sematary 3 and 4 may make it to direct to home video release.**1/2 out of 4Rated R for almost every violation possible except illegal drug use!j-o-n-a-t-h-a-n  y-a-t-e-s          "},{"Title":"This may be one of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is terrible. Not that I expected much, but this was my first walk out. Mid date, I just got up and left. Oh, and this may be a spoiler... Even if you do watch this, you may want to cover your eyes during the rabbit mutilation. "},{"Title":"Great sequel!!!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I am a big fan of the Stephen King movies, and even the sequels (especially this one), and especially Pet Sematary 1. You see, I just moved to a town in Georgia called Senoia about 2 weeks ago, and I've just realized that Pet Sematary 2 was filmed (for the most part) a few yards away from where I live now. I went out and rented this amazing movie again just to see the parts with my town in it, and I was amazed!!! I was standing right where Edward Furlong and Anthony Edwards were standing!!!! The Pet shop in the Movie is really a furniture store called Holburgs or something. I don't think that is how you spell it, but it's close. The street that the Pet shop is on is Main street. If you look at the part where the big kid is walking down the church stairs and he tells Edward Furlong that his dog died and he has to bury it, if you take a right on that street, and Then another left, you will be right where I live. Its kinda freaky. I can understand why you people would look at this and think it's stupid, but for me, a 14 year old movie freak, its a VERY large deal. Especially when one of your favorite movies was filmed right EXACTLY where you live.      "},{"Title":"Very forgettable.","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think this was my second watch, i could not remember much from the first watch,Now that I seen it again, I now why that was, As Pet Sematary was one of my fav horror movies.I did not find first of half of the movie that bad, i felt really sorry for fat kid and it was really had to watch dog getting shot, I know what was going the kid mind. The dad was pain in the bloody ass and somehow a cop, The Dog came back, it did look really scary with red eyes, that did that really well. The rest of the movie fall to mess as I did not really understand, why they were doing that, it didn't really make sense at all.The acting is this movie was really from everyone and the Dog as well, they all did they great Job. I have already forgot how the movie ended! "},{"Title":"Rare sequel that's better than the original","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 1989 Stephen King adaptation of his novel 'Pet Sematary' is one of the best based on his work and was a hit at the box office. Like earlier adaptations such as 'Salem's Lot' and 'Children of the Corn' it didn't feel like sequel material, but I guess the people at Paramount didn't see it that way because three years later II was released. This time Stephen King wanted nothing to do with the project, but Mary Lambert returned to the director's chair and once again the location was Maine. Despite the fact that this sequel was entirely unnecessary, it actually turned out to be much better than it has any right to. Call me crazy, but I actually like it a little more than the first film.Pros Fine work from the cast, especially Clancy Brown who has fun with his part. The entire film has a real grim and depressing tone. Has a real mean streak. A good score and a great rock soundtrack, again featuring a song by the Ramones. Fast pacing. Mary Lambert injects some style into the film by use of colored filters, aerial shots, slow motion, etc. Excellent gore and make-up effects, not to mention a good amount of the former. Nice shots of the Maine landscape in Fall.Cons The dream sequences are more laughable than scary. Lacks the smarts and scares of the original.Final thoughts The original is and always will be a great horror film, but I can't help but like this sequel a little more. It's a rare example of a sequel that's done right. I think having the same director and such a talented cast really helped keep it from being just another by-the-numbers effort.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"People take this movie the wrong way!","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" People definitely take this movie the wrong way. If Mary Lambert wanted to make it more like the first one, she would've! She obviously didn't mean to make it so that at the end you say, Oh my god, that was so horrifying! If those were her intentions, she wouldn't have gotten as far as she did in Hollywood to begin with! Take the other movies she took part in for example. Like the first Pet Sematary and Urban Legends. I didn't hear many complaining about them! Even if you absolutely hated the plot, the music, and the animal violence, which believe me I hated more than anyone, there's no way you couldn't have at least liked this movie. Clancy Brown is one hell of an actor, not to mention a funny and handsome one! His performance as Gus was like no other. I can't think of anyone who would've done the part better. He's the best at everything he does and it pisses me off that he's not put out there like he should be. For what he's done and the great way he's acted and still does, he should be mentioned on television and in magazines a hell of a lot more. But anyway, back to the movie. Bottom line is, if you don't like scary spoofs, then don't watch them! I haven't heard anyone complain about any of the Scary Movie movies! And besides, you continued to watch Pet Sematary 2 even though you didn't like the way it was going in the first place, so you must've took some interest in it! That is all. . . I love you Clancy Brown! "},{"Title":"grab a beer (or 10), sit back and enjoy","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" first things first, don't watch this film with anticipation of seeing 'the sequel' to Pet Semetary, forget it's even meant to be a sequel, just watch it as stand-alone movie.there's not much to be said, i found this extremely entertaining, it's just a crazy, gory, fun movie. The bike death is very sick, but they throw comedy in there with it.Gus The Zombie definitely deserves a place in Zombie-movie history, very funny.If you like OTT movies that don't take themselves too seriously, give this a viewing, it's a riot. "}{"Title":"I was soooo scared, when watching this movie ... NOT!!!!!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me start by saying that this movie is just pure rubbish. It proves that the creators had only one thing on their mind How can we make as much money as possible with no effort at all?The story isn't new, but that's OK. Someone or something dies and the ones who are left behind have a hard time to live without their loved one. But there is a solution. If they bury the death person, dog, cat,... on an ancient Indian cemetery he or it will live again ... as a zombie. A good director can do some great things with this, with or without a lot of special effects. But this clearly isn't a good director.I know, from a commercial point of view a sequel or a prequel to a popular movie is very interesting. You can be sure that a lot of people will watch it. But why do you have to insult your fans with such an awful movie? Do they really think that a lot of gore, a dog with red eyes and a dumb zombie will make a great movie??? I sure hope not! Perhaps in the early fifties, sixties and seventies they could scare people with that kind of uninspired nonsense, but today they will have to come up with a lot better.If I have to give my advice to someone who didn't see it yet DON'T WATCH IT! There are a lot of good movies, but don't watch this one! You'll only regret it. Not because it is too scary or whatever, but just because it is a pure waste of your time! I think a lot of people will agree with me if I say that this so-called movie isn't worth much more than a 2 or a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good sequel","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good sequel, in fact I watched the second movie first. I don't know why this movie is in the bottom 100. It was a gory sequel that was more urban with more guns. Some people may say this movie is horrible, but I personally like it. It's follows the Stephen King written movie pet sematary. A father and his son moves in to a new house after their movie star mother was killed. They heard there was a prohibited area in the local pet sematary. Then many lives come back that are placed in there one after the other. A good horror movie. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unwelcomed sequel to the weak original is more of a remake if anything else and a poor one at that. The story pretty much remains the same. A family who has lost several family members due to unfortunate circumstances buries them in the infamous Pet Sematary only to find out that it resurrects them as blood thirsty killers devoid of the characteristics that made them human in the first place. Rated R. "},{"Title":"not great","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember waiting months for this to be released.The first one was good.Nothing special of course but an effective little horror movie.This movie,however, has nothing really to recommend.Where the first one had a few scary moments,this relies on gore and shocks to entertain.I do love gory movies but this has a mean streak in it.It goes nowhere for half the film with bad dialogue and crap scenes.The actors do their best to give there characters any life.Basically this is a really crap film that you should not see.  "},{"Title":"The film is sour.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have mixed feelings abou the film.It lacks a decent plot.The film leaves many questions unanswered to.I think part1 was the better.The book of pet semetary is much better than the films.In the book, Gage tells Jud somethings about his wife he never knew.That scares you and shocks you.They should have incorporated it in the film.Pet2 is a film that really never should have been made anyway.I give Pet2 a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I hate Eddie Furlong.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Naturally, I would hate this movie, because Eddward Furlong is in it. Sadly, that isn't the only reason this sucks. The acting is crap, the plot is forgettable and horror is cheesy. The fact that there is too much violence and not enough atmosphere ruins this movie (the first one sucked too). I obviously wouldn't recommend this movie to any one with a sense of taste for movies. The actors are awful! (especially Edward Furlong) This movie really just seems like an excuse to desensitize people to violence.In closing, this movie is pretty lowsy and deserves to be on the bottom 100. If you like movies with strong plots and powerful acting, don't waste your time with this. "},{"Title":"What the Hell is this?","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm sorry to dissapoint anyone into thinking that this movie was good or similar to the first movie but its not! absolute rubbish is what it portrayed! I know there are mixed feelings on this movie but if you are looking for a similarily creepy movie like the first one....Forget It! "},{"Title":"Makes the first one look like Gone With the Wind","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had vague memories of seeing this when it came out in 1992.  I hated the first one but I had some hope that maybe the sequel would be better.  I remember hating it worse than the first one!  Seeing it again last night (Why?  Damned if I know) all those feelings came rushing back.The plot is basically a retread of the first--a spooky cemetary in the Maine woods has the power to bring the dead back to life.  Naturally the dead come back as killers.The first one was a cruel, stupid horror film.  This one manages to be even crueller and much, much stupider.  The script is horrible--full of unlikable characters and has an extremely mean-spirited tone to it.  The movie opens with a young boy seeing his mother electrocuted to death and then cuts to a dog being put to sleep by lethal injection!  That's just the opening--all through the movie there are vivid scenes of child and animal abuse shoved in your face.  It makes you feel dirty and disgusted.  Also there's a truly sick (and unnecessary) rape scene and pointless female nudity.  And there's some really sick, graphic gore.The direction is lackluster and (with one exception) all the actors are terrible--Anthony Edwards appears to be sleepwalking and Edward Furlong is just pathetic in the lead role.The only thing that makes this film bearable is Clancy Brown's hilarious performance as a resurrected sheriff.  But that's not enough to sit through this crap.Cruel, sick, badly acted, badly directed, stupid script--to be avoided at all costs.  This definetely does belong in IMDB's bottom 100. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie ever made.. no question about it!","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Have you ever watched a movie you wish you could just make go away? I mean not just away from your mind, but away forever like it never existed? That would be this movie for me. I hated it.. HATED it with a passion. The movie was beyond cruel and totally unnecessary. If you're an animal lover like me, you won't be able to sit through it. Heck, even if you just like animals.. it's still hard to stomach.I think whoever dreamed up this crap needs to have a lobotomy.Giving it an 1 out of 10 cause there isn't an option for 0 or I would have used that... actually a -578357834578437534 more like it.PUKE in it's worst form. "},{"Title":"Why....","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why do I do this to myself?Why, when the original was so incredibly bad, so unredeemable, so completely bereft of entertainment value, did I ever see Pet Sematary II?And why, in heaven's name, did I go to a THEATRE to see it??Some questions, I guess, can never be answered.But as far as this inexcusable sequel goes, why was it made?The main thing the two have in connection is that otherworldly sematary of the title, where people bury dead dogs, abusive sheriffs, bullies and dead parents.  It has the same director (Lambert), too.  None of the same characters from the original are back, though.  All dead, you know.Too bad that actors like Furlong, Edwards, Rushton and Cluny (who can be good when he has to be) got stuck in this mess.  There is not one honest moment of entertainment here to be found.  And believe me, I was looking hard for one.Remember the tagline for the original (Sometimes dead is better.)?  That should have went for II, too.  Not as a tagline but as a production note.No stars.  If I could rate it lower, I would.  This is over 90 minutes of my life gone forever.  I'll never get those minutes back again, and I could have used them for something of purpose.  For instance, to petition against unnecessary sequels. ...like this one. "}{"Title":"No brain, no pain.....","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Connor and Goose, get fed up of Hollywood after their mother and wife, respectively, gets killed. They move to Ludlow to start a new life, but soon John is being bullied by a gang led by the boy from Big.One of the gang, Drew, soon befriends him, and they form a little partnership. Drews step-dad though is The Kurgen from Highlander, and doesn't really enjoy him being around the house.The Kurgen kills Drews dog one night, after it tries to hurt his chickens, but lo and behold, John and Drew decide to bury the dog in the titular place, with predictable results...Where's the T-800 when you need him?...The first film was very good, and most importantly, disturbing. It channelled on raising the dead, and being unable to cope with loss. And its point was made clearly and bluntly.This however, tries to be a little bit more, and at times, its seems that its aiming for generation X with its out of place soundtrack, and the overall feel.Furlong was probably cast wholly on his T2 success, and is basically John Connor who goes a bit mad at the end. Edwards is wasted in this, spending his time looking either concerned or perplexed.But the best thing is Brown, who really cranks the cheese up to eleven. He doesn't make the film any better, quite the opposite in fact, but at least when he's on screen, the films never boring.The biggest problem is that its not scary, and its biggest failure is that it doesn't have that foreboding sense of dread that the first movie did.The film verges on parody, and is just a blatant cash in on Kings name.But it is the best movie where someone gets killed by a ton of potatoes.... "},{"Title":"Better than the first film","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This redundant sequel can at least lay claim to being an improvement on the awful original, but... well, so what? The plot, which retreads (and buries people in) familiar ground, sees Edward Furlong and his widowed father Anthony Edwards move into town and learn in a blindingly unsubtle way about the legendary burial ground and its unique properties. The expected events then occur in predictable ways.Meanwhile Furlong's new-found friend (Jason McGuire) finds that both his dog and stepfather (Clancy Brown) return from the dead a little the worse for wear. Any scene involving Brown's zombie is genuinely funny; it's a shame the whole movie isn't played for laughs because it's slim pickings when he's off screen. "},{"Title":"A Sequel that should have stayed Buried","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Much like the story goes for the Indian burial ground that resurrects the dead the same could be said about this film. As stated in the first,when something is buried it comes back but a little bit different. It might look the same and sort of act the same but something is off about it. That is what rings true the most about this sequel. There is something off about it. The story has a vet doctor and his son moving to the Maine town to re cooperate from the unexpected death of his estranged wife. While there the son discovers the pet cemetery and all hell breaks loose. The problem is they try to incorporate a dose of black humor into the story which does not work well. Most of the characters are unlikeable to say in the least and things tend to move at an odd pace. Its amazing the same director from the first did this one. While the first is a good psychological dose of horror this one comes off as needlessly gory and flat. Stick with the original, its superior in every way. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While PET 2 features the same director as PET 1, it is far inferior. Essentially what we have here is a zombie movie, minus the thrills. A veterinarian loses his wife to a freak accident and ends up moving with his young son to the town that houses the legendary and mysterious pet cemetery. Before you know it, once-dead animals and people are once again walking all over the place, raising holy hell. Anthony Edwards of ER fame is the vet and Ed Furlong is his son. Edwards is boring and Furlong is unconvincing as someone who becomes obsessed with bringing back the dead. The one saving grace here is Clancy Brown as a sadistic sheriff who dies and comes back absolutely delighted to be undead. Brown carries most of the movie, and is loads of fun as he slaughters the living and generally wreaks mayhem. The rest is hogwash and the story lacks internal logic (for instance, Brown kills the town bully and then revives him, but why?). The gore is stepped up a bit from the original, but this is because there are more flesh-eating dead people walking around this time. "},{"Title":"Nothing for Furlong to Do","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed the first Pet Sematary and rented this because I wanted some cheesy entertainment. It won't disappoint if one is looking for cheese, but on most every other front it will. The main problem is that Edward Furlong, our protagonist, has virtually nothing to do. Clearly he was cast because of his participation in Terminator 2. While I find Furlong to be somewhat grating (the pubescent cracking of the voice and the eyes glowering under too-long bangs), he did create a coherent character in T2. Yet here he is given very little dialogue and exists to merely sleepwalk through scenes. I kept waiting for him to respond to his tormentors with some biting comment, or have some insight into death, but he is a cipher. If he had been a proactive character--at least as interesting as the bully and the abusive sheriff--this movie would have been an above average horror. "},{"Title":"Sometimes dead is betta","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the result when someone digs Pet Sematary 1989 out of the graveyard of classic horror and then buries it back in the actual Pet Sematary -- something that has flickers of what it once was but ultimately kind of sucks.I won't say anything about the acting (which was pretty bad except for Clancy Brown who brought his A-game), or the characters (like the most ill-conceived bully of all time or the most irresponsible father who doubles as the world's worst veterinarian), or the cinematography (periodically confusing uses of soft-focus), or the music (occasional eruption of smooth jazz at inappropriate times), because if you just ignore all these things, the movie's actually kind of alright.At about the last 30 minutes the movie seems to have an epiphany and realize what it actually is (and what it is not Pet Sematary); at which point it becomes less serious and pretty enjoyable. This means that the comedy that had been unintentionally demonstrated in the somber first parts of the movie (because they were bad) get replaced by comedy that is actually appropriate and intentional. Ultimately I'm grateful to finally have a concrete example that what you take outta the ground ain't the same thing you put it, and to know once and for all that dead is, in fact, betta. "},{"Title":"not as bad as the original but still off-putting","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young boy&#x97;his mother a famous movie actress whom he adores, his father a veterinarian whom he hasn't always seen eye to eye with&#x97;has trouble letting go after the former dies in a tragic accident. Left to live with his father, he befriends the belligerent town sheriff's stepson who informs him of an old legend about an ancient burial ground where those you bury rise from the dead. Unfortunately it's not a legend, and events of unspeakable terror occur. Not as wretched or repulsive as the original, but still suffers from unappealing characters, relentless cruelty, and a nonexistent plot; for acquired tastes only. * "},{"Title":"Middle","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First time I saw Pet Sematary 2 was in 1995. I was 6 years old at that time. And honestly it scared the hell out of me. Than. Now, 10 years later I actually found myself laughing at different points when I saw the movie. I laughed first time when Jeff (Edward Furlong) says to his fathers housekeeper You're not my mother after she had the courage to say that the first day in school is always bad. Second time was when Gus, the dead cop said oops when he killed that mean guy. I saw this movie for one reason. I'm a huge fan off Eddie Furlong and I want to see all of his movies. But I really cant say that you can count this as a horror movie. It was mostly grouse and not scary at all. All of the actors did a great job except Edward Furlong. Actually, even as a fan I most say he wasn't far to good in this movie at all. Of course it was only his second movie but he did a lot greater in T2. "},{"Title":"Strictly for fans who saw & loved the original.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" & I did, which is why I probably got more out of the sequel than anybody, though I advise that if you never seen the original or heck never liked the original, to keep away from this. The story now has a young boy who moves into another town with his dad after his mother is killed on the set of a movie she was acting in, along with his new found friend, they discover a patch of land called the PET SEMATARY that is rumored to be cursed & when his friend's dog is killed by his friends abusive step dad/Sheriff, they bury the dog & of course it comes back, but just like the last time, it doesn't stop there, soon his friends abusive dad is killed by...guess what & in order to cover up what happened they bury him in the PET SEMATARY, now despite the fact that he sees both his friends dog & his friend's dad as evil monsters, he decides to bury his mom in there too, I mean what harm can mom do, she loved him...PET SEMATARY 2 although is nowhere near as scary as the original film, manages to be not far from it in terms of suspense, gore, acting & good, interesting story lines to keep you hooked from beginning to end, although it sags a little in continuity, it manages to be generally scary in other ways. No real connection to the original aside from some references & the burial ground itself. Rumor has it that a Part 3 is in the works, but of course I'll believe that when I see it.*** stars "},{"Title":"Basic overview","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Overall this movie was relatively cheesy and rather predictable. Not nearly as good as the first. Despite the the ridiculousness of the whole thing, it wasn't to bad considering most horror movies are 10 times worse. I mean hell this had the three basic ingredients for a decent horror flick (gore, brief sex/nudity, and swearing). There were a hell of a lot of mistakes in this movie which disappointed me. When the two kids were taking Zowie to the Indian Burial Ground, i noticed that the dead dog looked completely different from the living one. The colour markings and size of the dog were totally changed. The electrocution of the mother in the beginning of the film was badly acted out, the woman could have done better. Hell all the acting was pretty bad, but well that is expected from a flick like this. Overall i give the movie a 2 out of 5. Not horrible, but certainly not great. Now a great gore/horror movie would be Hellraiser Bloodline. Bloody good movie. I advise renting it.  "}{"Title":"One of my movies of adventure","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is on my fantasy list. I have a few favorite parts on there that I remember seeing 10 years ago. Like When Clyde Parker (Jared Rushton) rams Jeff Matthews off the road with his bike & fell in the ditch Clyde says, I bet you're dad can't save you from me! And all of a sudden Gus Gilbert shows up forces & tells Jeff to go home. Then Gus cuts Clyde across his neck with the bike with blood sprinkling on him. And Gus chasing the mom & son with his car pushing them over into the potato truck and the potatoes fall on them and they're killed! "},{"Title":"Drew-Buddy!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   The first time I saw this film I enjoyed it quite a bit. After all, there's gratuitous violence, some nudity and Eddie Furlong. Of course, the original is far superior (Eddie can't stack up against Miko Hughes as a murderous toddler) and actually, most of this film is pretty damn bad. But it is fun and the bully kid is hilariously lame (as movie bullies tend to be.) What I couldn't figure out was why the zombie dad had to call everyone buddy all the time, then I realized he was probably Canadian (there is a Canadian flag hanging in his son's room.) Although I guess he must have relocated to Maine or wherever to start a new child-abusing rabbit-raising life for himself.  Oh yeah, the dude from ER is really awful in this movie, he's just a huge nerd who should be spanked with moonrocks. His acting is bad, too. Highlights of the film zombie dad eating breakfast, motorcycle-to-face scene and ghostdog with hooters.  "},{"Title":"A Little Different","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary 2 was a little different to the first!The path is no way like the first one in Pet Sematary, the Pet Sematary was no way as spooky as the first, the path in Pet Sematary to the Micmac Indian Burying ground looked rather cheap, and the burying ground was totally different to the first!To me, Pet Sematary 2 did not really make any sense, but for the houses, it did!I enjoyed this movie and I also own it on video at home, but I know it could've done a lot better, even with the song that ends the show also made me want to rewind the tape, sing the lyrics with the Ramones and dance! I give this movie 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible sequel.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this is a sequel to the horror classic Pet Sematary. Watching this, you keep thinking HOW could this have happened? Don't get me wrong, I'm well aware this was not supposed to get Academy Award nominations, but I am a huge fan of horror and trust me, this movie is crap. Mary Lambert totally ruined it. Lambert made a terrific and creepy film the first time around. Pet Sematary, though hated by critics (aren't all good horror movies?) was one of the best horror movies in a while. For Lambert to follow it up with this ruins the whole thing. So here's the story Years have passed since the Creed family raised a little dead meat in Pet Sematary. What's left of them is nothing more than a town legend and ghost story told by most of the area kids. Hearing these kids tell the story of the Creeds at a Halloween party inside the Pet Sematary, you really feel the pain that befell that family. It's like a Greek tragedy, the whole thing makes you sad and remembering the first movie makes for a really haunting experience. The role of the Pet Sematary in this movie is to resurrect a boy's dog, his stepdad, then some poor kid's dead Hollywood mother. Sometimes it is better to laugh at a horror movie than be scared by it (Evil Dead) but with this movie you'll really be laughing AT it. Everything that made the first scary is gone. The music is nothing but a lame theme and a list of rock songs. The feel of impending doom and tragedy is missing. What fills this gaping hole is more gore, more dead bodies, and an attempt at humor. I really can't believe this was by the same director. Stephen King denied anything to do with this movie, which is smart because this could have ruined the man. This movie is really brutal. There are animal deaths a plenty here. Dogs are shot in cold blood, kittens are chewed up, and rabbits have their necks snapped. There are some mean bullies that tease a boy about his mother dying. This movie really takes a lot to stomach and a deadening of the nerves, especially when boys are laughing and teasing this young boy about the death of one of his parents. It's beyond cruel. Most of the movie is boring and laughable. The dead from the first movie killed everything in sight. This time, they come home, take a shower, and go to work! What happened to the evil murderous things that came back in the first film? Sure, they kill, but not everything in sight and it's done with a comedic effort. I really don't understand why this movie had to be made, it's a lot of gore and a waste of time. The absence of the Creed family lets this movie fall apart and instead we get to see several stupid area locals who just keep burying dead people who come back like retarded zombies. The characters in this film kill pets, bully people, beat children, and this is all before they are even dead! If you are thinking this is like the first, it's not. The only shining moments this movie has are when the Creeds are mentioned. This may be more enjoyable to watch with a crowd than the first movie, since it was kind of depressing and sad, but it's a lesser effort and a sad, sad sequel. More fun than the first? Yes. Better? Not a chance in Hell.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a brilliant movie Eddie Furlong acted beautifly, The way he changes. At the beggining he seems like a loving sweet son. Then a little Rebelious then completly mentill He is a great actor and the film is brilliant somtimes funny, scary, and Touching. I think you should watch it expsily if your also a 15 r old Eddie fanatic!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but fun and frightening","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I believe this sequel would not have been half as good if Mary Lambert didn't direct it. The original was set to have become an ultimate horror classic and succeeded in an admirable way. For anyone who watches the sequel, you will see that it is not as good as the original, but catches up quite closely. The movie has a frightening but crucial and rather comic tone in certain places. Mary Lambert is a great distinctive director of her own purpose. Anyway, the movie starts with Jeff and Chase Matthews. Chase is a vet who has moved his son Jeff from Los Angeles after Jeffs mother's death. They are both griefstruck by the whole event. Jeff finds the town boring and quiet with his one friend Drew. When Drews dog Zowie dies,they both decide that they will bury it in the pet sematary ( well the burial ground behind it anyway). When Drews bullying stepfather find the pair of them with drink in the pet sematary,Gus ( Drews stepfather )attacks Drew but is then killed by Zowie who protects him. Both Drew and Jeff know that they will not get away with what happened, so they decide to bury him in the burial ground. As Gus comes back from the dead, a bizarre chain of events begin to occur which results in tragic violence.If you are expecting some kind of hardcore horror movie, you can look elsewhere,but if you prefer the kind where the movie gradually delivers thrills and suspense, I would recommend this movie and it's original. If you like both these movies, I reccomend Candyman if you haven't yet seen it. Hopefully, there will be a second sequel and even more hopefully, Mary Lambert will direct it.  "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasures...","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Leonard Maltin's Video Guide gave the original 'Pet Sematary' a BOMB rating, the lowest possible rating; in his review of this one, he claims this sequel is far, far worse.  Admittedly, I haven't got round to caching the first one yet, but Christ, come on, this one is a belter!  It was never going to sweep the Oscars.  But it was never meant to!  'Pet Sematary 2's intentions - namely, to deliver an enjoyably trashy, Friday-night kind of movie - lie elsewhere, and it more than adequately lives up to them.  It's got a wonderfully OTT performance by Clancy Brown, a local sheriff who shows unholy relish in his new role as one of the evil dead; a nice and gloomy autumnal setting; a killer soundtrack (it features L7); and, that old favourite, zombie pets.Hopefully, anyone intending to watch this one in the first place won't be put off by the snobbish bitchings of po-faced cine-sophisticates.  Rent it out, catch it on the TV, just give this one a chance!  Low budget crap it may be but, damn, is this crap enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Sad Story","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen both Pet Sematary and Pet Sematary II and I must say that I find nr. 2 a lot better! Not that it is scarier because honestly - it's not. Nr. 1 is much scarier and I like that movie too. But Nr. 2 has a very sad story to tell. A family is breaking a part, the mother dies just when it looked like she was going to get back together with the father. And not only that family! There is also another family with a mum, a son and a stepdad. The stepdad is really hard on the son and the son doesnt like him very much but when he dies, I think that it seems like he likes him a bit after all.And the bottom line here is that I think that this story is showing how bad things can go if you are at the wrong place at the wrong time.I must just say that I think all they actors played beautifully (especially Edward Furlong).  "},{"Title":"Good acting and gore scenes but the story and the scenario are bad...","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Edward Furlong is a very good actor. He played in Terminator2 and American History X. Anthony Edwards plays his character very well too. A boy, Jeff Matthews(played by E.Furlong) sees his mother die. His father(played by A. Edwards) which is a veterinary, learns the sad story and moves to another city with Jeff to restart their lives...Then, Jeff gets a new friend who has a dog named Zowie and a stepfather named Gus(played by Clancy Brown)who is mean with him. One night, Zowie is shot by Gus and then, Jeff and his friend go to the Pet Sematary, dig a hole and put the dog in it...then they go back home and the dog is back to life...but it has not the same behavior...and when Gus comes to hit Jeff's friend, the dog bites Gus at the neck and kills him....then Jeff and his friend are afraid and do the same thing they did with Zowie.....If it worked with Zowie, it will surely work with Gus....and guess what? Yeah, you got it, it worked. And days later, Gus kills his wife and her son(Jeff's friend) without reason. He kills Clyde, one of Jeff's enemies, with a motocycle(this scene shows a new way to kill someone). then Jeff changes his personality(??????) and does the same thing he did for Zowie and Gus with his mother. And guess what? Yeah you got it again...she comes back to life and then Jeff's father shoots Gus in the head (Gus killed the dog again). And the final scene is the best Jeff is back with his mother and his father comes and says that this woman is not his wife and Jeff's mother. And then she asks Jeff to go outside the room because she wants to talk to Jeff's father alone. But when he opens the door, he sees his enemy Clyde which has lost half of his head because of the motocycle.....and this ''thing''tries to kill him. But Jeff blows up Clyde's head (well, the second half..)and there is fire in the room and Jeff's mother burns loosing  her skin and her blood.......The acting is good for most of the actors in this movie...the gore scenes are cool too.......but the scenario and the story are pretty bad....this is an entertaining horror movie....pretty cool to watch except if you are sensible with blood and gore..... I give it 65%. "},{"Title":"Yuck.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love horror movies, but this was downright repulsive. There are gorier movies than this (Braindead springs to mind) but that was funny gore, whereas this is mean-spirited gore. Imagine my surprise when this premered on Aus television, 7 years after it was made, it all it's uncut glory (or should that be gory?) There was one good bit about this movie, GUS. His character (when he's resurrected) is really funny, but only because Clancy Brown hams it up big time. Unfortunatley, the rest of the cast play it straight and it confuses the viewer. What is this? Horror movie that's intended to be scary or comedy? Back to the bad....There's a stupid scene involving death by motorbike wheel, ala Happy Birthday To Me (1981). There's more rabid dog bites than you can poke at stick at. There's an exploding head and a human meltdown at the end if you manage to sit through this tripe.Edward Furlong's scream is hilarious, he screams out and his voice bobs up and down a few notes.And yes, there's the school bully who has no reason to be in this rather to bully Furlong and meet a grisly end by the wheel of a motorbike as mentioned earlier.I really liked the first one, but if there's ever another sequel and it's as bad as this, so help me god, I will kill myself.TV RATINGM= Mature Audinces (Strong Violence, Some course language)This is by far the goriest movie screened on Australian TV. Yes, that's including the full uncut version of Argento's Deep Red that's been on twice on SBS. "}{"Title":"one of the worst sequels ever made","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Simply put, this movie is awful! IT has nothing to do at all with the first movie, and lacks a plot- and a heartbeat for that matter.  The first Pet Sematary is truly a classic and Stephen King would let Gage Saw his achilles' tendon (as he did to Jud) if he saw this god-awful sequel.SKIP IT!! 3/10 (riding on a good effort by Furlong) "},{"Title":"Great spoof movie!","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of those movies that spoof the unbelievable stupidity of some horror movies. It spoofs these moronic movies that use rock music in the most intense moments, spoofs horror movies where peoples' reactions are out of this planet, spoofs bad effects some movies use to create gory scenes by including a couple of dumb ones here, and also spoofs those crappy horror movies that have totally meaningless and irrelevant scenes of nudity made using obvious body doubles even when the real actress is a cheapo who should have had no problem doing it herself!Some viewers seem to miss the point and take Pet Sematary II as a real horror movie, not a parody... Of course that is a mistake. It isn't meant to be horror or the makers would have to be a bunch of retards with unprecedented amount of idiocy and should spend the rest of their lives picking garbage from streets.Funnier than Scary Movie 1, 2 and 3. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I've ever seen! Nothing can beat it! Ever!","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have 3 words for this movie; I-Hate-It. I hate it! I watched this in our school field trip once, and it automatically sucks! This is a piece of crap slapped with a bunch of dead animals and freaks. First of all I want to give a shout-out to the film producer Ralph Singleton and Director Mary Lambert; Hello?! Have you ever heard of AA-NII-MAAL RIII-GHTSSS??? Oh, I'm sorry... It's just this movie sucks anyway! Thanks a lot Stephen King! I'm gonna kick your @** for this, not really.Sigh... And the story goes, the beginning sucks a lot; who would have thought of putting a real iron fence as a prop! They could have at least used... well... just like this movie, PLASTIC! Then the protagonist shouts Moooooooommm! Several times... what a Drama Queen! Yeah it's gay. A little later in the vet, a bunch kitties were sent... blah... blah... blah... then the protagonist's friend came in with a Siberian Husky (Hey, I like that dog!). Then, a few minutes later, the kitties turned into shrapnel, poom! Kitty go bye bye! A few more minutes, the dog was shot dead by that freak police officer. The dog is then buried, a little later, freaky police officer turned into freakier police officer after being bit by a zombie dog... ooh... ah... scary... Not!A few more minutes later... This the worst part I've seen and I want to kill them! Those harmless bunnies are torn apart and turned into dinner, I thought those things hanging in the cage were a bunch of stuffed toys, turns out to be rabbits! W.T.F.?! Gah! Only an d-bag would do that! At the near end the ghost mother shouted blah... blah... (I forgot) Dead is better! Dead is better! Oh, God! Oh, shut up b****! At the end the father and his son went off, away from that scumbag town! And the last part, showing the characters faces at the side, yeah... It's a barf bag! What a Cornball!By the way, my fictional nation considers this as the most controversial movie, because it's disrespecting! They shot a dog, which is sacred in the nation, showed some kittens that turned into shrapnel, mutilated a rabbit (so sad! They are a bunch of heartless morons!) and showed a taxidermized Pug (the most respected of all dogs in the nation) with an eye that doesn't fit, now it looked like the eye just popped off! My people are animal lovers! The Animal Liberation Front of Teryl (Teryl is my fictional country, I made it since I was in 4th grade, I'm in 12th grade now!) should have protested against this, and ban this for good!The movie's story is crap, the acting is just cheesy, and the lines are lame! Indeed, I'm an animal lover, mostly dog person! If you're an animal lover like me, destroy the VHS, VCD, or DVD or anything that played this crap, burn it, shred it, just don't bury it in the Pet Sematary in Maine! Okay, that's a little drastic... just curse Mary Lambert instead, it's her fault anyway!Overall I give this a 1 out of 10! That's it, I'm done! "},{"Title":"BAD, Unworthy Sequel To A Mediocre Film","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mary Lambert's Pet Sematary II of 1992 is an unpleasant and unscary sequel and only bearable due to a few cool gory scenes and some decent performances. The original Pet Seamatary of 1989 (also directed by Lambert) was certainly no Horror-highlight, and I personally found it to be overrated by many of my fellow Horror fans, but it was still an atmospheric and entertaining film that had many creepy moments. The sequel, however, is a vast disappointment for a Horror fan like myself, since it doesn't really deliver any creepiness or suspense.After the death of his celebrity mother, teenager Jeff Matthews (Edward Furlong) moves away from LA with his father Chase (Anthony Edwards), a veterinarian. As luck would have it, the father and son move, out of all small towns, to Ludlow, Maine, the nice little backwater we all know from the first movie...Pet Sematary II is a (boring, badly made) drama about the struggles of adolescents more than it is a Horror movie. There is simply hardly any suspense in this (probably because the screenplay wasn't written by Stephen King, as it was the case in the first movie), and many scenes that are meant to be creepy are, if anything, more funny than scary. I admit that there are a few entertaining and gory scenes, but that's simply not enough to counteract a boring plot and the lack of suspense. The only noteworthy performance is that of Clancy Brown, who plays the town's Sheriff, an arrogant and aggressive prick. Brown fits very well in his role, his performance is one of the few positive things about Pet Sematary II. Otherwise, the performances are forgettable, Edward Furlong and Anthony Edwards were not necessarily bad, but I can't say their performances memorabe in any way either.The first Pet Sematary was definitely no Horror masterpiece, but this sequel makes it look like a Dario Argento movie. Pet Sematary II has a few fun scenes, but, honestly spoken, there's better ways to waste your time. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Better than a lot of horror sequels...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As sequels to decent eighties horror films go, it has to be said that Pet Semetary 2 is a rather good one. The film, of course, has nothing to do with Stephen King, but the sequel has retained the director of the original, Mary Lambert. For this film, the action has shifted in tone; from brooding and mysterious, to silly and comical - but the film manages to be entertaining throughout, as elements from the first film are blended with new ideas to create another tale of the ills of messing around with nature. To be honest, the main reason I saw this film was because I'd heard that it's really gory; however, it may just be me; but aside from a couple of grisly scenes involving rabbits and kittens, there really isn't anything that shocking about this film. The plot follows a young lad whose mother, an actress, is electrocuted while making a movie. So, he goes to live with his dad; a vet in the same town from the first 'Pet Semetary'. While there, the kid meets another young lad, who faces tragedy when his dog is killed by his nasty stepfather - but death isn't permanent when you live near an Old Indian Burial Ground&#153; Edward Furlong obviously enjoyed his first movie role, the lead in Terminator 2, so much that he decided to make another sequel to an eighties film for his next movie. His role here is actually a lot like that in Terminator 2, as Furlong plays an insecure kid that lacks good parenting. Earlier on I said that this movie isn't as gory as some say; but Pet Semetary's sequel does have a distinct aura of unpleasantness about it at all times, and this becomes more potent given the fact that the story is centred on a couple of children. The horror comes largely by way of blood and people being killed, but director Mary Lambert has an eye for horror, and imagery involving the dog that is brought back to life towards the beginning of the film is actually quite frightening! The film doesn't do a very good job with atmosphere, however, and there isn't a great deal of suspense in the movie, as things just seem to spring up from anywhere most of the time. For some reason, most scenes have a pop music accompaniment; which varies from decent to not so good. The plot is slightly disjointed, but this actually works in it's favour as it makes the film less easy to predict and the way that it gets down to the conclusion that we know is coming right from the off is well worked. On the whole, this is hardly great horror - but Pet Semetary 2 is better than you may expect and comes recommended to fans of the original. "},{"Title":"How dumb can you get...really?","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary 2 once again finds another family fearing for their lives when the indian burial ground from the first one returns to stalk the living. I figured this one would be better than the ugly first one.  Well it is a little bit better, but not much has changed as far as the plot goes.  The dead continue their search for blood...by any means necessary.  There are the sick moments(one being a bully getting his head torn clean off by a motorcycle's back wheel).  I would say more but then I wouldn't wanna ruin this ok but unnecessary sequel.  Just do what the movie says and Raise some Hell.  **stars.  (Paramount) "},{"Title":"Great sequel to King's classic","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  It was pretty gruesome, raw, and somewhat scary. I saw this movie at a pretty early age, and I must say I think it's great now.  The first Pet Sematary was definitely great, but I'm surprised the sequel was good.  This movie isn't boring hardly ever.  Once a body is brought back, everything gets interesting.  A while after being brought back, everything becomes riled.  The conflict between the two teens I liked because the acting by the bully was great.There is a lot of blood and killing.  In fact, one death was way beyond the ordinary.  It was gruesome and a horrible way to go.  To this day, that image still frightens me (you'll probably know it when you see it). I like horror movies with a great plot and a great ending.  This ending was great.  It was exciting and a cool way to end the final conflict.  The soundtrack set every mood.  At some points, Edward Furlong's acting was pretty dull, but other than that the movie was really good.***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"A Fun Sequel To the Brilliant Original Film.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Sematary 2 was a great sequel to the original, yet this movie focused on teenagers more than a family. Edward Furlong,Anthony Edwards, Jason McGuire, and Clancy Brown all were good. This movie still did have the same sort of eerieness as the original film. One thing that surprised me and sort of made me like the movie more was that Mary Lambert directed this movie as well as she did the original. I give Pet Sematary 2 an 8 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"A tour de force performance by David Ratajczak","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  David Ratajczak, playing fiesty Stevie, is highly deserving of a Lifetime Achievement Award for his incredible portrayal of teenage angst.  His performance is on par with Brando in On The Waterfront, and his time onscreen, though brief, adds so much to the movie as a whole.  I hope to see more of this young gentleman's repertoire in the future!  Without him, this is just a cheezy horror movie. With him, it will become a time-honored classic that will surely place it in the AFI Top 100 in no time. "},{"Title":"GOOD SEQUEL!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the first one stinks!! This one is average. A bit better than the first one, with some good bits here and there. Good performances by all the kid actors especially Edward Furlong. Read the book and then watch this don't bother with the first. This is more like a completely different story to the first, it goes down a different path thank God. This new plot is enjoyable and at sometimes predictable, but all up an average watch. "}{"Title":"Too bad that the movie sort of looses it at the end.","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To be honest I more enjoyed watching this movie than its predecessor. The movie picked a less serious approach of things, which mostly made this an enjoyable one to watch. It was too bad that toward the end the movie becomes a bit too ridicules and its story seems to be completely thrown overboard.Still can't really understand the hate toward this movie though. If you take this movie for what it is it's simply a good and enjoyable one to watch. It's story might not be anything special but it's simply all good enough for the movie of this sort and it features all of the right required ingredients. It's also a movie done with some more style, which comes back in its more professional visual look.I found the characters from this movie to be also far more compelling as the ones from the first movie. Perhaps this is also due to the actors playing them. This movie has some more big names in it, such as Edward Furlong, Anthony Edwards and Clancy Brown. The characters work out as more entertaining and they are easier to identify with.It's true that this isn't really an horror movie and that's probably also why this movie is being blasted a lot by many people who were basically expecting another movie exactly like Pet Sematary. Perhaps this movie is also better viewed as a stand-alone. Sure the movie has some gore and shock but it's mostly being used for its 'entertainment'.The movie is good and enjoyable for most part and in those parts the movie is in my opinion also definitely better as Pet Sematary but as the movie is heading more and more toward its ending it tends to get worse. A real shame, since it takes away quite a lot from the movie and its entertainment value. It turns into a real poor B-flick and I feel that the makers perhaps also had some difficulties at times finding the right balance between its humor and the movie its more serious intended aspects.Definitely still a good and enjoyable enough movie to watch, if you're willing to give it a shot and simply take it for what it is.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Indeed, sometimes dead IS better. ** out of 5","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film really shouldn't have been made.It did feature some cool scenes here and there. But there are other scenes that kind of contradict the way things would have happened in the original.Edward Furlong is the only decent actor in the film, everyone else is a bit amateurish. There was Clancy Brown who was good as well, but the fact that he's dead and no one really notices is just stupid.The shame here is that Mary Lambart did such a fantastic job on the first film and then makes a film like this.Oh well, I liked the Ramones song during the end credits, Poison Heart. "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK I'm 15 and i saw this movie one night after band.................i thought it was the worst possible thing ever i mean i have seen SO....many movies because my family are movie freaks so ya.......There was no music thats was it sounded like all together, the scenes were god awful and the whole movie was all together fake looking and u can tell it basically looks like a slide show thats animated and was photo shopped it was a disaster. After i had seen this movie i compared it in my head with the first and how the first one was based off the book i can see that it was extremely better in my eyes but to all you people that like it can you tell me what was going through your head when you saw this movie. Im not trying to be mean its just i don't get it. "},{"Title":"a inferior sequel that is much too slick for its own good","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pet Semetary 2 is not as creepy as Pet Semetery.it is however,gorier and faster paced.there is also more character development in this one,so theoretically you should feel more emotionally for the characters,but i didn't.perhaps that may be because they are all shallow and unlikable.this movie was played more for camp value,than anything else.the acting is very hammy in some scenes,i hope intentionally.there is also an attempt at shock value,but it is more disgust i felt than shock in some scenes.this movie also has none of the atmosphere or mystique of the first.it is much too slick feeling.i felt the first had a sort of rough,raw quality,which works.the slickness of this movie is one of its failings,along with some others i mentioned.bottom line.this movie is inferior to the original. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Woo!  The 90's!  This Pet Sematary is so radical!  What's wrong, Hollywood kid?","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In an attempt to revive the classic original, Pet Sematary II throws a 90's twist on the horror movie by pumping the movie full of alternative rock music, more fire, more action, and more zany characters than the last. It's not all bad, but most of the characterizations and logic is thrown out the window.Again, like the first movie, the animal effects are top-notch, and the animal-actors are great (electrocution effects, playing dead, snarling&#x85; love it). Eddie Furlong (Edward, please) makes his rounds as the actor who isn't quite Leonardo DeCaprio but awkwardly fills the shoes of a 90's, kind-hearted son of a celebrity who is bullied and tortured and seeks revenge against the kids at his school. I can't slight him too terribly, but his acting was still not that great. The fat kid whose dog (named Zowie...???) is featured in place of the lovable hairball Church, and I thought the dog was more believable than the kid. His stepfather (I believe), who is also a town sheriff, plays an amazing, Bruce Campbell, crazy role after half of the movie is through. I won't give away too much but the ending is more suited towards a happy ending than a sad one like the last one had.I probably would not watch it again, but it had its moments that kept me wanting to find out more of what's going to happen. It's safe to say that you should watch it if you've seen the first one. "},{"Title":"Pet Sematary  # One  was the  Best","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After many years passed, I decided to view this film, as I do love horror films from the Classics to the present day Thrillers! This film started off with the usual theme of dog bothering Peter Rabbit Family, and winding up in the land of Come Back from the Dead! The local sheriff is horrible to his son and just can't seem to leave his wife a lone, without jumping right into bed as soon as the son turns his back. There is also the local bully at the high school who seems to have an evil streak running through every part of his body, without any evidence of a spiritual soul being a part of him. I bet you can guess what happens to him and many other characters in this second(2nd) story. All I can say is that I enjoyed reading the First Pet Sematary and also the film, this #2 is just what it is!! "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  not a bad sequel is very hard to watch at times and it has ANIMAL ABUSE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i will not stand for that at all i hate it when they kill animals even off screen there is no need for it other then that it was okay the acting was only so so but the dead sheriff rocked!!!!! worth a watch **1/2 out of 5 and Edward Furlong Sucks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good If There Was No Original (Spoilers)","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay. I could see how people could hate this movie so much, it's ahorrible sequel, like so many others. But if you think about it, this isa truly great movie by itself. If part 1 was never made, I think a lotmore people would enjoy it like I did. Another example is TexasChainsaw Massacre 2. Was it like the original, no, was it still good,yes. Oh well. It's really funny. After the stepdad comes back to life,he''s pretty damn funny. And not to mention horrifying. I can'tremember a time when I was so afraid, seriously. The part wherehe's start to chase his stepson after he took that kid's nose off wasso scary. Ummm. Just watch and forget there even was anoriginal. But hey, the original is good too. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Sometimes One is Better...","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For sheer nostalgia value, Pet Sematary Two will always hold a place in my horror-lovin' heart, since it was one of the first R-rated movies my dad allowed me to rent. I watched this sequel before the original (and probably before I read Stephen King's source novel), and didn't know what to make of it 15 years ago...needless to say, I still don't know what to make of it. For a while, it's the kind of sick, taboo-pushing, grindhouse-style dreck that teeters toward a cult classic--up-close violence committed against animals and children(including kids who are presented as no less homicidal than sadistic sheriffs and zombie dogs), scored to a bevy of decent punk/metal tracks. Then Clancy Brown's portrayal of an all-purpose a*hole, reincarnated as a goofily homicidal zombie, wrecks any possible mood. This is the first thing I remember Edward Furlong doing after Terminator 2, and is reflective of his subsequently erratic career, but he fares well, coming off as a cross between Jack Nicholson in The Shining and a more Emo version of young John Connor. Jared Rushton (Honey I Shrunk the Kids; Big) disappeared after his decent portrayal of sadistic, King-styled bully here. And Anthony Edwards (complete with a Wes Craven beard) went on to ER. The film isn't bad, and director Mary Lambert (returning from the original) keeps the gears turning, even when Richard Outten's script (seriously, WHY do they bury the bullying stepdad?) lapses in logic, but the emotional machinations of the climax don't work, simply because they hinge on a character we never really care about. And the ideas of King's original story are either muddled or shortchanged in the name of pushing the FX envelope (many of which still look good today), leaving Pet Sematary Two little more than a passable time-waster on your local video shelf. "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN THE FIRST ONE.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was way better than the first one. Yeah it's gross but what else can you expect from a horror movie. The plot is good and there's one good scene after the other. Reading some reviews of this and reading that this is a bad movie to some people. Give me a break. If you don't like horror movies than it's very simple don't watch them. "}{"Title":"It isn't good, but it isn't that bad.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this one is in the top 100 worst movies of all time.  Makes me think they should lower the votes to qualify, because as bad as this one is...it isn't in the top 100 worst movies of all time for me.  This one is basically the same as the first one.  Person loses loved one...person uses Indian Burial ground to revive them.  There is a family pet reborn too.  The main difference is the cop who gets reborn after being killed by the dog.  If you want to see it, watch the first one instead as it is a lot better done.  In this one is Edward Furlong as the really grieving person and his mother is the one that is dead.  He finds out about the pet semetary from his friends and learns of the burial grounds power when the dog of his friend is buried there.  All in all there are some ok scenes, but this one for the most part isn't very good.  Though it isn't in the top one hundred in my book of bad movies ever made. "},{"Title":"More yucks than scares.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Pet Sematary 2 is a totally unnecessary sequel to the first Pet Sematary,which has to be one of my favourite horror movies of all time.Instead of suspense it is loaded with gore and repulsive violence.The acting is pretty bad,the characters are one-dimensional and the film is completely idiotic in places(for example how our boys managed to carry the body of Gus through the quagmire?).If you're a gore-hound then you will be able to handle this little flick(there are better gorefests,though),but if you like scary horror movies avoid this trash like the plague.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Don't bury your cat in this quagmire!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rarely seen a movie so unpleasant as this Pet Sematary 2&#133;And that's definitely not meant as a compliment! Although filmed only three years after the original and by the same director, Mary Lambert, the sequel is an entirely different kind of horror film that hasn't got anything to do anymore with Stephen King's successful story. The 1989-Pet Sematary was a scary movie with few gore but loads of atmospheric tension, a fairly solid script and likable characters whereas this sequel goes straight for brainless action and nasty make-up effects. The screenplay is very standard and unexciting zombie-stuff, focusing on a young teenager who witnesses the cruel death of his actress-mother (during the filming of a fictional horror film that actually looks better than Pet Sematary 2). To help him deal with his loss, the boy's father decides to move to the countryside but &#150; of all the places in rural America &#150; they settle in the one town that has an Indian burial ground for a pet cemetery! After a few successful (?) experiments that bring deceased pets back to life, Jeff develops the brilliant idea of resurrecting his beloved mother&#133;This is a very UGLY and mean-spirited film and the numerous death-sequences will leave you with a bad feeling in your stomach. The few sympathetic characters die in horrible ways while the real scum gets away with everything. And that's just not right, not even if you exclusively watch horror films to see gore. The climax is unnecessarily gross and rock/soft-metal flavored soundtrack is very inappropriate. Pet Sematary 2 can also be considered offensive, especially if you're an animal-lover. I bet activists of the 'Animal Liberation Front' will hate this movie for the sequences in which cute little bunny-rabbits are skinned alive and young kittens are turned into stew. "}]