[{"Title":"Intriguing and suspenseful, with a knockout performance by Ray Liotta","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unlawful Entry kept me on the edge of my seat, or should I say the edge of my bed.  Ray Liotta proved with this performance that few actors can play the apparently shy guy with evil tendencies better than him.  The movie also presents some good What if questions.  In the pivotal scene, Liotta grabs the burglar who ran into Kurt Russell's house and put a knife to his wife's throat.  In an earlier scene, he explains how he'd beat the living crap out of that burglar if he had the chance.  Well, one night Liotta gives Russell the permission (him being a cop) to beat the living crap out of him and Russell totally panics and refuses.  Meanwhile, I'm thinking to myself, If Madeline Stowe were my wife and that moron put a knife to her throat, I would've taken that nightstick and beat him to death.  But then again, I'm saying that while sitting comfortably on my bed, watching the movie.  I'm not in his shoes.  I'm sure many people would panic in that situation.Though the movie kept my eyes glued to the screen, I could've done without certain plot conventions towards the end.  I don't have to spoil it for you. You've seen thrillers in the past, you know what I'm talking about.  And the writer could've trimmed the use of lines like Get the f**k out of here, Stay the f**k out of my house and Stay the f**k away from my wife or If you touch her, I'll kill you.  I think those lines have popped up in every movie thriller I've seen.  But the best reason to see this movie is Liotta's flawless performance.  On those grounds alone, this movie is well worth seeing.My score  8 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a great, suspenseful, and brilliantly acted film. I still have chills from watching it. Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are both excellent as a well off couple who are terrorized by an unstable cop(Ray Liotta, who also gives one of his best performances). The film gives us some great suspense, and you cannot help but feel bad for Kurt Russell when Ray Liotta starts stalking his wife. I have seen hundreds of thrillers and this is by far one of the best, along with Cape Fear(1991)and others. A must see if you like thrillers about obsessions. Overall this is a much underrated, always suspenseful, top notch thriller. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I'M NOT YOUR FRIEND; I'M NOTHING TO YOU","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this film in theaters in 1992 at the tender age of 12, and I can recall now how frightened I was. That just goes to show the professionalism involved in this first-rate thriller. When a cop is on your back, what are you gonna do? Call the cops? Hmmmm....Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe struggle to find that answer here. Ray Liotta has never been creepier. Kurt Russell shines yet again in a role balancing the everyman we can relate to and the hero we cheer for in the end. One of the best thrillers of the 1990s.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unlawful entry stars Kurt Russel and Madeline Stowe as a couple who are burgled.Ray Liotta plays the lonely cop who comes to their assistance. Ray Liotta soon gets friendly with the couple with one intention,Micheals (Kurt Russel) wife.One night when Micheal drives around with Pete (Ray Liotta) when he's at work,he gets to see the violent side of him.Micheal warns his wife,but she still sees him as a nice guy.Pete starts getting at them in the worst possible ways to try and seduce the wife.Unlawful entry is one of my all time favourite thrillers.It has all the elements of a perfect thriller.A good storyline,tension,thrills and suspense.Believe me the tension does really build towards the end to. I would reccomend it to anyone who loves thrillers,it just crackles with tension and suspense.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Performance by Ray Liotta","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first watched this film, I could not help but marvel at how brilliant Ray Liotta was at his role. Even though Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe both gave very good performances, it is Ray Liotta that stands out the most. I found that the transition that Liotta made between playing a nice guy to an obsessed and jealous psycho was absolutely outstanding.I believe he deserved an award for his exceptional performance. Not many actors could pull off a performance like Liotta did. Overall I felt that this film was a well thought out thriller, and was well cast. It definitely deserves the credit it gets. I would thoroughly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good thriller. "},{"Title":"Creepy in a real world way","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've heard people who took in a viewing of this movie say it was slow. I didn't feel it was slow. There was scenes that didn't directly deal with the main plot, but I liked that because we get to know what kind of people these are and just not some vaguely sketched characters. It's here the movie works because it lines you up and scares you in real world fashion. The reality to the proceeding give it the urban horror feel and not something made up that we could never identify with or seeing happening in our real lives. The cast carries this out efficiently while if I had any complaint about the movie it would be Kurt Russell in the smaller role as the husband. I really like Kurt Russell and unfortunately there isn't a lot for him to bite into as the real star of this movie is Ray Liotta. Who I feel bad for lately since he hasn't been able to escape this sort of psycho role, but there's no denying that he's good at it and he is largely what makes Unlawful Entry rank amongst the best of the urban psycho dramas. The story might be predictable in spots, but good performances and great atmosphere go a long way. "},{"Title":"One of the best suspense films i've ever seen!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are Michael and Karen Carr a married couple terrorised by a psycho cop in this chillingly suspenseful thriller.One night their house is broken in to and the thief gets hold of Karen with a knife pulled on to her throat.Michael tries to stop him but the thief gets away.The couple call the police and there they meet Ray liotta who plays officer Pete Davis a respected cop who they befriend and welcome in to their house.Davis comes to their aid and shows his genuine concern and friendly nature.From Davis's advice the couple get an alarm system on their house but as events follow Davis's behaivior takes a turn for the worse.When one night Liotta takes Russell to the house of the thief who broke in to the couples house and Davis starts beating the guy up.Michael sees the whole thing and is so shocked with what he witnissed.Michael angrily tells Davis that his job is done of being a cop and protecting Michael and his wife. Davis begins to make Michael's life a misery so he can get close to his wife.Kurt Russell is believable as the husband who is faced with a difficult situation which he has to solve.Ray Liotta gives a brilliant performance as the bad corrupt cop doing whatever it takes to get closer to what he wants and making the character so chilling and very real.Unlawful Entry is a brilliant nailbiting suspense thriller Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are excellent as the couple this is One of the best films i've ever seen Excellent viewing. "},{"Title":"A film that deserves recognition","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I consider myself a big film buff, but before I'd seen it recently, I'd never even heard of Unlawful Entry. The story is pretty simple a couple in love (Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe) make friends with a cop (Ray Liotta) who turns out to be possessive and to make their lives a living hell (see also The Cable Guy, which follows the same lines). But, with a simple story, this low-key film deserves recognition for being a clever and original thriller. Throughout the film, you feel all the emotions that Kurt Russell is feeling as his life is slowly taken away from him by the ever-menacing Ray Liotta. In brief, this is a fabulous film, which was under-appreciated and a missed hit. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but fun enough and worthwhile viewing","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry is by no means a great film; not even by genre standards, but it still stands out as a more than adequate example of the genre, and aptly portrays the basic thriller tradition. Next to thrillers from the same period; films like Basic Instinct, Unlawful Entry may seem a little tame, but as it puts the focus on its trio of central characters, the film becomes more interesting than it would have if experienced director Jonathan Kaplan had tried for more action and sex scenes. The film portrays the frightening idea of someone 'above the law' abusing their power for their own means, and does this through police officer Pete Davis. The action centres on married couple Michael and Karen Carr, who call the police one night after a thief breaks in and holds the wife to knife point. However, it turns out that they've actually made things worse for themselves as the officer sent to the house takes a liking to Karen, and thus makes it his business to infiltrate their relationship and try to take Michael's wife for himself...It has to be said that the film doesn't offer much in the way of surprises, as the plot is purely formulaic and can be likened to any number of similar films, but somehow the familiarity of the plot gives it something of a relaxed feel, and while experienced movie watchers will feel that they've seen it all before, the film is carried off with enough panache to see it through. Unlawful Entry relies a lot on its actors, and the three at the centre of the story manage to deliver worthwhile performances. Kurt Russell gets toned down in his role as the unlucky husband, while Madeleine Stowe doesn't get to do any heavyweight acting, but at least looks nice. The pair doesn't really have any chemistry together, which is a shame and brings the piece down - but this is offset by a conniving Ray Liotta, who manages to get under the skin despite looking a bit like David Hasselhoff. The film is always interested, but never really intriguing; although the plot does work well and the ending is fitting in context. Overall, this is not great or a must see film; but its decent enough and I don't regret watching it. "},{"Title":"One Obsessed Cop","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry casts Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe as a typical Los Angeles Yuppie couple who get a very big jolt in their lives when a junkie breaks in looking for what to rob and messes with both Kurt and Madeline physically and emotionally.But the cure is far worse than the disease when Officers Ray Liotta and Roger E. Mosley respond to the scene. Liotta gradually insinuates himself in their lives because he thinks that Stowe is sending up signals that she wants him. This of course sets up the conflict between Liotta and Russell for the rest of the film. With Liotta having a badge and gun, he's at a decided advantage to say the least.The film does belong to Liotta who seems like a normal middle class guy who went into law enforcement at first. It's a subtle piece of acting on Liotta's part as we see his true nature gradually revealed. The man does have issues which are revealed in his encounter with working girl Rosa Salazar and later as he commits some Unlawful Entry and watches Russell and Stowe getting it on. Of course since he's a cop it can't be Unlawful Entry.Ken Lerner has a nice part in this film as Russell's lawyer, the kind you make jokes about, but also the kind it's good to have on your side when you're in trouble.Unlawful Entry is a good, if a tad unrealistic film. One thing I will say though at the end it's absolutely anyone's guess as to what will happen with the survivors. "}{"Title":"Worth a Watch","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film by chance when it was on TV late one night I couldn't sleep. The film centres around a couple who have their home broken into and the policeman who responds to the scene and how he becomes obsessed with their lives.In all honesty, I didn't have high hopes for it, but in actual fact, it was hugely entertaining. It was never going to be an Oscar winner, but it was clever, original and the acting was good too. The film has a nice pace to it and the story flows reasonably well in that the film is neither too long nor too short. I perhaps wouldn't call it a classic but it is certainly a good film, and a little known and under-appreciated one at that. Kurt Russel, as usual does a good turn and the best part of the film is that you truly connect with how Russel's character feels. It's the sort of film that'll have you on edge and almost screaming at the TV. Watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Respectable Couple Terrorized By Deluded Psycho Cop","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry is a thriller about a respectable suburban couple whose sense of security is shattered when their house is broken into by a burglar. The relief they feel when a seemingly friendly and caring LAPD officer takes a personal interest in their protection soon disappears, however, when he turns out to be far more unstable and threatening than was originally apparent.Jonathan Kaplan's considered style of direction is effective in creating an unsettling atmosphere and also a considerable amount of tension. Imaginative camera angles are used and the pace of the action is perfectly suited to the nature of the story and the timing of the various plot developments.Michael Carr (Kurt Russell) and his wife Karen (Madeleine Stowe) suffer a frightening ordeal when a burglar breaks into their home and holds a knife to Karen's throat. The burglar then throws Karen into the swimming pool and leaves swiftly without taking any of their possessions.One of the LAPD officers who come to check out the crime scene is Pete Davis (Ray Liotta) who reassures the couple by arranging for a sophisticated security system to be installed with the minimum of delay. Michael tells Pete that he'd like to take his revenge on the burglar and Pete responds by inviting Michael to go on a ride along one night with him and his partner so that he can see the type of work that they do. After Pete's partner finishes his shift, Pete takes Michael to a location where they encounter the man who'd broken into Michael's home. Pete offers Michael his nightstick and the chance to take his revenge but Michael passes up the offer. Pete then beats up the burglar in a particularly brutal attack.Michael becomes extremely concerned about Pete's behaviour and tries to take steps to see less of him in future. Unfortunately, Pete responds by becoming more and more obsessed with Karen and increasingly menacing towards Michael. This makes the couple's lives progressively more dangerous and intolerable until a point is reached where Michael decides that the only way to reach a satisfactory resolution is by dealing with the problem head on.Unlawful Entry achieves a far greater impact than would normally be possible with this type of material because of the quality of the performances by Liotta, Russell and Stowe. Liotta is incredibly good as the scary stalker whose mental state is particularly brittle. Impressively, he's equally convincing when he's being manipulative and scheming as when he's being threatening and crazy. Ray Liotta is just a marvellous actor and this must be one of his best ever roles.The success and the affluence which Michael had enjoyed in his life didn't prepare him for the overwhelming sense of powerlessness which he came to experience when his wife was being threatened and then later when he found there was nothing he could do to prevent Pete from seriously damaging his personal and business life. The way in which Kurt Russell conveys the desperation and frustration of a man who is trapped in a nightmare from which there seems to be no escape is both admirable and praiseworthy. Madeleine Stowe also gives an accomplished performance as the vulnerable and anxious Karen whose academic abilities serve her well professionally but who also proves to be rather naive and not very perceptive in her personal life.This movie is a great example of how the combination of a straightforward story which people can relate to and proficient acting and directing can produce a great box office success. "},{"Title":"Ray Liotta at his chilling best","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A sterling entry in the psycho-thriller genre, mainly thanks to Ray Liotta's performance as the manic cop. Rarely has Liotta been this good he literally simmers with pent-up rage whenever you see him on-screen, delivering one of the best turns of his career as the frightening cop from hell. Sure, Liotta could be good elsewhere &#x96; who can forget his career-changing turn in Scorsese's GOODFELLAS? &#x96; but he'll be forever remembered for the kind of sweaty, crazy-eyed role he effortlessly portrays here.Liotta's given solid support from Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe as the unwitting couple who find themselves caught up in a nightmare. This is the archetypal 'slow burner' of a plot, with everyday events and subtle hints and clues gradually building from an impressive climax, which makes use of plenty of clichés but nevertheless ticks all the right boxes. UNLAWFUL ENTRY is one of those thrillers that doesn't disappoint, and unlike PACIFIC HEIGHTS it isn't spoilt with dated attempts at style. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Liotta is excellent in this best of the bunch Thriller","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A couple are befriended by a police officer who answers their burglary call, but his attentions increase to a point of obsession and he beings to make their lives uncomfortably difficult pushing them both to breaking point.Released the same year as spate of 1992 thrillers including Single White Female, Basic Instinct, Traces of Red, Consenting Adults and Final Analysis name a few Unlawful Entry is a tighter than the aforementioned. It's easy to knock a film in retrospect, as it's been done so many times since but at the time while not totally original it encompassed the best of the genre. Jonathan Kaplan delivers a very entertaining obsession flick and while borrowing elements from Pacific Heights (1990),Cape Fear (1991) & (1962) Lewis Colick's screenplay plays out interesting character developments and arcs especially as Kurt Russell's Michael Carr unravels and Ray Liotta's Pete Davis unveils.Liotta is perfect as Davis an unbalanced police officer and Russell hams it up, debatably a little too much, as the aggravated husband. There's an overlooked supporting cast, including Ken Lerner and Madeleine Stowe in her heyday. James Horner's score is strong and of its time and it all adds up to an engaging thriller that would later be emulated in Lakeview Terrace (2008) and The Fan (1996).Worth viewing if only for the underrated Liotta in one of his better roles. "},{"Title":"Creepy Eyes stalks Sexy Eyes and Doe Eyes.","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Even when Ray Liotta plays a good guy, he's still kinda creepy.In UNLAWFUL ENTRY, Liotta is unbalanced cop, Officer Pete Davis, who terrorizes a break-in victim, Michael Carr (Kurt Russell), for a piece of Michael's wife, Karen (Madeline Stowe, who is just asking for it by being Madeline Stowe).So he's creepier than ever, with that overly-sincere delivery and those x-ray eyes. (Yet every time he calls Madeline Stowe, Karen, I flash back to Lorraine Bracco in GOODFELLAS.) Officer Pete keeps inserting himself into Michael and Karen's life, first as a friend helping them install a better security system, then turning up like a rash, i.e. whenever Michael is trying to close a deal (business-wise and panty-wise).By the time Pete has falsely jailed Michael and is insanely cooking dinner for Karen as if he is her husband, it is obvious he has turned into creepy Ray Liotta, so Kurt Russell must turn into Snake Plissken to off him.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"Suspenseful thriller with a knockout cast of Kurt Russell, Ray Liotta and Madeleine Stowe.","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unlawful Entry along with Breakdown is another Kurt Russell film which is excellent yet doesn't receive the highly acclaimed fanfare. Actually this movie has two main stars (Russell and Ray Liotta) who are pitted against each other, resulting in a very interesting and intense emotional roller coaster.What makes this movie great is that it has 2 actors who are very good at portraying emotional characters. Russell and Liotta are rivaled by none in depicting characters of struggle, grit,intensity and emotion. The films script and directing by it's producer Jonathan Kaplan is perfect.Without a doubt there is something about Liotta's eyes, when he speaks, they have emotion written all over them. After watching this movie you feel that even though Liotta's character of Officer Pete Davis was initially a functioning member of society, without a doubt this guy has some serious issues and probably isn't working with a full deck. The scene where he has sex in his police cruiser with the female he earlier stopped for a ticket is almost astonishing and very eerie. This is an indication of this films mood and tone.Russell meanwhile excellently plays his role as a husband who is struggling dealing with a policeman who; going with his instincts, is a little off. Madeleine Stowe comes off perfect as his sexy and sultry wife who innocently is unsuspecting in realizing officer Davis's true intentions.Without a doubt Unlawful Entry is about Michael Carr(Russell)VS Pete Davis. They square off in various ways culminating with a memorable physical confrontation at the end. One scene of note is when Officer Davis responds to the Carrs home on a hoaxed security system call. Officer Davis walks into the couples bedroom holding a flashlight during a lovemaking session and Russell fires off to him  Get the bleep outta my house!!. Later he warns his wife that this guy is sick and he's after you. Incredibly at the onset Madeleine (Mrs Carr) doesn't believe so.If you like a fast moving suspenseful thriller then Unlawful Entry has a lot in store for you. Director Jonathan Kaplan treated me to a classic with this score. One of Kurt Russell and Ray Liotta's best films, and neither one are shabby actors. In fact both are 2 of my favorites because they have a way of bringing to life the characters they play. Check this film out.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Films From The Sub-Genre","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's interesting to note how forgotten the sub-genre of  People from hell  films are today . In the early 1990s every major studio would bring out a nanny from hell , a lodger from hell , a fan from hell , a client from hell etc etc . Perhaps the reason they're forgotten is down to the fact that the movies weren't very good and suffered from being formulaic ? Certainly UNLAWFUL ENTRY is one of the more entertaining movies in its field and it's probably down to the cast . Kurt Russell who unfortunately seems to have disappeared from successful films over the last few years was always good at playing good guy everyman and here plays architect Michael Carr . Madeleine Stowe is someone else who seems to have disappeared from the radar recently plays his wife Karen and they both make a likable and believable on screen couple with Karen being the object of lust of sociopathic cop Pete Davis played by Ray Liotta . Okay I doubt if any of the cast were expecting Oscar nominations but the on screen chemistry makes UNLAWFUL ENTRY a very watchable film There are some problems . Liotta is good enough when Davis is just an ordinary cop but when he acts all mean , nasty and obsessive he does tend to go over the top and unlike his two co-stars you can't really scratch your head wondering why Liotta now appears in obscure straight to video/DVD movies . Likewise the screenplay does became more and more unbelievable in the second half but that's always the problem with these type of movies . Not to be too negative it's still a watchable piece of entertainment "},{"Title":"Well Done Film","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" LIKED I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It was believable. Kurt Russell plays a good everyday regular Joe character. Madeline Stowe is so beautiful it is easy to see how someone could become infatuated with her. Ray Liotta plays a functional loner cop perfectly. Also, hats-off to Roger E. Mosley who plays the no-nonsense LAPD partner; Ken Lerner plays a good friend/lawyer to Kurt's character; The guy who plays financier (he pulls up in the Rolls Royce) he's good. Soundtrack very mysterious.DIS-LIKES a) When the cops raid Kurt's house for drugs, the way they break everything not believable, you can't go into someone's home and start breaking glass and vases looking for stuff.b) The car chase before Ray shoots his partner and the drug dealer. Driving through fences speeding through alleys. Could have been thought out better.c) The ending was a little crazy. Not believable. I would have given the film 10/10 if not for the above items. "},{"Title":"A dime a dozen. (spoilers)","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" These kind of movies where a psycho of one variety or another tries to damage the reputation (and eventually eliminate altogether) some naive person in order to take over their life. Fatal Attraction, Pacific Heights, The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, Single White Female, and a thousand made-for-TV movies are some examples of this. But while a few, especially Fatal Attraction and Pacific Heights could offer at least some extremely paranoid, suspenseful characters or a few plot twists, Unlawful Entry plays everything by the book. And were it not for the notoriety of its stars (Kurt Russel, Ray Liota, and Madeline Stowe), this movie would sink to mediocrity faster than a Danielle Steele miniseries.Russel plays Michael Carr, an incessantly naive guy who calls on the help of a pair of officers when someone breaks into his house and tries to attack his wife (Madeline Stowe). Unfortunately, he quietly vents his anger about feeling so helpless in the situation to the wrong cop (Ray Liotta), a typically psychopathic villain with no limits for his power. At first empathizing with Carr (probably only pretending to do so), the cop befriends the couple. But soon enough, the cops wants Carr out of the way so, destroying the guys life nearly any way he can (which is pretty easy when you're a cop, and when you're the cop who has installed the guy's security system in his house) in order to take over and presumably, get his wife. It seems less ends-oriented, and more like the cop just wants to prove his power. The wife is more like a trophy, in other words, than an end. And the story plays out entirely by the book, you can probably predict every occurrence before it happens on the screen if you've seen enough of these movies. From the shocking moment our main, naive character realizes he is a victim of credit card fraud (perpetrated by the psychopathic villain) to the turn-around-he's-not-really-dead finale. "},{"Title":"Psychotic Cop Character","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen cunning psychotic characters in a great number of movies. But the cop character Ray Liotta plays in Unlawful Entry is unforgettable. He really hit the nail on the head! Sometimes I feel that people that create such characters must have dealt with real life individuals with very similar psychotic tendencies. I mean how do you explain the behavior of that cop in Unlawful Entry?? The man was simply bad news and he believed in what he was doing. He meant business.It would be nice to see Kurt Russell, Madeline Stowe and Ray Liotta team up again in similar roles but with a different plot.Great acting indeed from the cast members. "}{"Title":"A good old fashioned thriller.","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thing I like about this movie is that it isn't overdoing anything, or feels the need to spice things up with gunfights or explosions. It rather relies on its story, characters and underlying tension, like every good thriller should do, in my opinion.No, this movie doesn't has the most likely story in it and some of the developments aren't all that convincing but the movie is simply being good and enjoyable for what it is. As a thriller it does serve its purpose well and probably won't disappoint anybody that is looking for a good thriller.In its simplicity and setup, this is being a quite effective thriller, in which a cop starts terrorizing a family, when he falls for the wife. Things are slowly starting to get worse and more troublesome for the family. The way the entire movie gets buildup ensures that the tension of the movie works out effectively. It's basically being one of those stalker movies, a lot got made of, during the '80's and '90's. This happens to be one of the lesser known ones but it most certainly is not among the worst ones as well. You could even say that this is being a bit of an underrated and under-appreciated movie.This movie also made me realize what a shame and waste it was that Ray Liotta's career never truly reached great heights. There was a period, around the time of this movie, that he truly was an A-list actor but he never really managed to maintain this status and there are too few classics, starring him, to consider his career to be a truly successful one. There was far more in it really. It's not like he has stopped acting but it's hard to imaging his career is still going to take off now. He was an absolutely great and charismatic presence and villain in this movie and almost completely stole the show away from other fine actors such as Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe.This really is being a good, straightforward, old fashioned thriller, that is definitely worth a watch.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Tense with a few drawbacks","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's hard not to find Kurt Russell doing very tense thriller movies. This movie, Breakdown (1997) and The Mean Season (1985) just to name a few. Personally, The Mean Season (1985) was his best because it was well rounded in every aspect of the story. This movie too, has a lot of tense moments, if not unpleasant but I can't help but feel that there were parts that could have been improved.The film itself actually displayed a comparison between its plot line and the one of The Cable Guy (1996). But there are key moments that make this thriller better than Jim Carrey's dark comedy. After having their house broken into, Michael Carr (Kurt Russell) and his wife (Madeleine Stowe) decide to have a security system put into their home. Fortunately, they have Peter Davis (Ray Liotta), a local cop who's generous enough to have it done for them with no charge. Or so they think.Turns out, it'll charge them more than they'll be able to handle. The personality of Mr. Davis is almost identical to the character of The Cable Guy. They're both lonely individuals who just want attention, but go about it in the creepiest and most dangerous ways possible. Davis has some serious mental problems that need to be addressed. Of course, this never is taken care of otherwise, this thriller movie would not be as tense as it's claimed to be. Soon things start heading downhill when Davis tries getting close to Mrs. Carr. Carr's credit cards start maxing out, he gets a fine for something he never did, and then ends up being jailed for a crime he was set up on. Sound familiar?The differences in this comparison are that Carrey is just an obnoxious maniac who just likes screwing up everyone's day. Liotta is a deadly killer, trained in the art of killing. The other contrast is that either situation could happen in real life, but, it's more likely that a case like this occurs involving a violent killer, and not some loony cable installer. So in a sense, the plot hits closer to home because it involves the home directly. A place where everyone lives in the real world.The acting is good too. Russell is believable as usual as is Stowe. Liotta looks like he prepared for his role in this film. His eyes reveal on screen very quickly that his character practically has no soul or conscious. He's that serious. But I am a bit puzzled on a specific detail. Davis had a partner, Roy Cole (Roger E. Mosely), which specifically stated by him for being with him for 7 years. What made Davis crack now? Was he that good at hiding his sick nature for all those years? Or was Cole just extremely oblivious? My other complaint personally is that I really enjoyed the theme composer James Horner hadfor the film, but there wasn't enough in beginning of the first coupleacts. It wasn't until about halfway through I actually heard creepy tunes being played. And Horner is a guy I like too. After producing other soundtracks with such iconic tones like Glory (1989) and The Rocketeer (1991), I thought I would also find it in this film too. Well my ears didn't totally get what they wanted to hear. Come on Horner!The main plot is a Xerox copy to that of The Cable Guy (1996), except Liotta's character for being so unforgiving and creating very tense scenes. Besides some minor drawbacks, this thriller is plausible. "},{"Title":"sick...i loved it.","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A gifted Liotta surprised me once again in the sinister role of schizo-cop he carries out.  I must say that his demeanor, his voice, his insanity are the backbone of the whole movie.  With that said, I feel comfortable enough stating that Kurt Russel and Madeleine Stowe struck me only as ancillary characters, in other words they were only the frame and not the picture.Unlike the young mafioso he played in Good Fellas, where his conscience gets in the way all the time, Liotta shows a rather dark and unstable himself in Unlawful Entry, willing to go any distance to win Russell's wife.  Although some may say that a better photography job could have been done, the director concentrated himself on the main subject (Liotta), his face, his voice, his movements, his (I dare to say) needy behavior.A rather similar ending to Internal Affair, 1990,  starring Richard Gere and Andy Garcia, where the bad cop dies at the end, although Gere's interest was not the attractive colleague's wife.  Another intriguing and sickening L.A. story..sick city of angels. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my all time favourite films. The story begins when a youung couple have their home broke into and once they both phone the cops one of them become their friend. His name is Officer Pete Davis of the Los Angeles Police Department and once he installs their new alarm system a series of shocking events occur which either of the couple expect. "},{"Title":"Bad Copper, Not Good Copper","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Unlawful Entry' is a typical average thriller from the early 90s. There's the suspense element in the beginning and over-the-top ending where there's lots of running around and breaking things, the killer dies, gets alive for a second just to be brutally killed again. I thought it started well, particularly the opening sequence with the skillful cinematography that adds to the tension and this is followed by the introduction of Liotta's character who seems the friendly cop until things gradually unfold. It is Liotta that made 'Unlawful' entry worth the watch. The actor does a great job (except in the ending when everything is blown out of proportion but that's the director's fault) as he slowly unveils the darker shades of his character. Kurt Russel and Madeleine Stowe are okay. Stowe looks quite pretty. anyway, this is another typical thriller and with the exception of Liotta's performance, there's nothing much to look forward to. "},{"Title":"Portrait of a psycho cop","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry (1992) brings to the screen a portrait of a psycho cop, Ray Liotta. His mind has gotten to the point that he's believing in a non-existent love from a married woman, Madeleine Stowe, who has no feeling for him whatever. He places her on a pedestal compared to the whores he regularly deals with. He goes to great lengths, using criminal means and exploiting his position of power, to get Stowe's husband, Kurt Russell, out of the way and in prison.Liotta's character is rational in knowing what clever means by which to undermine Russell and to insinuate himself into their household. But this rationality is in service of a twisted aim that's based on a fantasy sex-love relationship. He has selectively distorted views of reality. This is not your typical movie-thriller criminal out for revenge or blood or serial killing gratification. It is quite a novel character.The story is well-written. The reactions of both Russell and Stowe are plausible and realistic. Despite its familiar elements, the movie holds our attention. It's put together nicely in all departments.This will be classed as a neo-noir. "},{"Title":"A Nice Showcase for Ray Liotta","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A young professional couple are befriended and looked after by one very kindly uniformed police officer, who at first merely answers a burglary call at their home, but in the course of time his ever-increasing attentions to them come to be more and more suspect in themselves.Kurt Russell facing off against a crazy Ray Liotta is pretty great, but it seems like they never took this film to its full potential. Liotta is nuts and excels in his role, but Russell is too subdued. He seems like the wrong actor for the part, because we know how intense he can be.The film also seems to follow the cookie cutter thriller plot, with the necessary changes here and there. It would have been nice to see something we have not already seen many times before (and things that were especially common in the early 1990s). "},{"Title":"Unlawful Entry yes, double meaning.","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" All you need to know about Unlawful Entry is that its title is a pun. Ray Liotta is typecast as the creepy weirdo who has designs on somebody else's Madaleine Stowe. This might have played as a twist if not for the fact that Ray Liotta is physically incapable of playing a good guy. The only real question is what he wants does he want the money or the wife? Kurt Russell's character is completely blind about it though. I was shouting at my Laserdisc player at one point anyone who tells Ray Liotta their security password has clearly never seen a Ray Liotta movie before. The only other thing worth talking about here is the audacity of the title. It has two meanings. There's a house break-in. There's also a sexual assault. I honestly can't believe that passed quality control. Its just an icky title.Movie is totally tepid and predictable. Do not recommend. "},{"Title":"Excellent creepy suspense thriller","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry is a tense, uncomfortable home invasion thriller where the intruder is the one person who should protect you from that sort of thing a police officer. It's a perfect concept for a thriller and here its executed to spine tingling effect, through great performances and an intimately hair raising atmosphere. Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe play a well to do yuppie couple whose house is broken into by a petty thief one night. The officer who answers their call the next day (Ray Liotta) is friendly, helpful and goes out of his way to ensure that a security system is installed and that they feel safe. His kindness takes a creepy turn though, when he sets his sights on beautiful Stowe, Russell's wife. He gets scarier and scarier, eventually becoming totally unhinged and zoning right in on her with volatile lust and unhealthy sociopathic obsession that tears all three lives apart. Liotta is scary good, and his eerie transformation from likable upstanding guy to violent stalker madman is something from a nightmare. Some scenes are downright nasty to keep your eyes on, and you really feel sick watching Stowe get exposed to this cruelty. She's darkly radiant as always though, and Russell shows fear and fury in an awesome role that isn't an easy one to play. Domestic thrillers are a dime a dozen, and often can descend into seedy melodrama, but this one takes the high road and uses genuine skill and well orchestrated tension to glue us in our seats. "},{"Title":"Great 90's thriller","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry is a solid 90's thriller that is beautifully shot, has tight direction and excellent performances from the cast. Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are an upper class couple and victims of a home invasion. They call the police and end up befriending policeman Ray Liotta. Kurt ends up going on a ride along with Ray and his partner. He then realizes Ray is a bit crazy and makes an effort to distance himself and his wife from him. This is a no go as Liotta is also obsessed with Kurt's wife and I can hardly blame him as Madeline Stowe is stunning. Kurt's character is pretty far removed from the tough, action movie characters he is used to playing. He shows great range here and gives a convincing performance as a yuppie everyman. Ray Liotta is great here as a psycho cop looking for love in all the wrong places. He frequently abuses his power throughout the course of the film and events then escalate to a violent climax. Madeline Stowe give an excellent performance as well and shows vulnerability with her character. Unlawful Entry is a great thriller and one I really think was done well. "}{"Title":"The most perfect incarnation of a thriller of this type that your likely to find...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this back when it was first released on video when I worked in a video store and grabbed a couple of new releases to take home and watch when I locked up the store for the night. Boy was I in for a great film! It's the premise that scares me the most and what it implies, but first a summary of the film...***SPOILERS AHEAD!!***Michael and Karen Carr played by Kurt Russel and the drop dead beautiful Madoline Stowe are a couple who are very much in love and own a very nice home in a ritzy neighborhood in LA. Michael is a successful architect and Karen is a school teacher at the local preschool. Their seemingly ideal life is shattered one night however when their home is broken into and Karen is attacked by the perpetrator who flees. Doing what we all would immediatly do, they call the police who come to their home for a statement and to have a look around. The two cops, officer Pete Davis and officer Roy Cole, are very comforting, particularly officer Davis played by Ray Liotta who exudes a very warm and caring attitude towards the couple and seems to genuinly care about the couples well being. Soon Pete is installing a high tech security system in their home, having dinner with them in the backyard and seems to be becoming friends with the couple when something happens that is suspicious...Pete, having a moment alone with Michael, askes him what he would do if he could confront the scumbag who attacked Karen one more time. Micheal's answer obviously sets off something in Pete as he wants to see if Michael would make good on his threats about the burgler and invites Michael to come on a ride along so that Michael can see what Pete and Roy do on the mean streets of LA as cops every night, he agrees to go. After an evening of watching the two men do their thing and enjoying himself, Michael's ready to just go home and hit the sack, but Pete has one more surprise in store for Michael. After dropping Roy off at the station, he drives Michael to a rickety old shack in a remote lot someplace and pulls a black man out of the shack...the man who broke into Michael's house! Testing Michael, under the guise of a friendly favour, he gives Michael the ok to go to town wailing on the guy like he said he would if he ever saw him again, Pete even throws Michael his nightstick to use, Michael backs down stating that his threats were merely tough-guy-talk between friends. What happens next is the reveal of how brutal our nice cop officer Davis really is as he proceeds to beat the man relentlessly in front of Michael.From there on, it becomes a game of wills between the two men for one woman. See, Pete is infatuated with Karen and after witnessing Michael's failure to fight for her when he had the chance, begins to feel that she deserves to be with a man who would protect her from all the evil on the streets. I won't go any further and just let you see for yourself what happens next.What holds this film together without a doubt is Ray Liotta. Rather than play a psycho who is merely one dimensional, he plays a man who slowly descends into at first obsession, and finally madness. He doesn't do crazy things just for the sake of doing them because it's a thriller, his actions stem from a place that is plausable, you almost understand and dare I say SYMPATHIZE about where his anger is coming from. His charactor is so multi layered that even at the start you feel that he is a troubled man who has problems that even his partner isn't fully aware of. It becomes clear as the story unfolds that Pete really resents the well off people of the world, people exactly like Michael, who are rich and seemingly have everything they ever wanted and not really appreciating what they have. He hates the idea that he has to witness the scum of humanity on the streets every night and have nothing to show for it while Michael does seemingly very little and gets everything on a platter...like Karen. Their two very different world's are never more starkly represented than in a shot that has Karen taking a sip from a wine glass in a nice restaraunt while the shot slowly desolves to a shot of Pete sitting alone at night in the cold wearing his uniform sipping coffee from a paper cup. Pete's obsession with security also says alot about him. I would even dare to say that Ray's performance here is actually DEEPER and more dimensional than his outstanding role as Henry Hi ll in 'Goodfellas' and I know that's a major statement, but I feel it to be true.This is a crackling thriller from frame one, a story that is as scary as it is intriguing. What if a cop wanted what you had, and was willing to threaten your life to get it from you? The helplessnes you feel stems from the terrifying realization that a demented and twisted mind has the badge and authority to do whatever he wanted to do to get it from you. Ponder that for a moment, and go check out this highly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Better than you might expect!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is really not a bad thriller at all. The three leads give good performances and the suspense is generally well-handled. It might be thought of a cliche or routine by some, but that only applies to the very last five minutes, and by today's Hollywood standards, that's not too bad. Highly recommended two hours of fun with this 1992 hit.  "},{"Title":"Good suspense yarn...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Liotta has made an art out of playing a psycho. With his quiet voice and glass eyes, Liotta can be charming one minute and chasing after you with a knife the next.Unlawful Entry tells the story of a well-to-do couple who are terrorized by a seemingly friendly, hard-working cop.This is the kind of movie that works itself up as the runtime grows. It takes excellent actors to pull this off, and Liotta, Kurt Russell, and Madeleine Stowe pull it off without a hitch. Like Breakdown, another Russell suspense film, Entry always maintains the mentality that this could happen to you.With solid acting and production values, Unlawful Entry is an easy recommendation.RATING A- "},{"Title":"suspense","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The best part of this film is Ray Liotta's performance. He gives it his all as the psychotic cop who terrorizes Kurt Russell and Madeiline Stowe.Possible spoiler ahead. Proceed at your own risk.We have all seen this formula countless times before- Character A needs help, and suddenly Character B is available. B helps A, they become friends, etc. Soon, however, B becomes obssessed with A and insists on being involved with every aspect of A's life. Character C tries to help character A, but B senses it and lets C get too confident. Soon, something terrible happens to C, courtesy of B. A soon wises up, however, and after a fight (during which B revives at least once and grabs A by the ankle), finally gets rid of B. How many times have we seen this in a movie?Fortunately, this movie executes it well. See it if you get the chance.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Predictable but entertaining","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You've seen this story a million times. You can predict what will happen at every turn. But sometimes it's well worth the ride if their is someone cool to go on this ride with. In this case you've got Ray Liotta at his psychotic best. So folks, You'd better hold onto your seats for this one. 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Seven Letters....figure it out...","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a break-in at their house, a couple gets help from one of the cops that answered their call.He helps them install the security system, and begins dropping by on short notice and unofficial patrol, and spends a lot of time discussing the couple's problems with the wife.The husband begins wondering if they're getting too much help...Lets face it, when this film was released, anyone who was offered help from Ray Liotta was asking for trouble.It's a great entry into the sub-genre of nice strangers who turn psycho, and one of the last good ones. Fear in 1996 was a good addition, but since then we haven't had a decent one (The resident was the pits).It's a slice of early nineties cheese, especially because it's round about that time when the nineties was still trying to be the eighties, so the yuppie context coming from Russell is rife throughout.But him and Liotta are on fire here, and there is a little homophobic subtext between the two when they are bonding.The Ray gets a little out of hand and starts acting a bit freaky and Kurt blows a fuse. He gets framed for something he didn't do and due to him having all his cards cancelled cannot get bail to be with his wife.This is where the film goes a bit silly. Liotta kills his partner for the reason being that he's probably done this before (we never get to find out) and he's going to tell his boss.Then he cooks dinner for Stowe (who is excellent in this), knowing that she is freaked out beyond her mind. the man may be crazy, but i'm sure he' not stupid.The film then does the classic 'is he dead?' thing and before the payoff happens, Liotta has time to say something cool.The build up is fantastic, it's expertly made and looks like a lot of money has been thrown at it. The actors are all great and it's one of Hollywoods best Adult Psycho Thrillers, along with Pacific Heights, Single white Female, and anything Michael Douglas starred in circa 1987-1994. "},{"Title":"Well-constructed but lacks depth","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Released at the height of the thriller crazed early nineties was this relatively run of the mill flick about a young police officer's obsession with a wealthy entrepreneur's wife. Director Kaplan has surprised us by switching from the highly controversial drama The Accused ( which he handled superbly ) to this narrow, formulated script by Lewis Colick ( from an original story by Colick, John Katchmer and George D. Putnam ). Kaplan is really never tested by this film whose twists are easy to second guess and whose conclusion is always quite clear.Ray Liotta does his very best as the bent cop Pete, and he is at times quite menacing, though he is never able to get right into what is an under developed character. Kurt Russell is also convincing as terrorised husband Michael who feels helpless to stop the invasion of the out of control officer, while his wife Karen is played fairly well by Madeline Stowe, though for a major character we see little of her. Good support too form Roger E. Mosley as Pete's partner Roy Cole.A shame none of the above thesps could lift Kaplan's show above the 'better than average'. Yes, everything is well constructed, yet there are no surprises and a distinct lack of depth, and so a lack of audience sympathy. Editor Curtiss Clayton is efficient while James Horner provides the score.Saturday, November 16, 1996 - T.V. "},{"Title":"What are you gonna do? Make a citizen's arrest? Powerful performances overtake a mediocre script...","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry is essentially another thriller about an unstable everyman who latches onto others. It's been done before, it'll be done again, but this entry into the genre has a catch - good acting. I'm not sure if good acting can save a film, but long after the plot starts to wear thin you'll find yourself paying attention to the performances, especially that of Ray Liotta, whose role of Henry Hill in Goodfellas (1990) is shining through in this movie. Well, not really, but after being put on the witness protection program at the end of Goodfellas, perhaps this is Henry Hill's new job in life.Michael Carr (Kurt Russell) and his wife, Karen (Madeleine Stowe), have just started to make themselves feel at home in their new house located around the outskirts of LA. One busy night a burglar breaks in through a window and, after a mild skirmish, holds a knife to Karen's throat. He gets away, they call 911, and moments later a police officer named Peter (Ray Liotta) arrives. He advises that they get better security for their home, which they do (with the help of his expertise). They invite him over to dinner to show their appreciation.Pete invites Michael to come on a drive with him on his usual rounds as a cop. But he has a surprise - he's found the burglar, and he wants Michael to beat him up. I'm not doing this, he says, refusing. Pete doesn't understand his hesitation, and proceeds to pummel the robber.Considering Michael a coward, Pete convinces himself that Karen wants a braver, stronger man in her life. So he hides a stash of drugs in Michael's house and gives an anonymous tip-off to the LAPD, who storm into Michael's house, find the drugs, and throw him in jail with a 250,000 dollar bail.Meanwhile, Pete moves in on Karen and tries to make her his own - but Michael's vengeance is boiling, and with the help of his lawyer he gets out on bail and chases down Pete, in a final bloody brawl.Psychological thrillers like these come around often - from Single White Female to Fatal Attraction to last year's Swimfan. They're all preaching the same thing - be careful of stalkers and friendly do-gooders. They're probably psychologically troubled. Of course, in the real world when someone does something nice for you, this doesn't mean you should pull a knife on them. But with the flooding of these stalker flicks pouring into Hollywood, I'm sure it'll only be a matter of time until people don't even trust the police.And that's basically the simple little premise behind this film. It works on a better level than most of its kind because the plotting is a bit more thought-provoking - if the one person you're supposed to be able to turn to isn't on your side, who is?Ray Liotta gives a terrifyingly real performance in this film, measuring up there with Robert De Niro's troubled taxi driver and Anthony Perkins' homicidal mother figure. But Psycho (1960) and Taxi Driver (1976) had much stronger scripts. In the end, Unlawful Entry succumbs to a lower level than one would hope for, turning into the over-the-top climatic thriller where the hero manages to kill the stalker, only for him to get up one last time. Unlawful Entry does, in the end, resort to the one thing it marginally avoided throughout its entire running time Mediocrity.I loved one of the last lines, though What are you gonna do? Make a citizen's arrest? "},{"Title":"REALLY  GOOD FILM","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It must be the eyes of Ray Liotta, yes...yes the eyes which make this film so special. A very interesting film.. I like it.  "},{"Title":"To protect and to serve and to ravish","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love the word ravish. It's only one step away from ravage and just down the block from pillage. I try to use it every chance I get, as in, Madeleine Stowe is ravishing. Any normal man would want to ravish her. Actually, even Ray Liotta, the cop, wants to ravish her and he's not at all normal, I hope.The movie's got everything a thriller ought to have, right out of McKee's textbook. There is a speech praising the villain, the villain holds the hero at bay, a dead body comes back to life, there are several woman-in-jep scenes, the musical score is copied directly from Halloween, a woman tries to shoot a man with a pistol from which the man has slyly removed the rounds. This doesn't mean it's necessarily badly done. It wouldn't be so familiar if it hadn't been used so many times before, and it wouldn't have been used so many times before if it didn't get the job done.Until the very end, which is a traditional slam-bang confrontation with Stowe cowering in the background and a frightened cat and a dead plastic-bagged body stuffed in the closet for no particular reason, it's a routine story of a seemingly nice cop, Liotta, who ingratiates himself with a nice middle-class family, Kurt Russel and Stowe. It gradually becomes clear, first to Russell, then to the somewhat slower Stowe, that this guy is a few beers short of a six-pack. First he captures the burglar who broke into Russell's house and gleefully invites Russell to beat hell out of him. Then Liotta begins to suffer from the delusion that Stowe loves and wants him as much as he does her. Give me a moment to put on my white coat. Hold it. Arm went into the wrong sleeve. Okay. In clinical psychology we call this 'projection.' 'Projection' is the attribution of unacceptable emotions on to someone else, when in fact the motives are solely yours. You may see 'projection' displayed to better effect by Humphrey Bogart's character in 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.' That's all for the moment. Thank you.Well, it's routine but it has a couple of good things going for it. Liotta's attentions to Stowe, who is, as I said, well worth whatever attention she gets, is both uninvited and unrequited. But Russell isn't that cool. He suspects at first that something is going on between his wife and Liotta. and there are some angry exchanges dealing with this possibility. Compare, Andy Garcia and Nancy Travis in Internal Affairs, a movie to which this one bears some resemblance. At least the family is not all bourgeois and snuggly. A bit of edge here and there doesn't hurt.The opening is rather nicely done too. A silent helicopter shot of a taped-off crime scene -- a couple of humdrum cop cars arranged around a body spread eagled in the middle of the road. The camera meanders over the suburban roof tops and picks out one comfortable mission-style home to zero slowly in on a figure in a red swim suit using the aquamarine pool in the back yard. A typical Los Angeles home, nothing too fancy, worth no more than about $120 billion. Nice opening. Well, you know, if it was good enough for Hitchcock in Psycho, it's certainly good enough for Unlawful Entry.That introduction takes only a few minutes but is concisely written too. We learn basically all we need to about this ordinary and ambitious family. We learn they're hard up for money, that Liotta loves his wife but spends too much time working on business deals, that he plays golf, that his wife wants children. None of this is clumsily spelled out in dialog either. We only guess that he enjoys bourgeois golf instead of proletarian bowling because when he investigates a suspicious noise he walks to his golf bag and yanks out a putter. We guess that she wants kids because of the way she treats the family cat, but those are examples of what I mean when I use the term concisely written. In the end I felt a little sorry for Liotta's character. True he clobbers anyone he feels like clobbering, he later murders his partner in cold blood and strangles an innocent young woman, and he throws another naked, compliant, young police groupie out of his car, and he peeks in on Stowe and Russell when they are in flagrante dilecto -- but at least he leaves the cat alone. (In these kinds of movies, the cat doesn't usually survive.) And he's not given a cheap excuse for his derangement. His father didn't abuse him when he was a child or anything. He's just plain nuts, but in a pathetic way, an apologetic way, that almost compels you to wish he had been sane. He's a marginal person in every respect -- no girl friends, no home, nothing. And, full as the film is of clichés, the dynamic between the three principals is still captivating. Few of us are as rich as Kurt Russell is here, but we can all identify with him because he and his wife find Liotta at first interesting, then insinuating, then intrusive, then mad. It raises questions like, How do you get rid of someone you dislike but who insists on being your friend? Kind of interesting. "}{"Title":"Ray Liotta at his creepiest!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was Excellent !! all the characters in the movie did a great job, especially Ray Liotta.. what a total creep he was.. and his character got what he deserved at the end of the movie ...you never knew what to expect next.. it was so scary how Ray's character made his way into Kurt and Madelines' characters lives.. and how they both came to trust Ray's character..and they pay dearly for it.I highly recommend this movie.. its worth an 11 its that good..  "},{"Title":"Same old stuff","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is another typical unbelievable and non-sensical piece of Hollywood dreck.Kurt Russell,  as Snake Pliskin in a business suit, convinces me he was a better 2nd baseman.  Ray Liotta as the psychotic cop is totally predictable and absurd.  Madeline Stowe is her usual cardboard self,  and does little to be a convincing victim.Every scene in this persiflage is absolutely predictable all the way to the end when Kurt clouts Ray with a vase or something,  knocking him down and out.  Kurt and Madeline then do their obligatory end-of-the-movie embrace,  and EVERYBODY--- except Russell and Stowe,  KNOWS Liotta is going to get back up and menace the couple again.He does, of course,  and Russell drills him 10 times with his 9mm,  which was ENTIRELY unnecessary.  This movie could just as well ended with the bludgeoning scene--- EXCEPT Hollywood dotes on unnecessary violence,  and the more they can add, or enhance,  the more slobbery they get. "},{"Title":"Good movie and cast, Excellent Plot","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The basic idea of this movie is very interesting. It is a what if that is believable. The cast is good and the cat is doing his or her best in a kitty bit.This movie would have been much better without breast shots. The film needed Alfred Hitchcock and Jimmy Stewart and Doris Day and maybe Jack Palance. Kurt Russell is no slouch, but he takes it too seriously. Just because someone is trying to maybe kill your wife or take her from you or maybe he is a bit off center, is that any reason to get so angry? Things that date a movie are scenes with any computer or phone or naked bosoms. Women wear blouses now. The opening title sequence is well done. The photography is quite good throughout the film. The music is OK, but a real Hitchcock orchestration would have helped. Unchained Melody would have worked in many parts of this production. High Noon Theme or Dragnet Theme in places. Not those songs but something new with that feel.Since the movie was in color I think the cat should have been black and white. Also the cat should have had a good name that could have been the name of the movie, like Hondo or Lassie or Flicka or Danger Puss. Something like that. "},{"Title":"Good performances and direction undone by a lousy script","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sixteen years before Lakeview Terrace, there was Unlawful Entry. And the two are rather similar, except instead of Samuel L. Jackson terrorizing a young neighboring couple because of their lifestyle, it's Ray Liotta doing the terrorizing because he can't have the good-looking wife. After a low-rent thug breaks into the house of Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe, LAPD officer Ray Liotta arrives on the scene (and immediately has eyes for Stowe). Liotta cozies up to the couple, hooking them up with an alarm system and slowly ingraining himself into their lives. But it doesn't take long for Russell to suspect there's something not quite right about Liotta, and tries to distance them from the questionable officer, a particular cop who doesn't take kindly to being jilted.You can see where it goes from there, and that's what ultimately sinks Unlawful Entry (for me, at least). Ray Liotta plays unhinged pretty damn well, and Kurt Russell is his usual bounty of charisma. And Jonathan Kaplan uses all manner of tracking shots, jump scares and lingering camera moves to create a palpable tension. But Lewis Colick's screenplay makes it pretty obvious how this story will unfurl (Liotta's introduction is what gives away the movie), and sometimes things don't make sense. For instance, if Liotta's partner (Roger Mosley) knows that he's fixated on Stowe, then why doesn't he address it? Instead he waits for Russell to beg him for help, and this problem never reaches their superiors. His partner's not too bright, in the grand scheme of things. And Madeline Stowe is painted as some helpless victim, always scared until her husband gets home. Unlawful Entry's strength, therefore, is seeing all of the nasty ways Liotta terrorizes Russell. Like maxing out his credit cards, booting his car, planting coke in his house. But none of these characters are sympathetic, so what do I care that two affluent white people are being terrorized? It's the kind of thriller that feels tawdry in the end, leaving a mildly bad taste in my mouth. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Trilling to the end.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe play a couple need protect from burglars in their home, and was confronted by one. They measures to their safer with help of a police officer played by Ray Liotta. He becomes little more friendly with the couple, and obsessively wants Stowe for himself even committing murder. An unusual role for Russell and usual role for Liotta in the movie. The excitement builds up in the movie, but never loses it tension through out the plot of the picture. Well worth the time to see this film. "},{"Title":"Better than you think -","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlawful Entry is a tense crime drama that is near the top of its genre. It should be more like 8 out of 10 stars if more people would see this fine film. I have about 500 full blown external reviews on this site and it never ceases to amaze me the dumb rankings I see on decent films.Ray Liotta is at the top of his game as psycho cop from hell, while Kurt Russell and Madeleine Stowe provide sterling support. Sure, the story is derivative as all this genre have been since Psycho (1960), but it's one of the best executed psychological thrillers to date. I guess some people want everything to be Shakespeare.This is a must see, folks! "},{"Title":"The cop from hell","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  UNLAWFUL ENTRY (1992) **1/2  Kurt Russell, Ray Liotta, Madeleine Stowe. Okay thriller with cop from hell Liotta obsessed with Russell's wife Stowe and the extent he'll go to make their lives a living hell.  Standard thrills with a little too much at film's end a la Jason from Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but needed answers","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all..Ray Liotta rocks. He is a very sexy & talented actor. This movie was good, and the actors did a great job in their roles. I can watch Kurt Russell in anything..he is always entertaining. The only problem I had was it left some holes...for instance, what was wrong with Pete Davis that made him such a psycho? He was obviously a handsome, confident police officer who most women would find attractive..so why was he so insecure..what made him so crazy...I think there should have been some reasons as to why he was that way other than he was just a nut. I mean, even in Fatal Attraction, you had some idea as to why Glenn Close was a wacko..she was a suicidal, insecure woman, and not very attractive. And Anthony Perkins in Psycho was crazy because his mother was overbearing and mean. Jennifer Jason Leigh in Single White Female was very insecure and jealous of her twin sister. So, what was Pete Davis's deal?? Also, I thought Kurt Russell's character was stupid when he told him off in the nightclub. He knew he was a twisted person, so why couldn't he just tell him in a nice way that he didn't want to continue their friendship, instead of telling him to get the f out of here!...he was just asking for trouble. (But I guess that would have killed the whole plot of the movie.) But, all in all..I thought it was a good movie. It just left me with the above questions. "},{"Title":"MOR","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Typical thriller, has been done many times before. Simple plot outline; cop Liotta becomes obsessed with Russell's wife, and he tries to bump off good ol' Kurt so he can have her. This is beyond predictable, it doesn't even try to make you guess, the plot is the plot and there's no thinking outside the box here. I guess then the only reason to watch it is to see how it develops, but nothing is done originally or interestingly. There's not really anything to say about this film, it's not particularly bad, but there's no good points either. Russell plays Russell and you know what you're gonna get when you see him in a film. Ditto Liotta. Stowe has an annoying Cher-esque voice. I read the plot outline and I could see the film in my head, it was so obvious and basic. I watched it and it rolled out in front of my eyes exactly as I had imagined. I felt not a drop of emotion throughout. I have no feeling towards this film, it's as if I never even watched it. Considering this, it's a pretty pointless film isn't it? Still, I'll give it 3/10 for some reason. "},{"Title":"a great suspenseful movie","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Liotta's carrer sky rocketed after this movie. He plays the perfect bad guy/cop. He makes it so real. I hope he makes more films like these, aka Turbulence. Russell is at his best again with M. Stowe in a good perfromance. This is 1 pure suspenseful thriller. U never know what will happen next.My dad hates R. Liotta so much, but my mom thinks he is cute.He hates his eyes while my mom loves them. Anyway, this is worth seeing & worth having. "}{"Title":"Max Cady returns as an officer in a trite TV movie-like !","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The direction, the production, the cinematography of it.. well, none shows something more than decent. With boldness, and not much of talent, Kurt Russell took the role of the innocent protagonist, not the flashy antagonist. Anyway, Ray Liotta wiped him off the screen. But, again, greatness isn't anywhere close. So, in brief, this movie has just 3 points that overstepped decent to distinct.1) It's another modern-day Cape Fear. The book-smart peaceable vs. The street-smart provocative. In Cape Fear (1962), the stalker was a sadist criminal who, after feeling wronged by certain social class, cannonades his revenge. Play Misty for Me (1971) came to put a lot of absolute craziness, and a lot of true love, to the mix. Now one year after a remake of the original, Cape Fear (1991), Unlawful Entry comes along as a new entry, with sly psychopathic lover, who happens to be a police officer.The distractive power this time gets a long legal hand. It fits as a thrilling device (at one point, the criminal / officer gets the book-smart peaceable husband into jail easily). Furthermore, it could work in terms of being a satire towards twisted cops, even if lightly. 2) Madeleine Stowe's special beauty, if not heavy sexuality. She was something else as one-of-a-kind hottie and talented actress as well. 3) The cell phone of Russell's character. Oh my god, here's something for the historians. It exemplifies how cinema, one way or another, chronicles the world's details. Sure back then they had to rent a lorry to convey that *cell* along the way !The thing is everything was light. At one moment the husband is seduced by the force of the dark side, but of course nothing of that matter was well explored or utilized. Because the movie chose earlier being a routinely-made pure commercial, not urban horror with anything deep. So, this time Max Cady reincarnates as a desperately in love officer, Madeleine Stowe gets naked on a table, and Kurt Russell, as many people in 1992, had a giant brick as a cell phone. Save that, it's a trite TV movie with names of Hollywood stars on it. "},{"Title":"Flawless made, but totally cliché","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After watching 10 minutes of this movies, I knew what would happen all the way to the end. And guess what? I was right...Unlawful Entry is directed and acted very flawlessly, and it really works as a thriller. But Unlawful Entry is build on all movie clichés there are, plus the characters are stereotypes. I think Unlawful Entry is something for you, if your that kind of person, who only wants entertainment from a movie. But I, on the other hand, want more from a movie! Something I can relate to, something that surprises me, something that makes me think about my life!Give me 2 hours back "},{"Title":"Awful stuff , a very stupid and waste of a picture.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Awful thriller , i don't care but amazon is to blame them idiots made me waste my time with this garbage by giving it star. But i don't bother im not wasting time again , this film is not interesting it is loaded with sexual acts and a creepy bad guy who stalks Kurt Russel and his wife and then it is just the two fighting over her, so the story is very stupid and the acting is not intriguing as the film is just tame for the revenge scenes and just , violent acts, a villain, cops on the go, Kurt Russel in the film that that could have been classic, this is not a 90s class film it is more like a film today , overrated for moderate threat and gun fights and blood. "},{"Title":"Loved Ray Liotta's Performance; Hated Kurt Russell's","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a very interesting movie because it was at the start of the home security craze; Women were getting their butts off the couch and going to work and nobody was home to watch the kids or the house.I am a Kurt Russell fan, but I hated his performance he was a loud mouth attitude Last Act Of Defiance stereotypical I'll yell at you and you'll back down type of man who thought that by buying a gun that would make him and his wife safe Ray Liotta is one of the best actors working today and he gives a great not quite over the top performance as Pete The Psychotic Cop; Madeleine Stowe has always been sort of a limp feminine actress who never really stands out in any movie she is in, I spent the first hour of the movie thinking all she did all day was swim; and the line where she said We can barely afford this house made me wonder why Michael didn't kick her out of the house to get a job.I still think the movie was good despite certain things, but it is not Ray Liotta's best, and Kurt Russell has done better work! "},{"Title":"One Bad Cop, One Bad Movie.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes a premise starts out good, but because of the demands of having to go overboard to meet the demands of an audience suffering from attention-deficit disorder, it devolves into an incongruous mess. And for three well-respected actors who have made better work before and after, this is a mortal shame.So let's see. Premise a loving couple who lives in a beautiful home is threatened by a bad cop. Interesting to say the least. Make the encroaching cop a little disturbing, why not. It was well done in THE HAND WHO ROCKS THE CRADLE and SINGLE WHITE FEMALE, and it's a proved ticket to a successful thriller.Now herein lies the dilemma. Create a disturbing story that actually bothers to bring some true menace into its main characters while never going so far as to look ridiculous, or throw any semblance to reality, amp up the shock factor, and make this cop so extreme -- an ultra bad variation of every other super-villain that's hit cinemas since the silent age.The producers, and directors, chose the latter. Thus is the resulting film -- badly made, with actors trying their darnedest to make heads or tails in roles that they've essayed before, and nothing much amounting to even less. "}]