[{"Title":"Seriously underrated horror comedy","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Roy Knable (John Ritter) loves watching television so much that his marriage is falling apart because of it. When a door-to-door salesman shows him a high-tech remote control, Ritter listens to his pitch, and buys into it when he discovers that it's for a new television and satellite system that offers 666 channels of programming--much of which is not available anywhere else. However, the salesman may not have been what he seemed to be, and Knable soon discovers that he may have agreed to a contract that obligated him to give up more than money.Oh, how I loved this film! Director Peter Hyams and the writing crew of Tom S. Parker, Jim Jennewein and Richard Siegel definitely had my number on this one. Stay Tuned is a very clever horror comedy that is extremely underrated and perhaps was a bit mismarketed. Although I'm a huge horror fan, and love horror comedies, I'd never heard of this one before (however, later I did find references to it in a couple horror sources, so it seems it wasn't completely overlooked by the industry and fans). But the horror aspect of the film doesn't appear to be advertised anywhere. I watched this on HBO's Family Channel. Even though Knable's son is important to the plot and there are strong fantasy aspects, this is not really a family film. Not that kids might not like the film, but they'd have to be kids who like horror (comedies) and whose parents let them watch horror (comedies). Enjoyment of the film is also helped by having a familiarity with the material that is being spoofed, and the references are broad enough that it would take years of experience to acquire that familiarity.Why spoofed? Well, on one level, Stay Tuned is just a long series of crafty takes on film and television programs and genres, giving many well-known classics a more immediate horror twist--immediate because they all put our heroes, Knable and his wife Helen (Pam Dawber), in peril in some way. There are many more subtle jokes, as well, and the film even pokes fun at film students/film geeks. The spoofs range from silly to poignant, and can be as quick as a title or as long as ten minutes or so. One of the best is a classic Warner Brothers-styled animated segment. The style and the quality should not be surprising, as Chuck Jones designed and supervised the animation.Under different hands, maybe this material wouldn't be quite as good as it is. Hyams' direction is spot-on throughout the film, the script (including the dialogue) is very intelligent, and in addition to Ritter and Dawber being as good as I've seen them, Stay Tuned also features Jeffrey Jones (one of my favorite character actors) and Eugene Levy. Both are fantastic.Stay Tuned deserves much wider recognition. It is funny, suspenseful and seems to draw from a well of endless inventiveness. It's as good as any other horror comedy I've seen. There is also a surface message of turning off the television and living your life, which is a worthwhile sentiment, but perhaps a harder sell when it is packaged in a film as excellent as this.A 10 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"A surprising piece of entertainment.","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie while channel flipping, ironically enough. I thought that the film was very well done, with just enough cheesy humor to keep me groaning and laughing. The jewels of the film were found in it's references and TV jokes. Some humor at actor Ritter's expense gives the impression that movie is making fun of itself. Jeffery Jones plays an excellent role, further showing off the actor's versatility. What the film lacked in plot, it made up for in originality. The highlight of the film is a cartoon segment done by the legendary Chuck Jones, parodying the Tom and Jerry clichés we all grew up with. All in all, a funny if not cheesy film, definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Yes, The Devil Made Me Watch This!","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This was a clever and funny movie, much better than I anticipated. Most of the humor involves takeoff or parodies of television programs and movies. Being familiar with most of them, I enjoyed the humor. The takeoff involved having the devil take charge of some of these programs.John Ritter and Pam Dawber play husband-and-wife Roy and Helen Knable who get sucked into buying a TV dish package straight from The Devil. After the purchase, which comes complete with 666 channels, mayhem ensues. There were a number of spots in here I just laughed out loud. Knowing a lot of the TV programs that were being spoofed helps a lot, of course, but there is a lot of good material in this film. The special-effects were pretty good, too, especially for a film that really never got a lot of exposure nor, I assume, had a huge budget. Jeffrey Jones and Eugene Levy, two guys who are usually pretty funny, supply some good humor here, too. I looked at this strictly for laughs even though I know the devil is somebody to take seriously, but this film was anything but played for seriousness. As a bonus, we even got a Chuck Jones cartoon in the middle of the story.This is one wacky movie and I'd like to see it on widescreen DVD. I last saw it on tape. This is recommended to those who enjoy dark humor. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with it?  Heck if I know...","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read a few bad-type reviews on this, but that just shows what I know. i think Stay Tuned is one of the funnier movies to roll along in a while. Yeah, it's filled with TV rejects like Ritter, Dawber, and Levy, but they're still kinda funny.  The funniest thing are the TV parodies (yes, they're funny, dammit), and the whole parody of the modern entertainment industry. Plus you've got a great Chuck Jones cartoon set right in the middle. Moves along just fast enough to keep your interest, and the characters are just tolerable enough you don't want to turn off on it.  As was noted, it grows on you. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Stay Tuned is a excellent movie! John Ritter, Pam Dawber, and Eugene Levy was good. Jeffrey Jones performed well. I like how the film was made. The scenes were really cool and the segment of Duane's Underworld was really funny! The wrestling match segment was awesome! George Gray played Mr. Gorgan. He was better known in the old wrestling days (when it was special in My opinion) of the WCW in the early 1990s as The One Man Gang and in the old WWF days in the 1980s as The One Man Gang and The African Dream Akeem! It was so cool seeing this 6'6, 400 plus pound wrestler because he is one of My all time favorites and also it was good to see Captain Lou Albano! Good music by Bruce Broughton and direction by Peter Hyams! Anyway, there is a whole bunch in the movie and is all I can say is that if you like Ritter, Dawber, Levy, and Jones and want a wild ride of a movie then I suggest you see Stay Tuned! "},{"Title":"I just LOVE this movie!!!!","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A very long time ago i saw a trailer of this movie when i was on vacation in the US and i said that one day i´d get to see this movie, some years went by and on my first trip to California i went into a Suncoast store bought some movie souveniers and asked for this film, I found it with a regular price and bought it,at this time i had just seen the trailer, not read any reviews or nothing, i just knew i had to have it cause it looked cool on the trailer, I was so right in buying it, this movie is great, being myself a couch potato i can relate to George Knable (Played wonderfully by the recently deceased John Ritter) and the stuff that happens to him when hes sucked inside his new satellite dish with his wife into a programming of 666 channels into alternative horror versions of classic shows and movies,Theres even an MTV kind of video with Salt N Pepa that is so cool i had to buy the soundtrack of this movie, i love that sequence when theyre all dancing, To me this film rocks and its a must see, John has passed away just 2 days ago and i feel this movie as being his best movie of all because he is the main character and he does a great job at being funny, I will always remember John Ritter. "},{"Title":"An old personal favourite!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always liked this film, since I was younger. It's an expensive flop but at the same time I think it has plenty of laughs and is entertaining. The late great John Ritter is always good value and likeable as is Pam Dawber, the ultimate fanciable former sitcom star. She is differently attractive and I have always fancied her like many others, particularly from the Mork And Mindy days, you know that sitcom with Robin Williams that you used to find funny but when you look back now it kinda sucks!This is good family entertainment. It's inconsistent and some of the references aren't that funny but on the most part the referencing of old movies and TV shows is where most of the humour lies. Good fun. *** "},{"Title":"Ritter's Hell","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The funniest bit is probably Roy Knable being plopped into a certain Santa Monica three story house, tripping over a sofa, and being questioned by a certain blonde and brunette, Where have you been?! Is Three's Company John Ritter's personal Hell? Who knows, but it's a broad wink to the couch potatoes in the audience. "},{"Title":"Stay Tuned... What an Appropriate Title","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" My friend Kenn Harris recommended this movie to me and I was against it from the start weeks ago because it always looked stupid to me and I hate John Ritter with a passion. But I called him and apologized for doubting him - this film is a hidden treasure.While it is true that John Ritter is a one-dimensional actor, this film does not rely heavily on his acting or even his speaking. The bulk of this film is visual gags and pop culture references. If you grew up watching TV, you should catch most of these and they're hilarious. Different Strokes was great, and so was Fresh Prince of Darkness... and who can forget Frankensteinfeld? If that's not enough, two great actors round out the cast - Jeffrey Jones and Eugene Levy. Jones is often a minor actor, but he is given top spot in this film, and rightfully so. As we later saw in Ravenous, this man has a full potential for evil and his screen presence is terrific. Levy is classic, his character is the real hero of this film. Best of all, this is a younger Levy, years before he became known as the father from American Pie... this is pure Levy, untainted. This film highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Stay Tuned....Must see","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't seen the movie in years but do remember liking it. Both Ritter,Dawber and Jones are perfectly cast in this comedy. A married couple,one of which is totally obsessed with TV like many of us all..kidding...anyway both husband and wife are sucked into the TV through the Satel light dish and thus the real fun begins.I won't spoil the movie for anyone but there's a very amusing sequence where both are animated mice. If you happen to see it in the video store rent it. Even though it didn't fair well at Box Office it still is a pretty good flick. One of Ritter's best movies in my opinion. I bought it at a yard sale shortly after Ritter died in memory as well as I knew it was a good movie having first seen after it was first released on VHS. Everyone in the movie was awesome. Sure there's spots where it could of been better but for the most was pretty good flick. "}{"Title":"Silly, but ultimately satisfying TV spoof.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Stay Tuned introduces us to the depressing world of Roy Knable, a man whom lives for television. When his wife Helen tosses a bowling trophy through the TV set in a desperate attempt to gain her husband's attention, he finds himself in the market for a replacement set... and thats where Spike comes in. Spike seems to be simply a pushy cable tv salesman, until we see that Spike works for the Devil himself!Soon Roy and Helen find themselves sucked into the world of bad cable tv, filled with bizarre spoofs of Wayne's World, Driving Miss Daisy, MTV, 1940's black and white mystery movies, stereotypical westerns, and so on. The catch? They must stay alive for 24 hours, at which point they are allowed to come back to Earth. If they die in that time frame, their souls are doomed to hell forever. As Roy and Helen, John Ritter and Paw Dawber are the perfect real-life sitcom graduates to play the suffering couple. Along the way, they deal with Spike (played by Jeffrey Jones - best known as Principal Rooney in Ferris Bueller's Day Off) dogging their every move, and they make friends with Eugene Levy, as a demon executive cast off into the TV dimension by a threatened Spike. Although the TV parodies skirt the line between wildly funny and clever, and dull and uninspired, the performances from the excellent cast make this better than it probably should be. The Underworld Wrestling Foundation sequence seems like it could have inspired MTV's current pop-culture parody, Celebrity Deathmatch. And be sure to pay close attention to the animated Robocat sequence, directed by cartoon legend Chuck Jones, and featuring styles and motifs borrowed from Warner Bros classics, and Tom & Jerry shorts. Stay Tuned is a funny film that although somewhat dated now, still manages to provide a wild ride.Oh yeah, there IS a quick scene involving the sitcom that John Ritter is best known for, and it's one of the funniest moments in the film. Don't blink, or you may miss it! ^)    "},{"Title":"Great Premise Disappoints","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" STAY TUNED offers a great comedic premise. John Ritter is a couch potato extraordinaire who gets what he may have long wished for when he is literally sucked into the 500-channel universe. Trouble is, this cable package is straight from h-e-double-hockey-sticks, with shows like Duane's Underworld and Meet the Mansons. Along with wife Pam Dawber, he must survive 24 hours or be, to borrow a TV term, canceled.The problem is, STAY TUNED never really capitalizes on this joke-rich notion. It starts out strong, but the continual TV parodies are often lame and gradually grow tiresome. The likable Ritter tries hard, he really does, but this material is far beneath him. Some of it is lightly funny, in a Cracked magazine kind of way, but most of it is not. And because it's basically a family film, things stay too tame to really please grown-ups.Die-hard Ritter fans, 12-year-olds and staunch couch potatoes will get the most out of STAY TUNED. And although there's been much worse emitted from Hollywood, the rest of us are generally disappointed. "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" i'll just tell you about one scene from the movie and you shall know how bad it is. at that scene when the boy tries to run away with his bike from that giant dish you can clearly see someone's hands holding him up in the air. that means either no one noticed it or no one cared to fix the problem because they didn't really try to make a good movie. i stopped watching the movie after that scene because i didn't want to waste my time on such a film. and that's a bad point for the director anyway. the movie idea is good but the story was really bad, i mean if they remake this movie now it would be much better. i rate it 2/10 just for the idea, title and the low effort work on that movie. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy/Parody","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Funny movie. Especially the scene where they are mice.Look for the message 'Remember Tuesday is Saddam Hussein Appreciation Day' on the scoreboardI always liked Jack Ritter, and thought he was the star of Three's Company. He has a good comic timing.Pam Dawber does a good job as his annoyed wife - yes, she plays a stereotyped one dimensional frustrated housewife role, but she does it well.Jeffrey Jones, who played the principle in Ferris Bueler's day off is pretty entertaining as well. He seems to have a knack of playing people you want to dislike )I could give this a B for comedy movies, and an A for TV parody movies! "},{"Title":"Stay If You Want, But You'll Be Sorry.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terrible flick about two adults (John Ritter and Pam Dawber) who literally get sucked into their new satellite system. Thus they must try and survive every television situation you can imagine as they become characters on all kinds of crazed performing that have Satanic twists. Jeffrey Jones is the demonic figure who has fooled Ritter into purchasing the system in the hopes of owning his soul. The couple's bratty children (David Tom and Heather McComb) are the only hope for survival. Stay Tuned is just a long group of stringed-together television parodies kept together by sticky gum and used scotch tape. Eugene Levy tries to be the saving grace as one of Jones' henchmen who ends up being banished to TV land just as Ritter and Dawber, but ultimately he fails just as the movie does. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).   "},{"Title":"Doesn't anybody recognize the significance of this movie?","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The things that Ritter's character found 'hellish' back in '92 are now common fare - e.g. stabbing each other in the back (figuratively) in 'The Apprentice', 'Survivor', etc.; paternity tests on 'Maury'; revealing the adultery of spouses (and nude wrestling) on 'Springer'; not to mention Jackass, Southpark or Borat.I think the word is prescient.I have often thought over the years about how this movie was so outrageously impossible when it was made, but how, within a few years how mainstream much of the portrayed content had become.I think this is a movie - although a low budget comedy (dare I use the descriptor B?) - that should be recognized for its historical significance, and perhaps studied in sociology courses about the effect of media on society (or more exactly - the effect of media on media).The significance of this movie has been overlooked. "},{"Title":"Underrated early 90s movie","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I really sorta enjoyed Stay tuned. It had a premise that was not sickly overused like so many other modern movies. John Ritter is glued to TV. His wife is tired of it etc etc. John gets visit from Jeffrey Jones as (posed) cable salesman. He succeeds in selling John a brand new cable network with a big satellite dish in the back yard. His wife sees it and is through, but before she has chance to leave him, she and John both get sucked into satellite dish and into TV channels.This is where the enjoyable and interesting parts of the film really start. Jeffrey Jones is really an evil underlord who sets up every channel his clients/ victims are in as a trap to where it's hard to get to the gray static gateway to the next channel without getting killed in some way or another. The most entertaining things are the channels themselves. They're elaborate, they each have variable interesting details to the challenges that John and Helen have to go through. And they're humorous. The most humorous thing about each channel are the spoof names and spoof likeness to real shows, movies, and commercials. Like Northern Overexposure (Northern Exposure) where John and Helen are walking through the snow in Alaska and are getting chased by hungry wolves. They dig through the snow to find the escape static, but not without first being trapped in a burning barn and centimetres close to being savaged by the wolves. Then they're in a crooked game show where the host punishes ignorance instead of rewarding knowledge (they did this exact same thing on the Simpsons in the episode where the Simpsons went to Japan). The same idea is used in every channel visited. Different spoof names included Three men and Rosemary's baby, Thirty something to life,  Different strokes except the strokes part referred to two very old men having a stroke. My favorites Dwayne's underworld (Wayne's world) was a Wayne and Garth lookalike in vampire form, and the extreme closeup joke here was the red hot poke in the eye. The Warner brothers cartoon spoof had many spoofed details in it from the real cartoons right down to the Acme company mail send out and the delivery response happening five seconds later. There were also funny commercials Yogie beer, the beer for kids. And  Silencers of the lambs, face nosels to shut kids up, and dogs too (Silencers of the lambs for pets sold separately). I liked when they go to medieval France where they eventually look at being beheaded. John says you've always said you wanted to go to France. Helen  yeh, in the 20th century! I also liked the 30s/40s private eye film spoof. This was where the ten year old son finally convinced his stubborn sister that Mom and Dad were trapped in TV when a newspaper photo of Mom/Helen (the dame in the private eye film) was seen by the sister. Until now, the boy had been unsuccessful in trying to convince his sister that Mom and Dad were trapped in television. Meanwhile, Jeffrey Jones is trying his hardest in his underworld control room not to let his clients/victims succeed, and he is growing increasingly frustrated every time John and Helen make it to the next channel. There were a couple of scenes a little weak, but mostly a very good, interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Set all Phasers to torture mode...","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is an absolute underrated classic, I must admit. This is so comical, and the movie references, though over-used, are still funny nevertheless. I have recently watched Beetlejuice and noticed the presence of Jeffrey Jones, who was Spike in this, and his facial expressions really work for this film.Don't let the PG rating fool you though, it would be 12 now! I must note that there is the quick shot of a beheading, a man being torn apart by wolves, the sex references, the language, the fight scenes, and possibly worst of all we have Crowley hopping around with his lack of limbs in the French Revolution! OK, maybe that wasn't worst...Excellent. 9/10, awesome effort! "},{"Title":"Tuning In","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" We all watch TV, whether that's really a good or bad thing only time will tell. But all the same it has because a big part of everyone's lives, from childhood to adulthood and throughout the decades we all have shows that we remember, became a part of history, as well as those new shows we all get excited for.This film I feel is another under the radar gem, it's also a childhood relic since I saw it when I was about 10 and is both one of my favorite parody films in the subgenere and one of my favorite films in general. This was a parody movie that I feel was just made for me because it's pretty much parodies on top of parodies which to me is just a dream come true and something that I don't feel has been done again since. It would be awesome to see a parody (a good one) on a comic book or anime franchise where a single hero or a group of heroes go into one segment out of the norm into another.This film is pretty much a live action Mad Magazine, as each of the show/situations both characters jump into are practically a Mad Magazine cartoon you would flip to, pretty much taking things were familiar with and turning them upside down. But mainly I love the premise which is part of why I love it, it's sort of that dream we all kinda have in the back of our minds of being part of a TV show and in the action. If there is a few TV shows I'd want to be a part of it would be Doctor Who, Sailor Moon, and well you get it, I'm sure you have your lists as well (admit it). This film takes that concept and has fun with it. I even like that there is a bit of a horror fantasy element which makes it both bizarre and funny, but it makes sense since most humans watch TV so why wouldn't Satan think of using this opportunity to take souls. But in a way it sort of also makes the film kinda a Christian movie, since there is this element let alone a theme of redemption and family values throughout the film.The characters are solid, from the late great John Ritter as Roy Knable and Pam Daber as Helen Knable which is ironically funny since both of them are of course TV sitcom vets. Also their last name is kinda funny since it's a play on words for able or could be a slight reference to the biblical character Abel.Roy is funny and he's not a bad person, the problem with him is his head's in the wrong place which of course is TV. This guy is clearly trying to tune out of reality because to him reality sucks. I can sort of sympathize and empathize with that feeling, we can see in little segments that left and right he is getting crap canned almost every day from working in a job he hates, let alone a butt head neighbor's dog attacks him every time he goes to work and comes back home. The only high point to him is TV, even though really it should be his family and his fencing talent; but like in any morality tale he's about to learn that the hard way.Helen is also funny and she's sympathetic because their marriage is crumbling and part of that is obviously from Roy's chronic TV viewing. It's obvious their marriage needs a jump start and well fate or should I say the Devil is about to give them that.I really like the back and forth between both Roy and Helen, you could say in a way this film is a bit of a romance comedy but done right, because the couple are not teen or young adults which I personally feel have been done to death. But actual grown adults that are married and do what any couple should do, interact and help one another.I even like the two kids, the sister I'll admit I had a bit of a crush on. But I really like the little brother, he's not a stereotypical nerd this kid I think is actually cool, smart, really knows his way around communication technology which becomes useful in the film, but most importantly takes a active approach in things.I really love the pacing and the adventure aspect of it, you could say in a way it's like a video game, as the couple are constantly going from one new situation after another much like levels and have to survive each of them.I don't want to give too much away, one segment if the noir show which is just fantastic for me since I'm a fan of the genre. And I simply love the blend of both visual and verbal humor, all the clichés in that genre are there. I really like the narration of Roy in the segment which cracks me up.And of course that cartoon segment, which was animated by late animator Chuck Jones whom is known for doing the The Looney Tunes cartoons. It was just funny also because it has some of the clichés as well. I really thought it was funny how Roy applied cartoon logic to get both him and Helen out. But also a visual joke seeing Helen open her wallet to see a photo of her kids and we see the cartoon mouse versions of them.And the film surprisingly has a good message which is simply to not watch too much TV and most importantly to simply tune into life, it can be better if you decide to tune in.This is a parody worth tuning into.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"a few brilliant moments, and a lot of less brilliant ones","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I'd tuned in after it had been playing for a half hour. This meant that one of the first things I saw was a brilliant animated sequence (directed by animation genius Chuck Jones). Because of this, I had a more favorable view of the movie than I would have if I'd watched from the beginning.This time I watched from the beginning, and realized that it wasn't as good as I recalled. The first 20 minutes or so is rather dull set up. The movie picks up with clips from fictional, disturbing TV shows, but the actual journey the movie is centered on is very hit and miss, with a lot of rather toothless pop parody pretending to be satire.It's a watchable movie, but I found my attention often flagged. The best reason to watch is for the animated sequence, which you can find on youtube, if you don't want to bother with the movie. "}{"Title":"Holy Shatner!","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Knables are a very dysfunctional family. Roy Knable (John Ritter) is a very unhappy person, who cares more about his T.V shows, than his wife Helen (Pam Dawber) his wife is fed up of it. They have two children who bicker constantly. Things are in complete and utter disarray. Roy gets an offer from a mysterious salesman named Spike. He offers up a satellite dish with over 600 channels for Roy's choosing. Being the T.V addict Roy is, he is very much enticed. He turns Spike down, so Spike gives Roy a free trial. His wife flips and is about to move out, but they get sucked into a hellish world, filled with sadistic T.V shows. Roy and Helen are forced to try and survive the gauntlet, and get back homeNot only is this movie clever, but I enjoyed it very much. This movie is made for film buffs. It's filled with spoofs of T.V titles, which cracked me up. This is definitely one of those misunderstood films, and it's almost cultish in a way. It's not going to be for everyone. Casual movie goers may not get into all the inside jokes, and stuff like that. But for people that watch a lot of movies and T.V shows on a yearly basis, will howl. There is even a bizarre cartoon sequence, where Roy and Helen play mouses, and try to evade a mechanical cat of sorts. Strangely enough, it was very funny. My favorite one is near the end of the movie, where Roy gets transported onto the Three's Company set. I won't spoil it all, but it's absolutely hilarious. Those that don't know, John Ritter was propelled into stardom due to Three's Company. I do have a minor carp. It did seem to me that Roy & Helen accepted their predicament a bit too easy. Maybe it was just me, which could be the case. The film also leaves their kids to be the heroes, and I especially found the sister annoying. John Ritter & Pam Dawber ace their parts with charisma and likability. Jeffrey Jones hams it up like no tomorrow, and is clearly having a blast. Eugene Levy is amusing as wellStay Tuned for extra title jokes at the end credits!Final Thoughts This is a highly underrated film. I think many people didn't grasp what this movie was going for. I watch a ton of movies on a yearly basis. I managed to get most of the jokes. This is highly recommended for big movie fans, not so much for people that watch movies on a casual basis. I personally dug it7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wild Satiric Comedy.","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" John Ritter and Pam Dawber(both sitcom veterans) play Roy and Helen Knable, a suburban couple who unwittingly become sucked into their new television, and find themselves bouncing through different TV series & movies, which are being aired on a demonic TV station run by Spike(Jeffrey Jones, well cast) who puts them through(among other unfortunate TV watchers) an ordeal to see if he can capture their souls for Satan, and earn himself a promotion! Plot of course is ludicrous, but this is supposed to be a comedy, and while some of it is funny(amusing joke titles of TV series and films, and a clever in-joke with John Ritter and two old cast mates...) not enough of it is, as the film seems like a nutty cross between Network and Beetle Juice! Watchable to a point, but should have been grounded a little further in reality to be successful. "},{"Title":"yes, a silly movie CAN be eerily prescient","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The 21st century has seen a number of reality shows, but none like this! John Ritter and Pam Dawber play a couple who get sucked into a satellite dish and sent through a world of twisted shows whose titles reminded me of some of the scenes in UHF. One scene even lets John Ritter spoof his most famous role.As it turns out, the movie may have been intended as something silly, but it now looks more serious. So many reality shows force people to perform self-degrading acts for money - like what Peter Sellers and Ringo Starr do in The Magic Christian - while the audience cheers the whole thing on. Viewers end up desensitized to things previously considered appalling, sometimes thinking that a real-life tragedy is part of the show (like what happens at the end of Phantom of the Paradise).But like I said, the movie was almost certainly intended as totally silly, and it comes out really funny. Mind you, you'll only get the jokes if you know a lot of TV shows. I figure that if the movie got made now, other spoofed titles could be 666 Feet Under and No Country for Mad Men. "},{"Title":"A couple gets sucked into a hell-world of evil TV shows through a satellite dish and have to escape or die.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think this is a very entertaining, funny, and a great send-up of '80's TV. My teenage kids just watched it and they got the references to the sitcoms and game shows (even after never having seen them). There was so much clever word play- one joke after the other! There aren't too many horror-comedies, but this one works for teens and up. It might be too scary for young audiences- too many hell, death, and devil references. I thought the stars, Jack Ritter and Pam Dawber were perfect. The plot (both funny and suspenseful) holds your interest, the special effects were good, as was the acting. I saw it years ago and liked it then, but apparently it held its own today because my kids enjoyed it too...and that's saying something! "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy that's reminiscent of classic TV shows and movies","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In my opinion, STAY TUNED is an excellent comedy that's reminiscent of classic TV shows and movies. The first time I ever saw this movie was when I was at home in 1993. When Roy (John Ritter) and Helen (Pam Dawber) got sucked into the hellish TV world, I thought to myself, Whoa! I said that because I was really shocked. If you ask me, this movie had terrific performances, beautiful scenery, perfect casting, and flawless direction. Crowley (Eugene Levy) was a pretty funny guy, though. Despite the fact that Spike (Jeffrey Jones) was the head villain, I thought he gave a good performance. Now in conclusion, if you like John Ritter or Pam Dawber movies, this is definitely one to see. When you see it, prepare for laughs and a smashing good time. I also guarantee you that you'll want to see this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"A couch potato's delight !","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Having been a couch potato my entire life I love this film. John Ritter is brilliant as a television addict who gets satellite television installed by Satan's minion spike (Jeffrey Jones). 666 channels of totally warped TV in return for his soul. This film is loaded with references to classic TV and is a blast to watch.  "},{"Title":"Goes to show you the reviews are wrong, good movie!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  5 stars out of 10?  If you read all the readers reviews, I believe everyone liked this movie (which goes to show you, don't count on the critics).  It's the real people that need to review movies.  Granted this isn't the type of movie that makes you think deeply about life, nor is the acting wonderful, but it's chock full of spoofs that will really pull you the first time you see it (or 2nd time).  john ritter is excellent in this movie, so much in fact I would have loved to see a sequel (rather than those awful problem child movies).  So glad to be seeing him back on TV, but he needs to try film again.  This movie also makes you ponder the question (what is hell really like?  Is it just a bunch of molten lava, or is it more personal? (granted it's probably not a bunch of TV shows, but I'm sure hell is torterous).  If you haven't seen this, rent it! "},{"Title":"Not That Bad","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Stay Tuned is basically a movie that spoofed other movies and T.V shows such as Wayne's World, Driving Ms. Daisy and many more. If you like funny movies this is a good movie to watch it also has a great line of actors like John Ritter,Pam Dawber,Jeffrey Jones an Eugene Levy so you know this movie is going to be funny. This movie isn't a must see but sooner or later if you never saw it maybe you should go out and rent it.I give Stay tuned a 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Fun Escape","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Contrary to the negative comments about this movie, it really is a fun piece of filmmaking, with clever satires on television. The plot has lots of twists and turns and I think you'll appreciate this comedy. It deserves more respect that it has received. "},{"Title":"Hey! I remember this!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I caught this movie on TV tonight, and after watching it, God do I feel old. This came out my senior year in high school, and watching it really took me back.I remember watching all those shows they parodied when they were new, and I remember all the movies that they spoofed when they first came out. Creepy. I especially liked the Maxell commercial parody, but what was up with the music video? Salt N Pepa is so has-been it's really sad. Hell, they weren't even *that* big when the movie came out. They were big in the late '80s.This movie is worth seeing, if only for the spoofs. It's horribly dated now (and it's hard to believe I've been out of high school almost 10 years!) but it's still worth it. Be warned though if you're in the younger set (13 or under) chances are you never saw many of the shows they spoof in this film. As a result, many of the jokes might be lost. Who knows, a lot of those shows will live forever in reruns.I admit, the acting at times isn't spectacular, but it gets the job done. A good script is what saved this film from the dustbin. On the whole, a good job. If the acting had been stronger it would have been a brilliant film.Cheers  "}{"Title":"Interesting Concept!! Funny movie!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What an offbeat comedy! Performances by John Ritter, his wife in the movie (I loved her and Robin Williams in M&M), Eugene Levy and the remote control salesman (I love that guy!) were good, the plot was intriguing, and the characters were believable! Overall the movie was interesting, kept you involved with the characters, and really gave the audience a shockingly no-doubt accurate third-person view of America's TV Obsession.Overall Rating 3.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've seen","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Stay Tuned is definitely one of my favorite movies and one of the funniest movies I have seen. It stars John Ritter as Roy Knable, a man who is what we like to refer to as a huge couch potato. His wife, Helen (Pam Dawber), is a successful business woman who absolutely hates the way her husband is obsessed with the TV, more so than her. One night, a devilish TV executive named Mr. Spike (Jeffrey Jones) sells him a satellite dish and a TV with 666 channels which airs such shows as Thirtysomething to life, I Love Lucifer and also parodies the crash test dummy commercials and other famous TV sitcoms. The couple end up being sucked into the satellite and into Hellvision, where they need to stay alive for 24 hours. I think this movie is hysterical, especially with them being caught in the most ridiculous TV shows (i.e. Northern Overexposure, You CAN'T Win, and Off With His Head). They also become cartoon mice as well and end up in a 1940's detective crime drama. One scene I particularly love is when John Ritter transports himself to the Three's Company set, and screams when Krissie Snow and Janet ask Where have you been?!. best in-joke I've ever seen in a film. The acting is pretty decent for a low-budget film like this, although the Knable daughter and son are more wooden than a tree and Eugene Levy is very annoying as Crowley, Mr. Spike's assistant. I think the best part of this are the parodies of the TV shows. Rent this for a couple of laughs.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, this low-budget comedy titled Stay Tuned was one of my favorite movies back in junior high in 1992. Needless to say, it has remained on my favorite movies list all these years! Everyone was way too harsh on this movie, but hey, it's just good, campy fun! The movie was well cast and the story was pretty darn clever (gotta love those early 90s TV parodies!) and is downright fun! As someone already stated, this movie WILL bring you back to 1992! That is another reason I love it, because it brings back memories of that time for me, summer in particularly, which was so much fun! Anyway, give this a movie a chance!! "},{"Title":"Light Satire","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Boston Phoenix review of this movie sarcastically lambasted its lack of depth, meaning, and relevance. Shakespeare this ain't; it's a formula comedy with some great laughs that make fun of the idiot box. John Ritter is always hit and miss, but it's nice to see Pam Dawber working. Jeffrey Jones is a great devil that doesn't really seem evil. "},{"Title":"The funniest montage of spoofs I've ever seen","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  From the first time I saw the preview, I knew I had to see it.  And my feeling was right.  The plot of this movie is kinda campy  a guy gets sucked into his satellite dish, with his family following him to the (hopeful) rescue, and when he gets to this TV-world, he finds that a certain bad guy doesn't want him to leave.  Fine. But the world he gets trapped, a Hell of sorts, in is the funniest, most well-rounded selection of TV spoofs, circa 1992.  Wayne's World?  Dwayne's Underworld.  I've fallen and I can't get up?  It's there.  That Maxell ad with the guy in the chair who is blown away by the music?  It's there.  This movie will bring you back to 1992 in a way you wouldn't believe.  I love it. "},{"Title":"Commercial TV is hell!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A TV-junkie is sucked right into his television, where he has to fight for his life in a number of soups, chat shows and movies. It turns out, that hell just looks like real life TV and the devil is getting his soul, if he doesn't survive the next 24 hours. With the support of his family our hero walks through everything boring, terrible and senseless in American TV.Watch out for the small details or better watch it twice. You will like this movie, when you enjoyed too Driving over Miss Daisy, Perverted Camera, Unmarried with Children or Wayne's Underworld. And don't touch that remote control!  "},{"Title":"It grows on you...","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I absolutely hated it. But, after catching it by surprise at the end of a homemade tape, I decided it was worth another go and watched it the whole way through. The movie parodies are funny enough, and playing with a lot of the concepts of films and subsequent genres is what eventually won me over. So don't worry if this movie turns you off the first time. Give it at least another before damning it. "},{"Title":"It grows on you...","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I absolutely hated it. But, after catching it by surprise at the end of a homemade tape,  the movie parodies are funny enough, and playing with a lot of the concepts of movies and subsequent genres is what eventually won me over. So don't worry if this movie turns you off the first time. Give it at least another before damning it. "},{"Title":"a little Gem","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie starred Pam Dawber and the late John Ritter, people best known for their stints in situation comedies.The plot is that a couch potato husband and his over-achieving spouse are sucked into a Hellish universe made up of various television motifs, satirizing everything from Cartoons, to Star Trek, to Westerns and Professional Wrestling.Jeffery Jones and Eugene Levy shine as the executives of Satan's Network, plotting various demises for the victims of their charade.The Critics hated this movie, and much like the film student character, they don't get the fun. Ritter even laughs at himself, as he finds himself in a Three's Company situation comedy and screams in horror. "},{"Title":"twisted family fun","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It is still one of my favorite satire movies. The excellent cast is what pulls off this satire so well and in a way that is suitable for the family despite the numerous hell references. Can definitely be watched with the older kids (with parental guidance of course). The channel sequences are well done and imaginative and the cartoon is top notch work from the immortal Chuck Jones and crew.A good relaxing chuckle movie with twisted humor.Sadly, The ideas are not too far off from today's reality shows anyway. ie Sadistic home video. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Movie!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've always loved this movie & I have wonderful fantasies about it. I don't say it's dumb at all like other people do. Great Hellvision parodies of real life shows! Look, Mister, & then Jeffery Jones says Spike. At your service! It was intresting to see how Spike drove down to hell right after he offered Roy the tv satilite system, like the road opens up and it shows redness and he goes down then the road closes back up. And I see, that Roy only payed more attention to his tv than his wife & she couldn't take it anymore. And then after they went through hell on tv Roy learned not to watch too much tv anymore. But it was cool how they could go from channel to channel. I remember watching it in the summer of 1993 when I was on a trip to California.  "},{"Title":"One of Ritter's finest","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Stay Tuned follows in footsteps of the many successful John Ritter productions.  Ritter, possibly the best American actor of this century, plays the all too common television addicted American.  Ritter spends more time playing with the remote than knockinâ?T boots with his wife, thus as is common now a days, Ritter is kidnapped by Satan and his personage is transformed into the television set.  Satan is an overly incompetent fool, and for the life of him cannot seem to kill off Ritter.  Ritter ends up going from channel to channel, adventure to adventure, in this gripping coming of age tale.  The major catch for Ritter is that the TV, accidentally, also captures his wife.  Ritter ends up falling in love with his wife again as he realizes just how fly his honey is.  However, Ritter could not have succeeded on his own.  He had help from his nerdy closet homosexual son and his slut-to-be daughter, the names of which I have either forgotten or never known.  In the end Ritter is able to destroy Satan and save the lives, of not only himself and his wife, but of countless others who have yet to be captured by Satan.  The movie does not surprise me all that much, for I have always known that if someone was going to take down Satan it would obviously be John Ritter "},{"Title":"A weak Hollywood parody of weak TV programs...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie aims to be a parody of television programming, but aims low and barely even hits that.  Watching this movie is a bit like sitting with a friend who tells not-so-funny jokes, and then laughs really hard at them. I got the feeling the people making this movie thought they were being rather witty, but the end result didn't turn out nearly as clever as they thought it would.Not horrible, and if you're in the right mood for utter fluff, it may be worth a look, but don't go out of your way to watch it. "},{"Title":"From Viewer to Doer !","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Before writing this, I knew that at its release (Stay Tuned) was accused of being a pointless satire. Now I have to say that anyone says anything like that, is pointless himself !It's a refreshing fantasy, while being a wicked, sort of dark, parody also. The thing about it is that it has 2 ironies. They both had been summarized well in the tagline Everybody wants to be on television. Just not this kind of television.. Hence it's about living the TV, and an evilly twisted version of it too. It kills me already when I know, in 2010, that a movie with this story was made 18 years ago, while I wrote a TV show based on more or less the same idea couple of years ago !! It's not how someone else me thought about it?, No, it's How they made it, while my TV show isn't made till NOW ?!!!!!!Away from my personal sorrows, I think that the movie's vision can't be more obvious  Today's TV is devilish, by watching &#x96; rather surrendering to &#x96; it we sell our souls to hell, setting in front of it for more than it deserves means turning into a viewer more than doer, losing reality, dreams, and most of all  love.Its fun is close to impeccable. I loved the wicked finale where the cinema studier becomes the new devil, as if the ones who knows the rules of art will be better Satans ! I believe that writers (Jim Jennewein) and (Tom S. Parker) didn't do anything this entertaining again. While their career includes movies like (Major League II, Ri¢hie Ri¢h), still (Stay Tuned), the first one they wrote, is their most original and wild work yet. Director (Peter Hyams) can make a keen steamy action just about every time, in spite of how the scripts he deals with are sometimes weaker.Speaking of which, this movie has a similar problem. A serious one too. While the action and comedy are on, the drama isn't. From the wonderful, so smart, parody of the game show, then the wrestling match, to the end of the movie where the lead has no solution to save his love, and his marriage, but to turn off the TV, no actual drama, concerning the development of the 2 lead's relationship, was done. It's a series of non-stop chases through bizarre channels (with the bizarre commercials as well), yet with no substance to follow. I thought that with more care and seriousness about such a basic storyline the drama would have been more attractive and effective, and the interplay between the movie and the viewer more emotional and powerful. So the movie's satire wasn't bad, it's the dealing with it that tarnished it a bit, maybe causing the accusation of pointless for some.Minor problems  for sure the video clip at the end. It's bad on so many levels. I mean it was long. It was noisy. It was cold. And it was while the movie's most critical phase for god's sake, so how about putting it to slacken the tight pace ! Actually, seeing (John Ritter) in that yellow girlie outfit was awful enough ! I didn't like the matter of parodied TV shows, only by punned titles, at the closing credits; that was lame and blank. And for a final problem  while (John Ritter), (Pam Dawber), (Jeffrey Jones) did their absolute best, I thought they all missed the glamour of stardom. The charisma of them wasn't as dazzling as the movie itself. Well, maybe I'm wrong, and it's measured by the amount of fun this cast gave, because accordingly; they scored high.Some lines were great  I prefer a man who touches me, not the controller, All I wanted was to be the big shot for once. Take my remote., You wanted to live in a TV fantasy? Well, you got your wish. And finally the immortal Roy Knable's one  Take my advice, kiddo. Don't watch too much TV. It can get you into trouble.It's about the journey from viewer into doer. I bet the writers loved the idea of living defeated by a TV fantasy (or did experience it already), then having the victory *through* the very TV fantasy. But while the viewer part was done fine, the doer part wasn't as fine. When it comes to this point in specific the writers were viewers more than doers themselves ! "},{"Title":"movie sites","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" the movie is supposed to be set in the US, BUT in the scene where John Ritter is on the highway and he drops a suitcase, in the background you can see HarborPlace in Vancouver BC. PLUS the fencing studio at the end of the movie is GasTown in Vancouver. The part where the train is going to hit Pam Dawber (Helen Knable) was filmed at Old Tucson Movie Studios (before it burned down) Some US movies say that they are in Portland, Seattle, NYC but it is really Vancouver. Check out Rumble in the Bronx with Jackie Chan. The mountains in the background are Whistler,BC and the 3 Lions (site for the 2010 Winter Olympics) The first couple of years of XFiles were filmed in Vancouver, as was 21 JumpStreet. "},{"Title":"Helen","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's a given that Ritter will be funny at an insurance convention and so will Eugene Levy. The only real highlight I can see is Heather McComb. Thanks to the director for putting her in tight jeans and sweaters, especially when her cheerleader friends come to their house to practice. She very was hot in this movie, especially because she was only 14 while filming it. Too bad they didn't take that remote and put in into a porn movie for just 1 scene, the deflowering scene. Now that would have made this movie a really good one. The scenes where Pam Dawber was tied up waiting to be saved were also hot. The director did another nice job of busting some good cleavage out on Pam. You didn't see that in Mork & Mindy. As it is it barley keeps you interested. "}]