[{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Really, this is a great flick.  Especially if you go for British comedy. Rita Rudner's writing is just fantastic.  I caught this in the theatres by chance and loved it--and bought it as soon as it became available on video.Since this is just commentary, I'm not going to get into the plot any--I'll just toss in my 2 cents.In the Maltin Review, he mentions that many consider this a British Big Chill.  In a way, I can see that, but where the Big Chill focuses on how much the characters have changed since college, Peter's Friend's does a good job of showing how the characters really HAVEN'T changed since then. They have matured, but the root of who they are--their faults, strengths, and weaknesses--are still the same.The wit flows, the humor can be obvious as well as understated, the interplay between the actors is simply sublime, and the overall feel is fun and warm.  I've seen many of these actors together in other films and they're all first rate.  Just because Emma Thompson is the only one to win an Oscar doesn't mean the others are slackers!!The one thing I've had to accept, though, is that in 7 years, it has become dated--especially the reason why Peter decides to bring his old college buddies together.  That last scene packed a much bigger punch in 1992 than it could in 1999.  Not that the issues are any less significant now, just that, as a culture, we're more accustomed to the subject.  (And I won't spoil it--if you want to know what the subject is, rent the movie! *grin*)Also, the soundtrack is fabulous!  And I'd say it's worth the price of a rental for those who came of age in the 80's just to watch the opening montage  The highlights of the 80's set to Everybody Wants to Rule the World.  Fantastically done.Rent it and enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Not a Rip Off of the Big Chill!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has often been dubbed another rip off of The Big Chill. Except for the whole reunion bit, this movie bears little resemblance to the former. It is funnier, wittier and the characters are more clearly defined.The movie centers around Peter, whose father has just died and left him the house. He decides to have a big party and invite his friends from college that he hasn't seen in years.As it turns out, everyone has their problems. Roger and Mary have just lost a child,Maggie is trying to find a man and has her eye on Peter, who is definitely not interested,Sarah is involved with a married man and seems to have trouble getting involved with anyone who's available,Andrew and his Hollywood actress wife are having marriage problems.This movie is well acted, the script is well written,thanks to Rita Rudner and her husband Martin Bergman and the casting is excellent. Starring Stephen Fry as Peter,Kenneth Branagh as Andrew,Hugh Laurie as Roger,Emma Thompson as Maggie,Alphonsia Emmanuel as Sarah and Imelda Staunton as Mary.With Rita Rudner as Carol. "},{"Title":"A movie true to human spirit and those little glitches in it","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched Peter's Friends, I was seventeen years old, still young and unexperienced. I wouldn't say that the five years since then have made me some sort of oracle, but I have made a few mistakes and also a lot of good choices. And even more, I am able to relate to the story that Kenneth Branagh's wonderful alternative to It's A Wonderful Life as a holiday film.Today it makes me laugh. It makes me embarrassed. It evokes so many feelings that are pivotal for the human spirit, so many things that are universal. If you have friends, or if you've lost them, or if you've met any people at all in your life, you will be able to relate to the six friends in Peter's Friends. What the heck, you only have to be human to relate to it.No other movie speaks so truly about us as human beings and how we behave in small social groups. Food for thought, but also for heart. "},{"Title":"A British Big Chill.  I mean that in a good way!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film starts off on New Years Eve 1982 with a collegiate musical troupe giving their final bad performance. It cuts to 1992 where one of them named Peter (Stephen Fry) invites the whole group to his remote English castle for a New Years Eve party. We have the Andersons--Roger (Hugh Laurie) and Mary (Imelda Staunton). They've lost a child and she lives in fear that they'll lose the other. Then there's Maggie (Emma Thompson) who's madly in love with Peter. There's Sarah (Alphonsia Emmanuel) a sexually active woman who brings along her man of the moment (Tony Slattery). And there's Andrew (Kenneth Branagh) who's unhappily married to TV star Carol (Rita Rudner).This was called a rip off of The Big Chill. It is, but it's well-made with a great cast, a wonderful script and is totally involving. This is one of the few movies that mixes drama and laughs and both work beautifully. It was also shot (I believe) on location in England and the setting itself is just incredible. All the acting is good across the board. Rudner is a delight (and has the best lines). Emmanuel sometimes overdoes her role but not enough to damage the film. Dramatic, witty, warm--basically a great comedy drama well worth catching.Did you ever see Upstairs Downstairs? "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has one of the best 80's soundtracks.  It is a feel good movie with a great cast.  Some very amusing moments and some sad moments but all in all it features the kind of friends we'd all love to have. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can watch Peter's Friends over and over without getting bored.  The characters are about the same age I am, and my friends and I have shared many of the same experiences.  The script is witty and clever, the characters are well-developed and the actors are superb.  What more can I say besides I want the DVD! "},{"Title":"Very British","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You won't find a laugh track. Or even any side-splitting laughs. Its not slapstick, indeed most of the humor is directed ironically at the character who's making the self-deprecating comment. Its not really tragic - its a situation comedy of the old school, with great actors, a reasonable framework for them to perform, and no artificial beginning or ending, just characterization. Like many movies of this kind, you have to bring your brain along and do some of the work yourself. It is, however, an effort that will be greatly rewarded, and highly rewarding. So find the movie, watch it, think about it, and enjoy it. You'll probably continue to do so through many viewings.And while its not out on DVD in the US, it available out on laserdisc (if anyone still has one - I did for many years). Not much, but its something. "},{"Title":"A merry little journey through emotions and time","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter's friends is a seemingly modest, delectable and almost quiet film about the people we become if we're lucky. It's one of those extremely rare reunion movies where very dissimilar characters are bound together by sincere friendship, not old resentments. As they're invited to a country manor by one of them to celebrate New Year's and enjoy each other's company for old times' sake, they're unfazed by the impression they may leave, but perhaps too eager to make it a fun time together. It's the people they bring along that start to complicate everything but also truly re-unite them.The cast is fantastic (mind the wonderful Phyllida Law, Thompson's mother, in the role of Vera) and the atmosphere brilliantly subdued. The upbeat late 80's music brings back memories, and it's a sorely needed uplifting element amidst the dreary British winter. Branagh's direction leaves some direction to be desired, but it's exactly that slightly amateurish feel to it that makes the film tick.When I watched Peter's friends for the first time more than ten years ago, it struck me as a slow-paced movie, quirky but fun. A decade later, it seems spirited, joyful and warm with lots of smirks, some laughs, and plenty of I know this awful embarrassing feeling moments. It's also become a great testimony to the late 80s, early 90s era, now trapped in time but well remembered for its excess in clothing, opulence in music, powerful political movements and, perhaps, youthful naivety. It's a movie I could watch each year anew. "},{"Title":"I like the way the story unfolds","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lot of people seem to think the plot is particularly weak and that some of the character development is unrealistic, but I think it is quite effective. To fully appreciate why the characters behave the way they do (for instance, Mary saying goodbye to her baby son Ben, while husband Roger stands by) it is worth watching the film twice. Peter's character also unfolds in a logical way, and his actions become crystal clear as the film progresses. Carol - seemingly a B-list celebrity who thinks she's a legend - turns out to be a multi- layered character, and is certainly one of the most memorable.The only drawback to this rather character-driven film is that sometimes I watch it and think I have obviously missed a scene somewhere. Although I cannot identify with everything the characters have been through, they are all reasonably fleshed out. As the audience gets further into the film, the layers of show and pretence are peeled back like onion skins. The two extra characters are eliminated with reasonable explanations. I can see what makes all of the characters tick - except for Brian. Roger and Mary are a good couple, stressed and yet strengthened by the way they finally deal with their personal tragedy - in fact I feel like the holiday is quite cathartic for them. Carol and Andrew, although a bit showbiz for my liking are obviously moulded and shaped by their Hollywood surroundings - they are clearly used to fulfilling a role on and off camera and somehow I don't feel that the audience for this film sees the ultimate end of their relationship. Sarah, another thespian type (evidently with a colourful past) seems to do some serious thinking about her approach to relationships. Maggie - oh, I do like Maggie! - the rather bookish spinster undergoes a total change before balancing her old self with the new self she has tapped into. Peter, excellently played by Stephen Fry, makes a courteous host, friend and confidante to all, reluctant to burden his friends with a problem far more stunning than anything his friends have been faced with (perhaps Roger and Mary's is on a par?).But I have tried and tried, and watched this film over and over and I still feel as though I have somehow missed a key scene that would help me understand Brian. Where is it, I ask? I still don't get the Greta Garbo joke - I can only surmise that it is a story he finds humour in where nobody else ever could, because the punchline never made it to the final cut. A line from him after upsetting Mary states, It's not like me to put my foot in it - how ironic when he spends the rest of his time in the film spoiling the moment (particularly after the revue group's lovely song by the piano) and upsetting others. So where the others have a bit of backstory - we know who went out with (or slept with) who at university - and can be empathised with, Brian appears one-dimensional. His character as it stands is the only real flaw in the film, his only real purpose is to be cast off by Sarah when Andrew helps her see how wrongly she approaches her relationships.A notable mention also goes to the soundtrack. I only wanted to see this film initially because it featured Tears For Fears' 1985 single Everybody Wants To Rule The World, but this is in no way the only musical highlight. The opening sequence was one I enjoyed very much. "},{"Title":"Provocative British wit a contemporary battle of the sexes","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good, solid drama in the best British style, replete with witty dialogues, more or less a showcase for Kenneth Branagh to bestow upon us something that is not in the least Shakespearian. Nicely-paced development lets the principal characters ease their way into the proceedings in an orchestrated way, such that there is a fine balance in screen presence as well as in the interwoven combinations of the players from scene to scene, very much in the straight theatre tradition. Therein lies a possible weakness the film has a straight-jacket feel to it, as though indeed it was too severely and strictly transposed from the stage to the screen.Very much in the vein of a `battle of the sexes', we have in `Peter's Friends' several couples meeting some years after graduating, supposedly to remember old times. I rather fancy that the ladies win this battle by a slight margin, as the performances by Imelda Staunton, Emma Thompson and Alphonsia Emmanuel manage to pull off a finely-tuned upper-hand over the gentlemen. This is about the third time I have seen this film - and will doubtlessly see it again. However, having recently seen `Gosford Park' a couple of times, I cannot help marrying up the two films - and thus falling into the trap of comparing them. `Gosford Park' comes out clearly the winner Altman's masterpiece.  "}{"Title":"Witty, well put together film","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My wife and I fell in love with this film the first time we saw it in a small dingy cinema in Manchester, UK, on New Year's Day 1993.All of which made it more poignant for us, as the film is set at exactly that time - New Year's Eve, 1992/3.Peter (Stephen Fry) has invited all of his University 'chums' to visit him at his manor house, recently inherited after the death of his father (played in a brief cameo by Richard Briers).A flashback scene to a Cambridge footlights style review (incidentally, source of many of the actors in the flick) leads to a montage of images displayed to the music of Tears for Fear's Everybody wants to rule the world. And it it a coincidence that the last image of the opening montage - that of John Major - cuts brilliantly to a paddock full of sheep? What follows is very good character development, as Peter's Friends - a couple of jingle writers (Imelda Staunton and Hugh Laurie), a Hollywood actress and her script writing husband (Rita Rudner and Kenneth Branagh), a new age publisher (Emma Thompson) and a relationship-challenged woman and her latest boyfriend (Tony Slattery) arrive and start to interact.Old secrets come out, many of them relationship based (You slept with that f**kmonster!, You slept with Sarah! - My dear, the Archbishop of Canterbury has slept with Sarah), recent discoveries are exposed, old vices are taken up to excess, old history is dragged up.It's the sort of stuff you'd expect a group of friends who haven't really seen each other for ten years to do.Scenes to watch for include the like they were in a rodeo scene and a very well executed scene between Branagh and Thompson, with the latter discussing how her most recent boyfriend committed suicide, the irony being that her boyfriend used to write self-help books. I didn't really like him much, she says, I liked him even less after he killed himself.The reviewer's comments on the video state The funniest British Film since a Fish called Wanda. I didn't find it such a good belly laugh as AFCW but then again I don't think that is what the writers intended.I've not been able to find this film on DVD - yet. The minute it pops up it'll be on my buy list. "},{"Title":"Reunions","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For those of us who have experienced countless reunions in our mature lives, there is much to recognize here. No matter what the year in real time, the more things change, the more they stay the same.This is basically an intelligent script. That is why I am reluctant to have to fault the director's overwrought interpretation as evidenced by a good deal of melodramatic interplay where understatement would be so much more effective. Only Kenneth Branagh manages to carry it off well, especially in the final scene. I was particularly annoyed by the waste of talent in making the character played by Emma Thompson something of a comic figure. The line fill me with your babies is an example of bathos rather than something antic or farcical. If read properly, it should evoke pity for someone who is only mildly neurotic and fully capable of mature insights -- as further scenes demonstrate.An audience expects greater depth from a serious play that has as its center the otherwise trite scenario of disparate guests coming together for a weekend in the country. Unless farce is intended, the laughs ought to come from wordplay, not pies in the face or anguished physical disintegration.Still, I like the idea of fresh characterizations that pop up from time to time like that of Peter as the centerpiece here. "},{"Title":"Spoilers!! despite the miss judge of direction is a rather enjoyable and delightful film","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has a great cast but is unfortunately let down by the direction. In my honest opinion Kenneth Branagh should not have directed this film. I think they should have chosen someone outside the group of very real friends to perhaps keep it from some sentimentality. Branagh also seems to not enjoy close ups that much as some really great performances are missed. For example the scene were everything is coming to a head Branagh decides to pan around a Christmas tree and you are unable to see the faces of the actors. This bad direction does take away some of the impact of the scene.Despite the somewhat bad direction the performances are superb. While the whole cast is excellent I do think the best performance came from Hugh Laurie who was wonderful as a father who is trying to cope with the death of one his twins. The heart felt scene were he basically semi-explodes to his friends is so touching. He expresses his hurt about how people always say it's hard for a mother to lose a child and not the father is so touching and moving that despite the somewhat lack of close up his performance is still a knock out as is his scene with Imelda Staunton who plays his wife. Their scene were they work through their heartache is very powerful. I think Brangha was right to have played that in one shot. But alas both Laurie and Staunon are somewhat under used and their is very little of them actually talking to their friends.This film despite the miss judge of direction is a rather enjoyable and delightful film that I do recommend and while does have some heartache it is a very amusing film. "},{"Title":"Not being able to like the characters was a bit of a problem but generally it is well written and engaging","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It has been just about ten years since Peter last saw his group of University friends and, after his father died, he has inherited the family manor and decided to throw a reunion party for them. Of his friends, Sarah is still pretty much the same and has brought along her latest lover with her. Andrew has long ago sold out and moved to America where he met his wife Carol. Roger and Mary are married but life lives of quiet panic and worry since the death of one of their twin babies. Maggie meanwhile is so alone that she throws herself into the slightest offer of companionship. The friends come together but the tensions and problems are barely hidden and quickly come out.Opening with the type of privately educated people that I personally find very difficult to relate to, this film immediately had me on the backfoot and worried thanks to this and the sheer volume of luvvies in the cast. However the film manages to get past this for me because the writing is better than the very basic sitcom-come-melodrama that it is only ever a few steps away from being. It goes just where you expect it to though, and the fact that all the wheels fall off the various friends' lives will not surprise anyone but it is interesting and engaging enough. The sense of humour is quiet upper-class and it is sometimes hard to get into the characters because I did get the impression that they were very aloof but it was still solid enough to keep things moving.The cast work well and indeed many of them have a background that is similar to their characters (in terms of University I mean, not the personal detail). Fry is good although I must admit not caring much for his character. Branagh does a so-so job as director (nothing particularly special) and also as actor he isn't that good here &#150; his drunk act in particular being weak. Continuing the split responsibilities = weakness trend, writer Rudner is not great in her acting role. Laurie is strong but he is outdone by a convincing little turn from Staunton. Thompson is good even if her character could have been made more of. Emmanuel is good but only shows me how hard it is for black actors to get ahead &#150; she has barely been seen again. Slattery is Slattery and those who like him will like him here &#150; I don't but that is by the by.Overall this is an engaging film despite the fact that I found the characters hard to like. The story may not be the most inspiring or shocking but it is involving nonetheless and comic if not really funny. A very British affair that is generally well written despite the rather pretentious and aloof material that runs across story, characters and performers. "},{"Title":"SHOOT THE SCREENPLAY WRITERS!!!!!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They've ruined the film that was ably directed and populated by a group of very good British actors. Peter's Friends is so melodramatic, so full of whining and crying and complaining and I'm sorry!  The plot set-up is manipulative and the ending gets too pat.At the start, as Everybody Wants to Rule the World plays on the soundtrack and as important 1980s events are shown on the screen, 10 years are passing for a group of two-bit actors.  But nothing really important has happened to them to equate to the world events showing on screen, so why are they showing them?2 of them have married, and just lost a twin to crib-death; thus the wife cannot have bear to have sex with her husband anymore.  Suffice it to say, by the end of the film, they are having sex. Emma Thompson's character is single & desperately looking for a man that weekend to impregnate her.  Suffice it to say, she gets one. Branagh's & Rudner's characters have a very unhappy marriage, and she is difficult to live with.  Suffice it to say, she leaves Branagh & the film, the marriage is ending. One character is sleeping with a married man.  He cries and runs back home later.  She cries and gets upbraided by her friends. And the poor martyr Peter has, gasp, AIDS.  Everybody cries when he tells them, Peter asks them to help him celebrate life, and then they all act like some cure will heal him.Too much cutting down a person behind their back, then having them overhear, then having the critic cry & apologize. A VERY disappointing effort from a group of actors who can do and have done a LOT better, in such films as Much Ado About Nothing, Sense and Sensibility and others.Peter's Friends is not really worth your time. "},{"Title":"Friendship, great music and delicious food","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter's Friends is directed by Kenneth Branagh. The film stars Stephen Fry, Kenneth, Branagh, Imelda Staunton,Alphonsia Emmanuel,Hugh Laurie,Emma Thompson,Phyllida Law, Tony Slattery and Rita Rudner.A group of university friends come together again after several years apart, when they are invited to a New Year Eve party at the home of Peter(Stephen Fry).Andrew (Kenneth Branagh)brings his actress wife Carol(Rita Rudner),the pair are drifting apart but don't seem to want to acknowledge that fact.Roger and Mary(Hugh Laurie and Imelda Staunton)have married and have suffered the recent tragedy of the death of one of their twins, Mary is now constantly worried about the other one and can never relax because she is convinced something bad will happen him.Funny,sex crazed Sarah(Alphonsia Emmanuel)brings her boyfriend Brian(Tony Slattery). There's also the shy and awkward Maggie (Emma Thompson)who's struggling with her romantic feelings for Peter.Over delicious food the gang realise they never want to lose touch again, especially when Peter reveals some devastating news about himself.It's easy to see why some people refer to this as a British Big Chill but unlike that film this one has some weaknesses. Many of these characters seem very self centred, particularly Andrew and Branagh spoils the pivotal revelation scene near the end with his over the top cringe inducing drunken crying. This should have been a deeply moving scene(it is up until Andrew cries)but Branagh went so over the top that it becomes laughable and it shouldn't be.It has it's moments though and has a fantastic soundtrack. It also always gives me a craving for a roast dinner. An enjoyable film about friendship and love, funny and touching this is one to watch. "},{"Title":"Adults are just children who owe money.....","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seven friends from an acting troupe graduate from Cambridge University in 1982 and go their separate ways. Ten years later, Peter inherits a large estate from his father, and invites the rest of the gang to spend New Year's holiday with him. Many changes have taken place in the lives of all the friends assembled, but Peter has a secret to tell......Luvvie Alert!!!!!!!!!Depending on your age and your appreciation of British TV in the late eighties and early nineties will swerve on your opinion of this film.Basically, if you like A Bit Of Fry And Laurie, Blackadder, Who's Line Is It Anyway, The Tall Guy, and any Sitcom that featured a middle class family, person, or Business,methane this is the movie for you.If you said no to the above, then you mat find this a little bit snobby, and a little bit too smug for its own good. In fact, it should have been called Kenneth's Friends, because the film could almost be a metaphorical fly on the wall documentary about our favourite British actors.But it's comfort food for fans, just to see the actors enjoying themselves and bouncing off one another. After not seeing it for so many years, it's surprising as just to how somber the film is at times.As well as the film subliminally congratulating the stars for their input into the British Arts, it deals with infidelity, morbidity, loss, age, and self realisation, and it deals with them marvellously.The cast, as you'd expect, are wondrous, and the chemistry in the film is perfect. My only qualm with the film is that whilst it deals with life changing issues delicately with three of the characters, the other characters problems seem simply trivial compared to those. So while the loss of a child is treated as you'd expect it to be treated, suicide is joked about early on and cast aside.But all in all, it's a fun love in for all concerned, but it's definitely an acquired taste.I can't wait for the directors cut that has Alan Rickman turn up late, with a silly story and a slight problem. "},{"Title":"Surprising, Poignant & Graceful","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely captivating. Acting so good it looks effortless, thereby very real. Don't care if it has been called a ripoff. It sure entertained me. Would love to see more fine productions like this. BTW, its pleasant blend of life, sex and rock & roll give it just the flavor I've been looking for. Peter is my favorite character, funny, sad, hopeful and stoic all at the same time. He is the physical connection, so very grounded. Andrew is so well-played; his apology scene is one of the highlights of the story. I see him as the mental one. And Maggie, bless her heart, has such ephemeral qualities, her efforts as peacemaker really are touching, soft and unforgettable. She is the emotional and spiritual connection. These are real people with real back stories who react in very real ways. And isn't that what cinema is all about? "},{"Title":"This might have been a nice play","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love a lot of the actors in this film, so it's difficult for me to do an objective review but I'll try. The plot is by no means a new one - old university friends get together 10 years later and talk a lot about their lives and how they have not become the persons they thought they would. More or less. Normally I am fascinated by this theme but somehow the film never really made me feel anything towards the main characters besides indifference. None of the postulated problemswere ever really addressed, but this could be the point of the film, so I won't say it's an entirely negative thing. the fact remains that none of the main characters seem more than 2-dimensional. Generally the film feels more like a play than a film but without the freshness of a live performance. It feels like going to the 700th performance of a play where the actors all know their part really really well and have started to grow bored with it. In short If you want to watch a young Hugh Laurie/Emma Thomson etc. this is definitely a must see. If you want to watch a film about growing up and facing the fact that a lot of your dreams are actually fantasies, watch Third Star, Reallity Bites or maybe Before Sunrise instead. "},{"Title":"If there is a God, he takes a lot of long lunches","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I stumbled across this film while reading about the comedy show A Bit of Fry and Laurie, since it also features the dynamic comedic duo of Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie. The pair's eclectic brand of wit is, however, somewhat subdued in this bittersweet drama from director Kenneth Branagh, which concerns six college friends who reunite a decade later to catch up on old times and pick up the shattered fragments of their middle-aged lives. Sounds terribly depressing, doesn't it? It is at times, but the overriding emotion is one of nostalgia and reassurance, the knowledge that old friends, however estranged, are always there to lend a hand in one's darker hours. First and foremost, 'Peter's Friends (1992)' boasts an excellent, intimate cast, including Emma Thompson, Imelda Staunton and Branagh himself. Stephen Fry seems a bit flustered in the title role, seemingly uncomfortable playing such a sincere, polite character, though there are snippets of his usual trademark flamboyance; Laurie, however, predictably excels in a tough dramatic role.Branagh shoots the film in gracefully-moving long takes, some single shots encompassing five minutes of action or dialogue. While this approach can often seem overly ostentatious, here the use of long-takes is laudably understated. The opening scene is an elaborate flurry of song and movement that runs over four minutes, and follows the main characters through a musical performance and into their change-rooms, while scarcely acknowledging that the scene is a single take. The motives behind the technique differ from those of Hitchcock in 'Rope (1948),' in which the mobile camera voyeuristically shuffled across the room alongside the film's characters. In Allen's 'Everyone Says I Love You (1996),' the camera is basically sat in one place, a silent but nevertheless present participant in each conversation. In Branagh's film, the camera feels less like a participant than an omnipresent observer, surveying each scene coolly and detachedly. This omnipresence is heightened by an often-moving camera, recalling Altman's ever-panning lens in 'Gosford Park (2001)' which more overtly references the Upstairs, Downstairs-like relationship between masters and servants. "}{"Title":"Much of it is excellent, but perhaps they tried too hard to do too much...","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" PETER'S FRIENDS has a lot to like. Some of the performances and vignettes are very good and it's impossible to say that the film isn't touching. At the same time, however, I also found myself thinking that perhaps the film makers tried too hard--putting too many conflicts, too many complicated back stories and, unfortunately, too many clichés to make this a must-see picture. It was a case of all the wonderful parts adding up to an okay whole but not a lot more.The film begins by showing a group of six college chums doing some sort of review show for an audience of not terribly appreciative people. We did not get to see the show--perhaps they were terrible--we just don't know. However, these six friends are all very excited afterwords and they pose for a picture and talk about how they'll all be best friends forever.Now suddenly it's a decade later. The six eternal friends have drifted a bit--all having their own lives and maintaining only incidental contacts. Out of the blue, Peter (Stephen Fry) contacts them all--inviting them to his huge family mansion to celebrate the New Year. All six can make it and two of them invite significant others. Unfortunately, some of the six are incredibly shallow, unlikable and easy to read because they are a tad clichéd--representing more archetypes than believable people. One is a nympho who commits to relationships way too quickly and as a result is lonely and rather pathetic. She brings her latest lover--who seems like a boorish jerk. One has married a shallow Hollywood actress and is desperately unhappy with all his wealth and happiness. His wife is annoying and well,...annoying. One is lonely and a spinster--or at least she will be if she doesn't do something about her life. And, finally, two of them married and their marriage is in trouble following the death of one of their kids. Frankly, the only ones that didn't seem unreal were the grieving couple and I really wish there'd been much more time in the film devoted to them. They were compelling and believable.An additional problem with the film is that all these people had very complicated lives--enough to make a mini-series instead of a full-length film. Because it was all crammed in so tightly and there were almost magical resolutions or at least realizations on this poignant weekend that it all seemed artificial. Now there were gobs of interesting moments--but with so many, many, many such moments you wonder if there are six friends anywhere with that much going on at one time! Too much from start to finish helped sink this British incarnation of THE BIG CHILL to the level of a time-passer. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When this movie was released in 1992 it sounded worthwhile. I was (and remain) a fan of many of the actors, enjoyed Rita Rudner's comedy, and had been impressed with Kenneth Branagh's work to date.But I never got around to seeing it until recently, and now I understand why it received middling to poor reviews on its release.From the first scene following the opening montage, the entire film feels simultaneously flat and strident. None of the characters feels natural. Each actor is playing an archetype, and with no subtlety. The script is cliché-ridden and the actors seem compelled or directed to over-deliver every line. The final scenes are truly painful due to the hackneyed, awkward delivery, and the forced gaiety of the final scene. There were a few enjoyable moments, but the movie never comes together. When it was over I felt relieved, and embarrassed for the participants.The house and grounds the story is set in are gorgeous, though. "},{"Title":"About its most memorable moments","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a Kenneth Branagh fan, I wanted to see this film after reading his filmography. I happened to catch it on noon time tv and thought it was brilliantly executed how it showed snapshots of their lives before they came together at Peter's mansion. The characters were all exaggerated (purposely - it was a comedy, after all) and each had their moments. Three of the best I would pick out (1) Maggie disrobing in front of Peter fill me with your little babies before he tells her he's not in the vagina business; (2) breakfast in the kitchen where they all hear 'bonking noises' and think it's Sarah and Brian but then Sarah comes down - Andrew says That is one mighty long dick; (3) Andrew gets drunk on the new year and apologises hundreds of times in the last few minutes of the movie. Branagh is hilarious! The cast is great in their respective roles and the jokes - whether you get them or not - fly throughout the film. Other than the comedy, Peter's Friends deals with more serious issues, most prominently relationships with the different types shown and implied and life in general - and how to cope with it (ie, Peter's confession at the end). A fun movie if you've nothing to do one afternoon. "},{"Title":"It's partly autobiographical actually","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...If you don't believe me, you can hunt up a 1983 book called Footlights One Hundred Years Of Cambridge Comedy which is the history of the Footlights amateur theatrical society at Cambridge- whose alumni have included since the 1950s most of the auteurs of post-music hall English comedy. Footlights revues since 1960 have included the casts of Beyond The Fringe (Jonathan Miller, Dudley Moore, Peter Cook and Alan Bennett), Monty Python (all of them), The Goodies (Graeme Garden, Bill Oddie and Tim Brooke-Taylor), Alas Smith And Jones, and Douglas Adams (Hitch-Hiker's Guide To The Galaxy).In 1981 the Footlights mounted an Edinburgh Fringe Festival show called The Cellar Tapes, whose cast included...Stephen Fry, Hugh Laurie, Emma Thompson, and Tony Slattery! The Cellar Tapes show won the Fringe's Perrier Award and pretty much guaranteed everyone jobs for life in British TV and film. The scene of them at school doing an amateur theatrical show for the university dons is a reference to this, supposedly. Of the film, despite an interesting concept, some good moments and a talented cast I found this film disjointed, emotionally cold, only rarely witty, and even faintly unbelievable at times --the scene where Thompson breaks down and cries is so reserved and smug it's like she can never really let go- which she never does in anything she's in anyway!It's rather as if they want to thinly satirize themselves- but only thinly, as if they take themselves too seriously to open themselves to self-mockery. For a better take on this concept, I recommend the 1998 film Final Cut starring Jude Law which has the current mob of Britpack actors playing themselves in an improvised film-- often times for laughs.It's amazing how far Branagh's star has fallen since 1992 when he was The Olivier People Actually Liked. I guess some people really do peak early- he did the movie of Henry V (and wrote his autobiography) when he was 26! Since then?....Anyone?...Bueller? "},{"Title":"likeable but predictable","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie you come up with two thoughts 1. Great ensemble, well acted and you can see the joy the actors must have had while making this. 2. Why didn't the screenwriters and director Branagh give the characters a bit more authenticity. Because for someone who sees a lot of movies, there wasn't much left to guess. The changes the characters go through are as predictable as the development of the story. You can see the two weak relationships end and the final scenes are a little bit corny and even moralistic. But overall it's an ok movie to watch. Something for a rainy sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A Footlights reunion that is perhaps a tad incestuous..........","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter's friends have that veneer of Cambridge charm and sophistication that vanishes fairly rapidly unless they are allowed their own way all the time.Peter himself is a little more personable,but the unfortunate chap is suffering from Aids and not long for this world.On inheriting the family home from his father(actually Wrotham Park in Herts,also used in Gosford Park),Peter asks all his Footlights chums for a last get together.But ten years on,they are all carrying a lot of baggage.There is not innately an awful lot wrong with this movie and it says a lot for Kenneth Branagh's strength of character that he went on from directing this safe subject to the rather more challenging Hamlet and Much ado about nothing with splendid success Stephen Fry is the most sympathetic character character in the film ,all the others are fighting mental demons of one sort or the other whilst Peter has the sublime aura of peace that sometimes settles on the tragically doomed. At the start of the movie Peter's friends gather round the piano and singThe way you look tonight very nicely.This scene captures the insular but rather naive and touching mutual love and dependence Cambridge Thesps display throughout their careers. Despite life's vicissitudes,a decade later it has been strong enough to bring them to Peter's house without the knowledge of his fatal illness. Mr Tony Slattery is perhaps moving in rather fast company,but otherwise this is a an ensemble piece of glowing talent.Miss Emma Thompson is particularly fine as an emotionally fragile lonely woman. To some it may seem a little precious and self - obsessed,but then University Am Dram is a little precious and self - obsessed.If you accept that caveat there is a lot to be enjoyed here. "},{"Title":"A stupid, obvious film","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a waste of time and talent!  We are supposed to feel deeply involved with a clutch of actors who are too selfish and petty to feel anything for each other.  In no time, the two outsiders at the snobby little weekend gathering of Peter and his old university friends are driven out, and the remaining coterie can get on with admiring themselves and being alternately belligerent and maudlin with each other.  I thought it was ironic that Branagh's American arch-bitch actress wife, played by Rita Rudner, is the only character in the whole film who actually puts herself out to do something for someone else, when she comforts a distraught Emma Thompson after the latter's rejection by Peter, and gives her a makeover and new hairdo to make her feel better.  It's a silly gesture, but it's the only generous action by anyone, even while Rudner's character throughout is portrayed as a distasteful, brash American clod, not like those wry, witty, humorous Brits. No one in this movie seems able to keep their mouth shut about anything, and we're even treated to a ludicrous moment when the bereaved mother of a SIDS victim sits down at the dinner table and happily announces to the assembly that she and her husband have been shagging. A weekend with these tasteless vulgarians would drive anyone mad with disgust. Apart from the ugly characterisations, the plot is so obvious and telegraphs its intentions so far in advance, there is nothing for an intelligent viewer to look forward to.  Early in the movie, Peter has a sudden attack of weakness while helping his friend to carry in firewood; what can be the matter with him?  Nothing as original as maybe lung cancer from smoking too much - no, naturally, it has to be AIDS, the poverty of imagination on the part of the writers advertising the climax of the movie a good hour before our arrival there.  This is a stupid waste of a good cast, and a worse waste of the viewer's time.  "},{"Title":"A Most Curious Beast.","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Often dismissed (probably fairly) as an attempt to transplant The Big Chill into the English countryside, Peter's Friends is even more striking now for showing some familiar faces looking way younger than we now see them and for deploying co-writer Rita Rudner so far outside her familiar, Emo Phillips-in-drag persona. Peter (Stephen Fry) hosts a new year's reunion of college friends and their partners at the English country house (read mansion) he has just inherited from his father. Nostalgia, crises and comedy ensue. It's as well acted as one would expect from the ensemble cast (oddly, Brannagh, the most distinguished actor among them is most the uneven, possibly distracted by directing duties) but the writing is inconsistent. The pace is too pressured with no time for reflection between constant emotional highs and lows. It's all a bit too frantic and formulaic. Despite all that the film is compelling. The characters are sufficiently well-rounded and likable to keep the viewer interested and Brannagh manages to make England in the dead of Winter look more lovely than bone-chilling. If you're the same age as the cast or up to about ten years younger it's intriguing. Outside of that demographic it's more likely to come across as puzzling or dull. "},{"Title":"a great British film","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love all the actors in this film, and the idea of them all still being friends after so many years was nice but I sometimes thought the acting was weak in parts and the ending was quite anti-climatic. I won't post the ending, but for those who have seen his secret was yes, a huge secret, but I was expecting more about it. Like a follow up or something.Also I think Hugh Laurie didn't have a big enough part, and there was too much focus on some of the minor characters such as the American wife (can't remember her name) and the sex addict's boyfriend.But a great film, with classic British (and Fry) humour, and also a great sound track! "},{"Title":"Auteur-wannabe crap.","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those bad movies that should be watched by film students as an example of how not to do it.There are so many examples of unbridled self-indulgence in this movie. (Viewers may recall an interminable, 'Barry Lyndon'-esque long shot that has as much relevance to the film's content as a bow-tie has to a t-shirt.)But the most absurd is the final shot itself. Branagh delivers what can only be described as the most unconvincing, forced laugh in cinematic history. It was as though he were being overcome with nervous exhaustion in conjunction with sheer panic at the prospect of his peers attending the premiere.Branagh's had some stinkers, but this movie makes 'Dead Again' look like 'Rear Window'. "}{"Title":"Not entirely a comedy, not entirely a melodrama","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It wasn't a bad movie, but with a lesser cast it would have been. It kept flirting with amateurish melodrama and the occasional attempt at broad comedy while still wanting to be a witty comedy, yet somehow the performances kept it together (except for one highly over-acted scene from Branagh). Knowing we were basically watching Kenneth's Friends with various points of similarity to the actors' real lives put an unfortunate air of vanity project about the movie.How ironic that comments here have commented on the extreme Britishness of the writing, when at least one of the two screenwriters was American. Rita Rudner slipped at least one line from her stand-up act into the movie (about not falling in love), and found a way for one of the characters to praise the line too.Those who are in denial about similarities to The Big Chill are just in denial. The comparison was inescapable, and I kept thinking of it as The Brit Chill while I was watching it, before I had read any reviews or IMDb comments. Kevin Costner didn't show up as the dead guy that prompted the reunion in this one either! -) "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just my two cents about this film. It is a great comedy that has everything in it- namely 6 great actors and a funny script. Peter's confession is really the only one that is self-evident even from the start of the movie but Rita Rudner can be forgiven for that. Branagh is fantastic (like always), Laurie doesn't get too much screen time but he functions perfectly as a husband who loves his wife but is having problems dealing with their son's death and the crumbling of their marriage. Thompson was great as Maggie and reminded me of quite a few of my friends. Overall this movie gets 9/10 "},{"Title":"A great movie on human relationships","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen. It is funny, realistic, profound but maybe a little sad. It is the sort of movie you get attached to, and that you can watch a lot more than once. The theme of friendship is exposed in a subtle manner. Characters are depicted realistically and the accent is often humourly stressed on common flaws that can often make people unbearable. However, friendship seems to transcend these...  Above all, the film is not too naive which is a relief if you compare it to other movies which deal with the same subject. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my absolute favourtie movie. Hugh Laurie and Stephen Fry are absolutely fabulous actors in this film. I would recommend it to anyone. For people who enjoyed this movie, another must see is Jeeves and Wooster, the Laurie/Fry tv series. Also, Imelda Staunton's role in this film is very well played. The trailer and description made this film seem like a comedy, and in some parts it is, but it's really a touching story of a bunch of friends going through some hard times in their lives. It is a must see for everyone who likes good movies. "},{"Title":"It's one of the best movies!!!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, this movie rocked!!! I ordered it off line originally just to see Tony Slattery in this movie, but after I watched it for the first time I loved it. I could watch it every day ) I love the song they all sing at the beginning of the movie! Also when Emma goes up to Stephen and says Fill me with your little babies. I give this movie a big 10 and 2 thumbs up ) "},{"Title":"Nice, funny ensemble","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After a 10 year hiatus, summed up with a beautifully edited montage of famous events/people to the tune of Everybody wants to rule the world, a bunch of Brits get together for a weekend reunion - less Big chill and more like the endearing John Sayles Return of the Secaucus 7. Convincing, unpretentious, witty, and I even liked Branagh. True, there are some cliche plot twists but the cast seemed to glide through it all. Fun to watch, definitely not as bad as some grumpy critics make it appear (and I'm a grumpy critic). Maybe too many f--- you's for the kiddies ears.  "},{"Title":"Peter's Friends","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After 10 years of their graduation at Cambridge, a wealthy bachelor invites his old classmate-friends for a New Year's Eve celebration.Accomplished, energetically acted conversation piece; a bawdy, if sometimes broad, variant on The Big Chill with less satirical approach and even more emphasis on sex. Quite patchy as a whole, but just about as entertaining as its predecessor.       "},{"Title":"MATURELY WRITTEN, SUPERBLY CAST, VERY ENTERTAINING","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An English country manor house is the setting for a party Peter (Fry) gives for some chums from college days. It quickly becomes a catharsis, much like that in Four Seasons, for the guests, as well as Peter himself. The TV version is reduced to essentially a single set and plays much like a stage play. Exemplar performances by an extraordinary cast, which includes the director (Branagh) and a co-writer (Rudner). "},{"Title":"Peter's Friends","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was good. I love how it shows past to present. How change can occur w/ friends, and some secrets but still care for each other. Emma Thompson is so funny! Fill me w/ your little baby's Thats what she say to Peter. Emma Thompson is so funny in this film. Hugh Lorie's character is a jingle writer and so is his wife. They had a very tragic death (there young boy) and in turn is destroying there marriage. And we cannot forget Peter. Peter has been lingering threw life parting and having fun. Peter father has passed away and has been left the estate which he cannot afford. So, he wants to have a party with the people he loves the most, his friends. This made me realize how much i miss my friends, and how important they are. And it is worth some of the drama. "},{"Title":"Kenneth's friends","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Branagh made this he was at a high point at his career. The media adored the man and he was seen as a godlike figure. In this light he was even thought of as a good director. After some heavier stuff he must have felt comfortable enough to pick up this lightweight material. Although just over 13 years old this looks incredibly dated. The music is certainly not timeless, but the stiff acting resembles more some Hollywood movie of the 50s then modern acting. Nice to see the actors struggling where to place themselves here (more comedy or drama).The story sets off slowly. In the beginning your initial reaction would even be to leave the theater, but wait after half an hour some skeletons fall out of the closet and some movement sets in. The unhappy overcome their problems; the happy ones throw off their masquerade. It has a satisfying climax (although also dated).I just saw this after the infinitely more powerful Festen. The contrast couldn't be bigger. See this as a staged play and you will still be mildly entertained. "}{"Title":"The Big Chill for Brits","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't mean to say it's a rip-off of TBC, but the comparison is unavoidable, as old chums get together for a weekend at a large manor after not seeing each other in 10 years. That's pretty much where the similarity ends, however, as Peter and his friends are far more interested in dealing with the here and now than in rehashing the past. True, the past does provide some background to the story, but it is not the omnipresent theme as in TBC. It was surprising to see both Hugh Laurie and Stephen Fry play it straight -- the opposite of what you'd expect from these extremely funny men. Tony Slattery of Whose Line Is It Anyway? fame provided much of the comic relief with his bumbling boyfriend shtick. Rita Rudner (who co-wrote the movie) is also funny as Kenneth Branagh's neurotic Hollywood wife.It's a watchable movie but there are few surprises and one can't help but feel that Branagh and Emma Thompson are not even stretching their acting muscles here. Still, I would recommend it as most of the characters are likable and the writing is good. "},{"Title":"Aren't I fascinating?","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dear IMDb, Here is an excerpt of the first draft of my proposed sequel, Who Cares About You And Your Snotty, Self-Possessed Friends Anyway, Peter?Kenneth Brannagh (smiling coyly)Isn't my life just so terribly interesting that the world would line up to see a thinly-veiled fictionalization of it?The World (yawns)Not particularly, no.This movie is the very definition of vanity project by a pretentious actor-director who's canon of work seems meant to bring culture back to mainstream cinema but always does so in a heavy-handed fashion. Kenneth, I am sure you and your real friends are oh-so charming as you sit around your country estate sipping wine and saying clever things, but please don't make the rest of us sit and watch it. "},{"Title":"Nice nice movie","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some friends join together, with their fears, hopes, love and hate. Brannagh's outstanding movie. "},{"Title":"Rubbish, Trash or Debris? This film is definitely one of the three.","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hated this film. And then when I was through hating it, I began to loathe it. My last ounce of strength left over from loathing it was consumed in despising it.This film is so bad. It is coarse. It is stupid. It is coarsely stupid and stupidly coarse.It's beyond bewildering, in fact it is unfathomable as to why Rita Rudner would write such an awful showcase for herself.I've heard some of her standup comedy.Her standup was funny.This film was not. "},{"Title":"Utterly lamentable toss","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As this was broadcast last night I wanted to take in how it was considered here and was saddened to see that it actually has a respectable score.The talent of the cast as individuals is undeniable, the sets, locations and most of the writing well above par, but somehow the whole becomes less that sum of its parts, congealing like some ghastly precursor to The Office. Every second scene had me gripping at the couch arms cringing in shamed embarrassment for the actors involved as they tried to lay credence to their characters situation under Branagh's direction. This is an even more remarkable achievement when you consider that the roles most actors play are vaguely autobiographical. These slices of docu-soap-reality sandwich what appears to be nothing more than music videos for what must be considered by Branagh to be choice cuts from his music library.How the British film industry ever 'recovered' from this bilge is beyond me and I hope we never see it's like again. An utterly hideous, vile, sickening, saccharine pile of steaming luvvie excrement that has now thankfully been relegated to late night viewings accompanied with sign language. "}]