[{"Title":"The last good hacking movie","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"106 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was saddened that this movie had such a low rating.  I've watched it many, many times over the years, and it continues to entertain.  It is, perhaps, the last good hacker film (well, 23 (1998) also comes to mind, but that isn't widely available in English).The math is believable (Janek's lecture makes sense), as is the technology (except for the Hollywood-ish decryption displays -- but that's forgivable). The characters are among the most realistic in any of these movies (with the exception of Joey the lamer in Hackers (1995) -- most accurate character in a hacking movie I've seen yet).  They're each composites of well-known people from the 80s security scene.  The techniques they use are the techniques of the business, especially in that era.Now that computers have become such a big thing, I don't think it would be possible for Hollywood to produce another movie like this.  Anything made now would have to be far more glamorous and unrealistic.What's this movie got, if you don't care about any of that stuff?  It's tremendously funny, cleverly written (every scene works overtime to say and do more than one thing), and beautifully shot and scored.  (The opening scene and transition is wonderful)  The acting is priceless. I've never met someone who didn't love this film.  See it. "},{"Title":"An endlessly watchable movie. 10/10","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"89 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is the one film of the nineties which I can watch again and again without getting bored. That's not to say it's the best, no no no, but there's something about this movie which I just can't get enough of. It's easily the most frequently used tape in my limited video library.Mainly it's the cast; quality names down the length of the list, and each one, from Robert Redford heading the motley crew of good guys (Dan Ackroyd and Sidney Poitier especially good) to Ben Kingsley as a deliciously cool but insecure villain. They're all clearly having such a good time as they're making the movie that you can't help but join them; it's infectious.It's also surprisingly timeless. Seven years have passed since this movie came out, which is a long time in the gadget world in which this film is based, but none of their equipment or techniques (except a brief glimpse of a now outdated version of Windows but that's REALLY nitpicking) seem out of date; it could still be today.And then there's the moments. This is a film based on a whole load of brilliantly memorable moments. When they find out what the mysterious black box actually does, it's truly chilling. All the little tricks of their trade on display are each a delight, from setting off fire alarms to being on the other end of the phone when the fire service is subsequently called. And the ending, in my opinion, is one of the most satisfying, and hilarious, conclusions ever captured on film.In case you hadn't noticed, I love this movie. A great score, a great cast, and a whole lot of fun. Whether you got to these comments because you want to know if this film was worth seeing, or whether a training shoe web-search somehow ended you up here against your will, you really should see this film. It's a hugely entertaining piece of the nineties. And Robert Redford has done nothing better since. "},{"Title":"A hacker classic.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"59 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers is still fun to watch after 12 years and it was a great look at the time in which it was made.  12 years ago, the Cold War just ended and nobody was really sure how things were going to shape up geopolitically.  Sneakers captured that mood perfectly and kept things tense with the soundtrack, locations and set work.It's got the best balance of technical accuracy verses ease of viewing that I've ever seen on film.  Not too many cartoon-like computer interfaces but no staring for minutes at a time at command line interfaces.  Sneakers also gets points for being in the Bay Area and traveling among places that I visit every day (Hills Brother Coffee Building for the 'box drop' and the Dumbarton Bridge - for starters).  Actors have fun with their roles although it's obvious that Sidney Poitier, Robert Redford, Ben Kingsley and James Earl Jones are not delivering their A-Game.  It doesn't matter, it doesn't make it any less fun to watch.  I like Phil Alden Robinson's camera movements; don't forget to look for the long, low slide across the Scrabble pieces right in a pivotal moment of the plot.The movie still retains some relevance today.  Ben Kingsley offers that gem  world war. And it's not about who's got the most bullets. It's about who controls the information. What we see and hear, how we work, what we think... it's all about the information! gains some credibility especially in the face of the post-9/11 news reporting on CNN, MSNBC and Fox News.  Trash-diving is still a viable option to gain information on your opponent and social engineering will always work to help you gain some information.Sneakers is still one of the best mainstream treatments on the subject of hacking.  Watch, learn, enjoy. "},{"Title":"Interesting hacker movie for its time","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Given that this came out in 1992, the level of technology in it is amazing. I watched this twice, the latest in 1999, and still am amazed at some of the things they can do with computers. Of course, some hacking techniques are commonplace and outdated now, but it is still engrossing to see these acts in action.Watching it a second time gives you a sense of perspective though. Back then, to think that a chip that can control the world was preposterous, but now, with almost everything microchip-controlled, and the ubiquity of the Internet, that thought is not too farfetched.Talking in movie terms, this ranks as one of the better ones that center around computers. There is some solid acting, and though there are sub-plots within the main plot, they do not grow so much so as to overwhelm the main storyline, which is basically a group of men hired to find the chip-that-controls-everything. "},{"Title":"How do I join?","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I resent another IMDB user's assumption that anyone who likes this movie has got to have an IQ of 2.  What exactly does that mean?  I am an intelligent moviegoer and I loved Sneakers.  And I know others who are much more intelligent than me and some who I would even guess are certifiable geniuses who also loved this movie.This movie is captivating.  As other people have written, Sneakers can be watched over and over again.  Its a suspense thriller that doesn't try to blind you with so many special effects that you lose sight of the fact that less than five minutes was used to create and edit the script (ie. Mission Impossible 2).This is a fun movie for anybody who is a team player.  Its very entertaining to see how each member of Redford's team brings an essential element to the task at hand.  There are a couple of scenes where some things are far fetched, but nothing outside the rhelm of possibility.  There is nothing that makes you groan in disgust, as if say you were watching any scene in a John Woo film.  For a movie like this to work it has to be believable, and this is believable.Sneakers is original in its ideas and the characters are very likable. Even the villian possesses qualities that make you like him.  Each character is developed enough so that by the end of the movie you want to be a part of the team.  Its just that much fun to watch.  10/10 "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are a bunch of movies which might not be GREAT, but really good, and you can watch them over and over again. Rainy day movies. Sneakers is without a doubt such a movie.It is a lightweight caper which gets into a higher division thanks to the acting Redford is always good, as is Strathairn, Kingsley and McDonnell. The other actors do a really good job as well, but these four stand out in my opinion.There are twists and turns in the script, Great San Francisco locations and lots of underplayed humor in this film, all contributing to that the movie can be seen several times.Take it for what it is, and you'll have a really good time in front of the TV. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully scored, thinking ahead of its time . . .","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite its relative obscurity, Sneakers is quickly becoming a cult favorite of the internet generation.  It's a perfect blend of romance, tech and adventure that highlights the increasing importance of information.  The always beautiful Mary McDonnell as Liz doesn't hurt, either.  The soundtrack is arguably the best of James Horner's film scores pre-dating Braveheart, with an ethereal jazzy feel that sets the mood from the opening credits.For an early nineties movie, Sneakers was remarkably forward thinking in its script and plot.  Many of its themes have only become more relevant with the flowering of the data network.  All in all a great film for those of you who enjoy flicks like Hudson Hawk or Mission Impossible.  "},{"Title":"Excellent actors, awesome score, stunning visually","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    Sneakers is, and has been, one of my favorite movies for years.  I saw it on Showtime, and I had to buy it on VHS.   Soon after the release of DVD, I bought the DVD version and I watch it ALL the time.  This movie is awesome in all aspects.  I love the cast, and I love the music.  I have the soundtrack on CD, and Branford Marsalis on sax adds so much to the movie and its entire mood.  As for the story...funny, exciting, thought- provoking.  I made a comment about the visuals, I think they were exciting as well.  The camera shots and all, hard to explain, but I love it.  I especially love the shots at the start of the movie in the snow, that scene as a whole, camera angles, music, lighting---awesome.  What I don't get about the movie is this---how come Redford has to ask his off and on girlfriend what encryption is?  I thought he was a hacker!?   There are a few other times in the movie where he and his crew ask questions about computer subjects it seems they should know everything about.  I never understood that.  Well, that's that....I think the movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Light-Hearted Caper Film","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was drawn to Sneakers because I heard the story was of my favorite genre, a spy thriller. However, I found this movie to be more along the lines of a caper film.Robert Redford is the leader of a team of experts who break into security systems so that institutions (such as banks) can see how good their system is. The team is made up of a diverse group an ex-Cia agent (Portier) and three computer whizzes (Ackroyd, Phoenix, and the blind Stratharn). The group has great chemistry and often this leads to some fun humor.Redford and his team are hired by the government (so they believe) to retrieve a black box that can decode encrypted computer firewalls. After retrieving the black box, the team finds themselves in dire trouble. I was hoping the film would be more intense, yet Sneakers incorporates a lot of humor. It is a fun film and is enjoyable to watch, but if you are looking for a true spy film, then you may want to pass.This film more closely resembles recent movies like Ocean's 11 or The Italian Job, popcorn films that have some laughs, some danger, and some suspense.Redford is really great in this movie as is Straitarn; Mary McDonnell is also very good. Phoenix holds his own. Although far from their best roles, Poitier, James Earl Jones, Ackroyd, and Ben Kingsley are decent.Overall an enjoyable film which incorporates computer hacking before it was mainstream. Rating 7 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A great caper movie","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorites.  Without repeating any of the other observations that have been made already, I'd just like to point out the movie's penchant for mixing high-tech gloss and low-tech grunge.  Bishop's office is filled with computer equipment, but it looks like a frat house.  The glass-enclosed conference room sticks out like a sore thumb in the middle of the exposed brick and party favors hanging from the ceiling.  The van that looks like it needs a jump every morning is filled with a mix of electronic surveillance equipment, candy wrappers and Playboy magazines in braille.  Bishop's car looks like it was once a classic, but now needs a paint job.  And, most obvious of all, when Bishop is breaking into Cosmo's office from the ceiling air vent, he lowers a piece of sensing equipment through the vent using, of all things, a Ronco Pocket Fisherman.  The incongruous nature of the sets and props gives the film an extra layer of charm.Also, I don't know if anyone else has noticed this, but does Cosmo seem to be a latent homosexual?  Among other hints, at the end, he begs with Bishop to stay with him, and seems near tears. "}{"Title":"Flawed but Entertaining","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1969, the idealistic hackers Martin Brice and Cosmos use the computer to transfer funds from conservative politicians to liberal causes. Martin goes out of the building to buy a pizza for them and Cosmos is arrested. Twenty years later, Cosmos has died in prison and Brice use the alias Martin Marty Bishop (Robert Redford) to run a company that tests security systems with the specialists Donald Crease (Sidney Poitier) that is a former CIA agent; the blind Irwin 'Whistler' Emery (David Strathairn) that is specialist in sounds; Darren 'Mother' Roskow (Dan Aykroyd) that is an awesome technician that believes in theories of conspiracy; and Carl Arbogast (River Phoenix) that is a young genius. One day, the NSA agents Dick Gordon (Timothy Busfield) and Buddy Wallace (Eddie Jones ) visit Martin's office and he is blackmailed by them that know his real identity. They want that Martin and his crew retrieve a black box from Dr. Gunter Janek (Donal Logue), a mathematician that developed a cryptography system for the Russian government in a project called Setec Astronomy. In return, they would clear his name and give US$ 175,000.00 for Martin and his team. Martin asks his former girlfriend Liz (Mary McDonnell) to help him and soon they recover the box and deliver to the NSA agents. Soon Martin learns that he was lured by Dick and Wallace, and Janek that was murdered was working indeed for the National Security Agency in a system capable to break any computer encryption. Further, he has been incriminated in the murder of Janek and two other men and his only way out of the trap he is involved is recovering once again the black box. Sneakers is an entertaining thriller with a promising beginning, good development and flawed and deceptive conclusion. Robert Redford and Ben Kingsley are too old for the role of two men that twenty years before were college students. It would be more logical to cast two actors of thirty and something years old. But they are great actors and the viewer may disregard this detail along the action and suspense of the movie. But the conclusion with the dangerous Wallace, Dick and Cosmos alive and free would be a constant threat for Martin and his team. NSA Director Bernard Abbott offers whatever they want and none of them request protection from Cosmos and the rogue agents. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil)  Quebra de Sigilo (Break of Secrecy) "},{"Title":"Best of the genre...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film begins with Martin (Redford) and his friend Cosmo (Kingsley) in college, hacking into various agencies' computer systems and diverting money to other accounts. Martin narrowly escapes a raid on their apartment and flees to Canada, while Cosmo goes down. Decades later, Martin (under an assumed name) leads a team of private investigators and is hired by government agents to steal a code-breaking box from a Bay Area scientist. But the Feds aren't real... and the box finds its way into the hands of none other than Martin's former partner in crime.All in all, it works because the math and the technology are believable, especially for the early '90s. The characters are all terrific and among the most realistic seen in high-tech thrillers of this nature, while also adding a certain light-hearted feel at times. The eerie feel is also realistic, with the Cold War having just ended and great uncertainly lingering as to the world political landscape. A good soundtrack, well-chosen locations and great writing make this film solid and very much underrated. "},{"Title":"From the guy who did Field of Dreams comes a much better movie about code breaking and stuff.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Starring Robert Redford, Dan Akroyd, Ben Kingsley, Sidney Poitier, River Phoenix, Mary McDonnell, David Straithairn This movie is just so good, it's almost hard to sum up the greatness in a review. At one point this was basically my favorite movie, but now it's just one of my favorite movies. It still gets a place on the mantel.The movie starts with a young Marty and Cosmo back in 1969 doing some early computer hacking. They're busily transferring money from those who have it to those who need it. Example, taking from Richard Nixon's personal checking account and giving it to the Association of Legalized Marijuana. Truly, Robin Hoods. But then Marty gets hungry, so he heads out for pizza. When he gets to the van and tries to start it, flashing lights appear outside, head upstairs, and haul Cosmo away. Marty runs, and then it fades to present day, which when the movie was made, was 1992.Martin Brice (Redford) now goes by the alias of Martin Bishop. He has an interesting job. As a bank teller says, So you get hired to break into other people's places, to make sure nobody can break into their places? In the team is a blind sound expert who goes by the name of Whistler (Straithairn), an electronics expert who goes by Mother (Akroyd), a teenager named Carl (Phoenix), and an ex-CIA agent, Donald Crease (Poitier).One day they get some clients who walk in with a long list of information on all the people in Bishop's team. The only person they don't have info on is Martin Bishop. They then identify themselves as NSA, tell Bishop that they know his real identity, and ask to meet with them again for a special assignment. That assignment is to steal a little black box from some mathematician. Bishop's crew doesn't know what the box does, so they accept the offer. As part of the deal it pays $175,000, and they'll clear Bishop's record.Once they have the box, they fiddle around with it a little and discover that it is actually a sophisticated code breaker that can hack American encryption systems. But when they are getting ready to give it to the NSA guys, they find out that Dr. Janek, the mathematician, has been murdered. At this point it's kind of hard to not wonder how important the box is, but unfortunately, the box is already in the NSA's hands before they find out about Janek, and so they drive away with no money and no little black box.It's around this point where the plot of the movie really takes off and it gets very interesting. I'm not going to say much else. You'll just have to watch it for yourself and see.Bottom Line 4 out of 4 (own this movie) "},{"Title":"Vintage hacker movie that excels on all fronts","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Part of the magic of Sneakers is that it was dealing with the idea of a rogue NSA and an all-too-powerful corporation twenty years before we even thought of it. Another part of what makes this movie seem fresh is that it feels very much of its time and place (ah, when government men walked around in trenchcoats) but avoids most of what made the '90s so obnoxious. Indeed, magical.But even as the hacker hijinks of the film's opening give way to the conspiracy thriller at its core, there's always a morsel of levity to keep things breezy. This movie's a whole lot of fun, with a great group of characters and a killer cast all around. It's a terrific ensemble, each with their own distinct personality (and Strathairn having the most fun). They all gel perfectly. The dialog is smart and snappy, and some remarkable direction really ratchets the tension in the third act.Great entertainment. That smile was plastered on my face the entire time.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"  We were going to change the world Marty, what happened?  ","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a must film for fans who want to know if the world's secrets can be acquired through theft. The answer may surprise many including Officials who believe our Government is secure. This film is entitled  Sneakers  and is about a group of Cyber-specialists who advertise themselves as computer security experts. Their job is to test the encryption systems of various electronic based companies. In their youth, two college students (Jo Marr and Gary Hershberger) seeking to right the world's financial problems, break into a University system as a prank. Unfortunately they are detected and Marr is sent to prison. It is years later and Bishop (Robert Redford) is a legitimate security consultant who is kidnapped because he has stolen a 'Black Box' which can hack into the most secure and sensitive centers of the world. His team consists of other specialists like Donald Crease (Sidney Poitier) Erwin Emory (David Strathairn) 'Mother' (Dan Aykroyd) and River Phoenix as Carl. They have decided to take on the Government agents who are holding Bishop. The problem multiples when the C.I.A. takes an active interest as does Bishop's former friend who seeks his own bit of revenge. The movie is interesting and lively as the level of danger grows until everyone is in danger including the real U.S. government. Easily recommended as a wonderful, but serious film. **** "},{"Title":"Has dated well but a very 'light' thriller.","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this was a GREAT film when it released and saw it a few times - I guess I was 16 or so at the time.Seeing it again it is a by-the-numbers caper film. James Horner's music sets the mood often over-the-top intense or super light boy's adventure... There is a lot of 'humor' which is very light and usually very dry. I think this film, despite it's being a tricksy one is best for oldies who can keep up.The story is a simple double caper setup - steal the goods and then steal them again except harder. But anyone watching will notice that for a bunch of crack security experts the characters behave a little stupidly...Plot holes, occasional sub-par dialogue, out-of-place music and characters that are a bit dull this remains a solid, undemanding thriller. "},{"Title":"It is amazing what can happen when you listen....","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *******MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS******* Robert Redford, Dan Akyroyd, Sidney Poitier, River Pheonix and Timothy Busfield lead a VERY odd cast of characters that work together in the most fabulous way.  What would you do with a computer program that could hack any code????  Crash a plane or make yourself rich? Redford and company have to steal a code breaker from the bad guys and give it to the good guys.  But the question is WHO are the good guys?  This film is full of surprises, twists and turns.  Don't miss even a few seconds of this movie.  This is one you can watch over and over without catching on to everything. "},{"Title":"Smart, funny, & engaging--SPOILER WARNING--","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This caper film turns the buddy-movie ethos on its head.The movie begins with a flashback to college comrades who, as proto-hackers, have learned how to use early computers to perpetrate radical tricks on the establishment.  There is a betrayal, and one of the buddies vanishes, apparently to die in prison.Flash forward thirty years to Martin Bishop (Robert Redford), the surviving buddy, who now hacks company systems as a computer security consultant.  Bishop has surrounded himself with a motley crew ranging from an ex-CIA agent (Sidney Poitier), and an overweight conspiracy nut (Dan Aykroyd), to a blind phone hacker (David Straithairn) based on the real-life proto-hacker Joe Engressia.  Since Bishop has been in hiding from the feds for thirty years, it's now possible for the government to force him and his team into its toughest caper...or sneak.This ensemble cast fits together perfectly, complimented by a letter-perfect performance by Mary McDonald as a control freak who is nonetheless drawn to the out-of-control Bishop.  Ben Kingsley also surprises as the outwardly placid villain who is still carrying a seed of rage against his old buddy Bishop.  The plot is well-constructed;  the dialogue is outstanding.  James Horner's musical score becomes a virtual character.Watch for a well done cameo by James Earl Jones. "},{"Title":"great show","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is deeper than would be expected from a spy-type movie; it seems cute and lighthearted. Hardly anybody gets killed, the characters are even endearing, and it seems to be nearly a spoof. The underlying theme, however, is one of balance--the establishment has too much and others have not enough, an injustice Marty, and especially Cosmo, intend to right. The writers work that theme into the dialogue by balancing sentences and statements; I cannot kill my friend. Kill my friend. The loss of trust is hinted at in lighting tricks, as well--hiding faces in shadow at specific moments.The writers deserve a HUGE pat on the back for their realistic and sympathetic portrayal of a blind man. I would love to nominate David Strathearn as an honorary blind man. He is shown reading Braille, although Braille literacy is quite low, unfortunately. That funny device with the dancing dots seen during the scenes where he is using a computer is a Braille display--still in use today by those who prefer Braille to an audible screen reader, which may not have been around in '92, either. While he is never seen using a cane or a dog, the circumstances in which he is seen walking would not lend themselves to cane travel. In their office, he would get around just fine without a cane; he knows where everything is. In Liz's apartment, it's just too cluttered with all their equipment to make a cane realistic. Instead, he walks slowly, touches walls etc. and gets around just fine. His blindness, is, indeed, even an asset to the team early on--when he realizes the black box is in the fake answering machine case. The sighted people see the answering machine and trust what their vision tells them without question; it takes the blind guy to go beyond the picture and use his other senses to figure out the truth. "},{"Title":"A Classic Hacker Movie","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like this movie as it is about people getting into places where they are not supposed to. It begins with two friends breaking into secure computer systems and transferring funds to other organisations, but they are found out one, Cosmo (Ben Kingsley) is arrested and the other, Martin Bishop (Robert Redford) escapes. The movie then moves into the present to where Bishop has become a man who breaks into corporations to test their security system.The movie focuses on a security team who are blackmailed into stealing a black box which turns out to be a code breaker. The team consists of Donald Crease (Sidney Poitier) who is an ex-CIA agent, Mother (Dan Akroyd) who seems to love his conspiracy theories, Whistler (David Strathairn), a blind computer programmer, Carl Arborgast (River Pheonix), a kid who is brilliant at hacking, and Liz (Mary McDonald) who is not really part of the team, and doesn't really want to be a part of the team, but Bishop was able to charm her into helping them out.I am not at all familiar with Robert Redford so this is the first movie that I have seen that he is in. Still, I think he is a reasonably good actor and Bishop was reasonably good character. Bishop is not unique though because he is seen as an always will win character. Cosmo constantly refers to how Bishop always wins and really this is what the conflict is based about. It is not essentially a save the world flick, but the continuation of a quarrel between two friends.Further more, there seems to be discussion between Bishop and Cosmo about changing the world. When they were young, they were idealistic and believed they could do anything. Now that they are older, Bishop sees that you can't change anything, while Cosmo still believes he can. It also shows how lonely Cosmo really is in the position he has come to. He is powerful and he has money, but he is alone. It is not that he has a code breaker and can hack any computer in America, rather it is that he wants his friend with him.I thought all of the characters came out well, especially in the final scene where their quirky personalities really had a bit of a play with the government. The movie is fun and I enjoyed it. "}{"Title":"possibly the best tech-cyber-hacker-espionage movie","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sneakers has aged really well. Made in 1992 soon after the end of the Cold War, it offers a sensible, grown up, tense, accurate and not-improbable plot about a group of security consultants who get caught up in a mind-twisting entrapment conspiracy. They are hired to steal a 'black box' a cryptography mathematical formula hardwired into chip that makes it a cyber code-breaker. Obviously this is worth a lot to various governments and organisations and they are hunted by many, and don't know who to trust. Fun, tongue in cheek performances from Robert Redford, Sidney Poitier, David Strathairn, Dan Aykroyd, River Phoenix, Ben Kingsley, Mary McDonnell and James Earl Jones - quite a stellar ensemble cast - are entertaining and whilst not worthy of high acclaim and showers of awards, they are to the point and ideal. The success and overall appeal of this film is the story, the believability and it's lighthearted take on a serious matter. There is action, fun, technology and gadgets used in inventive and intriguing ways, and there's lots of humour. It's the kind of film you can watch again and again, and I have, and I still feel that I don't know it all. The plot is complex and it was quite a few viewings before I had a handle on it as the film doesn't spoon feed the viewer and lots of questions are deliberately left unanswered to add to suspense. The characters are funny, almost anonymous, they aren't multi-dimensional deep with convoluted back stories and tales to tell, but they are all clearly drawn and a little caricatured. There's some great one-liners, some politics and idealism and also loyalty, friendship and love. It's got everything, but without resorting to gratuitous language or violence or obscenity to get the point across, which is a breath of fresh air. It uses intelligence and intrigue, with adult characters (these films are usually college age and is simply a fantastic piece of cinema. I recommend anyone sees it, and it's one that really does stand up to repeated watching, and you'd never know it was over twenty years old as it's still relevant and pertinent today as ultimate codebreakers for hackers are still the holy grail of governments, mega-corporations, organised crime, terrorists, conspiracists and freedom fighters the world over. "},{"Title":"Good light thriller","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1969 Marty Brice and his Friend Cosmo use their university computer to access various organisations bank accounts and give some of their money away; they thought they couldn't be traced but they were wrong; while Marty was out getting pizza Cosmo was arrested and sent to prison. In 1992 Marty is now known as Martin Bishop and he runs a security firm; they get hired by organisations to break in to test their systems. Everything is going fine until one day he is approached by two men claiming to be from the NSA; they want him to acquire a 'black box' from a mathematician whose speciality is cryptography. At first he declines saying he doesn't work for the government but when it becomes apparent that they know who he really is he has no choice as he is still wanted for his little prank all those years ago. They manage to get the box without too much difficulty; that is only the start of their problems though; they discover that is contains a chip that will enable them to bypass any encryption system; it is the sort of device that people and governments would kill for. Knowing this they are quite keen to pass it on to the NSA and forget all about it but once they hand it over it becomes apparent that the people who hired them weren't NSA and now they want to get rid of Martin. If he and his team want to live and not go to gaol they will have to find where the box is now and steal it for a second time... this time it will be much more dangerous though!This is a good light hearted thriller; the story has enough twists and turns without getting overly complex and there are sufficient tense moments as well as a decent number of laughs. The gadget itself is pure science fiction of course but that doesn't matter; it is just something they must get there hands on... twice. The twists aren't the most unexpected; I doubt many people will be surprised when it turns out the people who hired Martin weren't really from the NSA nor will it surprise many people to discover who is behind it all. There is a solid cast led by Robert Redford and featuring the likes of Sidney Poitier, River Phoenix, Dan Aykroyd and Ben Kingsley. Redford is good as Martin and Aykroyd provides most of the laughs as the conspiracy nut known as 'Mother'. This might not by the hardest hitting of thrillers but it is great if you want a good story to pass the time. "},{"Title":"Spy light","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Featuring a quite talented cast, this entertains and keeps you interested throughout. The plot is fairly easy to follow. The acting is good for all the parts(in spite of Kingsley's inexplicable and seemingly random occasional change of accent) and the characters are good(Aykroyd amuses with his portrayal of a conspiracy nut, though he's never over the top). The main characters make an effective team, and each member contributes, just about equally, too. The editing and cinematography don't go anywhere you don't expect them to, but they don't really need to. The comedy is never forced, just clever and well-delivered. The pacing is great, the movie neither stands still nor rushes through. It's a fun ride through the entire thing, not to be taken too seriously(and it never claims to be more than that). Yes, the political agenda is impossible to miss(and the very end is almost insulting), but that is not surprising, given Redford's involvement. The film works well as a light spy film(without becoming farcical), delivering, as the title suggests, sneaking, as well as conspiracies. As my fiancée pointed out while we watched it, fans of J.J. Abrams' hit series Alias will appreciate the elaborate planning and execution of the sneaks(though it is not as stylized), and there is some gadgetry. Enjoyable from start to finish. I recommend this to any fan of spy flicks(though I'm not sure people expecting action or mystery in this will find themselves satisfied... and as a thriller, it's light at best). 7/10 "},{"Title":"All-star cast, but so-so script and direction","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" All-star cast, but so-so script and direction.Plot sounded interesting enough - civilians get hired by the NSA to hack the research of a potential Russian scientist. However, almost from the start it lacks focus. Too many silly scenes and dialogue.Throw in a plot that isn't entirely watertight, or plausible, and things go off course pretty quickly. Direction is far from solid, too. Things don't always make sense, or follow properly.It has its moments though. The game of high-stakes espionage was interesting at times.All-star cast mostly give solid performances. However, Ben Kingsley is badly miscast as the bad guy. The role seemed so beneath him, especially as he gets to be a stereotypical Bond-type villain, and has to put on a fake, barely believable, New York accent. "},{"Title":"Fun, engaging flick","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mostly overlooked and underrated this is a fun and engaging movie about a group of free-lance computer crackers, hackers, conspiracy theorist and others with geek/spy cred from diverse backgrounds, all with secrets and pasts of their own. The fun that ensues when they become ensnared in something much bigger than they opted for is too good to miss.My only slight quibble is that the move borrows one gag wholesale (right down to the geese party) from the Rock Hudson movie Blindfold without referencing it in any way. One of the characters could have mentioned that movie at an appropriate point. But don't let that detract from your enjoyment. Too much good fun to miss. "},{"Title":"This movie is pure top-notch entertainment!","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Never will you see such a complex movie as much fun as this one. I've read other comments which have said that they aren't really sure why this movie is so contagiously enthralling, and I can't figure it out either.  Maybe its because that rarely is such a stellar cast brought together where the chemistry is almost flawless.  Or maybe its because the movie succeeds in having each character come into their own while they work perfectly together as a team.  Whatever the reason, this movie is filled with great performances, many classic lines and performances, and a good mix of laughs and suspense to keep you interested the entire way through.I wil have a website launching soon at www.favoritefilm.com where people can write about anything and everything to do with their favorite films, and this movie is already, rather high on the list. "},{"Title":"Favorite movie, along with American Beauty","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great acting, great cast, great effects, great plot.  This movie has it all...suspense, twists, and a little action.  Even a small bit of romance. I've watched the movie a zillion times, every time picking something new out of it.  Lately I've found a few mistakes in it, the latest being a scene where a headlight burns out in one camera angle scene and not in another... but that's another story.  If you like adventure movies, this one's for you! "},{"Title":"Sneakers My favorite movie!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers is a fantastic movie!  Almost perfectly cast--River Phoenix as a hacker is tough to accept, although he's fun in the role.  The direction, cinematography, and music are excellent-- it doesn't get much better than these great angles, stylistic cuts, and on-the-edge-of-your-seat jazz (believe it or not!).  The script is hilarious, the drama real.  And as for the plausibility, I don't know what the previous reviewer is talking about.  I'm a Caltech undergrad, so I have a better feel for Large Number Theory and hacking than the average person, and I have to say, it's about a thousand times more possible than anything technical that Hollywood's churned out since.  Okay, so even an applied mathematician being able to build such a chip all by his lonesome is pretty iffy; and some of the gadgetry is absurd, like the movement sensors that can be fooled by raising the temp to 98.6 F.  And the character of Cosmo the still-radical anti-capitalist is a little off the beaten path. But these details should and can easily be ignored.  As they say, sit back and enjoy the hack. Better performances of *real* hackers personalities you won't find outside of the X-Files. "},{"Title":"one of those movies that you never expect","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1992, when Sneakers came out, the Internet was just getting off the ground. What they portray in this movie seems more like what one would expect to find in a 21st century movie. Robert Redford and Sidney Poitier play hackers, with an entire syndicate made up of Dan Aykroyd, David Strathairn and River Phoenix. Following a few strange incidents, the whole group finds itself involved in a vast, bizarre scheme. The movie isn't totally easy to follow, but the occasional comedic bits make up for that (namely the Scrabble scene, the voice recording, and the end). Not any kind of masterpiece, but worth watching nonetheless, what with its mixture of suspense and goofiness. "},{"Title":"This is what the Mission Impossible movie could have been.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I immediately thought of the classic Mission Impossible television show. I thought it was made with such similar characters and plotting, that it was meant to gauge public interest in a re-make of that series. Redford as Phelps and Poitier as Barney? It only lacked Schwarzenegger as Willy the strongman, and perhaps Martin Short as Rollin the disguise artist or even Meg Ryan as Cinnamon the major babe. In fact, if you read the book The Complete Mission Impossible Dossier, several scripts were actually submitted to Paramount for an Impossible revival, remarkably (or even suspiciously) close to the plot of this movie, with the IMF team free-lancing their services. Hiring Ben Kingsley as the villain was the casting director's stroke of pure genius. Dan Ackroyd as the blind driver of the surveillance van? Superb comic relief! "}{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers is an entertaining, suspense filled film with an excellent cast. It has a clever blend of action, comedy and suspense. Robert Redford and the rest of the cast all perform great. Definitely one to watch. "},{"Title":"thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! With terrific performances all around, so will you. Great action and suspense, as well as great writing, will keep you hooked. One of Mr. Redford's finest films, and a terrific plot. Anyone who is interested in computers will get a kick out of it, and watching them go through the motions is a pleasure.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"More high praise for a great film.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Other comments have already said it all. This film is superb and extremely forward-thinking... today, eight years later, all of the technology, themes, and allusions still make sense. This is Lawrence Lasker's last and greatest film as writer. For those of you who don't know, he wrote WarGames and Project X, two other great techno-thrillers. But neither of those Cold War films are relevant today, while SNEAKERS still is.Watch this movie again in the new millennium. You'll be amazed. "},{"Title":"Terrific Film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers is a film rarity a film that has something for everyone. The film has action, comedy, suspense, thrills all rolled into one terrific package. Robert Redford does a good job here and so does the rest of this very good cast. I reccomend this movie very highly. "},{"Title":"Light but striking","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite its convincing (and occasionally frightening) espionagey twists it still contrives to be a fairly stock thriller. If you've seen Mission Impossible or, of course, Spy Game you've seen much of this film.What really makes this it is the extraordinary, first class cast. Robert Redford almost makes it look too easy. That's because he's alongside the likes of Sidney Poitier, Dan Ackroyd and David Strathairn (he of Good Night And Good Luck almost-Oscar fame) all doing stalwart, professional Hollywood duty. This means entertaining. They're serious, dramatic and glibly comic when it is meant to be funny.The result is a slick and entertaining movie, despite its following the thriller rails. Well made popcorn accompaniment. 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's more than a hacker movie","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw Sneakers I didn't get it. I didn't like it at all.But after the second viewing I loved it and still do. Much if made of Sneakers being a hacker movie, and it is central, but what is also central are the consequences of the fall of the Soviet Union and the affect it has on US-Russian relationships, more so relevant now.Another key theme of Sneakers is that the characters rely on their thinking skills to solve a problem, e.g. when one of the team work out where Martin (Robert Redford) was kidnapped thanks to him recalling the sounds when he was in the car boot. Also then they worked out where the box was.Interesting and historically, Sneakers is one of the few movies to refer to the Commonwealth of Independent States, which it's website reassures me still exists amidst all the Eastern European drama since the fall of the Soviet Union. This is in the scene where the Russian diplomat shows his business card and you see Commonwealth of Independent States.The team chemistry was appealing and a sequel would be fantastic, all these years later.James Horner's composition is also wonderful. "},{"Title":"After 23 years, it still holds up.","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some of the technology may have changed, but this is still one of the most accurate hacker movies I've ever seen. There are some movies that I go back to watch repeatedly, and this is one of them.The writing is very well done. The movie rightfully illustrates the still huge vulnerabilities of social engineering. The ersatz NSA character's line about how his agency is not chartered for domestic surveillance...oh, the irony!The cast is excellent, and the soundtrack is original and enhances the moods of the scenes.Direction and editing are well-done too. Hence my 10-star rating. "},{"Title":"legendary actors in light caper movie","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1969, Marty Brice and Cosmo hack into some Republican bank accounts. Cosmo gets arrested and Marty goes on the run. In present day, Marty (Robert Redford) has a new name in Bishop. His crew ex-CIA Donald Crease (Sidney Poitier), blind Irwin 'Whistler' Emery (David Strathairn), conspiracy nut Darren 'Mother' Roskow (Dan Aykroyd) and young hacker Carl Arbogast (River Phoenix) test security systems. The NSA hires them to steal a black box in exchange for clearing their records. They discover the box is a master decryption device and the NSA men are fake. Cosmo (Ben Kingsley) returns into Marty's life with a truly villainous plan for the box.Redford and Poitier are two veterans doing a lighter movie. It throws me for a loop. The feel is light fun. It probably needs a real comic to bring out some of the joking around. The Mother role could be played for more ridiculous fun. The twist is fine and the final caper is good. Since it's going for the comedic, it could have been wackier. "},{"Title":"entertaining, a bit silly, great acting","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film several times, and it always entertains. It's got a well-placed plot, and the acting is tremendous. I look back at the supporting cast, and it really is top-notch. There isn't a weak link in the bunch Redford, Poitier, River Phoenix, David Strathairn, Mary McConnell - even Akroyd is good here. (And that list doesn't even include the magnificent Ben Kingsley!) I saw the film when it first came out as a grad student in math, and yes, the math in the film is absurd. The idea of a key that could break any possible code is utterly absurd. But hey, it's fiction, so it's not worth complaining too much about it. I think it's reasonable for fiction to be occasionally unrealistic - esp. any thing that wants to make for interesting science fiction.From a mathematician's perspective, Sneakers is a breath of fresh in this respect it doesn't depict mathematicians as crazy. "},{"Title":"Excellent Caper Movie","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Movies that try to do a lot fail more often than they succeed. There's no doubt that Sneakers attempts to pull off a lot of things during its 126 minute running time. Just look at the genres its listed under on its page (and believe me, the film spends plenty of time in each of them). But while there are many films that suffer from being overly ambitious, Sneakers is not one of them. It's hard to imagine how this film could be any more perfect.Martin Bishop (Robert Redford) runs a business in testing security systems with an eccentric group of characters. However, they are hired by the NSA to steal a mysterious box from a scientist. Of course, not everything is what it seems.To say more would be a crime. Sneakers has enough twists and turns to keep the viewer guessing where it will go next. This is achieved by both Phil Alden Robinson's excellent direction, and a smart script where the heroes and villains are equally intelligent.The acting is terrific. Robert Redford is terrific as the low-key Bishop. Bishop has a dark past, but he's likable enough that we still root for him. His crew is made up of actors who turn in equally good performances Sidney Poitier as the weary Creasy, Dan Aykroyd as the conspiracy freak known as Mother (the banter between Mother and Creasy is hilarious), the late River Phoenix as the teen-aged Carl, and David Stratharin is excellent as the blind, but excellent-hearing Whistler. And Mary McDonnell is delightful as Mary's ex-girlfriend Liz. The villains (I won't say who they are) ooze menace.Phil Alden Robinson made his debut with the hit Field of Dreams, and he follows it up with Sneakers. The tone is perfect. It's fun, easy-going, but it leaves room for legitimate tension. It's also oddly nostalgic. The result is a dreamy masterpiece.See Sneakers. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"One cannot trust anybody these days.","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm always up for a good caper movie, and this is one of the better ones. It doesn't get overworked with such intricacy and tension that trying to keep up with it would prove unsatisfying. Instead, this one puts together a nice blend of mystery, suspense, intrigue and humor, and does it with a capable cast and clever writing. The hacker group's lone egghead is at the same time a conspiracy theorist (Dan Ackroyd) who balances out his own personality, while the rest are a complementary lot to their leader, Robert Redford, alias Martin Brice, alias Martin Bishop. I couldn't quite see Sidney Poitier as a member of the group in the early going, but he did deliver the film's best line in my estimation - You guys would be chalk outlines without me.The film was somewhat eerily prophetic in it's treatment of an attempt by our country's enemies to acquire access to computers controlling the national power grid. Recent headlines in the news make mention of just such a scenario with the potential to cripple the nation's infrastructure. The bad guys have been pitted against the good guys since the beginning of time, but with each passing year, the stakes continue only to escalate.I tuned in to Sneakers last night without realizing that I had seen it before, and kept wondering for a while why I knew what was coming next. It was Mary McDonnell's appearance that finally brought me to my senses - I remembered that she was also pretty hot the first time around! "},{"Title":"Fun, Nostalgic look at Computer Hackers/Hacking","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sidney Poitier - River Phoenix - Dan Ackroyd - Mary McDonnell - Robert Redford - James Earl Jones... and Gandhi! Not to mention a youngish David Strathairn.This film made in 1992 is very relevant today, dealing with issues like encryption, security, access, Identification... At the time this film was made, the PC was just starting to be used for common uses. This film is a pretty accurate look back at the state of the industry for 1992, and some of the speculative uses shown here have actually come into being.This film shows Robert Redford as he heads a group of people who are uniquely talented in manipulating several fields of computer and telephone uses... and Ab-uses.As head of this band of electronic robin hoods, Redford as 'Marty' Bishop is tricked into stealing a piece of technology and handing it over to Bad Guys headed by Cosmo aka Gandhi/Ben Kingsley - And this piece of Tech can literally shout secrets over rooftops... Hence, No More Secrets. The item in question actually deals with encryption algorithms that are still in use today.In an attempt to re-acquire this little gadget, Redford assembles his team and with the help of girlfriend Mary McDonnell, attempts to infiltrate the Marin County fortress of solitude of criminal Ben Kingsley.The technical and comedic situations which arise in this caper make a wholly fun and interesting film. These pranks are highly humorous and basically succeed... And some of them were not too far off the mark due to the technical assistance by one of the scientists who actually developed part of the technology which this film refers to.There are several nods and references to the films THX-1138 by Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola's The Conversation, and Barry Levinson's The Natural... and Three Days of the Condor. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film with a top cast","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Robert Redford, Sidney Poitier, Dan Ackroyd, Ben Kingsley, River Phoenix, David Strathairn, and Mary McDonnell star in Sneakers, a film about security guys who get involved in a scheme to steal for the government. Or so they think.Redford plays Martin Bishop, who has been on the run from the law since 1969, when his friend Cosmos was caught hacking into some large bank accounts - like the Republican Party's, Richard Nixon's, etc. Bishop (whose name back then was Brice) was outside the building at the time and has been wanted ever since. Fast forward 20+ years and he's a securities expert in partnership with ex-CIA agent Poitier, Ackroyd, the blind Strathairn, and River Phoenix. The government wants them to get a black box invention from a Russian mathematician, promising to wipe Bishop's record clean. Except they turn out not to be the government. And the black box? A decoder that can get into power plants, the Federal Reserve, and every other important place.This is a fast-paced, entertaining movie that has both funny and highly suspenseful moments. The story is way out there, the technical equipment is interesting and lots of it probably still holds up 16 years later, and the cast is great. I realize some of the comments are quite negative - I find Sneakers very enjoyable with great ensemble work and an intricate plot. Realistic? Is Mission Impossible? If I wanted reality, I wouldn't be watching a movie. "},{"Title":"Not the film for complexity or depth but slick, glossy and fun","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having managed to dodge imprisonment for computer fraud, Martin Bishop is living under an alias and runs a small company that tests security systems for weaknesses. When he is approached by two men from NSA who threaten to expose him, Martin and his group take on their job and go after a device called Setec Astronomy. The actual task itself is simple enough but, just before payday they discover that the device is the ultimate codebreaker and that its inventor has just been murdered. They keep the device and later find that the men are not from the NSA. With a device that anyone would kill them for the group prepare to go on the run but things change and they soon find themselves unable to trust anyone and fighting for their futures.It has been many years since I saw this film last but I was quite pleased to find that all the things that made it enjoyable back in 1992 were still in effect and, despite the jumps in technology, it has not really dated at all. The basic plot is a mix of caper movie and thriller and is all delivered in the sort of glossy and slick fashion that sells very well in the multiplexes. Those looking for genuine intelligence and complexity will feel that this is a little shallow but it covers for this by being consistently fun and keeping constantly moving forward without ever lingering on anything too long. The techno-babble is all pretty superficial but again it does enough to keep it all moving and produce a series of enjoyable set pieces.The cast was and is still a big selling point. Redford carries off the elder-statesman character while still having enough of a tinkle in his eyes to match the fun. Poitier adds to the class and carries quite a bit of weight with him &#150; although making him use the MF word just sounded weird. Aykroyd is funny in a small role while Phoenix is enjoyable if a little sappy and, dare I say it, bland. McDonnell is classy and enjoyable, while Strathairn does well in his role. Kingsley's Cosmo is a strange mix &#150; on one hand he is a poorly developed twist in the story with a strange Goodfellas-lite accent but on the other hand he is a tragic character, cut adrift by a mix of noble aspiration and bitterness. With the film focusing on the slick motion of the story Kingsley can't do much with the tragic and he ends up being a average bad guy despite the occasional interesting touch. Support from James Earl Jones, Eddie Jones, Busfield, Tobolowky and a few others this is a well rounded cast that pretty much all match the slick delivery of the material.Hardly a classic then but a very enjoyable multiplex caper/thriller nonetheless. The plot moves slickly forward all the time with plenty of good set-pieces moments. The cast are polished and classy and they almost all match the fun mood of the script. Not the deepest or most complex thing you'll ever see (it cannot decide on its politics or moral centre) but it is fun and that is probably going to be just what you're looking for in it. "},{"Title":"Hindsight","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you don't like the human aspects of the movie which is about people who break into systems, move on. I picked this film up on VCR tape with no idea what it was about from a good-will store for $0.75. I consider the price the rental fee and normally take most of the films back so they can resell them and make more money. I kept this one for a few more viewings since it caught the ambivalent spirit of that post cold-war era and have watched it several times. Whistler is patterned after a blind guy that was in on the phone phreaking phenomenon in the 1970s. His real name was Josef Carl Engressia Jr. He was known as Joybubbles. Rather than using the whistle in the Captain Crunch cereals (started by John Draper, alias Captain Crunch) or like some later people who used the blue box he was able to do it all with his own whistling and had perfect pitch. The end of the 60s is really stretching when the kind of breaking in they were doing would have put Cosmo in prison. It really didn't start until the late 70s and early 80s in a significant way. But the DES encryption which would be about the best they had in 1992 was getting long in tooth. DES was created in the 70s with everything finalized around 1977. 3DES and Blowfish encryption algorithms didn't occur until the end of the 90s. So dedicated hardware to break DES was in the realm of possibility. I have news for you people. The breaking of this encryption is not going to be done by Windows machines. It would have to be done with specialized hardware and may not be in the realm of possibility now or then. But your chances for breaking DES in 1995-97 with dedicated hardware would be excellent. But that just shows that there is a lot of bragging among these crackers to con you into believing they are a lot smarter and more able than they really are. Most of the rest of the technical stuff was also stretching it quite a bit. But it was humorous to see these brilliant people not knowing what was happening for a good portion of the movie. They bring it to a humorous close at the end. Is Tahiti in Europe? All I want is a phone number. The movie is worth watching a few times. But for somebody who knows that the recent crack (which does not mean broken) of AES-256 has actually made it and AES-192 symmetric encryption more vulnerable than AES-128 I have to tell you to take all of the technical aspects with a grain of salt. How is it possible that a smaller block size equates to more security? They are stretching it to what they claim they can do, not to what they are really able to do. But aren't most movies a lot of make believe? "},{"Title":"Sneakers was a pretty entertaining, if partially confusing, thriller","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having just watched this early '90s suspense thriller about computer hackers (I think) for the first time, I was partially confused about some scenes though overall, I was a little entertained by some of the comedy elements that were sprinkled throughout. My favorite was between Robert Redford and Lee Garlington as Dr. Elena Rhyskov whose room Redford broke into. He, with his gang's help talking over his earpiece, try to convince this doctor of his good intentions and how he doesn't want her paramour (a mathematician they're trying to catch red-handed) to know about them. I especially laughed when Redford substituted help for head! It was also good seeing Redford and Sidney Poitier in their only team-up though technically Poitier was supporting here. Dan Aykroyd was also funny about some facts only he believes. And most of the supporting cast, especially James Earl Jones, provided their own moments. So while I have reservations, I do recommend Sneakers. "},{"Title":"A great night in with a top cast having fun.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I could of joined the NSA but they found out my parents were married! The DVD box proudly proclaims that the film is one of the most satisfying suspense films ever! Naturally this is hyperbole from the marketing department, but it's stuff like that that can make or break the chance of a viewers expectation level being achieved.I opened this write up with a funny line spoken by Robert Redford because having just finished the film I feel all jolly, and that is a priceless thing after watching one of the most suspenseful films ever! groan. This film is a multi genre offering, it has pretty much most bases covered, and features a cast of actors from different eras clearly enjoying the work that they are doing. There is no earth shattering twists or performances to match, it's a tight and intelligent script that's written to provide 2 hours of pure entertainment. It does have suspense, and it does make you think about how technology can be an incredible tool/weapon, but chiefly the film is one that you all can watch during a night in and be safe in the knowledge that your rental or TV time hasn't been wasted. 7.5/10Footnote The ending is fabulous, I really should go for a higher rating purely for the incredulous looks that James Earl Jones gives as the final reel draws to a close. "},{"Title":"Very Good Spy Movie","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd rate this movie between an 8 and a 9. Very entertaining and moves along well. Strong cast of people that would probably not be together except for an offbeat move like this. I LIKED the music in the background. Unobtrusive, but effective without trying to hype up excitement. I just happened to see it again today (3rd time) by accident. It's still as good as ever.Over the years, I've seen a number of spy movies and this one is clearly among the more clever ones. The level of sophistication of the electronic tools used in the intelligence community was surprising then and made me wonder what kinds of things were really possible at the time.If you're looking for blazing guns, car chases and repelling wires in watches, this isn't your movie. On the other hand, if you like your spy movies on the cerebral side, this one will do, quite nicely. "},{"Title":"Sneakers sneaks right in and grabs you!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" At first I wasn't sure this movie was going to be much. Prepared to give it a mediocre score, partially to just be nice since it contained work from big names like Robert Redford and Ben Kingsley (who's names didn't appear on the credits on the outside of the package) and more. But this movie did sneak in and grab my attention with it's subtle draw. These people are computer experts, Redfords character is blackmailed because of his past, into doing some work for the government. The task is retrieving a black box, that isn't your run of the mill black box like what is found in air planes, this one has a very powerful secret. "},{"Title":"Nearly a perfect 10","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I give this film 9-1/2 stars. It's a nearly perfect blend of plot, visuals, score, and a cast of characters that you come to know and love by the end. You even have to love the villain. The casting is perfect in every way. The dialog is perfect and the acting is simply superb. Redford, Poitier, McDonnell, and Kingsley make geekiness witty and sexy. And everyone wishes they had off-the-wall friends like Ackroyd, Strathairn, and River Phoenix. All the brainiacs are multidimensional and never boring and the suspense builds exactly because you know these are all high-IQ people battling one another. Other reviewers here have said it may not be a great movie but urge you to see it. I think a great movie is one you can watch over & over again, which I have done with Sneakers, and one which you recommend to others as a must see, which I've done so many times I can't count. The ending was a tad bit sappy and that's the 1/2 point deduction. Otherwise, I'm jealous of anyone seeing this movie for the first time. "}{"Title":"Not even close to Oscar caliber but lightly entertaining and enjoyable","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is not great, but it is damn good. I enjoyed it and the humor it provided. The acting is outstanding and helps you forget the seemingly endless plot holes there seems to be. This movie is highly entertaining and enjoyable and I'd recommend it to anyone. It does have some shortcomings I won't go into to prevent spoiling the movie. It's not the perfect movie and has some shortcomings but a movie this entertaining would be too good to pass up. There is some great scenes and the story isn't perfect but the actors help pull this one together. I liked it and will give it a passing grade and because I have to go ten lines with this I will say it is worth seeing again--6/10 "},{"Title":"A finely crafted, clever and realistic movie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Highly recommended for the accurate and intelligent script, this is a rare example of a movie about a specialist subject (here, espionage and code-breaking) which does not talk down to its audience.  The result is a classic spy movie, with great re-watch value too as it has certain subtleties which would be missed on a first viewing.Although it was made in 1992 it was written earlier and has a mid-80s kind of feel to it, with a healthy dose of 1960s paranoia and idealism. It has a clever, realistic script and a fine supporting cast - Dan Ackroyd, Ben Kingsley, Sidney Poitier, River Phoenix, and David Straithairn giving the best performance I've ever seen of a blind person - and his blindness is dealt with in a human and realistic manner, without being in the slightest bit patronising.Some other obvious recommendations (also starring Robert Redford) would be All the President's Men and Spy Game.  More generally, if you liked Mission Impossible, Enigma, Anti-trust or the straighter Bond movies such as From Russia with Love then you will probably hugely enjoy this - but if you preferred Mission Impossible 2, The Net or the more outrageous Bond movies like Moonraker or Die Another Day then this is probably not going to be your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whats there not to love about this film? Smart, witty, and ahead of its time in some respects. Its a techy movie that isn't incomprehensible to normal people.Makes you really feel bad about River Phoenix's unfortunate demise in the Viper Room a few years later. "},{"Title":"The type of movie that everyone has been waiting for.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sneakers is a movie that can be put into a category all on it's own. Why? Well, mostly because there's no other movie like it. I'm sure just about anyone would agree with me once they've seen the movie. Robert Redford, Sidney Poitier, Dan Aykroyd, River Phoenix, Mary McDonnell, Ben Kingsley, and David Strathairn go above and beyond the limits of their characters. Giving the best of their abilities as the characters is a whole lot more from what they needed to do. Each character is done to perfection. Anything added on or taken off would surely not have been quite the treat that Sneakers is. As far as the plot is concerned, they also couldn't of done a better job. Combining drama, suspense, and a little bit of humor here and there, is just what the doctor ordered. Putting the given plot with these characters makes the movie more fascinating and non-fictional. Overall making it one of the most ideal movies out there. "},{"Title":"Outstanding film in all aspects","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An outstanding plot backed up by an allstar cast.  It's funny, exciting, packed with plenty of action..your favorite cast members as you've never seen them before..and watchable time and again...if you haven't seen it, spend a Friday night with it. you won't be disappointed "},{"Title":"Well made thriller!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie that reminds you of MissionImpossible and Oceans Eleven,this one came before them.Good cast and a simple story with some funny moments along.You`ve seen this before;there`s nothing new to it,but the movie is engaging and exciting all the way.Many good actorsRobert Redford,Sidney Poitier,Dan Aykroyd and River Phoenix(who tragically died one year later).But the one who makes the most impression on me is Ben Kingsley.He fits his part perfectly. Also refreshingly little violence to see.This is almost like The Score(2001).So,this is light entertainment with nothing important to say,but entertaining just the same...Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the person on this board who said this film is a TON of fun. There's definitely something in this concoction of international intrigue and humor that is infectious. And I'm also a sucker for movies that feature teamwork between a great cast. And the movie has held up over (can you believe it?) 10 years. In the ever unfolding universe of computer technology, this film is nowhere near out of date in its message.The cast, obviously, is first-rate and they do first-rate jobs of portraying their roles. The soundtrack is this really a blend of cool jazzy sounds. The movie also goes by quickly. And there are some really memorable scenes that are funny. And of course, the mark of a great movie,I too consider this one of my favorite 90s films, and I highly recommend it for anyone who's in the mood for one of those movies that seem to have the perfect blend of action, drama and comedy without going overoard. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment-Movie","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, this is like a Mission Impossible-script. Great entertainment that keeps getting better every time you see it! I never expected it to be a movie like this but very advisable!Rated 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent movie...until the end.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to go into detail about why this movie is defiantly worth watching. The director has blended the big name cast and the big-brother paranoia script with excellence. Redford is the head of the team, but it is a team. He shows his reliance on the others and the actors know their support roles and play them well. The pace is constant and builds in suspense until the hokey end. <<sigh>> Without spoiling the ending, I'll just say that the government that found them in the first place, sure would find them again after what they pulled. I'd been happier with a less sappy ending.  "},{"Title":"One of a kind movie...","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers is a jewel of a motion picture. I ditched work recently to see it on television since it is one of my all-time, top-ten favorites. I am never disappointed when I see Sneakers and I never get tired of seeing it. Every time I see Mission Impossible I want to cringe. This is the movie it WANTED to be but couldn't, despite a budget that was probably twice that of Sneakers. Everything about Sneakers is well-crafted, from the casting to the dialogue to the sets to the music. The soundtrack is fabulous and I could listen to Corcovado and Flamenco Sketches every day and never get tired of it. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to while away a couple of hours watching an intelligent, entertaining movie that keeps you guessing but doesn't try to make you swallow an unbelievable, convoluted storyline. RENT THIS MOVIE...you'll be glad you did. "}{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If only more films were made this with type of quality.  It has A-list stars, a very unique plot, great writing and directing.  Every producer, writer, director and actor should be forced to watch this film to discover what a well made comedy-thriller should be. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I skipped school to watch this when it was in the cinemas and I remembered it as a good film. Watching it again seven years on came as a very pleasant memory jogger.It's a great caper film - don't worry if you're technically illiterate, it's all made very easy - and a great ensemble piece. Why Robert Redford doesn't do more of these light entertainments is a mystery. So few actors can do them as well as him. And Sidney Poitier is wonderful.It's by no means a masterpiece but it's consistently entertaining and that's more than can be said for most films. "},{"Title":"A great, whimsical piece of escapism","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers (1992) is one of the most underrated flicks of the 90's. Escapist fun just doesn't get much better than this.  The movie is great fun, enjoyable most when the actors (Redford, Aykroyd, Poitier, Phoenix, Kingsley, among others) are deciphering codes, unscrambling words, and delicately breaking into computer systems.  Laced with some great humor, one must suspend disbelief, sit back and enjoy this whimsical gem of a film.  "},{"Title":"Funny and suspenseful, a great film","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a shame that this movie has never really received the recognition it deserves, because it's a terrific combination of comedy and suspense. The all-star cast is brilliant, especially Redford, Poitier, Strathairn and a very quirky River Phoenix. Even if the computerese goes over your head (which it certainly did for me) you can simply kick back, relax and enjoy an entertaining story with some great actors. I only have two complaints first of all, why did Cosmo go through the trouble of having the heat sensor mechanism in his office when he could have just installed a closed-circuit camera; and second of all, was the shoot-out on top of the Playtronics building really necessary? This movie was too intelligent to get bogged down in the old shootout cliche. Overall, though, a great flick! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites, a real computer film","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Part of the unofficial Internet-generation trilogy including Tron and Wargames, Sneakers is a rare occasion where the filmmakers know and respect the way computers really work.  You'll find no computer viruses eating through financial records and making the screen go crazy here.  As cryptography is accurately represented, Sneakers is a chilling what if story regarding a chip which can quickly hack everything from Air Traffic Control to the FBI criminal archives.  However, this is not Mechanical Universe; the science of it all is dumbed down (perhaps too much) for the layman to understand, and the film has much more than just nerdy computer stuff.  I just hope Dan Ackroyd managed to lose all that weight... "},{"Title":"A good ensemble movie","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An excellent ensemble cast and an intricate storyline.  Much reference is made to the high-tech equipment used in the movie but I think the characters' intelligence is overlooked (for example, Martin's recreation of his kidnapping and Whistler's use of his perceptive hearing).  The ending had everything except the kitchen sink but still, a worthwhile movie to watch on a Sunday night.  "},{"Title":"Discovering James Horner among my favorite composers","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  >After seeing SNEAKERS multiple times, I decided that James Horner was among > the top of my favorite composers. Although I do enjoy the movie, the draw > to me was the music. People watch movies for their content, as I do, but > the most enjoyable part of a movie is the music, in my opinion. > "},{"Title":"Very funny night out","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" From the crew who wrote you War Games (and in very much the same vain) comes Sneakers, a comedy/adventure about a band of computer hackers who break into places for a living.Director Robinson's film is at times intriguing, and remains well paced throughout, as he manages to create tension despite a fairly predictable climax. Robert Redford and support (including River Phoenix, Mary McDonnell, Dan Aykroyd and Ben Kingsley) are enjoyable, but watch for David Strathairn's performance in a comedy that is very funny.The humour in this film makes this a fun night out.Friday, October 30, 1992 - Hoyts Forest Hill ChaseRobinson's film is a made for kicks flick with the plot playing second fiddle to the comedy. The star-studded cast are fun, the humour still fairly funny on video and the premise is very clever, even if the plot never gets quite that good.An enjoyable, laid back adventure.Saturday, September 18, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Funny And Suspenseful","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie in the theatre, I was throughly entertained and had to pick this up when it became available on tape.  This movie had some of the best one liners, like when Martin said that he wanted to join the NSA, but he couldn't because his parents were married or when Mother would tell Crease his US Government conspiracy theories because Crease was an ex-CIA agent and he could easily antagonize him.  The suspense was good as well.  You could feel the tension, confusion and fear when the job they thought they were doing for the NSA goes sour and they have to find out who they were dealing with.  Got to get the DVD now.  This one's a keeper. "},{"Title":"Nice Taut Spy Thriller","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very nice film about intrigue in the world of high technology.  A brilliant mathematician has discovered a way of breaking cryptographic codes 'more efficiently'.  He is working on a microprocessor to apply his theories.  A pair comes to Martin's (Redford) team of professional electronics security experts with NSA credentials and a request to steal it.An all star cast and an awesome film score flesh out this excellent, if somewhat breezy, spy thriller. "}{"Title":"Loved it, but would have loved more if,","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sidney Poitier was given more lines.  Come on, this is Mr. Tibbs, the original, figure-outer.  You dig?  He's the coolest.  I watched the movie, always waiting for his next scene.  Why did Robert Redford's character get all the glory?  His character would have been cooler if instead of hogging the whole picture, he would have been realistic, because it is just not believable that Robert Redford is cooler than Sidney Poitier.  I have never seen this movie before 2002, and I was surprised that it was from, ten years back?  Also, to realize that other movies since, have seemed to copy it somewhat.  This is definitely a classic, in the sense that you can watch it over again, the cast is good, and you can get a kick out of the comedy.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie of a world all too real","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I have an IQ above 190. I absolutely love this movie. Second of all, there really is a world out there that does these things every day. Robert Redford is excellent as the leader of a ragtag group of crackers and code-breakers. Along with Dan Aykroyd as mother and the rest of the A list of excellent actors, this movie was extremely funny. Alot of those who work with, build, program computers, (ie me.), will get the inside jokes, and those who don't will like the hilarious situations they find themselves in. Overall, the movie is an excellent piece of writing, with many jokes and riddles along the way. I would also like to note, that where Liz explains that she'll never try a computer dating service again and Cosmo figures her out,...that is 100% possible. A computer dating service, no matter how cheap, follows guidelines and standard logic. A computer does not make educated guesses. In the computer world, 1=1=1. And Brandes and Liz are so different, even a cheap dating service computer wouldn't pair those two. Back to the comments, I would have to say this movie recieved a 9.5 out of 10. I can watch this movie over and over again, still enjoying little scenes here and there, and overall, I recommend this to anyone who wants a good laugh, likes espionage, cloak and dagger and so on, computers, spies, Robert Redford and one liners that just zing past you. 9.5 out of 10. Wonderful movie.  "},{"Title":"Maoist Movie Review","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now that the Cold War is over, Amerika's surveillance capacities    supposedly serve only to invade Amerikans' privacy rights. One of    this movie's catch-phrases is that there are too many secrets. With    Big Chill-like activist backgrounds, the hacker heros demonstrate    the individualism of both the hacker world and the settler-left. The    SNEAKERS collective shows that technology can be defeated by people    if they are properly organized. After using their collective skills    to steal a microchip for what they presume to be the NSA, they test    the chip and find that It's the codebreaker. No more secrets. The    hacker's dream. They take money from the Republican Party and give    it to liberal organizations. Whatever. "},{"Title":"Light and Amusing","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     SNEAKERS derives its name from the occupation of the film's protagonists. They're hired by companies to try to break into them, notably their computer systems, or sneaking. I've never heard the term before, but hackers doesn't sound quite so pleasant.     The team has that Hollywood-style diverseness - one of everything cliché - blind guy, tough beautiful woman, nerd, black guy, etc. Bishop, played by Robert Redford, heads them and he has a past that catches up with him. Then he's blackmailed into stealing a universal computer breaker-inner. Really, and it's much easier to load and operate than Windows!    Sneakers is a MissionImpossible-lite, if you can imagine it. No rough stuff, very family-friendly, Saturday night popcorn movie. Nothing great, and you won't feel ripped off for renting it...just remember to put the brain on autopilot.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite, feel good movies.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a feel good movie. Full of action, comedy and suspense. We need to have Part 2 to watch. I have already worn out my first vhs tape and bought another one. Whenever I feel like a pick me up, I put in this tape and it always brings a smile to my face. I have some very good idea for the sequel. If I feel this way, then you know , other's must feel this way also. "},{"Title":"Self Pity and Misbegotten Youth","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If we're being honest Sneakers is really built on the bitterness, self-loathing and resentment of Cosmo but not, as the story would suggest, his relationship with Bishop/Brice but his poisonous relationship with himself. Its all very well confronting Redford 20 years on and talking about a promise not to get into trouble but lets be clear about this, Cosmo's imprisonment and subsequent subservience to organised crime is the direct result of his laziness in going out to get that Pizza in the movie's opening scenes. You'll recall that he used slight of hand to ensure that it was his friend and not himself that ended up going out into the snow and bitter cold, not the luck of the draw. His propensity to think of himself first put him behind bars and whereas the years have shown Bishop that their dreams of techno-anarchy were intrinsically misguided - a power trip essentially and an end in themselves though initially well intentioned, Cosmo lives in the past and has perverted the original prank into minor megalomania. He asks us to believe that he wants the box to provide global equality, destroy records of ownership and all the rest of it, while growing fat and flush on blood money, wearing $4,000 suites and sitting in a hi-tec corporate office. He may hate himself for betraying his own teenage values as well he might but why attempt to maintain the illusion that he's in the business of promoting a new world order when it's really about failure, his lack of respect from others and an inferiority complex toward his old partner in crime - his biggest rival. If Cosmo just grew to like himself and temper the arrogance he'd be a happier and more likable individual like Redford.I'm David Frames and my voice IS my passport, verify me. "},{"Title":"Wow! Hollywood almost gets it right! Finally!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably the first Hollywood movie about computers and computer professionals which (almost) gets it right. All the other, more recent efforts (Hackers, Swordfish, The Net, etc), have been laughably inaccurate, but this old movie shames them all. In fact my only criticism of Sneakers is that too much time may have been devoted to getting the details right, since some of the cast's performances have a real first take look about them, as if the acting was a secondary consideration. But having said that the stellar cast is first rate. Good direction, good writing, and acceptable performances all round. A fun and enjoyable movie. Even Ben Kingsley's bad accent doesn't spoil anything. -) 5 stars, and highly recommended! "},{"Title":"How did this film manage to stay under the radar?","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sneakers is a remarkable movie, with an even more remarkable cast. The only truly sour note is the title. It must be an anagram, but the only one I have found that might be relevant is NSA Reeks -- which indeed it does in this film.The plot is both simple steal the magic chip that decodes everything, and make your dreams come true. It is also complex. Everyone wants it, all for different reasons, and some are willing to kill for it. Secrets, lies, and betrayals; trust, truth, and faith. In the end, the loyalties are predictable, and the ending a bit pat, but extremely satisfactory.The thing that makes this film special is its high geek value. The characters really are like the techies they play, and the science and cryptography are real or extremely plausible. It's so much fun to watch a movie with computers and cryptography in it that doesn't make me grind my teeth and want to throw things at the screen. The motivations of the characters, while a bit off-center, are realistic for people that were in the computer geek community at the time the film was written. (Not hackers, and not the professionals they're turning out of college these days. The wild-eyed, in love with the technology guys who can't seem to find the world outside of their monitors.)The least believable claim is that the magic box would not be useful in decoding Russian messages and sites. The second most unbelievable scene is Redford posing as a PI investigating the infidelities of the mathematician who invented the decoder. He persuades the mathematician's mistress that her lover has a wife, but that she shouldn't say anything about it because she loves him. Redford's weird change of loyalties in that scene, from his alleged employer to his alleged subject of investigation, have no ring of truth, and I still can't see how the woman, even distraught, could have fallen for it.Taken all for all, the film is a fun techno-thriller with an amazingly good cast and unprecedented technical accuracy. "},{"Title":"Brilliant from start to finish!","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this film advertised on TV a few years back now, I remember thinking Why is this the first time I've heard of this movie? I mean for one, the cast is absolutely amazing Robert Redford, River Phoenix, Dan Ackroyd, Ben Kingsley, Sidney Poitier... even the voice of Darth Vader James Earl Jones crops up at the end. And coupled with that the film seemed to have a good plot. When I finished watching the film I couldn't believe it hadn't gotten any better press or coverage.The film is about the lost friendship between Martin Bishop (Redford) and Cosmos (Kingsley). We learn in the first five minutes that they are computer hackers, and Kinsley's character was arrested years back. Bishop has got on with his life, running a business where he robs places to see how unsafe their places are. Then the NSA pay him a visit, producing an outstanding warrant for his arrest. He has to recover a code breaking device so his record is wiped clean. But the box is more valuable then any of the 'sneakers' possibly imagine. And soon, everyone is trying to get their hands on itRedford is consistently witty, Poitier plays an uptight ex-CIA agent with a sustained menace, and Phoenix, David Strathairn and Ackroyd all play social misfits with such glee that the film can't help but put a smile on your face. As well as this, Mary McDonnell plays the love interest for Redford brilliantly - indeed she becomes much more than a love interest when she gets involved with the teams operations the scene where she dates a man as part of the sneaking is an absolute classic. The word 'passport' will never be the same again...In all, I would strongly advise you to go rent or buy this film now! Phil Alden Robinson has crafted a superbly entertaining thriller, with a cracking cast!Favourite line (as well as I remember) I was gonna join the NSA, but they found out my parents weren't related. Favourite moment THAT scene were McDonnell has to get Stephen Tobolowsky to say passport.  "},{"Title":"Lots of fun every time around","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is extremely clever and thought provoking.  It is more capable of sending a chill down your spine than most horror movies.  What's amazing is at the same time it is humorous and a lot of fun.  All of these components come together to form a movie that is like your favorite Bruce Springsteen song, you can enjoy it time and time again deriving great pleasure from it each time.  This is a great movie to talk about with people, so if for no other reason than that you should see it. "}{"Title":"Underrated - Excellent Entertainment","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  10 years from today you may or may not remember elements of Star Wars but you will remember every scene in this movie. Great Cast, Good Plot and the action is actually well scripted. Of course you could do without the car chase at the end but VERY WELL written and even the minor characters put in A performances. I could think of 000's of ways to waste $ 7 on a movie. This one is great and you can actually see it for free  "},{"Title":"Flawed film, but some fun","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think describing this as a comedy, which some do, in inaccurate...although the description I did like was a lighthearted thriller. The makers of the film could have gone for a comedy...but that would have lost my interest almost immediately. And, they could have gone for a totally serious theme of a man going undercover to clear his own record (which, of course, has been done before). Instead, while it is (in my view) a drama, there were quite a few times I found myself smiling.The problem with this film can be summed up with one line about halfway through the movie -- You won't know who to trust. And as you go through this film, you won't know who the good guys are or who the bad guys are...or who to trust. That makes it just a little confusing. And then, to make it all seem so high tech (which now, a decade later, doesn't seem so high tech at all), everything gets overly complicated...and all this high tech stuff is being done by actors who seem too old for all that stuff. Redford was 56 and Sidney Poitier was 65.However, this is a great cast! But, Robert Redford, playing a man who has been wanted for a federal crime most of his life, seems a bit too old for the plot, as does Sidney Poitier (who seems to have a lot of lines, but it hardly seems like acting...a shame considering what a fine actor he is. Ben Kingsley has a good role as the bad guy, but not a lot of screen time. David Strathairn has perhaps the most interesting and fun role as a high-techie who is blind...and has to drive a truck. Dan Aykroyd has a key -- but unmemorable -- role. Same for River Phoenix...thank goodness it was not the only role of his career. Mary McDonnell is fine as the woman drawn into the heist.To me, this is a very flawed film, but a watchable one with some fun. Recommended for one viewing. "},{"Title":"Too Many Secrets Intelligent Suspense-Thriller That Is More About 1's and 0's Than Guns","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off, don't try this at home. This is after-all only a movie. Sneakers is probably the best suspense film that honestly deals with the issues of Information Technology. The film takes you into the world of espionage via computer hackers, the new threat to world order. Rather than Chicago Italians sporting machine guns, zoot suits, and violin cases, these guys work with equipment that can do far more than hold up a bank or run a casino. And they do it from a worktable with little complex machines with screens. These sneakers may have stumbled onto the ability to change the entire infrastructure of the modern world. And it all works because of the outstanding script and the ensemble cast of some of the best actors in the business Robert Redford, Ben Kingsly, Dan Ackroyd, David Strathairn, Mary McDonnell, Sidney Poitier, the late River Phoenix, and even Stephen Tobolowsky (who played the infamous Ned Ryerson in Groundhog Day) as a nerdy tech guy. I have often felt that ensemble cast movies such as these have the most meat to them.Robert Redford plays Martin Bishop (aka Marty or Bish), the leader of a group of hackers-for-hire that test the security systems of banks and other financial institutions to pinpoint their weaknesses. But Martin Bishop is not who he says he is. In fact, he is really Martin Brice, a 1960's college radical who, with his colleague Cosmo, used to hack into computer databases with the intention of moving money toward left-wing political causes--25 years before the launch of the World Wide Web. Brice and Cosmo became the target of US authorities. Brice escaped to Canada and assumed another name. Cosmo was not so lucky and apparently died in prison. The other members of the Sneakers each have their little eccentricities Whistler (my favorite character), the blind tech genius played with amazing realism by the extraordinary David Strathairn, Mother (Dan Ackroyd), a conspiracy theorist who believes that the people who assassinated JFK also framed Pete Rose, Carl (the late River Phoenix), the boy hacker who was caught trying to change his grades through his school's computer system, Donald Crease (Sidney Poitier), an x-CIA agent, and Liz (Mary McDonnell), a former mathematics and computer intellectual who was a former lover of Redford before she left the field to teach piano to young prodigies.Now, apparently, the Feds have caught up with Brice, aka Bishop, and they want him to steal a certain black box from a Dr. Gunter Janek, an eastern European genius who is the Einstein of computer hackers. According to the Feds, the Russians are financing Janek through anonymous grants to create a key or shortcut to unlock the most complex computer systems in the western world. The key has been hardwired into a computer chip located inside a block box. The box is said to have the ability to break through unbreakable codes used by the largest financial and governmental institutions, from the Federal Reserve to JFK Airport.At first the plot centers around the Sneakers or hackers using their skill along with their bugging and stake-out equipment to acquire the black box from the young professor. But an unanticipated twist pushes the movie into an unforeseen direction. All of a sudden, some of the people involved are not who they say they are. The recurring theme of Too Many Secrets and No More Secrets pushes the plot into new territory but one that completely makes sense for the rhetoric of the film as Bishop/Brice meets an old friend (Ben Kingsly) whom he did not expect to see.A great movie, suspenseful from beginning to end. The performances of the cast are exquisite, particularly David Strathairn as Whistler, the blind tech wizard. In one amazing camera angle, we see him with dark glasses as code numbers are reflected upon his lenses. At another point, he has to drive a van, which is almost worth the price of admission alone! Not to be missed if you are a computer hacker, a computer tech, or just want a good suspenseful story. "},{"Title":"Sneakers","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is like an early version of, or the template for, the first Mission Impossible film, and with an all-star cast, quite a good one, from director Phil Alden Robinson (Field of Dreams). Basically Martin 'Marty' Bishop (Robert Redford) heads a group of experts who specialise in testing security systems, and he is now being blackmailed into stealing a top secret black box, to clear his criminal record. Bishop's team includes Mother (Dan Aykroyd), Carl Arbegast (River Phoenix), Donald Crease (Sidney Poitier) and blind Erwin 'Whistler' Emory (David Strathairn), oh, with help from Bishop's partner Liz (Mary McDonnell). They manage to decode many seemingly unbreakable systems to find their way into getting to the box, and they now have their plan to steal it, with many things they have to consider that could set an alarm off, just like Mission Impossible. They do manage to get the box, but they also find out the agents who hired him are not the Government after all, and Bishop's old friend Cosmo (Sir Ben Kingsley) is also after the box. Also starring Timothy Busfield as Dick Gordon, Eddie Jones as Buddy Wallace, George Hearn as Gregor, Heroes' Stephen Tobolowsky as Dr. Werner Brandes and James Earl Jones as NSA Agent Bernard Abbott. The stars all have their moments, the story is quite intriguing and nearly engaging, especially during the technical stealing operation. Good! "},{"Title":"Running on One Sneaker","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sneakers are a team of security specialists who specialize in computer hacking. They are computer expert Robert Redford (as Bishop), former CIA employee Sidney Poitier (as Crease), gadgets wizard Dan Ackroyd (as Mother), young genius River Phoenix (as Carl), and blind soundman David Strathairn (as Whistler). The men are joined in progress by Mary McDonnell (as Liz), likely a former Sneaker and definitely a former girlfriend of leader Redford. Mr. Redford, who dominates the action, is also connected to the film's main villain, Ben Kingsley (as Cosmo). Mr. Kingsley's identity isn't too surprising, once you realize he didn't grow up to be the character played by Mr. Ackroyd. The mission is to retrieve a black box for some nasty men, who claim to be representing the United States government.The best chunk of the film involves the extended computer date Ms. McDonnell has with Stephen Tobolowsky (as Werner Brandes) as Redford breaks into the man's office. It begins about the time Mr. Ackroyd arrives with the man's trash and ends with Mr. Phoenix crashing into a scene between Redford and nasty Eddie Jones. Director Phil Alden Robinson, and WarGames-men Lawrence Lasker and Walter F. Parkes, create a good deal of suspense, highlighted by a light sense of humor. But, the picture's conflict (Redford/Kingsley) isn't very interesting or dramatic. Although the terrific Sneakers team falls short of expectations, their participation alone makes it a film worth watching.****** Sneakers (1992) Phil Alden Robinson ~ Robert Redford, Sidney Poitier, Mary McDonnell "},{"Title":"A great pre-Web IT movie","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am convinced that this movie would have been a huge hit if it had been released four or five years later. That way, it would have been able to have been marketed to millions who were suddenly discovering the Information Highway and realizing the potential power of the internet.This movie was (and in many ways still is) ahead of its time. It looks not only at the power of information, but the potential power that can come with CONTROLLING information. In the case of this movie, ramifications can affect anything from organized crime, to giant corporations, to Third World countries, or even the whole system.I know Wargames came much earlier than this, but for some reason the internet seems to be more applicable here. Maybe it is in the way that information is regarded as the ultimate commodity in this movie.Great, great movie - very underrated. "},{"Title":"A weak sneak","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Lightweight but reasonably entertaining espionage movie that occasionally turns dark, concerning a group of computer boffins who inadvertently discover a hacked microchip containing top secret codes to critical public utilities with the potential to be catastrophic in the wrong hands. Naturally, the code-breaking programme does fall into the wrong hands (Kingsley) after Redford mistakenly hands it over to shady characters he believed were NSA agents. The tale then focuses on their attempts to recover the programme held under tight security.Redford is typically watchable and he receives good support from Poitier, Phoenix, Aykroyd, McDonnell etc as the good guys (and token girl). James Earl Jones makes a late cameo as an FBI boss attempting to secure the safe return of the codebreaking programme in a scene that it must be said, descends into virtual farce. It's often difficult to gauge the tone of Sneakers - one minute there's a bloody execution, the next, characters drop half-baked one-liners and deliberately esoteric computer speak aimed at laughs. The tone of Sneakers reminded me of Stakeout in its unorthodox blend of light humour and sometimes violent undertones.Still, despite its flaws and epic two-hour duration, the diverse cast holds interest and the code-breaking, hacking computer intrigue can always generate suspense for viewers with a technical bent. The appearance of River Phoenix might also be a pulley for some viewers, in one of his few adult roles before his untimely death a year later. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers i think is a fantastic movie to watch. This movie was made in 992, starring Dan Akwaord, Robert Redford. I give this movie 10 out of 10 because i just think it is a fantastic movie to watch. I think Robert Redford is a fantastic actor. "},{"Title":"Great fun thriller","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very fun sci-fi thriller movie with a good star ensemble, tight and witty writing, and some intriguing ideas.  An interesting What if senario allows actors like Robert Redford, Sidney Poitier, Dan Aykroyd, River Phoenix Mary McDonnell and Ben Kingsley to play around with some great scenes.  I think David Strathain as a blind man was an outstanding performance, and James Earl Jones shows off his deadpan comic style in a guest role.  Also of note is actor Donal Logue as a professor. who has played more prominent characters recently in films such as THE PATRIOT.The best thing about this movie however, is it inspired me in the use of anagrams, an interest which I've still kept to this day. "},{"Title":"I never get tired of re-watching this movie.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like Rocky Horror Picture Show or Raising Arizona, I'll never get tired of popping Sneakers into the VCR.  As it happens, this movie has a fair amount of educational value for anyone who didn't know that technology had come this far.  The entire cast is charming, the plot is exciting, and the humor(which is injected throughout) is both timeless and hysterical. Sneakers score is also quite amazing ... by the 2nd or 3rd viewing, I realized I had to have the CD.  The music is both haunting and beautiful.  I just can't imagine anyone not liking this movie! "}{"Title":"Redford in not terrible shocker!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robert Redford is one of those people who get on your nerves; he is usually not very good, but he seems to win over all the 40+ women and hence gets more work.To be fair, this wasn't all that bad as far as thrillers of this type go, although it's not in the class of Enemy Of the State as far as conspiracy theory films go.Predictable ending well, it _is_ Hollywood but not bad in the realm of movies to watch on TV rather than when they're on screen. "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is just an excellent movie. You might expect it to be too complex in the language since it's about computers. But that is not the fact. All actors work incredibly well together, and the internal conversations in the film just make you laugh at the same time as it's an exciting movie to watch. The movie takes new turns all the time, thus, not making it boring at all. This is one of those few movies that you can watch over and over again, without fast-forwarding even one scene, since they are all so great. It's action at the same time as it is very funny. The only bad part is that it is not 2 hours longer. "},{"Title":"The most realistic and entertaining movie about computers and technology I've ever seen!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has been one of my favorites ever since I was 14 years old! Ever since I saw this movie I've felt like I was destined to BE one of the characters in it! It's a movie about a group of friends who get hired by companies to break in to test out their security systems. (Such businesses now exist, no doubt inspired by this movie!) Then one day they're blackmailed into stealing something for the government. I thought all of the characters in this movie were very interesting and very realistically done. The whole movie also has a sort of James Bond/Mission Impossible feel to it which makes it very exciting. It's also one of the most technically accurate and realistic productions since the original Mission Impossible series several decades ago! It seems nowadays all you ever get is alien conspiracies and hacking into supercomputers through the wall-plug with souped-up toasters and such, but in Sneakers, the story line is believable and everything that happens makes sense! This movie is a must see for anyone in the computer/information science/engineering fields, or who just likes exciting Mission-Impossible-type movies! "},{"Title":"Awesome hacker, thriller, mystery, crime film","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Awesome!! better than Hackers and other technology based films cause its not full of wanky imagery that has nothing to do with reality ... if you like to live at least partly in the real world and like brilliant acting, whether your into puters, technology or not .. watch this awesome piece of cinematography. Casted with actors able to keep you enthralled and captivated. Not one moment Will you be nodding off finding the inside of your eyelids a suitable scene. and if any film was ahead of its time with lines like he who controls information controls the world remembering this was 1992 when the internet was nothing more than a military utility .. what insight. Watch this movie "},{"Title":"A truly remarkable, and sadly underrated, film","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film from 1992 didn't make nearly as large a splash as it should have. It's witty and intelligent, where brains prove more important than muscle and where integrity means something after all.  I am not usually a Redford fan but he is brilliantly understated as Martin Bishop.  His supporting cast is made of winners all, and each actor makes his/her character come to life. Despite dividing screen time among about ten principals, each character is fully fleshed out.  Small throw-away lines give us insight into the minds of the people in this movie.A special word must be said about Ben Kingsley's Cosmo.  Here, at last, is a villain who's believable and nearly admirable, and who possesses more than one dimension.  Competent without being omnipotent, almost gentle yet capable of decision and violence, fierce yet oddly vulnerable, Cosmo is the perfect foil to Bishop.  Kingsley gives flashes of insight into the mind of a man whose ideals have twisted around themselves into evil and perhaps madness.  It is entirely believable that Cosmo be the one to set up the central conflict of the movie, and it is entirely believable that he fall in the manner he does.And of course, the message of the movie becomes ever more relevant as time marches forward.  In 1992, when it was released, the Internet revolution was little more than a distant peal of thunder on the horizon.  Most people hadn't heard of networking, encryption, digital manipulation.  Now, as we close in on the 10th anniversay of the film, an air of prophecy gathers around Cosmo's final, plaintive attempt to recruit Bishop There's a war out there, old friend. A world war. And it's not about who's got the most bullets. It's about who controls the information. What we see and hear, how we work, what we think... it's all about the information! "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A snappy, extremely well-written literate script from the Oscar-nominated writer/director of FIELD OF DREAMS is brought to life by one of the best casts ever assembled. The legendary Robert Redford leads a ragtag bunch of computer jocks, which includes Oscar nominees Sidney Poitier, Dan Aykroyd, River Phoenix, and Oscar-winner Mary McDonnell. Maybe the film's best performance, aside from Redford, is by David Strathairn, the only major player who has never been up for an Oscar. And Oscar winner Ben Kingsely is a sublime villain.Redford is Martin Bishop, the head of a group of computer and security specialist misfits who breach corporate security systems as a way of analyzing their weaknesses and recommending improvements. The group is coerced into a great caper steal a little black box from a top mathematician, for the US government. Only it isn't just a little black box, it's a codebreaker - actually it's THE codebreaker a computer formula that can crack any encryption software ever devised.Oh, and it's not the US government ... it's the mob, which wants the codebreaker to deal with the Russians. SO Bishop and company have to steal the box back from the mob, in one of the greatest capers ever.  "},{"Title":"Best caper film since Topkapi","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best caper film since Topkapi.  It's smart as a whip, has a great cast, and never takes itself too seriously.  I had a great time watching great actors like Redford, Poitier, Ben Kingsley, etc., just enjoying being in a great popcorn movie.  There's deeper meanings in it, if you want them, or you can just sit back and let Sneakers take you for a great ride.  It's a really, really good movie. "},{"Title":"QUITE GOOD...","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...but nothing special thriller from 90's. The only thing, that puts it a little above average is the story, still suitable for nowadays.  Is there something more to say about the movie, which has its moments, but on the other hand, nothing special among other thrillers. Well, no. Like any other thriller it got some tense scenes, some action and some mysteries. Oh, and some laughable moments. I guess it's one of these movies, after you say Quite good!, and than forget about it. That's why a6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Uneven but enjoyable caper movie","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Best hacker movie? Well, it doesn't really seem like a hacker movie to me, more like a high-tech caper movie, the kind which has been done better (more recently in Mission Impossible or even the Ocean's Eleven remake).The film centers around the search for a high-tech MacGuffin, and takes its time with the setup. In fact, the whole first half of this film is slow going, and has a whole lot of plot holes for a film that relies so heavily on plot. (a scientist invented something that any government in the world would kill for and guess where he keeps it!?!?!?)However, the film is redeemed by a riveting 2nd half, and performances by a near-legendary acting ensemble, all of whom have done their best work elsewhere, but are still fun to watch. Somehow this is a film that seems better in one's memory after you've seen it, rather than in the actual watching.P.S. It does seem to me that the climactic sneak was pretty much stolen by Mission Impossible, and I have to say, M.I. does it better. "},{"Title":"Good start,bad ending equals average","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Average comedy/thriller that has a very good cast,a good promising start,but a sloppy ending.The sloppy ending was probably done to water down the very serious topic of INFORMATION COLD WAR so as not to rattle the mainstream movie goer.An apology of sorts usually employed by movie producers for quicker,short term profit returns at the box office.This movie is a cult masterpiece to a lot of HACKER FANS and big fans of COMPUTER TECH who believe that the world has shifted into the hands of COMPUTER TECH people.They have a strong case for this argument and in this regard,SNEAKERS is ahead of it's time (1992).But stll,to a true impartial movie expert,the movie was too watered down to the level of average.......  "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Codebreaker","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A college prank where one got caught and sent to prison and the other didn't forms the basis for Sneakers, a stylish, but ultimately unsatisfying thriller. Sad because it's a waste of a really talented cast.Gary Hershberger and Jo Marr area a couple of college age computer geeks from the seventies who if they had stayed on the straight and narrow might have wound up being Bill Gates and Bill Jobs. Marr got caught and Hershberger was not by dint of going out for pizza during a break-in. Marr got some serious jail time, but Hershberger became a fugitive.Fast forward to the nineties and Hershberger has now grown up to be Robert Redford and heading a security firm under an alias. Redford employs the diverse talents of David Strathairn, Sidney Poitier, Dan Ackroyd, River Phoenix and on occasion Mary McDonnell. They break into unbreakable places and tell you what you're doing wrong.Redford and his crew get hired or possibly a better word is drafted into working for a couple of slippery agents played by Timothy Busfield and Eddie Jones. Object is to steal a code box with a formula designed by super mathematical genius Donal Logue. In it Logue's designed a gizmo that can break ANY code.Before long Redford and his crew are in conflict with his former college prankster now all grownup and played by Ben Kingsley. Who wouldn't want the Ultimate Codebreaker? Even I'd like to have that.Sneakers is done with a lot of flash and style, but in the end it's all rather silly. A real waste of a good cast. You've got to catch at the very end where on a news broadcast it's said that Republican National Committee has gone broke overnight and Greenpeace is overflowing with money for its good work.Now maybe that's Robert Redford's secret fantasy, but this isn't Never-Never Land. "},{"Title":"Horribly wasted potential","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"       The kind of thriller that a sniggering 13-year old   might find entertaining and amusing. A great cast and a   fine soundtrack (although James Horner quotes himself over   and over, so his music sounds awfully familiar now), but   achingly adolescent throughout. Skip it and watch THE   FORBIN PROJECT. "},{"Title":"Clicheed, forced, heavy-handed - barely enjoyable","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I fail to see why this movie has a decent rating. While it has the basic recipe for an enjoyable movie (strong cast, good premise, quirky characters), the movie is often predictable, the technological stuff makes no sense sometimes (even for computers of that time), a lot of characters are unbelievably clichéd (like the conspiracy-theorist on the team, which does basically nothing besides play his minor part in pulling their various heists or deliver conspiracy theories one-liners - supposedly to provide some comic relief). At times, the script is illogic (Redford needs the woman he brings on the team so badly why exactly?, and a team of con and tech artists does not take the least precaution to make sure people are who they say they are - I could see all the 'twists' a mile away). Sometimes, the movie has the believability and humor of a B-grade teen movie (such as the 'date' she goes on with the mark). Even when we get to the core of the movie (the tech they employ to plan and execute a heist), there is nothing really interesting or novel. All in all, a movie that tries to be tech-savvy, suspenseful, funny and make you ask some questions, but is riddled with believability and logic holes, very little humor, and terribly clichéd characters (plain cartoony at times). 5/10 (partially enjoyable - only watch if you've got nothing better to do) "},{"Title":"","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good cast (Aykroyd gets the best lines), but the implausibilities keep  stacking up until they over-techno-whelm the techno-plot in this techno -thriller.  It finally comes down to a shoot-out, like any other action  flick.  And who can believe Gandhi as the bad guy? "},{"Title":"about cryptography and espionage and ethics","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This tries to keep one guessing (like with Usual Suspects, but not nearly as successfully. you don't need to be nearly as alert for this film). I found that it went into cryptography and computers to a degree that bothered friends of mine that don't find these subjects interesting. It claims to be an action/adventure, but due to their lack or interest, my friends did not like it as much and missed a good deal of the action.DO NOT watch this if you don't like to think DO NOT watch this if you don't understand what is happening in the opening credits. DO NOT watch this if you don't like math, computers, or cryptography.DO watch this if you like cryptography. DO watch this if you like anagrams and other games like that DO watch this if you don't think that James Bond is the only espionage formula that can be used. "},{"Title":"Sillier than 'War Games'","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Sneakers' is not, whatever its name suggests, a movie about a pair of trainers, but a generic thriller that manages to combine an odd combination of vices it's slick, but also slow. Eschewing the possibilities offered by the relationship between hero (played by Robert Redford) and his estranged friend (a shamefully under-used Ben Kingsley), the film takes refuge instead in empty pseudo-science and impossibly contrived operations. The result sits halfway between 'Oceans's Eleven' and 'War Games', but without the riotous entertainment of the former, or the importance of human psychology (and not just mythical technology) in the plot of the latter. A strange scene at the end is played for pure comedy, and provides a final indication that the film-makers didn't really know what they were doing here. It's not unwatchable, by any means, but certainly a waste of its A-list cast. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Sneakers'","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" GOOD NEWS - A very entertaining thriller, for the most part, that kept my attention for the full 126 minutes. It had some neat high-tech gadgetry and had a big-name cast of Robert Redford, Dan Aykroyd, Ben Kingsley, River Phoenix, David Straithairn, Mary McDonnnel and Sidney Poitier.THE BAD - More of the tiresome and typical Liberal propaganda that tells us the U.S. Government is the bad guy' the radical Left are the good guys (yes, the same ones who blew up a lot of buildings and killed people in the name of peaceful protest). The film also had a very unrealistic and stupid ending. I was also sorry to hear (but not surprised) Redford and Poitier both blaspheme throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Tweedle-Dee and Tweedle-Dumb","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sneakers is a movie where humorless gags and pranks pass off as plot twists.  Writers Lasker and Parkes should stick to writing tech manuals because they apparently exhausted all their creative intuition on WarGames.How Kingsley, Poitier, and even James Earl Jones got involved with this is beyond me because it is beneath them.  Redford is right for the movie, though, because he hates being wrong...when has he ever been someone who wasn't all along?Besides being as uselessly sexist and ignorant as WarGames, Sneakers has the additional weight of being as naive.  Ronin this is not, the situation doesn't allow that level of mature thinking.  It is not Mission Impossible because, while it has the same empty-headed narrative, there is no visual style.  Yep, this falls into a crude James Bond movie made on a 9-year-old enjoyment level.Overall, 50 minutes of predictable opening exposition and another 75 of cliches and oversights.  1 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film ever to grace the silver screen","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not usually into this kind of film, and neither is anyone with an IQ of at least 2, but due to the ''impressive'' cast list I decided to give it a go.Robert Redford is a pensioner with the acting calibre of a hot dog and Dan Akroyd reminds me of Cartman in the South Park episode 'Weight Gain 2000'. David Straitharn is always true to the fact that he is not only visually challenged but also mentally challenged. Sidney Poitier has the visible intelligence of a handicapped Budweiser frog. The only crowning glory is River Phoenix, if you do not count his most unflattering sense of style and his wavering accent.The plot is senseless, and even if it did make sense I would not wish it on my worst enemy. It is duller than a wet weekend and wouldn't know how to be more appealing if it was given a billboard to advertise on Broadway. Like it ever would.The American government could spend less time and money by getting rid of the Electric Chair and letting their prisoners sit through this. It would do us all a favour.Give it a miss. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Makes Hudson Hawk Look Like King Lear","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With a strong cast and good reviews, I expected to be entertained by Sneakers.  Alas, despite a few memorable performances (David Straitharn, JoJo Marr, Eddie Jones and Mary McDonnell), this movie is finally sunk by the poorest writing I've seen since Beverly Hills Cop 3.  Possible Spoilers AheadPoint 1 - The film opens in 1969 with two college age kids (probably freshmen) use their computer to hack into the bank files of Richard Nixon, the Republican National Committee and the Federal Reserve (NOT a government agency, by the way).  HELLO!  The only computer that MIGHT have done the job in those days was a DEC PDP-8 ($18,000, not including software and modem) and WHERE would these two clowns get that kind of money? Point 2 - Flash forward 20 years and one of the teenagers becomes Robert Redford, the other Ben Kingsley, NEITHER of whom look like they would have been teenagers in 1969.  Kingsley complains that Redford's character ALWAYS wins; yet in the opening scene, Kingsley's character outsmarts Redfords; and, for most of the rest of the movie, Kingsley is always one step ahead of Redford. Point 3 - a bad running joke in the movie is Buddy Wallace (Eddie Jones) knocking Redford unconscious to kidnap him and carry him in the trunk of a car to Kingsley.  First, that much head trauma, combined withthe carbon monoxide in an auto truck would without a doubt have left Redford dead or minus quite a few brain cells (maybe that's why he chose this script).  Second, Redford remembers enough about the ride to recreate it in his mind, enabling his team to pinpoint the Kingsley's location.  Yeah, right. Point 4 - Redford turns the black box over to NSA after removing the codebreaking microchip.  He gets away with this by telling NSA bigwig James Earl Jones, Here it is, it doesn't work, anyway. Since the chip was the only new thing about the black box, one would expect Jones to be smart enough to recognize a scam when he sees one.  I realize we are talking about a federal agent here (Don't you love how the same liberals who tell us how stupid our government is want to put it in charge of EVERYTHING?), but you would think he would be a tad more suspicious.Kingsley wants to bring down the wealthy and make everyone equal (equally miserable, I presume).  Redford doesn't, apparently so he and other liberals can continue to soothe their consciences by stealing from the greedy and giving it to the needy.  Oh well, this isn't the first piece of liberal pap that was highly praised because ofits political sentiments.Unless you are a liberal who doesn't allow himself to be confused by facts, avoid Sneakers at all cost. "}{"Title":"A Silly Film","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I almost didn't write this because I didn't want to dignify this silly, stupid contrived movie by commenting. I hope they paid those (usually) great people a whole lot of money to be in this turkey. But I won't ramble on, let me use one scene as an example. Mary McDonnell and Robert Redford are trying to fool Ben Kingsley and nearly get away with it. They convince him that they are where they are, when they are there, because they are on a date. Then she says, Last time I go out on a computer date. A light bulb goes off in villain Kingsley's brain. He stops them, menacingly, saying, No computer would have EVER fixed up the two of you! And they are unmasked. PUUUUHHHHHLLLLLEEEEEZZZZEEE!!!!!As we all know, a computer will do any darn thing you tell it to. A computer dating program is only as intelligent as the dummy writing it. If the computer dating company were on the cheap, it could have actually used a randomizer. And that the story actually TURNED on this?As the professor said in Frosty, Silly, silly, silly! "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One can merely wonder who votes this movie a 10. It's worth nothing. The realistic level (concerning the art of hacking as depicted here) of this movie is absolutely zero. It is a classic example of trying to represent how hacking happens but then in a way that the general public can actually see that anything happens. The acting is equally bad. This movie is not worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Its Craptacular!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is poorly written, chock full of offensive cliched stereotypes for the blind.  Did I mention that the whole thing makes very little sense and the story seems to serve  only as a poor vehicle for...  I &#3;couldn't honestly tell you.  Included are bad cryptology conjectures, a horrible throwaway character serving only as the requisite romantic interest for Robert Redford, and the murder of an ex Russian spy and his chauffeur which is curiously forgotten about halfway through the movie and never alluded to again.  Rent something else, I beg of you. "}]