[{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Where to start... I genuinely appreciated Rosie O'Donnels performance in this film. Totally believable. The action scenes were epic, and I think influenced a lot of movies that came after it... specifically buddy cop sequels. The jokes were hilarious and the comedic timing was perfect. It was the first time I've seen a storyline like this in a story about cops. So that was very refreshing for me. Richard Dreyfuss and Emelio Estevez... A duo that you wouldn't expect to see on film... But wow... Total chemistry!! Line after line was just gold for me. I highly recommend this movie. I've told all my friends about it and they agree. "},{"Title":"Another Miserable Retread...","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  That's it, nobody calls me Ed McMahon!- Emilio Estevez saying the funniest line from a rather dry sequelAnother Stakeout was six years in the waiting. After the first film, Stakeout, made a huge splash at the box office in 1987 (the same year another cop-buddy film came out--can you guess which one?), everyone anticipated an unnecessary--but perhaps funny--sequel that would inevitably result after box office earnings were tallied up by film executives in an office somewhere. Alas, the six years passed, and we got...this mess?Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez reprise their roles as stakeout cops who get paired with a new partner in this watered-down sequel. The new partner is played by Rosie O'Donnell, who is so startlingly unfunny in this it almost makes you involuntarily switch off the television as soon as you see her chubby face smiling at you.The story starts with a bang--literally--as a trial witness being protected by the CIA is unsuccessfully assassinated--and by that I mean They die, she lives. What a surprise. (This is the type of scene where the villain is able to blow up a house but the witness just happens to be taking a stroll outside as it happens--or something like that--preventing her from dying along with the other agents who were previously protecting her. This type of thing was spoofed greatly in the truly underrated Last Action Hero. It's not a joke in Another Stakeout.)   Unfortunately for the United States, the trial witness never returns--she runs away and doesn't let anyone know where she is. Afraid she may be in danger, afraid to lose a star witness, and believing that she might try to contact old friends, the gruff chief of police assigns the unlucky trio of Dreyfuss, Estevez and Donnell to watch the her old pals to see if she turns up.She eventually does, of course, but first we get some painfully unfunny buddy-buddy moments between Dreyfuss and Estevez and O'Donnell. She brings a bunch of clothing and a dog with her. They don't like it. Har-har. This was used a bit better in Spaceballs, in which Princess Vespa brought along that entire luggage through the desert (remember?). This is just a copy of that scene, minus the punch line.Estevez also shaves his mustache, which is supposed to be a type of sacred moment and is referenced at least ten times throughout the film (he goes to stroke his mustache, he complains about chopping it off, Dreyfuss complains about it, etc.). But for heaven's sake, he's only been in one film so far--we've only seen the mustache once--so a better thing to do would have been this make a few more sequels and, when the last entry comes, have him shave it off. By then the audience realizes that his mustache is part of him, and that losing it is like losing part of his soul.But I'm glad they didn't make any more than one sequel.One of the things that kept the Lethal Weapon franchise going was the fresh ideas, fresh buddies, and fresh scripts. (Great actors never hurt an action comedy, either.) The Stakeout franchise--which didn't even last long enough to spawn more than one sequel--tries to copy this formula but isn't sure how. The introduction of Joe Pesci in Lethal Weapon 2 was great because he thereby became the Third Stooge, whereas O'Donnell's entry into the series is nothing but a humiliating reminder that talk show hosts can't always act in front of a camera and maintain the same type of humor they may (or may not) exhibit on their (awful) TV talk show. (Which is, by the way, consumed of entirely staged so-called interviews.)And whereas Pesci, as Leo Getz, added a type of silly vibe to the LW series, O'Donnell just seems like a carbon copy clone of Estevez from the first Stakeout. Dreyfuss didn't like him at first, and--guess what--they suddenly became best buds. The same thing happens in the sequel, much to the audience's chagrin. Of course, Lethal Weapon and its sequels were never more than a few years apart (the first coming out in 1989, two years after the original). But Stakeout had six years to make a respectable sequel, and it fails. It fails the same way that many prolonged sequels do. But, for once, it's not because the audience has forgotten the original film--it's because the audience is fed up with the same routine.The film was directed by John Badham, which is surprising, since he's a talented director (Saturday Night Fever, The Hard Way, Stakeout). Here he jumps through all the hoops, turning his own series into a pale retread of the original--only watered down minus the violence, language, nudity, and humor. I'm not saying a movie has to be R to be funny. But if you've got a sequel to an R-rated movie like Stakeout and you decide to turn its sequel into a cutesy-tutesy children's entertainment program, you'd better advise the audience before they sit down expecting something funny and fresh.What a disappointment.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Another Stakeout deconstructs a genre and reinvigorates modern cinema!","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first time I saw Another Stakeout was on opening night back in 1993. I had just gone through a nasty divorce and was living out of my Saturn. And I was floored by this movie. As the final credits rolled I applauded so loudly and hard that I bruised the bone in my left palm and several movie goers murmured He must be drunk... I finally stood up and yelled You're drunk and stupid if you didn't get this masterpiece. I didn't leave the theater and sat there through three more consecutive showings. And I haven't looked back ever since.And with the exception of the one time I had a stroke while watching Another Stakeout and wasn't discovered for two days while I stared at a paused image of Dreyfuss and Estevez, I have enjoyed all 428 times I have seen this movie.This film isn't just funny, action packed and filled with characters we can relate to, it's a world we find ourselves wishing we could live in rather than the dark and nasty one we currently reside in. And though we quote the movie and dress up as characters from it every Halloween the sad truth is that the world doesn't work like Another Stakeout. When you watch someone through a window of their home you don't end up falling in love and there isn't a buddy next to you to crack wise with. The police show up and people yell and cry... Ordinarily I say to each his own when it comes to opinions about movies, but if you don't like AS 2 then you're not worth a cup of feces with a cigarette butt in it. "},{"Title":"Likable Sequel Chooses Comedy Over Action","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Director John Badham created a classic in the buddy action genre when he directed the original Stakeout. He blended gritty cop drama with fun action sequences, romance, and humor resulting in a unique and entertaining cinema experience. So what to do in the sequel? Badham wisely chose to make Another Stakeout it's own movie and not just a clone of the original. Had he simply remade the first movie the sequel probably would have been successful but soon forgotten about. Instead, the filmmakers go a different route. They downsize the action, grit, and romance while focusing on the humor. The three leads from Stakeout (Richard Dreyfus, Emilio Estevez, and Madeline Stowe) all return in this film. But this time around they are joined by funny lady Rosie O'Donnell. Madeline Stowe and the whole relationship storyline from the original take a back seat in this one. Even Estevez' role is trimmed down. This movie belongs entirely to Dreyfus and O'Donnell.The story here is pretty unimportant, but we will review it briefly. Bad guys are trying to silence an important witness played by Cathy Moriarty. Their plans to kill her fail but she disappears during the attempt. Cops Richard Dreyfus and Emilio Estevez are assigned to find the witness and stop the bad guys. They are joined by Assistand District Attorney Rosie O'Donnell. They take off to the mountains and rent a house in order to spy on Dennis Farina and Marcia Strassman in order to stop the bad guys. That is just about the entire story here. But the thin storyline is simply a premise for Dreyfus and O'Donnell to show off their comedic skills. And they come through in a big way. Everything in the film is built around humor, even the action scenes. For example, an early action sequence involving the chase for a murder suspect ends in tragedy. The suspect is killed by a witness with Dreyfus' gun. During this dramatic moment, Dreyfus looks down at his holster to see that his gun has been replaced by a dead fish. This is not a serious movie. It's a fun one.In the first movie, Badham's taut direction and thrilling action sequences took center stage. This time, the director let's Dreyfus and O'Donnell, along with some stunning cinematography, guide the film. The result is a non-complicated and fun movie that everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Location of Another Stakeout in British Columbia","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Having just seen Another Stakeout for the first time since 1995, I decided to check out the online info about the locations that were used in the movie and, so far, haven't seen any credit given for the island off the BC coast where most of the filming was done. It was filmed on beautiful Bowen Island, a 15 minute ferry trip from Horseshoe Bay, just to the northwest of Vancouver. The initial scenes involving driving off the ferry were done in Snug Cove (they substituted the name 'Bainbridge Island'), and most of the exterior and interior shots were on the south side of the island in an area called Fairweather where, as you saw or will see in the film, the homes are gorgeous and perfectly suited for the plot (however meager you thought it to be). I've seen a number of comments about the filming having been done on an island in Puget Sound. A lot was shot in Seattle, but the majority was on Bowen Island - I should know - I was living there at the time. Just thought I'd set the record straight. (You can see the homes used for filming clearly on Google Earth, if you're interested.) "},{"Title":"Emilio's stakeout","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" first off I thought the movie was very funny , Emilio Estevez once again is very good,, Richard Dreyfus was OK,, I liked Miguel Ferrer's part as the hit-man assigned to the case. Rosie o donell on the other hand I just had to tune out, boy she can really get annoying. Dennis Farina on the other hand was very fun to watch , and had some good one liners to boot.. the plot isn't that bad,, state has to make a case,, the main witness is almost blown to pieces and proceeds to hideout somewhere far away,, but not far enough that our bad guys can't find her without some help.. some of the movie has flaws sure,, but I think mainly that it was made for laughs, and not so much plot points or stuff like that,, if there was a diff leading lady other than Rosie I would have rated it higher for sure. "},{"Title":"OK, Comedy thriller sequel to 'Stakeout' (1987)   *** out of  *****","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've not seen the original movie so I don't know how this sequel compares in comparison, but on it's own merits, 'Another Stakeout' isn't too bad and actually quite enjoyable, despite Rosie O'Donnell getting on my nerves throughout.Richard Dreyfuss & Emilio Estevez play DET.Chris Leece & DET.Bill Reimers respectively and are joined by 'comic-relief' Assistant D.A Gina Garrett played by the universally annoying Rosie O'Donnell along with her Rottweiller pet dog as all three are staking out a lakeside home on a remote Island, where a Mafia trial witness is supposed to be going to, so as cover they pretend to be Husband,Wife & son with 'hilarious' results.... The comedy is absolutely dire and does jar with the occasional bouts of violence.co-starring Dennis Farina & Miguel Ferrerall in all not a great film by any means but worth watching if you've nothing better to do*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"LOVED this movie...it is in my all-time top 10 favorites","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Reading others comments on Another Stakeout, I can't believe we watched the same film. It is one of our family's favorite movies. It's not deep or meaningful, but when you talk about sheer comedic genius while at the same time having a well-paced drama, with some of the best performances I've seen from these actors, well, we call this one a winner.While not quite The Fugitive, it has the same sense of story, suspicion and climax. Yes, the explosion is a bit over-the-top (viewed several times from different angles) but the bad guy is really bad, and the good guys really hilarious. Rosie O'Donnell gives, imho, a FABULOUS performance, and the dog is such a perfect touch! My favorite scene? No, Archie...not the bunny Archie... and then her warbled scream...perfection. I think those who said nasty things just don't appreciate some other aspect of her life, as it's certainly not her acting ability.The cops are wonderful, and the lines so funny you'd swear most of it is ad-lib. Take my advice if you're in the mood for something dramatic, but funny...this is it. When we get together during those rare times now when our entire family is together, it's the one film we can count on that everyone will like, and we've all seen it at least thirty times.Not for kids under about 13 without adult supervision, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Such a fine enjoyable movie!","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't ask me why but when I was younger I would often watch this movie and the first one; Stakeout. Of those two movies this is the one that has always stayed most in my mind.Basically this movie is just great entertainment. Like all those type of movies from that period there isn't much to the story and the movie is all about its characters and actors playing them. Compare it to the 'Lethal Weapon' movies, minus all of the action.This movie does have some fine characters and actors portraying them. Even better is the chemistry they all have. Richard Dreyfuss form Emilio Estevez a great 'buddy' cop duo and Rosie O'Donnell is also a fine addition to the two, basically since she is such a fine comedy actress. It also sort of makes you wonder why Richard Dreyfuss hasn't appeared in more comedy roles. He obviously has the talent and certainly the right timing for it. Guess he better wants to be remembered as a 'serious' actor and who can really blame him for that. The movie further more features Dennis Farina, Miguel Ferrer and Madeleine Stowe.The movie is filled with some great comedy moments. that mostly, again, work out due to the characters and actors of the movie. The movie has some guaranteed laughs and make this a perfect typical 'no worries' movie. Just sit back and enjoy watching it!It also shows that John Badham is actually a fine genre director! The timing is great and the pace, editing and positioning all make sure that the comedy in the movie works out even better.It's too bad that the story just mostly distracts from the movie and its humor. It's just not anything solid, interesting or something that hasn't been done before. But then again, this is all quite typical for the genre and time period it was made in. Basically if you enjoyed one or more of the 'Lethal Weapons' movies, you'll surely enjoy this movie as well.Guess the movie could had impressed some more by putting in some more and bigger action. The movie now feels quite simple and cheaply made at times, which at times becomes distracting but overall doesn't take away any of the fun of the movie.Great entertainment!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Another Stakeout, Another Hidden Cinematic Gem","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before we get started, a little caveat for the reader this may not be the easiest film to find. Your standard video rental outlets will be hit or miss, as well as libraries. Your best bet will be an online rental service or a strong and fervent prayer. But if you ask me, it is worth it. You may also be scratching your head at the biographical information above. Why should you care about a 1993 sequel to a forgettable buddy cop flick?Simple. It is a great film. Not only has it obviously influenced many contemporary films, but it also trumps these films on a variety of levels. Allow me to elaborate&#133;Prior to Another Stakeout, John Badham made a handful a good films (Wargames, Short Circuit). Shortly thereafter he helmed an unfortunate number of Hollywood films (American Flyers, Point of No Return) that may be considered guilty pleasures at best. He was also called upon by fellow director Peter Jackson to head up the second unit on all three Lord of the Rings films but declined. So what is the point of this little history lesson? Hollywood kills good directors (John Woo and Sam Raimi, prime examples).But, I digress. Despite the a lackluster couple of decades, John Badham does have a grand if only marginally well known legacy in Another Stakeout. Science fiction and horror fans will recognize and appreciate the premise; Detective Chris Lecce (Richard Dreyfuss) wakes up one day, goes through the motions like any and every other day, and slowly realizes that he is, inexplicably, on another stakeout. The scenario plays out basically as is expected but it is the manner of the presentation and plotting that make it remarkable.The film ultimately has only three characters, whose dynamic, touches on Alfred Hitchcock and Shakespeare without any pretense. Chris' subtle and deliberate decline into the reality of his new position in the world leads to him swinging from disbelief to depression to mania to megalomania to acceptance and back to disbelief. The storytelling and character interaction allow for empathy without distraction and the science fiction elements are beautifully woven into the fabric of the drama so that the one doesn't overshadow the other.There are several mysteries involved in the story that are revealed with wonderful precision by the director through a series of well placed flashbacks and the subtlety of mood and movement, but you'll have to find the film and watch it to understand the full glory.This is not a flashy film. It is however a master stroke. It is unfortunate that this film has all but vanished into obscurity, along with its director but they both still exist and there's always a second wind. Always. "}{"Title":"Not bad - But could have done without Rosie","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This belated sequel to the Box-office hit 'Stakeout' 6 years earlier is not bad - it's lifted by the performances of returning stars Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez (What happened to him?) But this time round the plot is lame to the extreme and the jokes fall flat time and time again making this movie about as funny as Scary Movie 2, and the casting of Rosie O'Donnell was a big mistake.Stakeout (1987) U.S BOX OFFICE $65,000,000This movie just scraped over the $20,000,000 mark and you can see why.If there's nothing else on TV - I do recommend a watch but don't be surprised if you looking at the OFF switch after the first 30 MinutesMy Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"'Bad' is a compliment","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another reviewer said there's a caveat to this film. It's hard to find. Hard, maybe. Impossible, alas, no. Hubby found it, more's the pity.I saw the first Stakeout. It was not bad. Not brilliant, but quite watchable. I am very wary about sequels and rot like Stakeout 2 is the reason. The makers of this film hit on every single cliché with dismal regularity from the dysfunctional married couple/family to the 'clever woman who kicks dumb men @$$' (hah, hah, hah), to toilet humor, they didn't leave one out. Not one. I don't know who told these guys that people shouting their heads off at each other is funny, but he certainly told them to pitch it strong. The only reason I'm going on is that I cannot submit a review less than ten lines long. Oh, and to add insult to injury, Rosie O'Donnell is in this mess, in all her loud, shrill obnoxiousness (can she be anything else?).Give this one a pass, do your brain cells a favor. Do your laundry, walk your dog, watch the grass on your lawn grow. Anything, but avoid this (bleep). "},{"Title":"Another Stakeout","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" So you made a film back in the day and it was a success both at the cinema and videoshop. The two stars of the movie are still big and can still pull in an audience, you yourself now have some swing within Hollywood and lets be honest...you need a new project to keep your career on a high-ish. What better way to do that than completely rehashing your successful movie by...errr completely remaking it all over again but in a different location and with a new star (for the time) to the roster.Yep so the plot is virtually the same as the first movie, no shame here folks. The dynamic duo are back again and instructed to go on another stakeout in a nice woody lakeside well to do area. They are watching out for a witness against the mafia (after a botched assassination) who may or may not be coming to this lovely house. But the funny thing is...wait for it...this time they have a female DA officer along with them to play husband and wife with Dreyfuss. That's not all, she's brought her huge rottweiler along too...ey up we're in for some mighty big laughs now! Did I mention the new DA officer is Rosie O'Donnell? well there you go. I ask you...can you think of anything better than this? really...how can this not be funny?Oh wait...its not funny in the slightest. Everything here has been dumbed down and made more family friendly basically, not that the original movie was an adult movie but this is just childish. Most of the plot now revolves around how silly this family unit can be with Estevez as the son, Dreyfuss as the dad and O'Donnell as the mum. Every scene is pretty much an embarrassing bumbling slapstick comedy routine with infantile dialog and clichéd predictable visual gags...some of which naturally revolve around the big dog. Literately nothing happens for the majority of the movie until the final long dinner sequence where there is lots more awful dialog. Heck even the action (if you can even call it that...which you can't) is weak as f*ck, its virtually a children's movie at times.Dreyfuss character seems to have been somewhat neutered this time around and doesn't have the same zest as before. Yes he is obviously an older character but the plot doesn't allow him to do anything. The same goes for Estevez, in the first movie he was pretty much a sidekick, here he has a little more to do admittedly but again its very lame and uninteresting really. Its nice to see Ferrer playing a bad guy again, haven't seen that for awhile, blast from the past. The only problem being like everything else its a very tame watered down role which has absolutely no bite about it. The bad guys in this movie are so uneventful I can hardly bring myself to call them bad guys, they're just a bit naughty and they wear black. As for O'Donnell well this was another time wasn't it, a different ear where O'Donnell was actually kinda big (in both senses...zing!). I guess she adds to the humour at times but her character just comes across like this sequel...not required, horseshoed in, crowbarred in, forced and pointless.I really don't know what Badham was trying to do here, you could have a sequel to this but going down this route was a huge error. Basically remaking it with one extra cop for comedy relief...oh and a big dog...pfft! I mean really, who wants to see Dreyfuss' character have relationship issues (again) with Stowe (from the first movie, must have needed rent money) whilst staking out Dennis Farina who does nothing. Then in the background Estevez is constantly moaning about having to shave his moustache off which appears to be the movies main gag. This literately is like watching an actual stakeout where nothing actually happens, I'm boring myself writing this!2/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible, may I add abysmal, imitation of a comedy","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed Stakeout; this sequel sullies whatever value the first had with implausibility, silly attempts at humor, and a plot line that never finds its way to a satisfying conclusion--if you can even call what this abomination of a script would qualify as a plot. The acting is stilted, forced and unimaginative. Nonsensical would be a good definition of the so-called plot. I will not detail a line-for-line analysis of this flick (it would be a travesty to call it a film) as it would be just as much of a waste of time as watching it in the first place robbed me of an hour-and-a-half of my life. The director, John Badham (certainly an appropriate last name in this case) must have been on something--he certainly wasn't on Bainbridge Island when it was filmed, as I have seen several of his films from the '70s and they weren't bad. Not great, but not bad either. If you trust the clowns who wrote glowing reviews of this turkey, well, then it's your own fault. I've done what I can to warn you away. "},{"Title":"Almost watchable sequel","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is another movie from the long list of 90's sequels to great 80's movies. Well , the first one wasn't maybe a great movie,but it was a charming and likable good action comedy. This one tries hard to capture the freshness of the original and like many sequels fails.The story is basically the same as in the first one . The difference is that Madeleine Stowe is reduced to 5 minutes. Instead we have unwanted Rosie O Donell who works this time with Emilio Estevez and Richard Dreyfuss . On the other hand it was nice to see Dennis Farina (TV series Crime story) , Miguel Ferrer (Robocop) and Archie the dog is cute.Speaking of Estevez , boy he was trying hard to achieve any kind of success with his franchises ( The Stakeout , Young guns and The Mighty ducks) it's kinda sad that he didn't succeeded. Estevez and Dreyfuss have good chemistry as before and really are giving their best in their performances.There is not a lot of what I can say about this movie . The movie definitely tries to be funny , but the jokes fall flat . There are some funny moments . It's not a terrible movie , it's almost watchable , but if you haven't seen it you aren't really missing anything . Stick to the original in my opinion.I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"The Thrill Is Gone","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Six years after the first Stakeout (1987), cameras catch detectives Richard Dreyfuss (as Chris Lecce) and Emilio Estevez (as Bill Reimers) on another mission. It's nowhere near as good as the first. The format is similar. We begin with an action-packed opening. In Las Vegas, mobsters want to kill Cathy Moriarty (as Luella Lu Delano) because she's going to testify against them. This leads to the explosion of what appears to be a small town. Police search the rubble, but can't find Ms. Moriarty...They think the missing woman is going to contact a couple - Dennis Farina and Marcia Strassman (as Brian and Pam O'Hara) - so Mr. Dreyfuss and Mr. Estevez are recruited to pose as neighbors...Madeline Stowe (as Maria), from the first film, appears only sporadically and her chemistry with Dreyfuss is gone. The crime and criminals being investigated are confusing. To make the ruse more realistic, assistant district attorney Rosie O'Donnell (as Gina Garrett) is added to the mix. Accompanied by her rottweiler Archie, Ms. O'Donnell pretends to be Dreyfuss' second wife and Estevez' step-mother. It's a funny situation, providing this sequel with a little freshness. Otherwise, the story is stale.***** Another Stakeout (7/23/93) John Badham ~ Richard Dreyfuss, Emilio Estevez, Rosie O'Donnell, Dennis Farina "},{"Title":"Nice early-90s comedy","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie really surprised me. After reading a bunch of really degrading reviews of this movie, I wasn't expecting much. So when I realized that Hey, this movie actually has some good points and that it really is funny, I felt compelled to write a review here to inform others who enjoy these comedies, that this movie really is great.Spoilers beneath this line.The movie starts out with a giant explosion, that lasts around one minute. It is exaggerated to the point where it is actually just funny, which I believe is intentional... why else would they use a septic tank truck to blow the house up? Afterwards, an important witness protected by the police is missing from the crime scene (her body doesn't turn up). It is then up to our two friends from Stakeout 1 (Estevez & Dreyfuss) to have a stakeout at a house next to some friends of the missing witness, in case she is hiding there. But they have to have an annoying female partner with them, who does anything to irritate and destroy their mission, although well meaning. As the movie plays out, the only thing that annoys me is that they have removed Richard Dreyfuss' mustache - it really fits with his character from Stakeout 1. They did however remove Emilio Estevez' mustache without it actually making the big difference - he still looked like a kid with it.If you enjoyed the jokes from Stakeout, and also like comedies of the late 80s and early 90s, then Another Stakeout is just up your alley. "},{"Title":"How Can Great Actors Accept Such Poor Roles?","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was so bad! Even fast forwarding I couldn't get through it fast enough, in 15 minute segments. HELP! The first Stakeout was fair at best, at least I watched it all the way through, but still a waste of time.An academy award winner like Richard Dreyfuss (Goodbye Girl), and a superb actor Emilio Estevez (The Breakfast Club & Judgment Night), and Rosie O'Donnell (who knows, who cares), trying to be funny, didn't work.However for the two male greats, this movie was so below them, why did they do it? Yes, it's probably hard to really know what a movie will be like before doing it, but once was enough with this movie. It was just another flopped squeal. Smart Actors like Richard Dreyfuss, and Emilio Estevez should have known better.Now they have to live with this one on their resumes'. Oh well glad it's not mine.Don't waste your time, get out Close Encounters, or Judgment Night, if you are looking for real entertainment. "},{"Title":"Dreyfuss and Estevez still have charm, but it can't save the movie.","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez retain their chemistry from Stakeout, but the script and casting sink this formula sequel. Rosie O' Donnell can't act well. Somehow Madonna and her made it work in A League of Their Own, but almost nothing else either has done is worth watching. She drags this movie down. The script relies too much on the dog and the unhappy triumvirate. The subplot of Maria and Chris getting married falls flat, because we know they will. Madeleine Stowe, Miguel Ferrer(Robocop), Dennis Farina(Out of Sight, Manhunter), Cathy Moriarty(Raging Bull), and Marcia Strassman(Honey, I Shrunk the Kids) are all wasted with only bad writing to comfort them. This movie might catch your attention when it plays and nothing else is on, but the original has everything good this has and a little more. "},{"Title":"why its my favourite comedy","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another Stakeout is a fantastic movie. It's funny and the acting is quite good. Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez were great together-acting like partners. The house exploding at the beginning was more funny than realistic, it was so long that you could just about go and get a drink and still be back before the end of it. I have seen this film so many times and it is still hilarious every time. It is definitely worth watching on the telly or even hiring it from the video shop. The banter between Dreyfuss and Estevez makes the movie what it is, in other words brilliant. Look out for the conversation about Ren and Stimpy, the bit when Dreyfuss deliberately falls over and says to someone Frank don't go, you can stay and help me eat, it is so funny. If you haven't seen this film it's you who's lost out. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Emelio Estevez' best work","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What a hidden treasure this movie is! Quite possibly the best sequel ever, though that MIGHT be a toss-up with Godfather 2.Richard Dreyfus is always a solid actor, but his work here really deserved an Oscar.Emelio Estevez might be best known for being Charlie Sheen's sane brother, but check out this movie and you'll be a life long Estevez fan, like I am.Of course, it goes without saying that this is the movie that made Rosie O'Donnell. Before this film, she was just a bit player. A stand-up comedienne. But this is where she made her mark. Even Donald Trump would agree that she's genius in this near-masterpiece of a movie. "},{"Title":"No energy or fun","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When a witness against the Mafia goes missing Chris and Bill are sent to stakeout a place where she may turn up.  However this time they're joined by Agent Gina Garrett and her dog.  Despite their childish behaviour things will soon turn serious for the cops.The first film was light, silly, unlikely but quite enjoyable and this one continues in a similar vein &#150; albeit less successfully.  The main failing is that the plot is the same as the first one and hence feels less fresh.  On top of that we have cliché on top of cliché to add to the stale feel.  The film is so desperate to repeat the first one that we even get Stowe roped back in on the side.  The jokes are pretty tired and the action is quite tame overall the end result is not terrible but mediocre.Dreyfuss and Estevez had good fun in the first film but here they look like they're collecting the cheque.  They are still OK but you can see they're going through the motions a bit.  O'Donnell should be sentenced to daytime TV forever &#150; how can one person be so very brash and annoying?  She sucks any lightness out of this film and is really irritating.  Farina is good as is Moriarty (but it's a long cry from Raging Bull isn't it?), Ferrer turns in yet another bad guy role and is always value.Overall this is barely entertaining.  It doesn't feel fresh and this cheapens it &#150; the fact that the comedy is weak and that O'Donnell is like a curse from Hell makes it even worse.  Stick with the first film &#150; it's not a masterpiece but at least it's got energy. "},{"Title":"Another Stakeout","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" So you made a film back in the day and it was a success both at the cinema and videoshop. The two stars of the movie are still big and can still pull in an audience, you yourself now have some swing within Hollywood and lets be honest...you need a new project to keep your career on a high-ish. What better way to do that than completely rehashing your successful movie by...errr completely remaking it all over again but in a different location and with a new star (for the time) to the roster.Yep so the plot is virtually the same as the first movie, no shame here folks. The dynamic duo are back again and instructed to go on another stakeout in a nice woody lakeside well to do area. They are watching out for a witness against the mafia (after a botched assassination) who may or may not be coming to this lovely house. But the funny thing is...wait for it...this time they have a female DA officer along with them to play husband and wife with Dreyfuss. That's not all, she's brought her huge rottweiler along too...ey up we're in for some mighty big laughs now! Did I mention the new DA officer is Rosie O'Donnell? well there you go. I ask you...can you think of anything better than this? really...how can this not be funny?Oh wait...its not funny in the slightest. Everything here has been dumbed down and made more family friendly basically, not that the original movie was an adult movie but this is just childish. Most of the plot now revolves around how silly this family unit can be with Estevez as the son, Dreyfuss as the dad and O'Donnell as the mum. Every scene is pretty much an embarrassing bumbling slapstick comedy routine with infantile dialog and clichéd predictable visual gags...some of which naturally revolve around the big dog. Literately nothing happens for the majority of the movie until the final long dinner sequence where there is lots more awful dialog. Heck even the action (if you can even call it that...which you can't) is weak as f*ck, its virtually a children's movie at times.Dreyfuss character seems to have been somewhat neutered this time around and doesn't have the same zest as before. Yes he is obviously an older character but the plot doesn't allow him to do anything. The same goes for Estevez, in the first movie he was pretty much a sidekick, here he has a little more to do admittedly but again its very lame and uninteresting really. Its nice to see Ferrer playing a bad guy again, haven't seen that for awhile, blast from the past. The only problem being like everything else its a very tame watered down role which has absolutely no bite about it. The bad guys in this movie are so uneventful I can hardly bring myself to call them bad guys, they're just a bit naughty and they wear black. As for O'Donnell well this was another time wasn't it, a different ear where O'Donnell was actually kinda big (in both senses...zing!). I guess she adds to the humour at times but her character just comes across like this sequel...not required, horseshoed in, crowbarred in, forced and pointless.I really don't know what Badham was trying to do here, you could have a sequel to this but going down this route was a huge error. Basically remaking it with one extra cop for comedy relief...oh and a big dog...pfft! I mean really, who wants to see Dreyfuss' character have relationship issues (again) with Stowe (from the first movie, must have needed rent money) whilst staking out Dennis Farina who does nothing. Then in the background Estevez is constantly moaning about having to shave his moustache off which appears to be the movies main gag. This literately is like watching an actual stakeout where nothing actually happens, I'm boring myself writing this!2/10 "},{"Title":"Potential Franchise Ruined By Watered Down Sequel","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez are back on stakeout duty, six years after the original 80's classic Stakeout This time though the magic is missing for what I believe is two core reasons.The first is, this movie does not focus on the natural chemistry between Dreyfuss and Estevez that made the first movie so enjoyable. instead they are teamed up with Rosie O'Donnell. The introduction of Joe Pesci in Lethal Weapon 2 was great because he thereby became the Third Stooge, and the trio worked well. Unfortunately Estevez is pretty much relegated to supporting character and it becomes the Dreyfuss & O'Donnell show. I'm not saying it is O'Donnell's fault she is OK, and does the best with what she has.I mention Lethal Weapon because the first movie in that franchise was released the same year as Stakeout and it's sequel followed two years later. If this movie was made two years after the original, we would have gotten a movie more in tone with the gritty at times, yet funny original. As it is we get a watered down PG version. And that I believe is the second problem.The first movie had violence, language, nudity, and humour. This has O'Donnell and her naughty dog chasing cats. I'm not saying a movie has to be rated R to be funny. But if you've got a sequel to a classic buddy cop movie coming six years later, you need to get it right. Sadly they don't. If they went down the Lethal Weapon route (They dumbed down the third one, but not to this extent) I believe Stakeout could have been a Franchise, unfortunately we, got a great 80's movie, and a disappointing sequel.If it's on TV on an lazy afternoon, it's worth a watch, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Inferior sequel but worth seeing due to Dreyfuss and Estevez buddy partnership.","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another Stakeout, sequel of 1987's hit Stakeout, has Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez playing pranksters cops Chris and Bill once again and doing another stakeout. But this time their mission of finding a mob witness (Cathy Moriarty) who might be hiding at the house of some important people, includes a new partner an attorney (Rosie O'Donnell) who'll be commanding the situation much to their despair, who'll have to pretend to be a real nice family while spying on their neighbors.Almost needless to say this is a completely inferior sequel to its exciting predecessor but still a good movie. Stakeout was great because it was darker, very tense, and the jokes and humored situations were dead on. It's intriguing that the villains there (two runaway convicts) were far more terrifying than the gangster, the false prosecutor and the sniper (Miguel Ferrer) altogether in this version. I think people at Disney only read the reviews that focused on how terrific the humor were in there, and decided to wipe any traces of violence only focusing on the funny side of the story. What we have here is a good comedy filled with laughter, and tiny doses of action, shots and explosions, relatively interesting, never so thrilling. Chris's marital problems with Maria (played by an uncredited Madeleine Stowe, also from the 1st movie), the priceless jokes on Bill's mustache and the dinner made for the neighbors are part of its warming and hysterical moments. The trio definitely has good chemistry. It should be a little more fast-paced when it comes to action, and trimmed down with the humored bits. It's very simple to follow yet when they try to complicate the plot they end up creating a strange plot hole towards its conclusion. But that's OK. I guess...Anyway, lots of fun but a little disappointing, and yes, I have to say that again, because the first one is awesome. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excruciating - rarely do comedies come as bad as this.","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have this idea of police stakeouts being tiring, laborious things; endless hours, even days, of waiting and waiting for the slightest thing which may not even be of any necessity. I imagine a figure at the forefront of these investigations of immense patience, perhaps a rough but almost always methodical looking individual with the ability to sit and stare; to sit and watch; to ride the storm of sometimes absolutely nothing at all if it means wading out of the other end with something that'll help in the long run. Alas, 1993's Another Stakeout seems to think otherwise; an often loud, often brash and almost constantly unfunny movie dealing with the above like a Looney Tunes cartoon would the issue of hunting rabbits.The film is the sequel to a fun buddy comedy from a few years previously; a film entitled Stakeout, and, if like me, you use minimal effort to read into where the brainstorming started in order to come up with such a title for this second film, you'll probably deduce that a third entry would've read something like YET Another Stakeout. Such a title, albeit hypothetical to a film that does not exist, conjures up a sense of the laborious; of the necessary although undesirable, and therein we deduce the gradual arc of the nature of both where these films MAY have gone, and where we're at with this particular entry. At the core of it is this comedic black hole is a threesome consisting of Rosie O'Donnell; Emile Estevez and Richard Dreyfuss. Veterans of the first Stakeout film will identify two of the said three, Estevez and Dreyfuss, who respectively played police officers Bill Reimers and Chris Lecce. Veterans will also recall how well they combined in the middle of a tale which very gradually built into a menacing reality as Dreyfuss' character underwent a few changes in regards to his attitudes towards women and the true extent of their actual case blew wide open.These three are called upon to watch over a specific house in an easy-on-the-eye locale in the American city of Seattle; the reason being that it is home to a missing young woman named Luella Delano (Moriarty), whose testimony to an ugly recent incident involving innocents and police officers in Las Vegas caught up in a killing spree is paramount in nailing some crooks. In the meantime, however, the residence houses her parents Dennis Farina's Brian O'Hara and his wife Pam (Strassman). The set up is simple if she turns up at her family home, then the police have her and those who instigated the aforementioned Nevada chaos go down. But all of this is largely irrelevant for the duration of the film, as our leads slot into a facade of being the new next door neighbours and begin to engage in a series of wacky encounters built purely on the fact O'Donnell has brought her dog along with her and that Dreyfuss is a little miffed at being framed as his co-workers' husband/son as cover. There is a moment where the pseudo family are invited over for dinner, in what should be a centrepiece of comedy running on binary opposition and falsified stories (from both sides) as the O'Hara's try to cover up their daughter's situation and our leads disguise their policing backgrounds. But it runs aground; it doesn't get going. It begins to rely on that sharp pain one gets in the head when one devours ice cream too quickly.Depressingly, the film goes on to undo all of the good work from the first. Gone are the lessons Dreyfuss learnt, his relationship with Madeleine Stowe's Maria character, of whom was central to the stakeout in the first, is on the brink of terminating and Dreyfuss comes across as all of a sudden obnoxious and unlikeable. Gone too is any sort of rapport between the leads, with the majority of it just three people in a room shouting at each other. Where things worked in the first film, things collapse two-fold here; the sense that these people are at all qualified police officers worthy of the job they're on is suddenly all-but-lost, while the producer's decision to throw in O'Donnell reeks of a panic whereby going bigger and better is suddenly the solution to a problem that never existed.If ever there was an opportunity for a film of this ilk to drive forward with drama and heightened tension, it would be in a situation whereby the restricted view of an area we're aware the importance of is at the forefront of proceedings. In this scenario, a sense of cinema relies on facial expressions; the image and, if anything, a LACK of dialogue so as to not distract from the ensuing drama. One's mind boggles at a certain scene whereby Estevez charts the bathroom habits of his newly acquired targets, talking to himself in the process and using specific buzzwords more broadly linked to these excretal activities. It is quite incredible that a fully grown adult was even responsible for the construction of the sequence. And so, the film is a rank failure; one of those rare instances whereby the psychopath who pops up at the end to kill everyone actually gets our vote of approval to just do away with everyone. 2007 German film The Lives of Others was a pinnacle of sorts in its depiction of this clandestine world of observing and reporting; of swimming through the trouble of a delicate scenario; of getting under the skin and into the heads of those directly involved in both the observer and the observed. Here, Another Stakeout is the playground humour-ridden mess taking a premise not too dissimilar to the above and turning it into a recipe for unfunny chaos. "},{"Title":"Better than you would expect... if you don't expect much.","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For a fluffy, middle-tier, buddy-cop action comedy. This movie is great. The comedy is truly funny, Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez work perfectly together and the story-line is just enough to keep you in your seat. Unfortunately, Rosie O'Donnell doesn't add much to it but you can't have a sequel without adding a character or it's just the same movie all over again.Besides his stature, Richard Dreyfuss is a damn good portrayer of a cop in a comedy. His mannerisms, his comedic timing, all the aspects required for the role seem to come easy to him but he's just too small a man to be throwing punches at guys twice his size in height and in girth. Unfortunate really, although I'm pretty sure he'd rather be remembered for his dramatic works anyhow...Basically, this is pretty much exactly what you would expect from a sequel to the original. A slightly less enjoyable effort with the same comedic buddy-cop pairing with the same adequate but not ground-breaking story-line. Lots of fun if you're not expecting anything you haven't seen before.But that's just my two scents. ;) "},{"Title":"Quite a solid sequel actually, that's pretty entertaining, Dreyfuss and Estevez are both awesome together once again, however Rosie O'Donnell annoyed me for the most part!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is quite a solid sequel actually for the most part, that's pretty entertaining, Dreyfuss and Estevez are both awesome together once again, however Rosie O'Donnell annoyed me for the most part!. All the characters are cool for the most part, and the story is funny, plus Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez are simply amazing in this!. It's just as good as the 1st, and it's well made and written too, plus Rosie only managed to make me laugh a couple of times, rest of the time she grated me. I wish they gave Madeleine Stowe more screen time because she's awesome!, and the rating was way too low in my opinion, plus Miguel Ferrer is decent as the villain. The funniest moment in the film for me is when Rosie brings a good looking guy home and Dreyfuss pretends to be her father, and The dinner scene was also a riot too, plus it also has some good serious moments as well. It's often exciting, and I really liked the ending too as it made me smile, plus it was funny how the people next door thought Dreyfuss, Emilio and Rosie were psychotic!. This is quite a solid sequel actually, that's pretty entertaining, Dreyfuss and Estevez were awesome together once again, however Roise O'Donnell annoyed me for the most part, still I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. John Badham does another great! job here with solid camera work, good angles and keeping the film funny and at a fast pace. The Acting is lots of fun!.Richard Dreyfuss is amazing here once again, he was hilarious, had brilliant chemistry with Estevez,seemed to be having a lot of fun, and could have gone just for the paycheck but instead gave it his all, as I appreciated that! (Dreyfuss Rules!!). Emilio Estevez is amazing as always and is amazing her,he is also hilarious, very likable stole some of the scenes, seemed to be enjoying himself, and it was so funny when things kept him from sleeping! (Estevez Rules!!!!!!!). Rosie O'Donnell annoyed me here for the most part, as her voice grated me and so did she,I do not find her funny at all, as she brought the film down just a little bit. Cathy Moriarty is OK in her role and nothing more. Dennis Farina and Marcia Strassman are amusing as the disturbed neighbors. Miguel Ferrer is good as the villain, not enough screen time though. Madeline Stowe is great in her cameo, I wish they gave her more scenes though. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An enjoyable, fun movie.OK, it's not as good as Stakeout. I understand that anyone who has seen the original will be a little disappointed by this sequel, but if the original had never been made I think this film would have been well received by the audience. I suspect it would have done pretty well at the box office, but would not have been the big hit that Stakeout was.There are those who criticise the presence (and performance) of Rosie O'Donnell, and blame political correctness for her insertion into the plot. There is no doubt something to that, but personally I didn't find her performance, or the character that she played, objectionable. She was fine in the context of the movie.One thing that did bug me, however, was Maria - the pivotal female role in the first film.The first problem was that Maria made such a brief (and inconsequential) appearance in the sequel. Her presence and impact in the first film was so great that she really should have had a much stronger role to play in the story. That was disappointing.The second problem with Maria was that I didn't recognise the actress that played her. Watching the movie, I assumed they had replaced the original actress because she was unavailable. Maybe that was the reason they gave the character such a small part to play. But why didn't they use an hispanic actress in the role? It might be just me, but having a non-hispanic actress replacing an hispanic actress in an hispanic role detracted from the movie.I was therefore extremely surprised to later learn that the role of Maria had been played by the same actress in both movies. Admittedly, it had been a long time for me between viewing the first and second films, but my memory couldn't be that bad, surely?The answer was that Madeleine Stowe, who played Maria, wore hispanic makeup in the first film but didn't do so in the second. Doubtless politically correct dictates made it unacceptable for actresses to black-up by the time the second film was made. Extremely strange, since the actress is half Costa Rican, and is therefore (presumably) half-Hispanic in real life. Still, who said political correctness had anything to do with reality or practicality? A disappointing feature of the film that was an unnecessary distraction.Still, minor quibbles apart, Another Stakeout is an enjoyable and entertaining movie.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A great sequel - well worth watching.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you liked the first one (and who didn't?) then this second romp with Emilio and Richard will be just your cup of tea.  The inside jokes rekindled from the first film are great.  The plot is sound, lines cleverly delivered, and even Rosie doesn't screw it up - believe it or not.  Like Lethal Weapon, they could really keep making these flicks. Well worth a go around if you like a perfect mix of action, suspense, and comedy.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie, one of the best sequels ever","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What's not to love? Dreyfuss, Estevez and O'Donnell all in prime comedic form, taking the buddy cop genre to a whole new level. Rosie paved the way for the likes of Joe Pesci and Chris Rock as being the 3rd or 4th wheel in that other (inferior) buddy cop series. And with classic lines like, Cover me, I'm taking a bath., this is truly film-making at its finest.Dreyfuss might be better remembered for roles in movies such as Close Encounters, Jaws and What About Bob, this is the role that truly defines him as an actor, a comedian and as an American. Estevez is great in sequels, as Young Guns II, D2 The Mighty Ducks and Another Stakeout are all the superior movie in the series they are in. And it was on the heels of this great performance that he hosted one of the funniest Saturday Night Lives I've ever seen. I believe that this was the apex of Rosie's acting career. After roles in A League of their Own and Sleepless in Seattle, I didn't think she could do any more... but I was wrong, she had enough in her tank for one more amazing performance before her career tail-spinned into obscure talk shows and publicized beefs with Donald Trump.The writing, directing and acting in this movie are all superb, and I was shocked that this movie wasn't nominated for any academy awards!If you haven't seen this movie, rent it today... it will make you laugh, cry (from laughing), and all the emotions in between! "},{"Title":"A great comedy follow-up!","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is not as bad as everyone seems to make out! Granted, you do have to look past certain elements, i.e. Rosie O'Donnell (the movie-killer) and the lack of a hugely complex story-line. But after watching the first film you should know that that is not exactly what you're going to get.What you do know you're going to get however is a performance by one of the most under-rated double-acts in cinema history. Dreyfuss & Estevez deliver solid gold comedy throughout with impeccable timing, (it really is faultless!). There are so many one-liners and brilliant comedy scenes in this film not only provided by the dynamic duo, but casting Dennis Farina was also a master-stroke.I love the way that Badham in both films, manages to inter-weave the comedy with what looks from the outset to be a serious action drama.As comedy-lovers we have to look past the weaker parts of the film and concentrate on the fact that the comedy aspect of this film is brilliant if not slightly under-used! "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As They Make It Out To Be","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was a nice follow-up to the classic Stakeout. Many reviewers seem to feel it's a typical sequel that doesn't live up to the predecessor. Yes, I'll admit, there were a couple of off moments, but overall the film is just as good as the original. The jokes and the banter are still funny and the situations they get in are hilarious. Probably the best indication of that is the opening chase after the story set-up. A lot of people also seem to say the premise of the movie is also a rehash of the first. It's a movie about a STAKEOUT. They don't get that much variation. You set up somewhere, you observe, you make the collar. The only thing that changes are the names and locations. Although these movies are a lot more fun that REAL stakeouts, they certainly keep the feeling. "},{"Title":"Stakeout another movie","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another Stakeout is a good funny movie to watch. If you like the movie Stakeout. You will like this movie. The combination of Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez from Stakeout is back. Richard Dreyfuss, Emilio Estevez, and Rosie O'Donnell do make it work and makes this movie hilarious. Dennis Farina and Marcia Strassman do a great job as the O'Haras. You will get plenty of laughs from this movie. Using the setting of the Seattle area was great. I am from the area. And the country side is beautiful. A lot of movies are being over here. Becomes of the variety of different country side. One will not regret watching this movie. "},{"Title":"It is a stupid movie","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am appalled by the dumb level of the movie and it is disappointing to see Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Esteves waste their talents.  Gina O Donell (I don't even know the correct spelling of her name) is a horrible actress to play in it. No harmony among the actors that makes it funny with the jokes. I gave the movie the benefit of the doubt at the beginning thinking it will smarten itself up but was very disappointed.  Gina's voice is very irritating with all the whining.  "},{"Title":"Funny and suspensful!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well worth seeing, i think that it's a great action film with a bunch of laughs. Rosie O'Donnell is fantastic and Emelio Estevaz is hilarious! Richard Dreyfuss gives you a risen hair on the back of the neck feeling as he fights bad-guys to solve a crime. "},{"Title":"No moustaches","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched the original Stakeout many times when I was 12 years old. I was 13 by the time the sequel hit the cinemas. I saw it at the now demolished UCI Cinema at Kinnaird Park in early 1994. The fact that it was a PG compared to the R-rated original didn't bother me (I wouldn't have been able to see it otherwise).Chris and Bill are back, joined by then-closested Rosie O'Donnell and her big dog. A mob witness may or may not visit old friends for protection on the beautiful Pacific-Northwestern Bainbridge Island. Our heroes are in the house opposite and their sit-and-wait chore is all the more difficult by their new third-wheel partner. The chemistry between Dreyfuss and Estevez is still perfect, and you really get the sense that these guys work together very well. Shame they don't have a lot to do.The only big fault with Another Stakeout is that all of the action happens at the very beginning and very end, leaving a massive chunk in the middle for bumbling and low-brow amusement. It works, but it feels very underwhelming when compared to the original. For a belated, throw-away sequel it has a surprising amount of continuity with the first film, normally you don't get that. Stylistically however, this is completely different. Where Stakeout was dark, gritty, and rugged Another Stakeout is glossy with high-key anamorphic Panavision photography. Since the rating was lowered I guess it made sense to change the look of the film.Another Stakeout languishes in a weird gray area. It's more than above average, but never really achieves any kind of greatness, and for that reason I have to rate it lower than the first.Touchstone licensed the rights for the film to Mill Creek for release on Blu Ray and it's a big step-up from the DVD in terms of AV quality, this time presenting it in the correct 2.351 aspect ratio in lovely 1080p. The end credits claim the film was merely in 'Dolby Stereo in Selected Theatres' and the DTS HD-MA 2.0 soundtrack works just fine. There are no extras whatsoever, and the production design of the Blu Ray and the package is really quite poor. But what do you expect for a budget title? At least it doesn't come in a horrible eco-case. "},{"Title":"'Another' bad sequel","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know that sequels are supposed to be pretty bad, but this one is just unbearable. It has the same plot as the first STAKEOUT movie, dissapointing performances by Emilio Estevez and Richard Dreyfuss, and little action. It has a few action scenes all of which look fake. There are too many jokes that fall flat. The only thing that saves this movie from being completely dreadful is the dinner party scene. I found little reason to see this movie twice, but I've seen it at least five time by now on HBO. It gets a little better each time I watch it, but it is still not worth going out and renting.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely the best of entertaining movies","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A dramatic murder-for-hire, quickly followed by a Keatonesque cops-and-robbers sequence introduce detectives Chris (Dreyfuss) a pathetic tough guy unable to commit to marriage and Bill (Estevez) the sidekick who is really a whole lot more emotionally secure. Much of the shtick is what makes this movie. Assistant D.A. Gina (Rosie O') is a lonely girl with a big job who really just wants to be a housewife entertaining friends. Rosie never breaks character, and there are moments her comedic timing has me rewinding a scene just to enjoy it again. Casting was great, with a fabulous ensemble of very good players, not one of them wasted. Director John Badham did well with Jim Kouf's memorable lines and I'd like to see them all do something else together...how about ANOTHER stakeout? Hey; third times a charm, right? Give this movie three views, and you'll find yourself getting your friends to watch it, too. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The outline of the film is kind of the same thing as the first one. Gina Garrett (Rosie o'Donnell) is an Assistant D.A that needs to find a woman who has escaped federal protection and needs to be found as she is vital to a case and also before she is killed by the mob. Chris and Bill are assigned to her, to stakeout a couple who are friends with the woman but have gone on holiday and the three have to join them to get any information that will help find the woman.One of the things that is different in the plot line is there is a inside man who is in the D.A's office but is in with the mob and he is not found out and instead gets killed by the mob's killer at the end. It seems stupid that they would not have looked at this man as the inside man but in the end he gets his comeuppance for helping the mob.The sequel is not as good as the first but it was still a worthy effort, there are still some funny scenes such as Gina running after her dog who is chasing a cat and when she rescued by a hunky man who Chris embrasses. There is another humorous side to it that they are supposed to be a family and Chris and Gina act like an old married couple. At times, I found Gina to be very annoying but I liked her in the end.What is also ironic is the guy Chris and Bill played jokes on in the first film is now their captain.This film is OK but it isn't brilliant as the first film. It is a shame because Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez's chemistry still works well but the script lets them down. "}{"Title":"Emilio and Richard D...YES....Rosie O'Donell....NOOO!!!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hi all,well I've seen this movie many times because of its comic value. I do however see Rosie O'Donell as a serious plot hole. In the movie she is loud and annoying. I'm sure many other women could have filled the roles but Rosie O'Donell was a bad choice, in most things I've seen her in or heard people talk about she is annoying and cannot keep her trap shut. Maybe she should keep her roles on par with lesbian form because playing on her sexuality actually might make more people like her...all be it more women.I gave it a 6, should have been a 10 but because of O'Donell it falls short and flat on it's ass "},{"Title":"fun film","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie alot! I thought the humor was terrific and the actors where still so fresh and new! I am not a fan of Rosie at all but i really enjoyed her part in this movie! I recommend renting this movie. Its a light hearted fun comedy to watch!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Sequel","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I greatly enjoyed the original Stakeout, but was put off watching Another... by the generally negative reviews at the time of release. Well, I finally got around to renting it and was pleasantly surprised. The boys clearly enjoy their characters, and any chance for Dreyfuss to chew the scenery is always appreciated. Also, it was filmed locally (The B.C. Gulf Islands). "},{"Title":"Another Stakeout","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No spark in this sequel to the 1987 surprise hit with Dreyfuss and Estevez doing what they can as  Seattle cops, but it's O'Donnell who ruins the  little chances this film has with her nauseating attempts at being a cop...She must have graduated from the academy where they made Police Academy.  "},{"Title":"A misfired sequel","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Back in 1987, Richard Dreyfuss and Emilio Estevez made a film together called Stakeout and their chemistry in that hit action/comedy/thriller was fresh and original. Six years later, they reunite for this inevitable sequel that winds up being tiring. Focusing too much on needless slapstick and not generating nearly the amount of energy that the original film did, the best thing to do with this sequel would be to skip it. "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I never seen the original stakeout, but if this is a sequel it was pretty good if you ask me. Dreyfus and Estevez's chemistry is good, I guess this is why they made this sequel, I don't care too much for Rosie O'Donnell, but she was pretty good in this one. Another Stakeout overall is a pretty solid movie for a sequel. "},{"Title":"The duct tape was on the wrong mouth..","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As a contributor to the Internet Movie Cliches List, I gotta tell ya, this dog could contribute a page full all by its horrible self..Last Action Hero perfectly parodied the obligatory scene of the Police Captain chewing out his beloved street cop with much yelling and hand-waving, and when this same tired routine is used near the beginning of Another Stakeout you just can't help but cringe, wondering how many other cliches this loser is going to be crammed with..If that's not trite enough.. the buddies are issued a fire engine red Mercedes sports car and warned by the cop car shop technician, as he buffs off a smudge with his lab coat, to return it in perfect shape because it's going to be auctioned.  Well, guess what kids, it's your job to figure out how the car's going to be ruined.  How many times have we been through this before?While Dreyfuss and Esteves are well-paired, and keep up the humorous banter, this is one of those Buddy Cops Who Vacillate Between Light, Good-Natured Comedy And Senseless Violence comedy-action films that Hollywood grinds out with alarming repetiveness.  Everyone involved in this piece of dreck has done better work.. well, except for one actress and I think you know where I'm going with that..In a protracted scene, Esteves is bound and gagged with duct tape and thrown in a cellar when he's mistaken by the woman he's been charged to keep track of as an assassin she's previously escaped from.  Early on in the film, she somehow escaped from a safe house where she's being held before she testifies against The Mob, on the fringes of Las Vega$ when hit man Miguel Ferrer blows it up, in a scene filmed from so many different angles you just know it was so expensive they were only going to do it once.Well, the duct tape was on the wrong mouth.  It belonged on Rosie O'Donnell's gaping maw.  She plays and overplays an Assistant D.A. put in charge of overseeing the Stakeout.  Whatever casting directors thought this woman has feature film potential should have been thrown the cellar,  bound and gagged along with her.  She's every bit as loud, obnoxious, and UN-funny as any film I've ever squirmed through with her in it.In fact, an awful lot of talent is wasted in this snoozer.  Badham has directed much better, more memorable action films.  Dreyfuss, well.. I can't help but wonder why he stooped this low.  Cathy Moriarty is the one-dimensional witness on the run.  Miguel Ferrer who can be absolutely riveting with the proper material is a cardboard cutout hit man.  The rest are basically throwaway parts the actors slept through except for Dennis Farina, as one half of the rich couple who secludes Moriarty in their ultra posh lake-side Seattle home which is the setting for the subject Stakeout.   Farina actually steals some scenes from Dreyfuss along the way.  He's one actor you just can't take your eyes off of, because even with material this bad, he is simply that good.Oh, and lest I forget, throughout the film he's trying to patch up his relationship with his on-again, off-again fiancee, Madeleine Stowe, a woman so humorless you can't help but wonder what, except her looks, Dreyfuss' character could possibly see in her.  The obligatory climactic shoot-out, along with the equally obligatory quick disposal of some backup detectives, immediately followed by the obligatory happy ending wrap up a film that had SO much good talent in its credits (except for O'Donnell who should stick to daytime gossip shows..).. could've been SO much better, but yet again we have a sequel that just didn't need to be made.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still worth watching","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Age 13Chris Lecce, played by Richard Dreyfuss and Bill Reimers, played by Emilio Estevez, are back in the sequel to the better film, Stakeout.  They are brought into another stakeout because of their good record by Gina Garrett, played by Rosie O'Donnell, from the District Attorney's office.  They are staking out the O'Hara's, played by Dennis Farina and Marcia Strassman, who are good friends with a witness, Lu Delano, played by Cathy Moriarty, who they need to testify against a Mafia boss.  Their cover is that Chris and Gina are husband and wife, and Bill is their son.  Already, that creates a few laughs.  The Mafia boss has also sent an assassin to murder the witness.Chris and Bill go great together in these films, like Riggs and Murtaugh in the Lethal Weapon films.  There is plenty of excitement in this film, and it has a nice blend of action, comedy and suspense.  It is a pity that they didn't use the nice music score of the original, which makes the film lacking musically, which withdraws from the overall experience of watching the film.  Acting is good from Dreyfuss and Estevez, but not so good from O'Donnell.  It doesn't quite have that spark that the original had, and there was almost no romance, which was a strong thing and a good thing in the original.  Overall, a fairly good film, but lacking in some areas.Australian Classification M 15+ Low Level ViolenceRating 67 out of 100 "},{"Title":"It Wasn't Necessary To Make This Sequel","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Talk about having friends in high places and merciful ones at that because what other excuse is there to make a belated sequel to STAKEOUT ?  Belated  is the operative word here because if it was made two years after the original movie I could understand this because that's the only reason the Hollywood industry exists - To make money and let's not forget that whatever the shortcomings STAKEOUT made a lot of money at the box office . So it seems very strange that the studio waited six years before making a sequel to the original , stranger still that both buddy movies and sequels weren't in fashion in 1993 Despite the lack of imagination in producing ANOTHER STAKEOUT it's nowhere as terrible as it could have been . In between episodic comedy adventure scenes the original heroes ( Dreyfuss and Estevez ) are given a new assignment where they team up with a female DA and have to go through a charade of being a family in order to find a witness to a very important trial . I suppose that's the problem the plot is a one trick pony and the further the film goes on it becomes clearer that the pony wasn't too healthy to start with and on the subject of animal euphemisms did anyone notice the jokes involving all creatures great and small ? There's an octopus , a fish , a cat and dog ! It's not a bad film and will pass the time on a rainy afternoon but it does demonstrate how lazy studios are at producing movies "}]